House Approves Provisions Based on Peters' COVID-19 "Heroes Fund'


The U.S. House of Representatives today approved a provision based on U.S. Senator Gary Peters' (MI) COVID-19 "Heroes Fund" proposal. The measure would provide $190 billion in pandemic premium pay to reward and retain essential frontline workers. The provision was passed as part of larger legislation, which included measures Peters has emphasized are important to Michigan, including support for the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) and aid for local & state governments to support financially strapped communities and help prevent cuts to essential services.

"Nurses, law enforcement officers, grocery store workers and delivery workers are some of the many in Michigan on the front lines every day, helping us all get through this unprecedented crisis," said Senator Peters. "These frontline workers who are putting their health at risk deserve more than our thanks -- they deserve bonus pay. I'm pleased that the House has passed measures that would provide the everyday heroes we have depended on since the onset of this pandemic extra pay they deserve. I will continue working in the Senate to take up my effort to ensure frontline workers are properly recognized and rewarded."

The COVID-19 "Heroes Fund" provision included in the final House bill would federally-fund the premium pay to help support frontline workers, including health care professionals, workers at grocery stores, food supply workers, home care workers, first responders, pharmacists, delivery and postal workers and other essential workers. These workers would be eligible for a pay increase of $13 per hour from the start of the public health emergency until 60 days after it ends for a maximum of $10,000. The House also approved measures to help cash-strapped state and local governments confronting increased revenue losses and the prospect of laying off first responders, health care professionals and teachers. Additionally, the House passed measures to ensure the USPS can continue serving seniors, small businesses, rural communities and countless Americans who now more than ever are relying on postal workers to deliver their prescriptions or connect with their customers.