Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I swore an oath to defend the Constitution  both as an officer in the U.S. Navy Reserve and as a U.S. Senator. 

  At the beginning of the impeachment trial, I swore an oath to keep an  open mind, listen carefully to the facts, and in the end deliver  impartial justice. 

  After carefully listening to the arguments presented by both House  managers and the President's lawyers, I believe the facts are clear. 

  President Trump stands accused by the House of Representatives of  abusing his power in an attempt to extort a foreign government to  announce a trumped up investigation into a political rival and thereby  put his personal interest ahead of national security and the public  trust. 

  The President illegally withheld congressionally approved military  aid to an ally at war with Russia and conditioned its release on  Ukraine making an announcement the President could use to falsely  discredit a likely political opponent. 

  When the President's corrupt plan was brought to light, the White  House engaged in a systematic and unprecedented effort to cover up the  scheme. 

  The President's complete refusal to cooperate with a constitutionally  authorized investigation is unparalleled in American history. 

  Despite the extraordinary efforts by the President to cover up the  facts, the House managers made a convincing case. 

  It is clear. 

  The President's actions were not an effort to further official  American foreign policy. 

  The President was not working in the public interest. 

  What the President did was wrong, unacceptable, and impeachable. 

  I expected the President's lawyers to offer new eyewitness testimony  from people with firsthand knowledge and offer new documents to defend  the President, but that did not happen. 

  It became very clear to me that the President's closest advisers  could not speak to the President's innocence, and his lawyers did  everything in their power to prevent them from testifying under oath. 

  Witness testimony is the essence of a fair trial. It is what makes us  a country committed to the rule of law. 

  If you are accused of wrongdoing in America, you have every right to  call witnesses in your defense, but you also don't have the right to  stop the prosecution from calling a hostile witness or subpoenaing  documents. 

  No one in this country is above the law--no one--not even the  President. 

  If someone is accused of a crime and they have witnesses who could  clear them of any wrongdoing, they would want those witnesses to  testify. In fact, not only would they welcome it, they would insist on  it. 

  All we need to do is use our common sense. The fact that the  President refuses to have his closest advisers testify tells me that he  is afraid of what they will say. 

  The President's conduct is unacceptable for any official, let alone  the leader of our country. 

  Our Nation's Founders feared unchecked and unlimited power by the  President. They rebelled against an abusive monarch with unlimited  power and instead created a republic that distributed power across  different branches of government. 

  They were careful students of history; they knew unchecked power  would destroy a democratic republic. 

  They were especially fearful of an unchecked Executive and  specifically granted Congress the power of impeachment to check a  President who thought of themselves as above the law. 

  Two years ago, I had the privilege of participating in an annual  bipartisan Senate tradition reading President George Washington's  farewell address on the Senate floor. 

  In that address, President Washington warned that unchecked power,  the rise of partisan factions, and foreign influence, if left  unchecked, would undermine our young Nation and allow for the rise of a  demagogue. 

  He warned that we could become so divided and so entrenched in the  beliefs of our particular partisan group that ``cunning, ambitious and  unprincipled men will be enabled to subvert the power of the people and  to usurp for themselves the reins of government.'' 

  I am struck by the contrast of where we are today and where our  Founders were more than 200 years ago. 

  George Washington was the ultimate rock star of his time. He was  beloved, and when he announced he would leave the Presidency and return  to Mount Vernon, people begged him to stay. 

  There was a call to make him a King, and he said no. He reminded  folks that he had just fought against a monarch so that the American  people could enjoy the liberties of a free people. 

  George Washington, a man of integrity and an American hero, refused  to be anointed King when it was offered to him by his adoring  countrymen. He chose a republic over a monarchy. 

  But tomorrow, by refusing to hold President Trump accountable for his  abuses, Republicans in the Senate are offering him unbridled power  without accountability, and he will gleefully seize that power. 

  And when he does, our Republic will face an existential threat. 

  A vote against the Articles of Impeachment will set a dangerous  precedent and will be used by future Presidents to act with impunity. 

  Given what we know, that the President abused the power of his office  by attempting to extort a foreign government to interfere with an  American election, that he willfully obstructed justice at every turn,  and that his actions run counter to our Nation's most cherished and  fundamental values, it is clear the President betrayed the trust the  American public placed in him to fully execute his constitutional  responsibilities. 

  This betrayal is by definition a high crime and misdemeanor. If it  does not rise to the level of impeachment and removal, I am not sure  what would. 

  The Senate has a constitutional responsibility to hold him  accountable. 

  If we do not stand up and defend our democracy during this fragile  period, we will be allowing this President and future Presidents to  have unchecked power. 

  This is not what our Founders intended. The oath I swore to protect  and defend the Constitution demands that I vote to preserve the future  of our Republic. I will faithfully execute my oath and vote to hold  this President accountable for his actions. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT