Letter to Steven Mnuchin, Sec. of the Treasury, Charles Rettig, Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, and Andrew Saul, Commissioner of the Social Security Administration - Kennedy, Carper, Gianforte, Bustos lead bipartisan inquiry: Why are the deceased receiving coronavirus stimulus checks?


Dear Secretary Mnuchin, Commissioner Rettig, and Commissioner Saul:

We write to raise questions and express concerns with reports that deceased individuals arereceiving COVID-19 related economic impact payments. In addition, we write to encourage yourdepartments to take immediate action to prevent these improper CARES Act payments. While itis essential that our constituents receive stimulus payments quickly, these improper payments todeceased individuals represent significant government waste and a burden to constituents whomistakenly accept the payments.

As you know, the CARES Act provided for a $1,200 one-time payment per adult and a $500payment per child for those making up to $75,000 in annual income. Of note, the Department ofthe Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) have estimated that there will be 171million rebate payments under the CARES Act. According to Treasury, as of April 29, 130million Americans have received payments from the IRS. Sadly--as has been widely reported inthe news, and as many of our constituents have informed us--some of those payments have beenmade to people who are deceased.

Unfortunately, this is not a new issue. In fiscal year 2019, the Government Accountability Office(GAO) estimated that improper payments throughout the federal government totaled about $175billion. Since 2003, when agencies were first directed to begin reporting improper payments,cumulative improper payment estimates across government have totaled almost $1.7 trillion. Inmany instances, agencies have made improper payments to the deceased. According to an Officeof Personnel Management Inspector General report, agencies made a total of $601 million in improper payments from 2006 to 2010 to federal retirees later found to have already died2. In total, the Administration, in its most recent budget request, estimates that payments to deceasedindividuals cost taxpayers over $800 million per year. 3

That is why we introduced the Stopping Improper Payments to Deceased People Act, whichwould grant federal agencies access to the full set of the Social Security Administration (SSA's)death records, including state-reported death data. As you know, SSA maintains the mostcomplete federal database of individuals who are reported to have died. However, only a smallnumber of federal agencies have access to this official list. To date, those without access includeTreasury's Do Not Pay working system, the government's centralized no-cost data analytics tool,which helps federal agencies detect and prevent improper payments.

Given the many reported cases of improper CARES Act economic impact payments to deceasedindividuals, we encourage your agencies to take immediate action to prevent these improperpayments. The guidance issued by the IRS yesterday is a welcome first step and we thank youfor taking that action however, additional questions remain about the steps needed to address thisissue going forward. With that in mind, we request the answers to the following questions:

1. Are there situations where Treasury and the IRS would determine CARES Act economicimpact payments to deceased individuals as eligible, proper payments that would not beconsidered improper payments under the Payment Integrity Information Act of 2019(P.L. 116-117)? If so, describe the reasons and criteria that the IRS uses to support anysuch determinations.2. How many of the 130 million payments to Americans were to deceased individuals? Howmuch did CARES ACT economic impact improper payments cost the federal governmentoverall?3. How many of these improper payments does the Treasury Department (Treasury)attribute to errors in the federal databases of deceased individuals, and which databasesdid Treasury consult? How many can be attributed to errors in Treasury's procedures?4. Will Treasury and the IRS take steps to recover these funds? If yes, what are these steps?How could Treasury utilize payee databases and the Do Not Pay Business Center'sexpertise in recovering improper payments?5. What steps are Treasury and the IRS taking to protect and support taxpayers whounknowingly and faultlessly spent improper payments?6. What steps are Treasury and the IRS taking to prevent future improper payments ofCARES Act funds to deceased individuals?7. Do Treasury and IRS utilize the (a) Death Master File, (b) Full Death File, or (c) anyother death database(s) to preview eligibility before sending out the CARES Acteconomic impact payments?8. What steps is SSA taking to make timely updates to the full set of death records itmaintains? Does the Treasury Department, including the Internal Revenue Service, haveappropriate and timely access to SSA's full set of death records?9. What actions, if any, should the federal government be taking with regard to statereported death data to ensure that it is reported and shared with the agencies in a timelymanner?10. Has Treasury determined that CARES Act payments are susceptible to significantimproper payments? If so, does the IRS plan to estimate the amount of total improperpayments associated with these CARES Act payments in accordance with the PaymentIntegrity Information Act?11. What steps, if any, did IRS take to make sure improper payments were not made to otherpotentially ineligible recipients?

While we appreciate that the nature of this pandemic favors speedy delivery of payments, manyof our constituents now must deal with the stress of what to do with checks sent to their deceasedloved ones. We look forward to seeing your response to these questions as well as the steps youragencies are taking to prevent improper CARES Act payments to deceased individuals.

Sincerely,