Letter to Donald Trump, President of the United States - Peters Presses President Not to Prematurely End National Guard Deployments in Effort to Deny Guardsmen Benefits


Dear Mr. President:I write to express concerns that deployments of National Guard members in COVID-19response efforts may end prematurely, denying these service members benefits they wouldotherwise accrue. If Title 32 orders for guardsmen "hard stop" on June 24th, as has been reported,for many who were activated at the start of the pandemic it would be just one day shy of the 90day threshold necessary to receive benefits for active duty service. These brave men and womenin uniform would be shortchanged on benefits and pulled from the frontlines when theircontributions are still urgently needed.Members of the National Guard play a critical role in many states' COVID-19 responseefforts. More than 40,000 Guard members in 44 states, three territories, and the District ofColumbia are on federal orders working for states. Since early March, thousands of Guardpersonnel have been on full-time orders supporting a range of high-risk tasks, includingdecontaminating nursing homes, setting up field hospitals, COVID-19 testing, logistics andwarehouse distribution, emergency planning, and more. Additionally, they help fill personnelgaps in understaffed and underfunded public health agencies. States remain dependent on thesupport of National Guard personnel and there are no indications these needs will disappear byJune 24th.Ending orders on June 24th would leave thousands of guardsmen, including 991 inMichigan, with just 89 days of active duty. As you know, there is a 90-day threshold to qualifyfor education benefits and early retirement credit. Those service members who would be cheatedby this policy are serving their communities, their states, and their country. Their mobilization tosupport COVID-19 response efforts have already disrupted their lives and risked exposing themto the virus. Purposefully withholding benefits they have earned would be an insult and harmmorale, recruiting, and retention within the National Guard.Each state's mission should dictate the duration of Guard mobilizations. Arbitrarilycutting deployments short would leave communities under-resourced and backfilling thosecapabilities may be costly and burdensome and localities. I urge you to continue Guarddeployments as conditions on the ground require, both for the sake of individual guardsmenserving their communities and for the sake of the communities which depend on them.