Peters Reiterates Call for Trump Administration to Re-Open Health Insurance Enrollment Window as Part of Coronavirus Response


As the number of Coronavirus cases continues to skyrocket in Michigan, U.S. Senator Gary Peters (MI) reiterated his call for the Trump Administration to open a special enrollment period to allow people without health insurance to purchase a health care plan through the health insurance marketplaces. He again urged for the Administration to establish a special enrollment period following a news report that the Administration will not re-open enrollment. Last month, Peters urged the Administration in a letter to establish a special enrollment period in an effort to lower health care costs for Americans we confront this public health crisis.

"Michiganders should not fear whether they can afford to access health care or be left with thousands of dollars in medical bills because they do not have quality coverage during this public health emergency," said Senator Peters. "It's past time for the Administration to open a special health care enrollment period, so that Michiganders who don't have health insurance can get a quality coverage plan. By expanding the number of people with access to the coverage they and their families need, we would lower health care costs and help protect public health and safety during this unprecedented pandemic."

Currently, about 27.5 million Americans lack health insurance -- and even more are underinsured -- which could leave them facing expensive medical bills if hospitalized for treatment for Coronavirus or other health issues. Allowing people to purchase a plan now through the Affordable Care Act (ACA) will help individuals access the care they need while improving public health and safety in communities.

When Peters pressed the Administration to re-open enrollment for health care last month, he emphasized the financial impact on families and that when people cannot pay their medical bills, health care providers are left to make up the shortfall. Health care providers are already relying on emergency resources to pay for increased capacity and medical supplies as they are on the front lines battling the Coronavirus pandemic.