Peters, Stabenow, Moolenaar Join FEMA to Tour Flooding in Midland County


U.S. Senators Gary Peters (MI) and Debbie Stabenow (MI) and U.S. Representative John Moolenaar (MI-04) today joined with FEMA Regional Administrator James K. Joseph in surveying damage caused by the historic flooding and dam failure earlier this week in Midland County. The group participated in an aerial survey of the damage, assessed damage in Sanford, met with local officials to discuss next steps and thanked first responders, volunteers and the Michigan State Police in helping the community overcome this catastrophe.

"The destruction caused by these dam failures and catastrophic flooding was devastating to see -- and it is only worsened by the fact that we are in the middle of a pandemic," said Senator Peters, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. "But one thing was also clear: this community is tough, it is resilient and we will get through this together. As Ranking Member of the Committee that oversees FEMA, I was pleased to join Administrator Joseph and my colleagues in surveying today's damage. I will continue working with FEMA and supporting efforts to ensure we have the resources we need to clean-up, rebuild and emerge stronger."

"My thoughts are with Michigan families and businesses who are effected by the devastating flooding while also navigating the current COVID-19 crisis. After spending the day in mid-Michigan, I am also inspired by seeing the community come together to support one another. Thank you to the FEMA officials and first responders for briefing us on the damage today and their work this past week to support residents in the area. I will continue to work with FEMA, the Governor and my colleagues to bring support and resources to those impacted. Seeing the damage first-hand reaffirmed the need to invest in public infrastructure in Michigan and across the country to prevent this kind of devastating impact from floods and other natural disasters," said Senator Stabenow. 

"Our region is coming together to help those who have been affected by this tragedy. The devastation is heartbreaking, and I will be working to help residents recover and rebuild," said Congressman Moolenaar. "Thank-you to Regional FEMA Administrator Joseph for coming today and seeing first-hand the enormous challenges ahead of us. I am grateful for the flexibility of him and his team, and that I was able to have them break off from the planned schedule for a stop in Sanford with Senator Stabenow and Senator Peters to see the community that was hit the hardest. Our whole area has received support from individuals, businesses, and nonprofits from across the state and we are grateful for all of it."

On May 21, President Donald Trump approved Governor Gretchen Whitmer's emergency declaration request which made FEMA resources available to the state and local governments. Peters, Stabenow and Moolenaar previously wrote to the President urging him to approve the Governor's request. FEMA is currently conducting damage assessments on the ground, which is a necessary step to determine the extent of federal assistance that may be made available.