Peters Announces $1.1 Million Federal Grant for Port of Monroe Equipment Upgrades


U.S. Senator Gary Peters (MI) today announced that the Port of Monroe will receive a $1.1 million federal grant to expand its maritime commerce operations. Peters supported the Port's application for the grant that was awarded through the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT)'s America's Marine Highway Projects Program. The grant funding will allow the Port to purchase a crawler crane and train staff to use it, which will allow the Port to boost operations and meet the increasing demand for cargo service throughout the Great Lakes region.

"The Great Lakes are a vital transportation system and an invaluable economic resource for Michigan -- and the Port of Monroe is an especially important economic hub for manufacturers, small businesses and the efficient transport of product goods throughout the region," said Senator Peters, a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. "I was proud to support the Port of Monroe's application for this grant, which will allow them to upgrade equipment, make more investments to continue growing and delivering the products families and businesses across Michigan rely on every day."

"The announcement that the Port of Monroe will be receiving a Marine Highway Grant to purchase a key piece of cargo handling equipment comes with great pride and admiration for our Port Team and community partners," said Paul LaMarre, Director of the Port of Monroe. "It represents a critical step for our continued growth but also as an acknowledgement of our recent success. Senator Peters has been at the forefront of that success, and we're grateful for all of his efforts including supporting our grant application. The unrelenting support of he and his team for the Port of Monroe and Great Lakes St Lawrence Seaway System is truly priceless to us and serves as further motivation to keep moving "full speed ahead' as Michigan's Gateway Port."

Peters has led numerous efforts to support the Port of Monroe. This past August, through his role as Ranking Member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, Peters pressed U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) on an agency decision that has blocked the Port of Monroe from receiving certain types of international cargo. Peters also supported the application of Paul LaMarre to the U.S. Marine and Transportation System National Advisory Committee. Last year, LaMarre was appointed to the Advisory Committee for a term of two years.