Stabenow, Peters Announce Michigan Will Receive Additional $6.3 Million in CDC Funding for Coronavirus Response Efforts


U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (MI) and Gary Peters (MI) today announced that the Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act they helped enact last month is bringing the state of Michigan $6.3 million in Centers for Disease Control (CDC) funding to support Coronavirus response efforts.

"Michigan is now a hotspot for COVID-19 and every community in the state is impacted. The lack of testing supplies and equipment, scarcity of personal protection equipment for our medical providers and shortage of hospital personnel are stressing our health care system like never before. This funding will provide more support to our state at this incredibly urgent time," said Senator Stabenow.

"As the Coronavirus continues to pose unprecedented public health challenges across Michigan, ensuring our state has sufficient resources to respond to this pandemic is a top priority," said Senator Peters. "This funding will support a range of activities critical to Coronavirus response efforts in Michigan, including purchasing vital medical equipment and helping hospitals meet staffing needs. I will continue working closely with the Administration, Governor Whitmer and leaders across Michigan to ensure we have the resources and tools to combat this crisis."

The funding from the CDC is a part of an existing cooperative agreement between states and local jurisdictions that currently have the highest number of reported Coronavirus cases and areas with accelerating Coronavirus cases. The resources will help fund a wide range of activities such as lab equipment, supplies, staffing, shipping, infection control, surge staffing, monitoring of individuals and data management. The funding also will supplement an existing pact to state jurisdictions through the Emerging Infections Program (EIP) in order to enhance surveillance capabilities. This will include assessing and investigating the burden and severity of Coronavirus, evaluating and determine risk factors and outcomes and planning and implementing prevention strategies.