Capping Excessive Awarding of Sblc Entrants Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692066/capping-excessive-awarding-of-sblc-entrants-act-of-2025


Mr. BRESNAHAN. Mr. Speaker, my bill, the Capping Excessive Awarding  of SBLC Entrants Act, or the CEASE Act, restores a vital piece of  integrity to the flagship SBA 7(a) loan program.

The Small Business Administration is authorized to issue government- backed 7(a) loans through certified depository institutions, like banks  and credit unions, as well as certified nonbank lenders, like fintech  companies.

Unlike certified depository institutions, whose primary regulator is  the  Federal Reserve, the nonbank SBLCs are primarily regulated by the SBA,  meaning they are not subject to the same regulations and requirements.

Together, the limited number of SBLCs and prudent lending standards  that used to be in place at the SBA were necessary guardrails to ensure  that the 7(a) program remained zero-subsidy, costing taxpayers zero  dollars.

The SBA had its own concerns that it did not have the oversight  capabilities to monitor and regulate an unlimited number of SBLCs. Yet  the Biden-Harris administration sought to expand the number of SBLC  licenses, while also lowering lending standards and loosening  underwriting criteria in the 7(a) program. The previous administration  did this, even though these SBLCs facilitated massive fraud of the  Paycheck Protection Program.

Expanding SBLCs' licenses when the SBA itself acknowledged that it is  unequipped to regulate additional for-profit, nonbank lenders is  problematic. That is why my legislation is so important to ensure the  SBA is not adding excessive SBLCs that it cannot properly regulate. We  cannot continue giving the Federal Government ways to abuse taxpayer  dollars.

I thank the Trump administration for taking swift action in returning  prudent lending standards to the 7(a) program. Combined with the CEASE  Act, those efforts will return the SBA to its proper oversight  capabilities and ensure that federally regulated lenders, such as  community banks, remain a fundamental pillar of 7(a) lending.

The bill was thoughtfully drafted to encompass the original 14 SBLCs  and 2 additional SBLCs licensed in 2024 after the Biden-era rule  changed. No existing SBLC licenses would be revoked as part of this  bill.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the great members and staff of the Small  Business Committee for working with me in bringing this bill to the  House floor today.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote  ``yes'' on this practical and sensible piece of legislation.