Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commissions Review Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695001/mid-atlantic-river-basin-commissions-review-act


Mr. BRESNAHAN. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to introduce H.R. 3428, the  Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commissions Review Act.

This legislation will bring much-needed oversight and clarity to the  activities and funding streams for the Delaware River Basin Commission,  Susquehanna River Basin Commission, and the Interstate Commission on  the Potomac River Basin.

The river basin commissions in the Mid-Atlantic work across State  lines to regulate the river systems within a watershed. Since their  inceptions after World War II, the rivers they manage have grown in  importance as our populations have grown and water usage has increased.

Millions of people rely on these rivers for water and wastewater  needs, including my constituents in Pennsylvania's Eighth Congressional  District.

These commissions also play a role in protecting rivers from  pollution and ensuring the ecosystems remain vibrant and resilient.

As their roles have grown, Congress has not always had insight into  the exact responsibility and tasks the river basin commissions are  undertaking.

My legislation directs the Government Accountability Office to  conduct a study and compile recommendations for the Mid-Atlantic river  basin commissions to ensure they have proper ethics policies in place,  conduct an inventory of their Federal responsibilities, and look to see  if any of their responsibilities have become duplicative since their  inceptions.

My legislation then directs these river basin commissions to report  back annually on how they are complying with these recommendations. GAO  is the gold standard for Federal reports and has conducted numerous  reports and studies of government agencies. In fact, according to the  GAO, 75 percent of their recommendations are implemented over a 4-year  period.

I trust this proper oversight will help these river basin commissions  find ways to improve their services to their citizens and the rivers  they serve.

I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense legislation.