Recognizing the Honor Flight of Southern Oregon


Mr. BENTZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Korean and  Vietnam War veterans from Oregon's Second Congressional District who,  are visiting their memorials and the WWII Memorial, because of the  efforts of the Honor Flight of Southern Oregon. Whenever I have the  opportunity to meet these heroes, I am reminded of the words of  President Abraham Lincoln: ``The struggle of today, is not altogether  for today, it is for a vast future also.'' Our veterans embody this  spirit, having fought valiantly in the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Their  courage and dedication remind us that the price of liberty is high. It  is my privilege to include their names in the Record.

Veterans on this Honor Flight from Oregon are: Russell       Bronson, Joyce Button, JoAnn Compton Taplin, James Dahl, Chad       Davenport, Thomas Davis, David Ford, Jerry Fraley, Thomas       Garland, Larry Grow, Eldon Hendrix, Orville Houston, John       James, William Kendrick, William Koreger, Walter Lindner,       James Little, Kenneth Montgomery, Dennis Paul, Richard       Seehawer, Patrick Smith, Gelacio Valdez, Walter Vaughan,       Robert Verlezza, and Allen Ayers. We especially honor the       memory of Danyl H. Christianer, whose legacy of service will       live on through this tribute.

These heroes join over 250,000 Veterans who have been honored through  the nationwide Honor Flight Network of volunteers, since 2005.

Mr. Speaker, President George W. Bush once said, ``We have been the  recipients of the greatest blessings of liberty ever known to man. We  live in freedom because others have made the ultimate sacrifice. As a  Nation, we must never take for granted, the liberties we enjoy today,  recognizing that these freedoms have been hard-won by the honor,  commitment, and sacrifice of our Veterans. Each Member in this chamber  and every citizen in these United States should be humbled by the  courage of our brave Veterans who voluntarily faced danger and  adversity to preserve our country and our way of life. Colleagues,  please join me in thanking these Veterans and the volunteers of Honor  Flight of Southern Oregon for their remarkable service and devotion to  our great country.