Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Chair, our ranking member, and  the distinguished ranking member of the full committee. It is good to  be here on this late evening to do important business for the American  people.

I rise in strong support today of H.R. 4016, the Defense  appropriations bill before us, not just as a matter of policy, but as a  matter of preparedness.

Together, we can ensure that our men and women in uniform and their  families have what they need when they need it.

Right now, our small-caliber ammunition stockpiles are not where they  need to be. This is unacceptable. This bill makes critical investments  to fix that, Mr. Chair. It ensures we are getting the necessary rounds  back into the magazines of our servicemembers, whether they are  training at home or deployed in harm's way.

Let's be clear: Asking our troops to be ready to fight tonight  without basic tools to complete their mission is a risk that we are not  willing to take. This bill prevents that from happening.

However, it is not just about restocking. We are also rebuilding;  rebuilding our industrial supply base so that we are not relying on  adversaries or unstable foreign markets for the things that make our  military work.

This means we must continue building batteries for our most complex  weapons systems right here in the good old United States of America. We  must push forward with the most important technological edge we have in  modern warfare, including the B-21 Raider.

The B-21 is not just another aircraft. It is the future of our long- range strike capabilities, a sixth-generation stealth bomber that will  reaffirm American air dominance and serve as a powerful deterrent to  rogue regimes and near-peer adversaries alike.

The threats we face today, from the Pacific to the Middle East, are  not theoretical. They are real. Our adversaries are evolving, and they  are not waiting for us to catch up.

This bill helps us stay ahead. It ensures that the American people  and the American military remain the arsenal of democracy. Above all,  it supports the men and women who wear our country's uniform and stand  ready to defend this Nation each and every day.

Let's take a quick look at this next poster. It will show exactly  what the Democrats would be voting against for the FY26 Defense  Appropriations Act.

They would be voting against a pay raise for American troops and  border security investments to counter drug trafficking.

They would be voting against investments for critical ships and  aircraft, against modernization of America's nuclear triad, against  missile warning systems and technology, and against next-generation  U.S. weapons systems.

They would be voting against increased stability for servicemembers  and their families, against training and equipment for an agile,  capable force, against supporting the supply chain production, against  deterring the Chinese Communist Party and foreign adversaries, and  voting to prevent taxpayer dollars from funding abortion travel.

Mr. Chair, for their sake, for our sake, for the sake of our great  Nation, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this  bill, to deliver on our America First agenda with President Trump and  to stand firm in our commitment to peace through strength.