Providing for Consideration of H.R. Saving Homeowners From Overregulation with Exceptional Rinsing Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Affordable Housing Over Mandating Efficiency Standards Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, for too many American families, the American  Dream seems further out of reach each and every year, especially when  it comes to owning a home.

Do my colleagues know that housing is the number one monthly expense  for most families? When Washington piles on blue tape mandates and  bureaucratic nonsense, working families pay the price.

Under the Biden administration, their so-called Inflation Reduction  Act, which was really nothing of the sort, homebuilders were buried  under costly green new scam mandates and overregulation, driving up  construction costs and pushing homeownership even further out of reach.

This was also known as the green new scam in action. House  Republicans are changing that. We are cutting the blue tape. We are  lowering costs. We are making homeownership more affordable in 2026 and  beyond.

One great example is the Affordable Homes Act, led by my colleague  Congresswoman Erin Houchin. This commonsense bill removes unnecessary  Federal interference and eliminates costly energy mandates that drive  up the price of manufactured housing. This is one of the most  affordable pathways to homeownership for first-time buyers, young  families, and seniors.

This is just one example, Mr. Speaker, of how House Republicans are  working to lower housing prices. As co-chair of the Real Estate Caucus,  I worked with the Trump administration to reverse these disastrous  policies because the government should get out of the way and not stand  in the way of the American Dream.

Back home in Missouri, I have seen exactly what these mandates do. A  Kansas builder showed that so-called green energy codes save homeowners  only about $125 a year but add more than $1,200 a year to families'  mortgages.

It is simple, folks. If a policy costs families more than it saves  them, it is not a smart policy. House Republicans are fighting to make  housing affordable again. They are putting families first. The first  step is this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of the rule. I urge passage of this act.  Let's make homes affordable in America again and save the American  Dream.