Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendment to H.R. One Big Beautiful Bill Act


Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Virginia (Ms.  Foxx) for her work on this.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the rule and in strong  support of H.R. 1, President Trump's One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

Today, Mr. Speaker, we face a watershed moment for the American  people. This Republican majority was given a clear mandate by the  American people, which is the America First agenda. This bill is our  opportunity to deliver on that agenda.

H.R. 1 stops the largest tax increase in U.S. history, while  providing the largest tax cut for working-and middle-class families  ever, with no tax on tips, no tax on overtime, and tax breaks for  seniors.

H.R. 1 protects the 87,000 Missouri farms and countless family-owned  small businesses from double taxation by expanding the death tax  exemption.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act reverses 4 long years of Biden's open- border policies with a generational investment in border security,  including funding to complete phase 2 of the border wall.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act modernizes our Armed Forces for 21st  century threats by properly funding our military and funding the Golden  Dome.

H.R. 1 ends the progressive left's war on American energy by  unleashing domestic oil, natural gas, and nuclear energy production.  H.R. 1 lowers energy costs, ensuring reliable and stable energy  sources. H.R. 1 renews not just energy independence but makes us energy  dominant once again.

Finally, H.R. 1 restores fiscal sanity by cutting almost $2 trillion  in Federal spending. It rescinds billions in green new scam funding. It  eliminates waste, fraud, and abuse from numerous Federal programs.

Mr. Speaker, this is a time for choosing. We can choose to side with  the illegal aliens, unelected rogue bureaucrats, and fear-mongering  from the America left or we can choose to side with the American people  and deliver on the mandate that they gave us back in November.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to put America first, support the  rule, and pass the One Big Beautiful Bill Act.