Successful Entrepreneurship for Reservists and Veterans Act


Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chair and ranking member for  their leadership. I appreciate what we are able to do on the Small  Business Committee for Main Street America.

I rise today, Mr. Speaker, because as a Member of Congress, it is our  duty and responsibility to protect and support our Nation's veterans.

Back in 2023, it was my distinct pleasure to have Commander Taylor  Burks of Missouri's Fourth Congressional District testify at a Small  Business Committee hearing on veteran entrepreneurship. He is now  serving a deployment in the Indo-PACOM, so we wish him well.

We learned not only about the unique skill set that veterans can  bring to small businesses but also about the obstacles that veterans  face many times when trying to open small businesses and live out the  American Dream.

It was imperative for Members to hear how the committee and the Small  Business Administration can better serve those who served this great  Nation.

As a result, my colleague Representative Sharice Davids and I  introduced the Successful Entrepreneurship for Reservists and Veterans,  or the SERV Act.

This bipartisan legislation, which passed through the Small Business  Committee unanimously last Congress, will help veteran small business  owners and entrepreneurs succeed by studying the barriers faced when  starting a business.

This bill will commission a report on the outreach and promotion of  existing veteran-focused small business programs to make sure that  veterans can access all the available resources, the capital, and the  counseling that they need to succeed.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation also mandates the Interagency Task  Force on Veterans Small Business Development to devise an outreach and  promotion strategy for programs available to veterans transitioning  into the business world.

When veterans' service to our country ends, they should not face  additional difficulties in accessing capital and resources. With  transparency and increased reporting, we can better ensure that they  get the support that they need and the support that they deserve. I am  proud to co-lead the SERV Act with Representatives Davids and Conaway.

This bill, Mr. Speaker, is a win for our districts, our veterans, and  our great Nation, the United States of America.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this commonsense  legislation.