Protecting Regular Order for Veterans Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, openness and transparency in the budgeting process are  crucial to enabling Members of Congress to exercise our constitutional  power of the purse, conducting proper oversight and ensuring that we  are good stewards of the taxpayers' money.

That is why I have been extremely frustrated by the lack of budget  information put forward by the current administration. Just this week,  the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in a statement  that was both insulting and condescending, said that ``it wasn't in our  interest'' to release a full budget plan to the American people.

Yet, we have not heard a peep of objection from my colleagues across  the aisle, not even a hint that they might rise from their knees after  having been browbeaten by this administration time and time again, and  stand up for the constitutional prerogatives of the United States  Congress, a coequal branch of government. In the context of this bill,  which was proposed to demand more budget information, it is  confounding.

Nevertheless, here we are. To understand why we are considering this  bill at this moment, we have to go back to last Congress and the end of  the Biden administration.

In mid-July 2024, the VA informed the committee of expected funding  shortfalls for the Veterans Benefits Administration and the Veterans  Health Administration. At the time, VBA was facing a projected  shortfall of $2.9 billion for fiscal year 2024, and VHA was facing a  potential shortfall of $12 billion for fiscal year 2025.

Now, out of an abundance of caution and to ensure veterans' benefits  weren't disrupted, Congress quickly passed H.R. 9468, the Veterans  Benefits Continuity and Accountability Supplemental Appropriations Act,  which provided VBA with additional funding of roughly $2.9 billion.

The bill also included accountability measures that required  additional reporting by the Secretary and an inspector general review  of the circumstances surrounding the projected shortfalls.

A few weeks later, on October 30, 2024, VA notified the committee  that it had reviewed its calculations at the conclusion of fiscal year  2024 and determined that it would not have experienced a shortfall at  VBA, and, in fact, had carryover funding in addition to the funding  provided by the supplemental. VA also determined at the close of fiscal  year 2024 that its projected budget shortfall in fiscal year 2025 for  VHA would not be as significant as originally projected in July.

Its revised estimate for the fiscal year 2025 shortfall provided on  Monday, November 25, 2024, was $6.6 billion, much less than originally  projected. This was largely because of higher than expected carryover  and extreme belt-tightening at local VA clinics and hospitals.

However, here is where paths diverge. In the wake of the passage of  H.R. 9468, both VA's Office of Inspector General and the Government  Accountability Office conducted and released their respective reports  on the circumstances surrounding these real and projected shortfalls.  These reports though have become a bit of an inkblot test. Where I and  my Democratic colleagues see an accounting process that could be  improved, as all processes can be, my colleagues on the other side of  the aisle see criminal behavior and a malicious intent to deceive  Congress and scare veterans. I encourage the public to read these  reports and judge for themselves.

In one of the most egregious and politically naked overreactions I  have seen in some time, the chairman sent a letter to the Department of  Justice urging the Attorney General to investigate three former Biden  administration officials for criminal wrongdoing in handling last  year's budget shortfall. To say the least, I was shocked by this  letter. We thoroughly addressed VA budget issues last year, and neither  the inspector general nor GAO found any evidence of criminal  wrongdoing--none, Mr. Speaker.

So why call on Trump's Attorney General to revisit it? The answer  seems very clear to me: political payback. This was a spurious attempt  to tarnish the reputations of officials who led one of the most  successful periods in VA history, marked by high veteran satisfaction,  strong performance, and the largest expansion of veterans' benefits  ever, by way of the PACT Act.

Rather than hold President Trump and Secretary Collins accountable  for the ongoing decline at VA over the last several months, my  colleagues pushed a baseless investigation, a clear distraction meant  to deflect from the damage being done under their watch.

Nevertheless, more information is always better. As I said, we should  demand transparency from whatever administration is in charge. While I  find the impetus behind this bill to be retaliatory in nature, I do  agree with my majority colleagues that the Trump administration budget  formulation and execution process warrants scrutiny.

Secretary Collins has already broken the law by redirecting funds  without congressional approval. I worry that the trend will continue  over the next few years. I hope my colleagues will join me in rigorous  oversight of the Trump administration's approach to VA's budget.

There are two other provisions in this bill I would like to discuss  very briefly. This legislation would codify the Veterans Experience  Office, or VEO, which was first established during the Obama  administration. I appreciate that the Senate incorporated changes we  had suggested to their text that would strengthen the functions of VEO  so that it serves as an office truly focused on improving the veteran  experience with data-driven approaches.

Additionally, in the Honoring our PACT Act, Congress authorized VA to  utilize critical skills incentives to attract and retain the workforce  it needed to implement the largest expansion of veteran benefits in  recent history.  While use of those incentives has been overwhelmingly successful, VA  did make some initial missteps in oversight and utilization of the  awards for senior executives. These missteps were corrected during the  last administration. Despite what my colleague says about  investigations, the administration was quite forthcoming and  transparent about those missteps. The language in this legislation  would tighten the circumstances under which critical skills incentives  can be used to retain high-level VA employees.

While I am generally supportive of this additional oversight to  ensure these awards are being used appropriately, I continue to be  concerned with Secretary Collins' ability to recruit and retain the  top-level talent we need for caring for veterans at VA.

Earlier this month, Secretary Collins celebrated, celebrated that  30,000 VA employees will be departing the agency by the end of this  fiscal year under his tenure. Can you imagine that, Mr. Speaker? The  head of an organization was patting themselves on the back for making  their organization so toxic that nearly 10 percent of their workforce  quits? This is something to be proud of? It is unconscionable. What is  worse are the absurd assertions that veterans won't be negatively  affected by such drastic reductions.

There is simply no way that the delivery of veteran care and benefits  will not be affected by Secretary Collins' continued efforts to  demonize and demoralize the VA workforce.

Again, I am pleased to see that with this bill my colleagues have  finally decided to demand transparency from this administration. I wait  with bated breath for their reaction when the White House simply  chooses to ignore it, as they have repeatedly done with this Congress.  My suspicion is that we will continue to see my colleagues on the other  side of the aisle hide in fear of their master, but I would love to be  proven wrong.