Protecting Healthcare for Millions of Americans


Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my California colleague for yielding  to me and thank Congresswoman Rivas for co-hosting, and I thank  Congresswoman Emily Randall from Washington for also co-hosting this  important Congressional Progressive Caucus Special Order hour.

Now, we are here because this heretofore do-nothing Republican  Congress has let 22 million Americans get priced out of their  healthcare.

I learned of a coffeehouse owner in Riverside, a good friend of mine,  whose health insurance went from $600 a month to $1,100 a month. We are  here because my Republican colleagues think our national budget is too  tight to ensure that our seniors and families can afford healthcare,  but it is flush enough with enough cash to fund escapades in Venezuela  and billions of new spending on ICE and giving billionaires permanent  tax cuts.

We are here because Democrats are the ones that are keeping  healthcare front and center for this body. Republicans wish we would  stop talking about this, that we would stop bringing it up, but we will  not stop because healthcare is vital. It is essential to every  American.

It was the Democrats that forced this do-nothing Congress to actually  act. Neither Speaker Johnson nor President Trump wanted to make  healthcare more affordable, so we took it upon ourselves to pass a 3- year extension of these vital tax credits, 3 years that match with the  remaining 3 years of this Presidency.

Mr. Speaker, 17 Republicans joined us to actually lower costs and to  make health insurance affordable. Now, I am sure the President will  have in his mind that he should target for retribution these 17  Republicans for defying him, for defying the orthodoxy of the  Republican leadership. He can choose to lead with fear, to be more  concerned about Venezuelan oil or how many more people he can deport or  how much more he can enrich himself, or he can use his considerable  influence and power over Republicans, over Senate Republicans.

We saw the reach of his power today as Republicans unanimously voted  for water projects for poor people in Colorado and for a Native  American Tribe in Florida, reversed themselves and sustained his veto.  They voted for these two measures before. That is how immense his  influence is. The question is: Will he get seven Republicans to do  something right for the American people and lower healthcare costs, and  will he use his influence to help Americans lower healthcare costs for  all Americans or will he act in retribution? He can lower healthcare  costs for all by expanding the pool of insureds.

The fight is not over. We still have to get through the Senate, but  the key to all this is President Trump. Will he demand that the Senate  pass a 3-year extension of this bill, 3-year extension of healthcare  tax credits? That is the big question.