Protecting Education for Children with Disabilities


Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, it is always an honor and a pleasure to work  with the gentlewoman from Connecticut, a distinguished National Teacher  of the Year and an amazing educator who, like myself, went from the  classroom to the Halls of Congress to advocate for our students  nationally.

The promise of a free and quality education is a vital part of the  American Dream. The embodiment of that promise came in 1975 when  Congress passed the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act to  ensure that children with disabilities could receive a free, fair, and  equal education.

This landmark legislation changed the lives of millions of Americans.  The disabled children's right to an education would not only be  recognized, but it would be funded and enforced nationwide.

Today, 7.5 million students rely on IDEA funding, and that is nearly  one in seven students whose specialized education is funded in part by  the Department of Education.

Every school district in the country has families that have benefited  from the IDEA, and its 50 years of enactment have improved public  education for all students. That is why the Trump administration's  actions to gut staffing at the Department of Education and move the  Office of Special Education programs to the Department of Health and  Human Services is so devastating. HHS does not have the structure, nor  the staff, to administer the $15 billion a year that this office is  responsible for.

The administration also gutted the Office of Civil Rights, which is  responsible for investigating civil rights abuses in schools. The OCR  was responsible for ensuring that students with disabilities got the  quality education they are entitled to and that cases of neglect and  abuse were duly prosecuted.

With the Department of Education fragmented, teachers and  administrators won't be able to access the resources they need; parents  will be unable to get the proper support; and the  students will be the ones who pay the price.

What is clear is that the Department of Education is the only  Department equipped to be charged with the education of all students,  including students with disabilities, not HHS, not the Department of  Labor, not the Department of Justice.

Creating more hoops for schools to jump through and shattering known  systems and protocol will, at the end of the day, hurt the students  this administration claims they are protecting.

Republicans have not allowed IDEA to be fully funded. Republicans are  looking to defund public schools, leaving parents with fewer choices  and options in educating their children. Republicans' obsession with  dismantling the Department of Education appears to be the only  education policy they really have.

Our students need more. Our teachers deserve more. Our schools  require more to fulfill the American promise of a free and quality  education for every American child.