Rewriting History


Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, our country's history is complicated. Our  country's history is at times uncomfortable to confront. That does not  make it divisive or offensive to preserve and to learn from.

Japanese incarceration during World War II stands as one of those  uncomfortable chapters that Trump and his administration are attempting  to erase. More than 125,000 Japanese Americans, including my parents  and grandparents, were rounded up and placed in desolate camps at the  hands of their own government.

There are dozens of these camps memorialized around the country for  people to visit and honor these experiences. At the Manzanar National  Historic Site in California, content is now being censored because the  words on the plaque there make this administration uncomfortable.

As the saying goes, those who cannot remember the past are condemned  to repeat it.

This administration wants us to forget that our government is capable  of rounding up entire families and upending their lives, as they did to  my family, without any due process. They want us to forget the past  while they perpetuate yet another legacy-defining human and civil  rights abuse on a national scale.

Will Americans generations from now visit alligator Alcatraz and  think to themselves: How could our government do this? How could our  leaders do this?

Will students on school trips one day walk through cages behind razor  wire, trying to comprehend the brutality that took place there?

More importantly, these future generations of Americans will look to  us, the Congress, to see what we did to try to stop it.

We cannot stop it alone. We need Republicans like you, Mr. Speaker,  to join us. Think of our future. Think of how history will remember  this government you are a part of: executions of Americans on our  streets, demanding  papers from Americans to prove that they belong, and mass Federal  agents acting with impunity.

One day, everyone will say that we were against this. One day, they  will say that you should have been against this, that we should have  been against this.