Rural Veterans' Improved Access to Benefits Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3951, the Rural Veterans'  Improved Access to Benefits Act of 2025, as amended.

There are few things we on both sides of the aisle agree on  completely, and I am happy to report this bill highlights one of them.

Veterans in rural areas deserve the same access to care that someone  living near a VA facility in a large city does. Rural populations are  particularly vulnerable because of unreasonable travel distances for  appointments, especially specialists.

For some veterans, this can be a reason to delay or forgo routine  exams or care, later resulting in poorer health outcomes. We hear many  stories of veterans who have appointments scheduled hours away,  requiring them to secure transportation, which can often be difficult.  We have also heard incredibly frustrating stories of these same  appointments being canceled or rescheduled at the last minute.

What does that mean for our veterans and their families? It can mean  rescheduling childcare, leave, work, transportation, as well as other  appointments they may have grouped together for ease and convenience.  It also means that any follow-up appointments begin the cumbersome  cycle all over again.

We should not tolerate rural veterans being treated as secondary  purely because of their location. They should have the same access to  care that other veterans have in more densely populated areas.

The Rural Veterans' Improved Access to Benefits Act attempts to  rectify part of this problem by expanding license portability, allowing  practitioners to perform exams for veterans across State lines.

At a time when medical professionals in many specializations are  particularly difficult to access at the VA, it is vital that we ease  access to these practitioners where possible.

This bill mandates a report regarding the number of exams completed  through this license portability agreement. This data will surely prove  beneficial in highlighting communities with greater needs for care.

We will continue to work to ensure all veterans get access to the  care they need, whether it be through legislative levers like this or  continued efforts of outreach and advocacy.

I am thankful to all of those who worked on this effort to ensure  that no one is left behind. I support this bill and urge my colleagues  to do the same.

Mr. Speaker, once again, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R.  3951, the Rural Veterans' Improved Access to Benefits Act of 2025, as  amended.