Trump Immigration Policies


Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to address the House for a Special  Order hour with my Congressional Progressive Caucus colleagues. I do so  on the 100th day of the Trump administration, and I note that this is a  day when we received the news that our economy has contracted and that  we are witnessing confusion, chaos in our markets, and uncertainty  about our economic future.

We can also mark this day by stating that our country is in the midst  of a constitutional crisis.

The administration is disappearing individuals without due process in  defiance of court orders. They are ripping people from their homes and  communities, putting them on secretive flights, and sending them  overseas, including more than 280 individuals sent to the brutal CECOT  prison in El Salvador without so much as a hearing.

The Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the administration must  facilitate the return of one such man, Kilmar Abrego Garcia, a Maryland  father, but the executive branch has ignored the highest Court in the  land, saying that their own views matter more.

Just last night, the President of the United States admitted in a  public interview that he could return Mr. Abrego Garcia if he wanted  to, but he is choosing not to. He has openly mused about sending  American citizens to El Salvador next because it always starts with  those without power, the most vulnerable, but it never ends there, and  that should terrify every American.

I want to take the opportunity to draw attention to another case that  has captured the public conscience, that of Andry Jose Hernandez  Romero, a 31-year-old gay Venezuelan makeup artist and asylum seeker  who was forcibly disappeared without due process.

Andry entered the United States legally, fleeing persecution for his  sexual orientation and political beliefs. He passed an initial asylum  screening and had no criminal record. Yet, without warning or due  process, he was forcibly removed to El Salvador and imprisoned in the  notorious CECOT facility.

What is the evidence against him? A couple of crown tattoos above the  names ``Mom'' and ``Dad,'' symbols of his love for his hometown's Three  Kings Day celebrations.

Andry's case exemplifies the dangers of unchecked executive power and  what happens when the rule of law is pushed aside.

I call on President Trump to free Andry.

There are so many others to talk about: students who have been  snatched off the streets, young American citizens kicked out without so  much as a hearing, and the list goes on and on.

I want to be clear that this is not just about immigrants. This is  bigger than that. If the government can violate the Constitution with  impunity in these cases, then it can do so anywhere to anyone.

To the Americans listening at home, I ask you: How would you feel if  masked men grabbed you in broad daylight and refused to show their ID?  I know I would be terrified, and I bet you would be, too.

Today, we will hear from a number of my Congressional Progressive  Caucus colleagues as we bring a spotlight to these injustices.

Escobar).

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Escobar for her  comments.

I am outraged to hear that Republicans on the Judiciary Committee  would not protect citizens from deportation. We are talking about  citizens.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Ramirez for standing  up for the rule of law.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Louisiana for his  principled remarks about the importance of the rule of law in our  country and his enunciating that political dissent in our country is  not a crime.

Ansari).

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Ansari. I want to  thank her for traveling with three other of our colleagues to El  Salvador last week. I know that she traveled at her own expense. I am  very proud that we have members of this caucus who care so deeply about  people who have been treated so unjustly. Nobody should be disappeared  out of our country without habeas corpus hearings.

I also thank Representative Carter for his efforts, along with, I  believe, other Members of Congress to visit the graduate students held  in a New Orleans jail.

Omar).

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, the sign behind me says ``9-0.'' ``9-0'' is  the order of the Supreme Court. They ruled 9-0 that Kilmar Abrego  Garcia must be brought back or must be facilitated back into the  country. This 9-0 Supreme Court order is being defied by the President.  No one in our country, no person, no man, is above the law.

Randall).

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her comments.

Rivas).

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Rivas for her  comments and bringing to light the tragic stories of children who are  citizens with cancer being deported from our country.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Tonko for his  comments. I agree with the gentleman. This is a red line that cannot be  crossed. We cannot permit a President to defy a 9-0 order of the  Supreme Court. No person and no man is above the law.

Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Takano for  holding this Special Order. This is very important.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today because the Trump administration is  carrying out a campaign of reckless cruelty with zero accountability.

Last week, the home of a woman from Oklahoma was mistakenly targeted  by ICE agents. They broke into her home, forced her and her children  outside at gunpoint in their underwear, and proceeded to ransack their  home.

The people who ICE were looking for didn't even live there, but that  didn't stop them from traumatizing the current residents, confiscating  their life savings, and fleeing the scene without leaving any contact  information or instructions for how this innocent family could get  their belongings back, including their money.

More recently, over the past weekend, we learned that Trump  administration's police deported a 4-year-old American citizen who has  stage IV cancer, and then they lied about it. On Monday, Trump's  deportation czar claimed that the child's mother chose to bring her son  with her when she was deported without any kind of due process.

Let me be clear. That is another boldface lie. The truth is that this  woman did what any mom would do when faced with such a terrifying  situation. She tried desperately to protect her child. She pled with  the Trump's deportation police to let her contact her family to arrange  care for her son and make sure that he keeps receiving the medical  treatment that he desperately needs.

Yet, Trump's police said: No. They denied this basic right. They  would not let her call her family, nor her lawyer. As a result, her son  no longer has access to his lifesaving cancer treatment.

It is a confounding degree of evil that we are dealing with in the  Trump administration and this Republican-controlled Congress that fails  to find its spine and do the right thing for the people of this  country.

I truly cannot comprehend the heartlessness that is required to do  these things like this, and I am praying for all of the victims of this  administration's campaign of terror in my country.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Watson Coleman for  informing the Nation about what happened earlier today with that family  in Oklahoma.

It strikes me that we are witnessing this evolution of this  administration's policies that began with: We are just going to deport  criminals.

It then evolved into disappearing people without hearings and  claiming that the people they were disappearing were criminals,  dangerous criminals, members of the Tren de Aragua gang.

They admitted that there were mistakes made, but now we are seeing  actual children who are citizens being spirited out of the country.  This ought to be concerning to all Americans. It is not about them  anymore. It is about us. It is about every single person who is in  danger of being treated in such a way that you have no way to say to a  judge: I am a citizen.

How can you say to a judge that you are a citizen or not a criminal  when you are not even allowed to have that hearing?

Mr. Speaker, I will now move on and yield to the gentlewoman from  Oregon (Ms. Hoyle).

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for standing up for  the rule of law.

Mr. Speaker, I remind my colleagues that, in this country, under our  Constitution, no one is above the law, not even the President. Our  President, at this very moment, is defying a 9-0 Supreme Court  decision.

Tokuda), my  colleague from the Aloha State.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Tokuda for her  comments.

Chu), my  fellow colleague from southern California and good friend.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Chu for bringing to  light the story of an individual who has contributed much to his  community. I am very disappointed, alarmed, and, frankly, terrified by  the actions of this administration.

Representative Garcia, I had not heard the story about your request  to the Ambassador to do a welfare check.

This is one picture of Andry Hernandez. I have seen other pictures of  him, other photographs. It is hard for, I think, anyone who looks at  these photographs to believe that Andry is a dangerous member of the  Tren de Aragua criminal gang.

Here is the other fact that was just mentioned. He has never once  been at large in the U.S. territory, any part of the U.S. Government,  or the Continental United States. From the very beginning, when he  crossed the border, he was in custody. He has never been out of  custody. He has never once posed any danger. He arrived with papers  that show, from his native Venezuela, that he has no criminal record.

My understanding not only was that he was seeking asylum from  Venezuela because of his sexual orientation but also because he would  not comply with the authoritarian regime there.

Is that your understanding, as well?

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Garcia for traveling to El  Salvador on his own resources and to our colleagues who spent their own  resources  because this House of Representatives will not do oversight over the  overreach of this administration, will not do oversight over the  dereliction of constitutional responsibility of this administration, an  administration that was defying a 9-0 Supreme Court order to facilitate  the return of Kilmar Abrego Garcia.

There is another compelling case we have before us. The 280 other  individuals who are in CECOT prison, the government has kept those  names secret. The press and others have had to do a lot of sleuthing to  identify individuals who have been sent down there. For all we know,  there could be citizens among those folks. We don't know because they  have never been able to talk to a judge.

Mr. TAKANO. They have never been able to defend themselves against  charges that they are Tren de Aragua criminals or otherwise dangerous  criminals.

This is a travesty. I think all Americans should be outraged. All  Americans should be afraid for themselves. We have now seen, in just  recent days, that we have moved from noncitizens to citizens being sent  out of this country.

Mr. Speaker, I want to say that, over the last hour, the American  public has heard directly as Members of Congress came to this hallowed  floor to talk plainly about the grave constitutional crisis unfolding  in our country. We have heard the names Kilmar Abrego Garcia and Andry  Hernandez Romero. We have spoken of students taken off streets, court  orders cast aside, and a supermax prison that now holds victims of  abuse.

These are not isolated incidents. They are evidence of a pattern, a  government operating outside the law, outside the Constitution, outside  the decision of a Supreme Court that has ruled 9-0 that this  administration must facilitate the return of Kilmar Abrego Garcia, a  government that believes that it can disappear people without charges,  ignore the judiciary, and turn the Constitution into a suggestion  rather than a safeguard.

Mr. Speaker, this body must exert its collective conscience. This is  not who we are, and it must not be who we become. The American people  are beginning to wake up. They are hungry for accountability from our  government and courage from Congress.

I promise this. This is not the end of our voices. It is only the  beginning.