Va Hospital Inventory Management System Authorization Act


Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in cautious--I emphasize cautious--support for  H.R. 3494, the VA Hospital Inventory Management System Authorization  Act, as amended.

Throughout my time on this committee, I have seen the importance and  necessity of an accessible and efficient supply chain system. Without  these tools, hospitals remain ill-equipped to handle demand.

This became painfully evident during the COVID-19 pandemic when VA  facilities were forced to use Excel spreadsheets to report PPE  inventory up to the central office.

VA patients and providers deserve a modernized supply chain, and it  has yet to be proven that VA has the capacity to provide this solution.  I emphasize this has occurred, regardless of which party was in charge  of the Department.

After a canceled procurement effort last year, VA has told us that it  plans to restart its supply chain modernization effort for a fifth  time. As far as I can tell, they have not done much of the work needed  to avoid making the same expensive mistakes again.

Representative Kiggans' bill in its introduced form would have  authorized tens of millions of dollars to VA for a pilot on a program  VA does not even yet have a plan for. That is millions of dollars to  the Department simply with the hope that VA was ready to get it right  this time.

However, I am glad my Republican colleagues chose to incorporate  critical accountability measures initially proposed by my colleague,  Representative Nikki Budzinski, for consideration on the floor today  after these measures were voted down on party lines in our most recent  committee markup.

With the help of committee Democrats, this bill will now ensure that  the Department has critical measures in place before it embarks on  implementing the untested and unproven pilot program this bill  authorizes.

Representative Budzinski's input requires that VA develop a  comprehensive strategy for its supply chain program, a cost estimate  and implementation schedule, reports on VA's internal staffing levels  after support workforces were heavily depleted by the Deferred  Resignation Program and other attrition, and an assessment of its  recent failures in this modernization effort.

These updates represent just the most basic levels of oversight and  planning that VA should have done once it decided to restart this  modernization effort. I am glad my Republican colleagues are joining us  in pushing for the Department to conduct these necessary assessments  and plans before overhauling such an important program as supply chain  management.

I also applaud Representative Budzinski for inserting these  commonsense checks into this bill, and I urge my colleagues to support  this legislation.

Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I ask all my colleagues to join me in  voting ``yes'' on H.R. 3494, the VA Hospital Inventory Management  System Act, as amended.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.