Veterans Education and Technical Skills Opportunity Act of 2025


Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise to express my qualified support for H.R. 1458,  the VETS Opportunity Act of 2025, as amended. I support the  improvements made by most of the bill, but I have concerns about some  of the provisions within this legislation.

Specifically, I worry that section 3 of the bill, which would  authorize the use of post-9/11 GI Bill benefits for independent study  programs taught at non-degree-granting, for-profit institutions, might  be used by predatory operators to target veterans with subpar programs  and rob them of the benefits they have so rightfully earned.

While I believe that student veterans should have the freedom to  pursue higher education in the manner that is most effective for them,  H.R. 1458 risks unnecessarily exposing student veterans to bad actors  and scams. With the U.S. Department of Education's ability to provide  oversight in jeopardy, expanding program approvals for new programs now  is misguided.

The GI Bill is one of the most important tools we have to support the  long-term success and economic mobility of veterans. With that comes a  responsibility to ensure that the programs we approve for GI Bill  funding are high quality and accountable and lead to meaningful  employment.

H.R. 1458, while well intentioned, opens the door for a surge in non- degree-granting, for-profit providers seeking to enroll veterans in  high-cost, low-quality programs that, in a troubling number of cases,  fail to deliver on their promises.

The lack of minimal quality assurance mechanisms for non-degree  programs is what led to congressional action to exclude them from  eligibility for the Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program in  2013.

While I strongly support expanding educational access for our  Nation's veterans, H.R. 1458, as it is currently  drafted, may have unintended consequences. Veterans deserve the widest  possible array of educational opportunities, but not at the cost of  diminished quality, oversight, or value.

Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, before I yield to the gentleman from North  Carolina, I do want to point out that the chairman was referring to  hybrid programs. Our concern is not about the hybrid programs, but  independent study, and that independent study loophole for for-profit,  private educational providers may allow for some abuse and targeting of  veterans in unintended ways. I do hope that our colleagues in the  Senate will give this a second look and possibly return this  legislation for final passage here.

Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from North Carolina  (Mr. Davis), my good friend.

Mr. DAVIS of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, I thank Chairman Bost and  Ranking Member Takano for their leadership.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1458, the VETS Opportunity  Act of 2025. As a proud United States Air Force veteran and voice for  over 56,000 veterans and their families in North Carolina's First  Congressional District, it was an honor to join and work with the  gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Ciscomani) in introducing this bipartisan  legislation.

For too many veterans, the transition from military service to  civilian life comes with uncertainty about how to build a new career  and support their families. By expanding in-person and hybrid training  options for skilled trade programs, we are bridging skills gaps across  the country, empowering our veterans, and contributing to our local  economies.

Madam Speaker, I believe it is time to equip eastern North Carolina's  veterans and beyond with the training and skills they so need. I  encourage my colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time to  close.

Madam Speaker, I again express my qualified support for H.R. 1458,  the VETS Opportunity Act of 2025, as amended. I can't express that  enough.

I urge my colleagues to work with the Senate to improve this bill and  ensure that it is veterans who benefit from this legislation and not  bad actors.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.