Veterans Scam and Fraud Evasion Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in hesitant support of H.R. 1663, the  Veterans Scam And Fraud Evasion, or VSAFE, Act, as amended.

I fully support the intention of this bill and strongly encourage the  Department to fully resource the VSAFE program established under  President Biden. However, the actions taken by the Trump administration  over the last year will significantly hinder the great work that has  been accomplished by the VSAFE Task Force, the Federal Trade  Commission, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which is,  unfortunately, more pressing than ever.

According to the Federal Trade Commission, veterans reported some of  the highest numbers of fraud complaints and greatest total losses in  2024, amounting to nearly $600 million. Veterans also continually face  higher losses than their civilian counterparts, with median losses  reported around $700, which is over $200 higher than the general  population.

Both the FTC and CFPB have done important work in identifying the  most pressing scams and fraudulent activities that target veterans and  their families. These include scams like credit card fraud, investment  schemes, and imposter scams, which seek to impersonate government  officials, technology support, or even love interests to collect money  or gain access to veterans' personal systems.

They have also identified the threat of multilevel marketing schemes  and other ``business opportunities,'' like Amway, Mary Kay, and  Herbalife, who regularly target veterans, servicemembers, and their  families under the guise of patriotism, flexible hours, and financial  independence.

I applaud my colleague, Representative Delia Ramirez, for offering an  amendment to require specific trainings on these tactics to provide  veterans and their families with clear, actionable guidance to protect  their hard-earned benefits. It is unfortunate that this commonsense  amendment was voted down by the Republican members of our committee.

Lastly, I find it ironic that these same Republican colleagues want  to advance this legislation while our President actively dismantles the  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, one of the only agencies set up  to protect military and veteran consumers. This is ironic.

Since its inception in 2008, the CFPB has returned more than $21  billion--that is billion with a b--back to consumers, which includes  hundreds of millions of dollars to servicemembers and veterans impacted  by violations of the Military Lending Act. Unfortunately, President  Trump has determined that those who served our Nation no longer deserve  protections against bad actors who seek to profit off their benefits.

As fraudsters' ability to create more complex scams and become more  convincing in their deceit thanks to emerging technologies like  artificial intelligence, the time to create informed and resourced  tools is now.

H.R. 1663 marks a step in the right direction, but I urge my  congressional colleagues to do more to help protect our Nation's  veterans against these scams.

In response to the chairman, let me just say that I did say that this  bill was a step in the right direction, a step that could be a big leap  if we all got behind bigger initiatives and called upon this  administration to stop diminishing and diluting the power of the  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

The results of protecting military servicemembers and veterans by  that particular agency are undisputed, and it became particularly  impactful when it was in full force. The philosophy of this  administration has been to diminish the authority and reach of the  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as well as the Federal Trade  Commission, and our veterans are suffering.

In spite of this very small step we are taking with this bill, it is  insufficient to take on the enormous challenge of fighting fraudsters  in this country who will take advantage of those who have laid their  lives on the line for all of us.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  intend to vote ``yes.'' I yield back the balance of my time.