Veterans Readiness and Employment Improvement Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my support for H.R. 980, the Veterans  Readiness and Employment Improvement Act of 2025, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation will remove the requirement that  Veteran Readiness and Employment, or VR&E, counselors staff the  VetSuccess on Campus, or VSOC, program. This change will put counselors  back into the severely understaffed VR&E program and will also allow  the future expansion of the VSOC program, which has been limited by the  availability of VR&E counselors.

Mr. Speaker, many colleges and universities and Members of Congress  are asking for VSOC staff on their campuses and in their district  because they have seen firsthand the impact a VSOC can have. By  expanding who can fill that role, we will give more student veterans  access to the program and help enable them to access their earned  benefits.

While I do have concerns that section 4 of the bill requires VA to  adjudicate extension requests within 30 days without addressing the  underlying issue of  staffing, I support the intent of timely decisions for our student  veterans.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am  prepared to close.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I yield myself the balance of my  time.

Mr. Speaker, I am glad to see that the House is moving this bill  forward today, and I hope for speedy passage through the Senate and to  the President to be signed into law.

I look at the many other good bills languishing in committee waiting  for us to take them up and move them to the floor like this one. If we  are to believe our own rhetoric, it shouldn't matter if a good idea is  from a Republican Member or a Democratic Member. If it helps veterans,  we should get it done.

I hope to see the chairman of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs move  bills other than the ones sponsored by his members expected to be in  tight reelection races. I hope he returns to the traditional practice  of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs moving both Republican and  Democratic bills in great numbers. I see the smile across his nice  countenance, which to me is a sign of his assent and his geniality.

I encourage my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 980, the Veterans  Readiness and Employment Improvement Act of 2025, as amended, and I  encourage my colleagues to vote for it. I hope very much that my  chairman will move other bills, as well.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.