Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BRAUN. Madam President, the discovery of thousands of fetal  remains in Indiana at an abortionist's home last year horrified us all  and highlighted a disturbing trend that Indiana has taken the lead in  rectifying. 

  This bill is our chance to fix the problem nationally. I believe all  human life deserves a dignified burial, and fetal remains deserve to be  treated with respect, not as medical waste. Sadly, irreverence toward  fetal remains, like Dr. Klopfer's grotesque collection, in our case, is  not an isolated incident. For example, in 2015, a Minnesota hospital  threw out the body of a stillborn baby with dirty laundry. 

  Indiana has led the way. Governor Mike Pence signed a law in 2016  protecting the dignity of fetal remains, upheld by the Supreme Court  last year in Box v. Planned Parenthood. 

  This legislation, the Dignity for Aborted Children Act, builds on  Indiana's success and provides guidelines for handling fetal remains  and penalties for failing to respect the sanctity of human life, and it  ensures that crimes like Dr. Klopfer's have consequences. 

  The bill would require abortion providers to dispose of the remains  of unborn children just as any other human remains or to release the  remains to the family, should the family wish to receive them. This  bill does not tell anyone what to do with their body. It only holds  human fetuses to a higher standard of dignity than medical waste. 

  Last week, this body could not agree to ban abortions after science  tells us fetuses are capable of feeling pain. This body could not agree  to ensure that babies born alive after botched abortions should receive  the same standard of care as a baby born in a hospital. 

  At the very least, we should be able to agree to treat the remains of  unborn children with the reverence befitting a  human life rather than as medical waste. 

   2590 and the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BRAUN. Madam President, I think if we continue to make the  argument with women's healthcare that it is mutually exclusive to  consider that, and you define what we are talking about here--banning  abortions where there is pain-felt capability or not trying to preserve  the life of a baby born through a botched abortion--adding this as  well: not treating the fetal remains with the dignity that they  deserve--I think it is increasingly difficult to make the argument that  we constantly hear about women's healthcare. They are not mutually  exclusive. This is something that shouldn't be put into the category  that it would impact any of that by putting this into effect. 

  I yield floor. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT