Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BRAUN. Mr. President, I rise to honor and recognize the life and  contributions of Mr. Jim Cummings to the countless Hoosiers whose lives  he touched over nine decades. 

  Jim was a giant in Indiana. His long and rich life left many  indelible marks on our State. We look to people like Jim Cummings as an  example of a life well lived in service to others. His role in founding  the Indiana Black Expo in 1970 made him a leader to all Hoosiers during  a time of great change in our State and our Nation. As a lifelong  servant to those in his State and community, his dedication to  conservative principles guided his thoughts and actions for many years. 

  His life of service extended beyond his work with the Indiana Black  Expo. It included serving his community in public office on a number of  boards in Indianapolis and working as the Deputy Assistant Secretary  for the Department of Housing and Urban Development under President  Ronald Reagan. 

  Indiana has lost one of its most distinguished Hoosiers of this  generation.  The Cummings family has lost a father, a grandfather, and a great- grandfather. I join them in mourning the loss of Jim Cummings. 

  In closing, I personally thank the Cummings family for the vast  contributions he made to Indianapolis and the Hoosier State. Both are  better because of him. On behalf of me and Maureen, my wife, we extend  our sincere condolences to all of his family and friends at this time.                        Nomination of Robert J. Feitel  

  Mr. President, in my remaining time, I recommend the confirmation of  Robert Feitel to be the inspector general of the Nuclear Regulatory  Commission. 

  We reviewed his nomination in my subcommittee in December of last  year. I believe he is fully qualified for this position. During  subcommittee consideration, we received a letter of support from the  Chief of the Department of Justice's Capital Case Section, who noted  that Mr. Feitel has exhibited the ability to provide a fair-minded,  independent assessment of each case, to scrupulously adhere to his  ethical obligations, and to follow the facts and evidence wherever they  lead. These characteristics are necessary for any inspector general but  particularly at the NRC. 

  I close by noting that Mr. Feitel's confirmation today is an example  of why the Senate should be getting back to work. Essential American  workers are getting up every morning to stock our grocery stores, to  deliver the mail, and to transport critical supplies to our healthcare  workers. It is our responsibility to ensure they have the resources to  do their jobs and have the assurances that our Nation's government is  working in their best interests. 

  It seems to me that the inspector general of the NRC is a position  that you could label as essential. Even though America's nuclear plants  are operating at historically high levels of safety and performance, we  can never be too careful. We cannot let our guard down. It is  irresponsible to let this agency go so long without a confirmed,  independent regulator. 

  Had the Senate not returned today, this office would have gone  another day with the lights not on. I am proud that the Senate is  returning to ensure that Mr. Feitel can assume his post quickly and  that this Senate can continue to serve the best interests of the  American people. 

   EVANINA  BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT