Unanimous Consent Request


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BRAUN.  I think after I get through explaining my objection,  hopefully, there will be something we can work out. 

  The United States should be engaging more in global efforts to find  treatments and vaccines for coronavirus. Governments, academic  institutions, scientists, researchers across the world are racing to do  it. The United States must work at home and with international partners  to develop treatments and vaccines. There is no reason we can't be  doing something on our own and working with others across the world. 

  This is a joint venture, if there ever has been one. However, the  nonbinding resolution that my colleague has offered is not an actual  solution. I come from the world--and one of the frustrations for being  here for just a year and a half is that we don't get more stuff across  the finish line. I have a real solution to ensure Americans benefit  from the vaccine and treatment development efforts happening across the  world. My bill, the ADAPT Act, S. 658, as amended, would create an  expedited, almost automatic approval process at the FDA for vaccines  and treatments that might occur across the world. We do not have the  market cornered on good ideas. 

  These countries have all developed regulatory systems that are  compatible and that should make us feel comfortable. But instead of  just talking about it, which we do so much of here, this bill would  actually establish the approval reciprocity for treatments and vaccines  between the FDA and other trusted counterparts.  

  If one of them approves a vaccine or treatment, they are quickly,  almost automatically, approved here in the United States with my bill.  We cannot afford miscommunication or bureaucratic foot-dragging with  something so important. My bill ensures that regulators will work  proactively to get Americans a vaccine as soon as possible. 

  Look at the early testing missteps we did have with the CDC. I  mentioned that in the briefing last Tuesday. Their overly proscriptive  approach delayed our testing capability for the first 40 days. The  result has been a one-size-fits-all approach of locking down the  economy, which I think we will see some of the disadvantages of that  over the next few months. 

  When my staff talked with the FDA about working with international  partners on treatment and vaccine development, the FDA assured them  that they have everything under control and are speaking with their  international counterparts. The FDA assured my staff that they have  covered the issues that might come into play when you are having a  partnership with somebody else. The FDA is promoting the idea and  having the doors open for developers to submit data and to seek  approval for treatments and vaccines 

  Until we have a vaccine, reopening will be gradual. We need herd  immunity and vaccines to be the final solution to this saga we are  going through, but we cannot afford bureaucratic obstacles slowing down  regulatory approvals for a successful vaccine. 

  As we have seen, certain steps of vaccine development can be achieved  at warp speed to cut down on development time, but regulatory approvals  will not be one of them unless we take legislative action. 

  The ADAPT Act is real action, not just talk, specifically designed  for times like this when scientists across the world are racing to  develop treatments and vaccines. 

  Therefore, with my prior objection, I do not want to leave my friend  from Illinois emptyhanded. 

   658 and the Senate proceed to its immediate  consideration. I further ask that the Braun substitute amendment at the  desk be considered and agreed to; the bill, as amended, be considered  read a third time and passed, and that the motions to reconsider be  considered made and laid upon the table. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BRAUN. Madam President, this may be a rare moment of some  collegiality on the idea in general. I think the American public and,  especially, I, who is one who has watched this place operate for so  many years in my leading up to the point when I ran for the Senate,  accept the kind of guidance that there may need to be more fleshed out,  and the Senator objected to it. 

  Yet I think the American public deserves action out of this place,  and so often it seems we dawdle and do not get to the point. Look at  how long it took the body to come to an agreement on criminal justice  reform. One of the first questions I asked when I got here was, How  long have you been working on it? The answer--10 to 12 years. When you  look at what we do get accomplished here, I think we need to figure out  how we become more effective, how we get things done more quickly, and  how we pay for it in the long run. 

  So I am going to savor the moment we have here. We are at least  talking about it. Hopefully, we will be able to work with my neighbor  from Illinois to still push the idea that this is a critical time and  that we need to get something done. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT