Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BRAUN.  He is  really trying to let career regulators at agencies like the CDC bog  down the economy again with bureaucratic hurdles. I probably know that  as well as any Senator here because, 12 years ago, I fought to reform  healthcare and its related agencies that bogged the system down--a  system that has given us healthcare costs that are double that of any  other across the country. We will get back to that, but 80 Senators on  both sides of the aisle weighed in on that before the coronavirus  raised its ugly head. 

  The White House and the task force have been beyond transparent in  the midst of this outbreak, indeed, in its holding an unprecedented  number of daily press briefings and in its allowing for a free flow of  information that has been central to the White House's reopening  efforts. This is not about transparency, and the White House is always  going to be in favor of transparency. The President comes from a world  of entrepreneurs, one in which we embrace competition. This is about  the minority leader's trying to use the bureaucracy at the CDC to bog  down the economy. 

  From this point forward, we have to make sure that we adhere to  everything the healthcare experts have told us, but we have to be able  to do a couple of things at once, which means having a smart restart to  the economy. The CDC and other health agencies were targets of the  White House's deregulation efforts from day one, and they were the most  challenging regulatory agencies to rein in. The Democrats and the  bureaucrats, who are content with the status quo, have been blocking  efforts to deregulate since President Trump took office. 

  How can we do that when decades have brought us to the point at which  the healthcare system, in general, doesn't make sense to a mainstream  entrepreneur like me, who has found that a different dynamic works? The  CDC, for example, was in the driver's seat during the initial stages of  the outbreak. Its missteps on testing forced us to take a one-size- fits-all approach, which didn't make sense to many of us. 

  We could have handled this in a way so as not to have now put us on  the precipice of there being an even greater calamity. The inability to  conduct early and wide testing in the United States, caused by the  CDC's and FDA's overly prescriptive stodginess, prolonged the testing  process in the early stages when it should have been expedited. The  result has been one-size-fits-all, which we are contending with  currently. 

  Thanks to the White House's efforts to fight off the regulatory swamp  at the CDC and its efforts to fix the testing problems caused by  regulators, we now lead the world in testing. Yesterday, I submitted  for the Record, from that over 2-hour briefing with the healthcare  experts, that timeline referred to. It happened from late January  through early March. 

  Senator Schumer wants to release the CDC's version of the reopening  guidance, but the White House and senior health officials rejected the  initial CDC recommendations in that version because the recommendations  were overly proscriptive, infringed upon religious rights, and risked  further damaging the economy. Are we really going to let the CDC  shutter the economy for a second time, like it did with testing, by its  dictating overly proscriptive guidelines? President Trump's  deregulatory agenda has proven to be an immediate success because we  have gone from being initially mired in bureaucratic hurdles to our  leading the world in testing and successfully flattening the curve and  fighting the virus. 

  I spoke to a CEO of a pharmaceutical company, which is headquartered  in Indiana, who said the very same thing. It was stymied from the get- go. It, among other pharmaceutical companies, has put together an  entrepreneurial effort to tackle this. It is not going to be done by  trying to tie its hands. It is close to getting testing where it is  going to work for all of us. I have a business that three of my four  kids run. We want to make sure we have testing to make sure that we can  bring employees into a healthy environment and take care of customers.  All businesses share that concern. 

  The minority leader and Democrats do not want to reopen the economy  because, I think, frankly, we had the best one I have ever seen, in the  37 years I was the CEO of a Main Street company, that went from a  little company like the minority leader always talks about. We share  that interest. I was disappointed when the PPP did come out that they  weren't helped first. We got that fixed. Let's stay focused on that. 

  We keep moving the goalposts for reopening. If we do that, we risk,  in economic terms, what is called demand and supply destruction, and  there would not be enough Federal dollars to remedy that. 

  The White House proactively gave us the appropriate roadmap to get  the economy back on track. We should not leave something as important  as reopening the country to career regulators at the CDC, an agency  that set back our response efforts due to their overly prescriptive  approach. 

  U.S. testing exploded once the White House's efforts to increase  testing and fight off the regulatory bureaucrats won out. The same  thing will happen with reopening the economy, using the reopening  guidance as a roadmap under the President's leadership. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT