Women's Healthcare


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BRAUN. Mr. President, a little over a month ago--or a year ago--I  was here with Senator Sasse and asked for a unanimous consent vote. I  was here, mostly curious to see who might object to a bill that wants  born alive--where you do everything you can to keep that child alive. I  was appalled then, and here again, we are talking about the same thing,  but I think we have got room for optimism. 

  We have got two bills that have gotten, I think, more support at this  stage of the game than in a long time. First on the Pain Capable bill,  last month, two researchers, with broadly different views on abortion,  published research in the Journal of Medical Ethics, stating  conclusively that ``the neuroscience cannot definitely rule out fetal  pain before 24 weeks.'' 

  As we continue to learn more about the science of when unborn  children can feel pain in the womb, the moral imperative to provide a  cutoff point for abortions grows stronger and stronger. I hope that my  colleagues, especially on the other side of the aisle, will not deny  science by allowing abortions to be performed on unborn children  capable of feeling pain. 

  The Born Alive bill--again, we are closer than ever. On a procedural  vote, we have 53 votes, bipartisan, almost there, with 3 Republicans  not able to vote. So, theoretically, 56 votes possibly. I stepped up  here a year ago, and I do it again because I also sense, across the  country, things are starting to change. 

  Millennials are now leaning towards what the solemnity and sanctity  of life is about, and I think, if we just take guidance from that  younger generation, it ought to be able to move four Senators to get in  line and do what seems to be so clear from a moral point of view. 

  Some will say that a bill to ensure medical care for babies born  after failed abortions is unnecessary because it doesn't happen that  often. That is not a good reason. It doesn't matter how common it is.  It matters if it is right or wrong. Even if my colleagues do not agree  with me that every baby conceived has the right to be born, we should  at least agree that every baby that is born has a right to live. If you  go back a few years ago, 2015, there were 38 votes for the same bill.  In 2017, there were 36. A little over a year ago, there were 53, or 56,  however you want to look at it.  

  I plead to citizens across this country, just as I did a little over  a year ago, to get ahold of your Senators. In States where the sanctity  of life--the solemnity of life--is important, get ahold of your  Senators and tell them that we need their votes. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT