Marking the 15th Annual International Day Against Nuclear Tests


Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to mark the 15th annual  International Day Against Nuclear Tests, observed each year on August  29th. This day serves as both a reminder of the terrible human and  environmental toll of nuclear testing and a call to action as the world  confronts new dangers of nuclear proliferation and a fraying arms  control architecture.

The United States knows well the harmful legacy of nuclear testing.  Between 1945 and 1963, our Nation conducted more than one thousand  explosive nuclear weapons tests, including over two hundred atmospheric  detonations. The radioactive fallout from these tests condemned  thousands of so-called ``downwinders'' to illness and premature death  from cancers and other grave diseases. Their suffering is a stark  reminder that even a world without nuclear war is not without victims  of nuclear weapons.

In 1990, Congress enacted the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act to  provide some measure of redress to individuals harmed by nuclear  testing. Yet the program was incomplete, excluding key populations who  endured some of the most devastating consequences of atmospheric  nuclear detonations. This program, providing long-overdue compensation  to those who bore the costs of our Nation's nuclear testing, was  recently extended to 2028 and expanded to additional populations. But  much more must be done to fully address the consequences of nuclear  testing and to reduce the dangers posed by nuclear war.

The burdens inflicted by nuclear testing are not borne by the United  States alone. Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991,  Kazakhstan inherited the world's fourth-largest nuclear arsenal and the  Semipalatinsk nuclear test site. Between 1949 and 1989, the Soviet  Union conducted 456 nuclear tests at Semipalatinsk, devastating  communities and leaving a toxic legacy for more than a million Kazakh  citizens.

Kazakhstan's decision to close the Semipalatinsk test site in 1991  and to relinquish its nuclear arsenal was an act of profound global  importance. By ratifying the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START I),  joining the International Atomic Energy Agency, acceding to the Treaty  on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, signing the Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, and working with the United States through the  Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, Kazakhstan demonstrated how  nations can choose security through disarmament rather than weapons of  mass destruction.

Together, our countries worked to eliminate Kazakhstan's inherited  nuclear arsenal, dismantle former Soviet nuclear infrastructure,  and secure vulnerable nuclear materials. Notably, this partnership  resulted in the safe removal of over 1,300 pounds of highly enriched  uranium from the Ulba Metallurgical Plant--strengthening global  security and setting a model for future cooperation.

Today, as arms control architectures fray and nuclear dangers mount,  that example takes on new urgency. The world faces a moment of great  peril: nuclear arsenals are being modernized, new technologies are  emerging that could undermine strategic stability, and the norms  against nuclear testing and proliferation are under strain. The vision  of a world free from nuclear tests and the spread of nuclear weapons,  advanced by Kazakhstan through their decision to disarm and continued  commitment to a world free from nuclear weapons, is more urgent than  ever.

In 2009, the United Nations General Assembly designated August 29th  as the International Day Against Nuclear Tests--honoring Kazakhstan's  decision and reminding the world of the human costs of explosive  testing of nuclear weapons.

Civil society, too, has helped illuminate what is possible. The  Nevada-Semipalatinsk Movement, a grassroots anti-nuclear weapons  movement uniting citizens across continents, helped build the momentum  to end nuclear testing. We must draw on that same spirit today to  reinvigorate arms control diplomacy, rebuild confidence in  nonproliferation regimes, and press forward on treaties like the  Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.

On this 15th Annual International Day Against Nuclear Tests, I urge  my colleagues to reaffirm our Nation's leadership in arms control,  recommit to preventing the spread of nuclear weapons and materials, and  ensure that the horrors of nuclear testing and nuclear weapons use are  never repeated.