Recognizing May 2025 As Gbs|Cidp Awareness Month


Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the month of  May as GBS|CIDP Awareness Month.

Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) is an inflammatory disorder of the  peripheral nerves outside the brain and spinal cord. GBS is  characterized by the rapid onset of numbness, weakness, and often  paralysis of the legs, arms, breathing muscles, and face. Paralysis is  ascending, meaning that it travels up the limbs from fingers and toes  towards the torso. Loss of reflexes, such as the knee jerk, are usually  found. Usually, a new case of GBS is admitted to ICU (Intensive Care)  to monitor breathing and other body functions until the disease is  stabilized. Plasma exchange (a blood ``cleansing'' procedure) and high  dose intravenous immune globulins are often helpful to shorten the  course of GBS. The acute phase of GBS typically varies in length from a  few days to months. Patient care involves the coordinated  efforts of a team such as a neurologist, physiatrist (rehabilitation  physician), internist, family physician, physical therapist,  occupational therapist, social worker, nurse, and psychologist or  psychiatrist. Recovery may occur over six months to two years or  longer. A particularly frustrating consequence of GBS is long-term  recurrences of fatigue and/or exhaustion as well as abnormal sensations  including pain and muscle aches.

Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (CIDP) is a rare  disorder of the peripheral nerves characterized by gradually increasing  weakness of the legs and, to a lesser extent, the arms. It is the  gradual onset as well as the chronic nature of CIDP that differentiates  it from GBS. Like GBS, CIDP is caused by damage to the covering of the  nerves, called myelin. It can start at any age and in both genders.  Weakness occurs over two or more months. Unlike GBS, CIDP is chronic,  with symptoms constantly waxing and waning. Left untreated, 30 percent  of CIDP patients will progress to wheelchair dependence. Early  recognition and treatment can avoid a significant amount of disability.  Post-treatment life depends on whether the disease was caught early  enough to benefit from treatment options. The gradual onset of CIDP can  delay diagnosis by several months or even years, resulting in  significant nerve damage that may take several courses of treatment  before benefits are seen. The chronic nature of CIDP differentiates  long-term care from GBS patients. Adjustments inside the home may need  to be made to facilitate a return to normal life.

I continue to champion key priorities of the GBS|CIDP community,  including cosponsoring H.R. 1143, the Medicare IVIG Access Enhancement  Act, that will facilitate home infusion for the treatment of CIDP and  MMN.

I call on my colleagues to join me in recognizing May as GBS|CIDP  Awareness Month and in supporting this important legislation by  becoming a cosponsor of H.R. 1143 that will help promote therapy  adherence, enhance quality of life, and promote positive health  outcomes for beneficiaries with CIDP and MMN.