Medal of Honor Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688215/medal-of-honor-act


Mr. NEHLS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my distinguished colleague, Chairman  Bost, for yielding. First and foremost, it has been a sincere pleasure  to work with the chairman and his staff to advance this important  legislation to the House floor. It is an honor to stand with him today.  I also extend my gratitude and thanks to my colleague, Mr. Pappas, for  co-leading this bipartisan legislation with me for the last two  Congresses.

Mr. Speaker, today, I rise in strong support of H.R. 695, the Medal  of Honor Act.

The Medal of Honor is our Nation's highest and most prestigious  military decoration that can be awarded.

Under current law, the President may award a Medal of Honor to a  member of the Armed Forces who has distinguished himself conspicuously  by ``gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of life above and beyond the  call of duty while engaged in action against an enemy of the United  States; while engaged in military operations involving conflict with an  opposing foreign force; or while serving with friendly foreign forces  engaged in an armed conflict against an opposing armed force in which  the United States is not a belligerent party.''

Since the Medal of Honor was established by Congress in 1862, it has  been awarded 3,528 times. Today, as the chairman stated, there are only  63 living Medal of Honor recipients.

Throughout my time in Congress, I have had the privilege of getting  to know some of these heroes and hearing their stories firsthand. In my  humble opinion, these heroes are our Nation's most sacred treasure, and  it is our obligation, as Congress, to do everything in our capacity to  support them and their families.

Currently, each Medal of Honor recipient receives a special pension  that totals roughly $1,500 per month, or $18,000 annually. The last  update to the special pension for Medal of Honor recipients was back in  2002, when Congress passed the Medal of Honor pension act.

This legislation increased the Medal of Honor recipients' special  pension from $600 per month to $1,000 per month. However, since 2002,  for more than 20 years, the Medal of Honor special pension has not been  updated by Congress. It is long overdue that Congress acts.

My legislation would raise the Medal of Honor special pension to  roughly $5,600 per month, or $67,500 annually, and is fully offset.

When I hear stories about how a Medal of Honor recipient's family  requested to set up a GoFundMe to pay for surgery and extensive care,  or how Medal of Honor recipients are not being reimbursed for travel  expenses to speak at several military recruiting events, I knew  something had to be done.

Our Medal of Honor heroes deserve better, which is exactly why this  critical legislation is needed. While this bill is a small step  forward, it is the very least that Congress can do to recognize and  show support for these selfless, courageous heroes.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle  to support our Medal of Honor recipients by passing this bipartisan  legislation.

Mr. NEHLS. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.