Trafficking Survivors Relief Act


Mr. FRY. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 4323) to provide for the vacating of certain convictions and  expungement of certain arrests of victims of human trafficking, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4323

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Trafficking Survivors Relief       Act''.       SEC. 2. FEDERAL EXPUNGEMENT FOR VICTIMS OF TRAFFICKING.

(a) In General.--Chapter 237 of title 18, United States       Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:       ``Sec. 3771A. Motion to vacate; expungement; mitigating

factors

``(a) Definitions.--In this section--

``(1) the term `child' means an individual who has not       attained 18 years of age;

``(2) the term `covered prisoner' means an individual who--

``(A) was convicted of a level A offense or level B       offense;

``(B) was sentenced to a term of imprisonment for the       offense described in subparagraph (A); and

``(C) is, or was previously, imprisoned or incarcerated       under such sentence for a term of imprisonment;

``(3) the terms `employee' and `officer' have the meanings       given the terms in section 2105 of title 5;

``(4) the term `Federal offense' means an offense that is       punishable under Federal law;

``(5) the term `level A offense' means a Federal offense       that is not a violent crime;

``(6) the term `level B offense'--

``(A) means a Federal offense that is a violent crime; and

``(B) does not include a Federal offense that is a violent       crime of which a child was a victim;

``(7) the term `victim of trafficking' has the meaning       given that term in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims       Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102); and

``(8) the term `violent crime' has the meaning given the       term `crime of violence' in section 16(a) of this title.

``(b) Motions To Vacate Convictions or Expunge Arrests.--

``(1) In general.--

``(A) Convictions of level a offenses.--A person convicted       of any level A offense (or an attorney representing such a       person) may move the court that imposed the sentence for the       level A offense to vacate the judgment of conviction if the       level A offense was committed as a direct result of the       person having been a victim of trafficking.

``(B) Arrests for level a offenses.--A person arrested for       any level A offense (or an attorney representing such a       person) may move the district court of the United States for       the district and division embracing the place where the       person was arrested to expunge all records of the arrest if       the conduct or alleged conduct of the person that resulted in       the arrest was directly related to the person having been a       victim of trafficking.

``(C) Arrests for level b offenses.--A person arrested for       any level B offense (or an attorney representing such a       person) may move the district court of the United States for       the district and division embracing the place where the       person was arrested to expunge all records of the arrest if--

``(i) the conduct or alleged conduct of the movant that       resulted in the arrest was directly related to the movant       having been a victim of trafficking; and

``(ii)(I) the movant was acquitted of the level B offense;

``(II) the Government did not pursue, or the Government       moved to dismiss, criminal charges against the movant for the       level B offense; or

``(III)(aa) the charges against the movant for the level B       offense were reduced to an offense that is a level A offense;       and

``(bb) the movant was acquitted of the level A offense, the       Government did not pursue, or the Government moved to       dismiss, criminal charges against the movant for the level A       offense, or any subsequent conviction of the level A offense       was vacated.

``(2) Contents of motion.--A motion described in paragraph       (1) shall--

``(A) be in writing;

``(B) describe any supporting evidence;

``(C) state the offense; and

``(D) include copies of any documents showing that the       movant is entitled to relief under this section.

``(3) Hearing.--

``(A) Mandatory hearing.--

``(i) Motion in opposition.--Not later than 30 days after       the date on which a motion is filed under paragraph (1), the       Government may file a motion in opposition of the motion       filed under paragraph (1).

``(ii) Mandatory hearing.--If the Government files a motion       described in clause (i), not later than 15 days after the       date on which the motion is filed, the court shall hold a       hearing on the motion.

``(B) Discretionary hearing.--If the Government does not       file a motion described in subparagraph (A)(i), the court may       hold a hearing on the motion not later than 45 days after the       date on which a motion is filed under paragraph (1).

``(4) Factors.--

``(A) Vacating convictions of level a offenses.--The court       may grant a motion under paragraph (1)(A) if, after notice to       the Government and an opportunity to be heard, the court       finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, that--

``(i) the movant was convicted of a level A offense; and

``(ii) the participation in the level A offense by the       movant was a direct result of the movant having been a victim       of trafficking.

``(B) Expunging arrests for level a offenses.--The court       may grant a motion under paragraph (1)(B) if, after notice to       the Government and an opportunity to be heard, the court       finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, that--

``(i) the movant was arrested for a level A offense; and

``(ii) the conduct or alleged conduct that resulted in the       arrest was directly related to the movant having been a       victim of trafficking.

``(C) Expunging arrests for level b offenses.--The court       may grant a motion under paragraph (1)(C) if, after notice to       the Government and an opportunity to be heard, the court       finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, that--

``(i) the movant was arrested for a level B offense and the       conduct or alleged conduct that resulted in the arrest was       directly related to the movant having been a victim of       trafficking; and

``(ii)(I) the movant was acquitted of the level B offense;

``(II) the Government did not pursue, or the Government       moved to dismiss, criminal charges against the movant for the       level B offense; or

``(III)(aa) the charges against the movant for the level B       offense were reduced to a level A offense; and

``(bb) the movant was acquitted of the level A offense, the       Government did not pursue, or the Government moved to       dismiss, criminal charges against the movant for the level A       offense, or any subsequent conviction of that level A offense       was vacated.

``(5) Supporting evidence.--

``(A) In general.--For purposes of this section, in       determining whether the movant is a victim of trafficking,       the court--

``(i) shall consider an affidavit or sworn testimony of an       anti-human trafficking service provider or clinician; and

``(ii) may consider any supporting evidence the court       determines is of sufficient credibility and probative value,       including sworn testimony from a law enforcement officer       detailing the role of the movant in coercing other victims of       trafficking into committing criminal offenses.

``(B) Affidavit or sworn testimony sufficient evidence.--      The affidavit or sworn testimony described in subparagraph       (A)(i) shall be sufficient evidence to vacate a conviction or       expunge an arrest under this section if the court determines       that--

``(i) the affidavit or sworn testimony is credible; and

``(ii) no other evidence is readily available.

``(6) Conviction or arrest of other persons not required.--      It shall not be necessary that any person other than the       movant be convicted of or arrested for an offense before the       movant may file a motion under paragraph (1).

``(7) Denial of motion.--

``(A) Finality.--If the court denies a motion filed under       paragraph (1), the denial shall be final, except as provided       under subparagraph (C) of this paragraph and subject to the       discovery of any new and compelling evidence or information.

``(B) Reasons for denial.--If the court denies a motion       filed under paragraph (1), the court shall state the reasons       for the denial in writing.

``(C) Reasonable time to cure deficiencies in motion.--If       the court denies a motion filed under paragraph (1) due to a       curable deficiency in the motion, the court shall allow the       movant sufficient time to cure the deficiency.

``(8) Appeal.--An order granting or denying a motion under       this section may be appealed in accordance with section 1291       of title 28.

``(c) Vacatur of Convictions.--

``(1) In general.--If the court grants a motion to vacate a       conviction of a level A offense under subsection (b), the       court shall immediately--

``(A) vacate the conviction for cause;

``(B) set aside the verdict and enter a judgment of       acquittal; and

``(C) enter an expungement order that directs that there be       expunged from all official records all references to--

``(i) the arrest of the movant for the level A offense;

``(ii) the institution of criminal proceedings against the       movant relating to the level A offense; and

``(iii) the results of the proceedings.

``(2) Limitation.--Nothing in this subsection requires a       court to amend or remove any fine or restitution order in a       criminal or civil proceeding.

``(3) Effect.--If a conviction is vacated under an order       entered under paragraph (1), the conviction shall not be       regarded as a conviction under Federal law and the movant for       whom the conviction was vacated shall be considered to have       the status occupied by the movant before the arrest or the       institution of the criminal proceedings related to such       conviction.

``(d) Expungement of Arrests.--

``(1) In general.--If the court grants a motion to expunge       all records of an arrest for an offense under subsection (b),       the court shall immediately enter an expungement order that       directs that there be expunged from all official records all       references to--

``(A) the arrest of the movant for the offense;

``(B) the institution of any criminal proceedings against       the movant relating to the offense; and

``(C) the results of the proceedings, if any.

``(2) Effect.--If an arrest is expunged under an order       entered under paragraph (1) the arrest shall not be regarded       as an arrest under Federal law and the movant for whom the       arrest is expunged shall be considered to have the status       occupied by the movant before the arrest or the institution       of the criminal proceedings related to such arrest, if any.

``(e) Mitigating Factors.--

``(1) In general.--The court that imposed sentence for a       level A offense or level B offense upon a covered prisoner       may reduce the term of imprisonment for the offense--

``(A) upon--

``(i) motion by the covered prisoner; or

``(ii) the court's own motion;

``(B) after notice to the Government;

``(C) after considering--

``(i) the factors set forth in section 3553(a);

``(ii) the nature and seriousness of the danger to any       person, if applicable; and

``(iii) the community, or any crime victims; and

``(D) if the court finds, by a preponderance of the       evidence, that the covered prisoner committed the offense as       a direct result of the covered prisoner having been a victim       of trafficking.

``(2) Requirement.--Any proceeding under this subsection       shall be subject to section 3771.

``(3) Particularized inquiry.--For any motion under       paragraph (1), the Government shall conduct a particularized       inquiry of the facts and circumstances of the original       sentencing of the covered prisoner in order to assess whether       a reduction in sentence would be consistent with this       section.

``(f) Additional Actions by Court.--The court shall, upon       granting a motion under this section, take any additional       action necessary to grant the movant full relief.

``(g) No Fees.--A person may not be required to pay a       filing fee, service charge, copay fee, processing fee, or any       other charge for filing a motion under this section.

``(h) Confidentiality of Movant.--

``(1) In general.--A motion under this section and any       documents, pleadings, or orders relating to the motion shall       be filed under seal.

``(2) Information not available for public inspection.--An       officer or employee may not make available for public       inspection any report, paper, picture, photograph, court       file, or other document, in the custody or possession of the       officer or employee, that identifies the movant.

``(i) Applicability.--This section shall apply to any       conviction or arrest occurring before, on, or after the date       of enactment of this section.''.

(b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of       sections of chapter 237 of title 18, United States Code, is       amended by adding at the end the following:  ``3771A. Motion to vacate; expungement; mitigating factors.''.       SEC. 3. REPORTS.

(a) United States Attorney Motions for Vacatur or       Expungement.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, each United States attorney shall       submit to the Attorney General a report that details--

(1) the number of motions for vacatur or expungement filed       under section 3771A of title 18, United States Code, as added       by section 2, in the district of the United States attorney;       and

(2) for each motion described in paragraph (1)--

(A) the underlying offense;

(B) the response of the United States attorney to the       motion; and

(C) the final determination of the court with respect to       the motion.

(b) United States Attorney Training on Human Trafficking       Indicators.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall submit to       Congress a report that details all professional training       received by United States attorneys on indicators of human       trafficking during the preceding 12-month period.

(c) Government Accountability Office.--Not later than 3       years after the date of enactment of this Act, the       Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to       Congress a report that--

(1) assesses the impact of the enactment of section 3771A       of title 18, United States Code, as added by section 2; and

(2) includes--

(A) the number of human trafficking survivors who have       filed motions for vacatur or expungement under such section       3771A;

(B) the final determination of each court that adjudicated       a motion described in subparagraph (A);

(C) recommendations to increase access to post-conviction       relief for human trafficking survivors with Federal criminal       records; and

(D) recommendations for improving the implementation and       tracking of professional training of United States attorneys       on indicators of human trafficking.       SEC. 4. USE OF GRANTS FOR POST-CONVICTION RELIEF                     REPRESENTATION.

The Office of Justice Programs or the Office on Violence       Against Women, in awarding a grant that may be used for legal       representation, may not prohibit a recipient from using the       grant for legal representation for post-conviction relief.       SEC. 5. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

It is the sense of Congress that--

(1) this Act is a first step to address the changing       tactics of human traffickers, who are using forced       criminality as a form of force, fraud, and coercion in their       human trafficking enterprises; and

(2) Congress is committed to continuing to find solutions       as needed to thwart human traffickers and protect survivors       of human trafficking.       SEC. 6. HUMAN TRAFFICKING DEFENSE.

(a) In General.--Chapter 1 of title 18, United States Code,       is amended by adding at the end the following:       ``Sec. 28. Human trafficking defense

``(a) Definitions.--In this section--

``(1) the term `covered Federal offense' means a level A       offense or level B offense, as those terms are defined in       section 3771A; and

``(2) the term `victim of trafficking' has the meaning       given the term in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims       Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).

``(b) Duress.--In a prosecution for a covered Federal       offense, a defendant may establish duress by demonstrating       that the defendant was a victim of trafficking at the time at       which the defendant committed the offense.

``(c) Record or Proceeding Under Seal.--In any proceeding       in which a defense under subsection (b) is raised, any record       or part of the proceeding related to the defense shall, on       motion, be placed under seal until such time as a conviction       is entered for the offense.

``(d) Post-Conviction Relief.--A failure to assert, or       failed assertion of, a defense under subsection (b) by an       individual who is convicted of a covered Federal offense may       not preclude the individual from asserting as a mitigating       factor, at sentencing or in a proceeding for any post-      conviction relief, that at the time of the commission of the       offense, the defendant was a victim of trafficking and       committed the offense under duress.

``(e) Federal Aid.--A failure to assert, or failed       assertion of, a defense under subsection (b) by an individual       who is convicted of a covered Federal offense may not be used       for the purpose of disqualifying the individual from       participating in any federally funded program that aids       victims of trafficking.''.

(b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of       sections for chapter 1 of title 18, United States Code, is       amended by adding at the end the following:  ``28. Human trafficking defense.''.       SEC. 7. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

Section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of       2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102) is amended--

(1) in paragraph (16), by striking ``(9)'' and inserting       ``(11)''; and

(2) in paragraph (17), by striking ``(9) or (10)'' and       inserting ``(11) or (12)''.       SEC. 8. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

Nothing in this Act, or the amendments made by this Act,       may be construed to conflict with any of the crime victims'       rights described in section 3771 of title 18, United States       Code.

Mr. FRY.  4323.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 4323, the Trafficking Survivors Relief Act, is a  strong, bipartisan piece of legislation--and bicameral, actually--that  will help one of our most vulnerable populations.

This legislation passed the House Judiciary Committee by a voice vote  earlier this year, and I am looking forward to seeing it pass the full  House.

Human trafficking is a heinous crime that we are all too familiar  with. Human trafficking is not just a distant problem. It is a crisis  that touches every corner of our Nation, rural communities and urban  centers. It can occur anywhere, in any community, and it does not  discriminate. Traffickers exploit the vulnerable wherever they may find  them.

We see it happen to a vast number of women and children who are  exploited after crossing our southern border. We see it happen to  people from both low-income and high-income backgrounds. We see it  happen to ordinary Americans, people who never imagined that they would  become victims themselves.

Efforts by Federal, State, and local law enforcement and advocates to  eliminate trafficking and to support victims have increased awareness,  reporting, and prosecution of sex traffickers across the country.  However, victims of these crimes are sometimes prosecuted for their  actions taken while under the control of their traffickers. This can  lead to the arrest, conviction, and incarceration of actual trafficking  victims themselves without proper consideration of their criminal  culpability.

We know that criminal convictions, and even nonviolent ones, can hold  someone back from applying for a job or getting housing. These victims  deserve to be able to heal and move on with their lives.

Thankfully, we have made significant progress to help survivors.  Today, the vast majority of States--in fact, 46 or 47--have some sort  of relief to victims for nonviolent offenses committed while under the  control of their traffickers. These laws allow individuals to reenter  their communities and move on with their lives.

My home State of South Carolina continues to lead on this forward- looking, victim-centered approach. The Trafficking Survivors Relief Act  follows the States' clear lead and provides Federal relief to survivors  of human trafficking who committed a nonviolent offense as a direct  result of being a victim of human trafficking.

For a court to grant this relief, a defendant must show that the  offense was committed as a direct result of being a victim of human  trafficking.

To ensure that these opportunities are only available to true victims  of trafficking and not criminals, we have worked hand in hand with law  enforcement to include appropriate safeguards in the bill. The  legislation allows for additional evidence to be considered, including  the sworn testimony of a law enforcement officer as to whether a victim  had any role in coercing other victims into criminal offenses.

This legislation is endorsed by multiple advocacy organizations,  faith-based organizations, and law enforcement officials. This is a  bipartisan, bicameral piece of legislation that unites both law  enforcement and victim organizations. It is a good piece of  legislation.

There are countless individuals and organizations that have worked  tirelessly to get this bill to where it is today, including CPAC  Foundation's Center for Combating Human Trafficking, NCOSE,  Rights4Girls, Street Grace, survivor leader Hollie Nadel, and so many  more.

Last Congress, a bipartisan group of attorneys general wrote a letter  in strong support of the Trafficking Survivors Relief Act. This  carefully crafted legislation strikes the right balance in protecting  victims' rights and public safety.

Let's work together to fight back against this evil, to help victims  and survivors begin a new chapter, and to allow them to take on every  opportunity that life hands them without any constraint of their past.

I encourage all of my colleagues to support the Trafficking Survivors  Relief Act, and I encourage swift passage in the Senate.

Mr. FRY. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers on the bill and am  prepared to close.

Mr. Speaker, I find myself in this moment on H.R. 4323, the  Trafficking Survivors Relief Act, in somewhat of a deja vu. I did this  legislation at the State level, and I talked to victims of human  trafficking and those who have used this legal mechanism as a sense of  relief to expunge their crimes, to get their prior convictions vacated,  to apply for housing, and to go on with their lives in a very  meaningful way.

What they would share with me and what I will share with you today is  that this absolutely matters to them. Being able to turn the page on  their past is not easy. It is not easy for a victim of human  trafficking to come forward. There is shame sometimes in doing so.  There is extreme guilt. When they get that chance to do that, this is  an incredibly important step.

Here is the caveat that I think is often overlooked. Law enforcement  loves this bill, too. Why is that? Because during a prosecution of a  criminal defendant who is a trafficking victim, or within a conviction  of a human-trafficking victim, victims are allowed to tell their story.  One, it is very therapeutic and helpful to the victims themselves, but  for the law enforcement folks, they can go after the real bad actors.

I think that is the key crux of this bill, and I think that is what  unites Republicans and Democrats, House and Senate Members, and the law  enforcement community and victim organizations. It is a great piece of  public policy that has worked so well in 46, 47, 48 States at this  point, and there is no reason why the Federal Government should lag  behind the States anymore in crafting a very good, commonsense piece of  legislation.

This bill is victim-centered. It is law enforcement-focused, as well.  It checks all the boxes of good public policy.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support it, and I yield back the  balance of my time.