Elections Matter


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692814/elections-matter


Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, elections matter.

Isn't it refreshing to see a President who actually keeps his  campaign promises? He promises not only safety but also economic  opportunity.

On the safety front, it is clear that our border is once again  secured with a 99 percent reduction of people coming through the  border. We finally have a secure border, thanks to the work of our  President leading by example and making sure now, with the big,  beautiful bill, they will actually have the funding to make sure that  is a long-term solution.

In that same vein, as we face increasing threats from around the  world, he is making the Golden Dome happen. We are seeing the success  of the Iron Dome right now in the Middle East. We will now have this  Golden Dome so that, God forbid, if something radical happens, we have  the protective measures in place to make sure that all American  citizens are safe.

That is the kind of leadership that people were asking for last  November, commonsense security not only economically but, of course,  for national security.

When we talk about the big, beautiful bill, what I am most happy  about is that the folks who were left behind the last 4 years are  finally being taken care of. We are in a situation where America is  truly moving in the right direction. Those folks who earned tips or  overtime, people who earned Social Security, and families who worked  hard after being hard-hit by higher gas prices, rent prices, and food  prices are being helped in this bill.

This is what the American Dream is all about, looking to Washington,  D.C., and finally seeing a Washington, D.C., that cares about the  everyday Americans who make America work every single day.

Finally, I will say this about our President. My entire lifetime, I  have watched the chaos in the Middle East created by one nation, Iran.  They wreaked havoc on the region. They undercut the idea of democracy,  let alone freedoms, not only around the nations that surround them but  within their own nation, depriving people of basic rights, especially  women.

The President said enough is enough. This Nation has put too many  nations in peril, and he has stood up and eliminated the threat of a  nuclear weapon so that we no longer have this unrest in the region.

Because of his prior policies as President, we now have economic  energy security so we are not as reliant on the Middle East because the  truth is our true threat now lies in China.

If we can secure this area in the Middle East because of the  President's bold actions, we finally have security and certainty, which  so many American families are hoping for.

This is the kind of leadership that people expect out of Washington,  D.C., and probably why I chose to run for office once again. It simply  wasn't working in Washington, D.C. We needed a leader who would  actually enforce the laws, and that is exactly what our President has  done.

We are just getting started, and I am optimistic that, over the next  few days if not a few weeks at the latest, we can pass this bill and  offer economic certainty and security to Americans so that we can see  the results as the years go by.

Everyday Americans don't care what happens in Washington. They care  what happens in their family and their local communities.

We need to make America work, and when Washington works, we all  thrive.

I applaud our President for keeping his campaign promises, pushing  forward this agenda of peace and prosperity to make not only America  great again but make the world a much safer place.