Lowering Housing Costs and Advancing Main Street Community Banks


Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, today, we rise to discuss the important  issue of home affordability.

As you just saw on this floor, we passed, with bipartisan support,  led by our chairman of the Committee on Financial Services, French  Hill, from the great State of Arkansas, a bill, with a 390-9 vote, to  promote the idea of home affordability, the ultimate American Dream.  Sadly, as we have recognized over the last few years, that dream has  become further and further away for too many Americans.

Starting today, we are moving in the right direction so that we might  reduce those barriers to affordability and simply rely on the great  economic mission of increasing supply to reduce the cost.

Our first speaker tonight is from the State of Kentucky and serves on  our Committee on Financial Services.

Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Barr for mentioning  higher construction costs, more regulatory delays, outdated zoning  laws, and, of course, the desperate need for more community banks in  the process.

Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Stutzman for his  comments.

Mr. Speaker, as discussed, one of the major issues which caused the  housing affordability crisis in America is simply the fact of the last  4 years at least 10 million people have come into this country  illegally, and it has caused the reality that when you have too much  demand and not enough supply, prices go up.

We are pleased that we are meeting that demand and we are doing it in  a commonsense way by reducing those barriers to entry, whether it be  through banks, duplicate regulations, or the zoning laws that simply  don't work. This is good work by our chairman of the Committee on  Financial Services. Chairman Hill and Chairman Flood of the  Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance have really made a difference.

Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, as we address these issues that you saw  from the poster board, illegal immigration has a true cost, whether it  be increasing demand, let alone the vital services that are strained  under that increased number of people in a very short period of time.

I yield to the gentleman from Montana (Mr. Downing), who also serves  on the Financial Services Committee.

Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, I thought the gentleman's words were  spot on, simply getting the government out of the way. This is not  about spending. This is about common sense and releasing the idea of  the American free market system. It really shows the support this bill  has by again a 390-9 vote. There is a great level of support for this  bipartisan effort. We are simply increasing supply in order to reduce  costs.

Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Crank for putting in  perspective the true cost due to government regulations and red tape.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the good words of Mr.  Mackenzie and putting in perspective what folks in Pennsylvania face  every day because of the rising housing costs through the years.

As I get ready to close, Mr. Speaker, I want to thank, first of all,  again Chairman Hill. I have the pleasure of being in that committee,  and it is so exciting to see a chairman who brings everyone together in  a bipartisan fashion to pass commonsense legislation.

What has been highlighted throughout the day today is the fact that  it is not about spending more money, it is about reducing the  regulatory burden that has caused prices to rise so rapidly as  Congressman Crank brought up in the State of Colorado.

Let's not forget again why we are facing this crisis. One is illegal  immigration. Ten million people are increasing the demand when there is  not enough supply. We are literally 5.5 million units short.

Secondly, let's not forget that when the Biden administration began,  interest rates were 2.7 percent. It got as high as 7.8 percent. To  understand that number and put it in perspective, in the community that  I live in, that means you are paying $1,200 more a month in interest  payments, going from under 3 percent to almost 8 percent because of Big  Government spending programs that simply failed in the Biden economy.

Finally, as has been highlighted by Mr. Mackenzie and others tonight,  the regulatory burden on the Federal, State, and local levels were so  duplicative that you had costs rising dramatically.

This bill tackles each of those issues. We are tackling illegal  immigration. We are tackling the interest rate issue, which is finally  coming down. Finally, the regulatory burden will be reduced so that we  will liberate folks once again from this high regulation, Big  Government debacle.

Mr. Speaker, I thank each of the speakers tonight: Congressman Barr  from Kentucky, Congressman Stutzman from Indiana, Congressman Kennedy  from Utah, Congressman Downing from Montana, and Congressman Crank from  Colorado, along with Congressman Mackenzie from Pennsylvania for  lending their comments tonight, as well as our Speaker tonight, who  encourages us every step of the way.

Mr. Speaker, I thank you for the opportunity tonight. This is so  important that for once we are showing that Washington can work. We  rarely see in a substantive bill like this a 390-9 vote. We can come  together when good ideas are shared. I am just so proud of the work  done by the Financial Services Committee and the staff which is with us  tonight.