Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency of the Department of the Treasury Relating to the Review of Applications Under the Bank Merger Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691497/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-office-of-the-comptroller-of-the-currency-of-the-department-of-the-treasury-relating-to-the-review-of-applications-under-the-bank-merger-act


Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, I stand in support of Congressman  Barr's good legislation.

Let me remind those listening about this idea that the tax issue is  so important. Let's be clear here. The current rate on the highest  earners in the United States is 37 percent. If our resolution passes,  it will stay at 37 percent. There is no big tax break for the rich, as  they claim over and over. It is 37/37. Let's be very clear on that  message.

Second, who is getting the big tax cuts in this resolution? It is  seniors, Social Security, people who earn tips, and people who work  overtime. Those are the hardworking Americans who have supported the  President and want to push this resolution forward so that we all enjoy  economic success.

Getting to this issue today, I think it is so important, and  Congressman Barr has put it perfectly. This is consumer protection.  This is fair competition because the prior administration's OCC rule  burdened businesses with excessive red tape, particularly targeting  small banks and limited beneficial mergers.

Reversing this rule allows for essential mergers that drive  innovation, lower operational costs, and benefit consumers. Remember,  this rule was issued without coordinating with any other Federal  agency.

This is why the smart decision Republicans are making today will  codify and make a strong decision because we finally have true  competition against the big boys that people say they are fighting  against.

This is a commonsense issue, and I am proud to support Congressman  Barr on this as a Member of the Financial Services Committee.