Recognizing the Seventeenth Annual Family Christmas Extravaganza


Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, on Saturday, December 20, 2025,  families from across Brevard County will come together at Fred Poppe  Regional Park in Palm Bay, Florida, to celebrate the Seventeenth Annual  Family Christmas Extravaganza--an event that embodies the very best of  our community during the Christmas season.

This annual tradition is made possible through the collaboration of  faith-based organizations, including The House Church, Eastwind  Pentecostal Church, Jornada al Cielo, Wings of Grace Ministries, and  CITA Rescue Mission, all of whom have united to serve families and  spread hope, generosity, and goodwill.

Working alongside dedicated community and business partners,  including the City of Palm Bay Parks & Recreation, Thrifty Specialty  Produce, Chick-Fil-A, Cocina Cafe, Health First Hospital, Gator  Automotive, Frog Bones-Family Shooting Center, Z88.3FM, All Digital All  Day, Grifols Plasma Distribution Center, Toys for Tots North and South  Area, Al Dia Today Newspaper, Martin's Famous Potato Rolls, and  Premiere Oaks 10 Cinema, the mission of this event is simple but  powerful: to create a welcoming place where families can celebrate  Christmas, give back, and support one another.

More than sixty local businesses and organizations have stepped up  with donations of toys, food, gift certificates, equipment, and  financial support. The Extravaganza will also feature musicians and  artists such as Carl Lewis & Intensity Band, Host Eddie Anthony as  Eddie Frost, Co-Host Aleshka Ortiz as Aleshka Bell, along with Jolly Jo  Jo, Snowflake Lilly, and Johan the Elf CEO (Chief Elf Officer), and  Corey Sprenkle with S & S Sound.

As Senior Pastor Ken Delgado of The House at Palm Bay so eloquently  put it, at a time when our Nation often feels divided, ``[. . .] it is  exciting to see the City of Palm Bay, along with the city's businesses  and the citizens, create an event where love, joy, and peace are  expressed.''

Mr. Speaker, the spirit of the holidays is about generosity, service,  and time spent with loved ones. The Family Christmas Extravaganza  reflects those values and highlights what is possible when a community  comes together in the service of others. I ask my colleagues to join me  in recognizing and commending the volunteers, faith leaders,  businesses, and community partners who have worked tirelessly to make  the Seventeenth Annual Family Christmas Extravaganza a success and to  spread the true spirit of Christmas throughout Brevard County.