Recognizing Chief Mario Augello


Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, today, I recognize our Chief of Police  in Palm Bay, Florida, Chief Mario Augello, who has been serving for 25  years in our community.

Throughout his career, the chief has exemplified amazing dedication,  leadership, and deep commitment to public safety.

In addition to his service, he founded the Palm Bay Blue Foundation,  a nonprofit that supports well-being of the department's employees and  their families.

On behalf of a grateful community, I thank Chief Augello for his  outstanding service and the commitment to the people of Palm Bay.

Congratulating Brevard, Indian River, and Orange Counties in Florida

Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate three  amazing school districts in my community. Brevard, Indian River, and  Orange County have each earned the distinguished A rating from the  education standards in Florida.

It is a true honor to represent these school districts for their hard  work, and, most importantly, the hard work of the students in the  classroom, as well as the teachers that lead them.

As a former teacher myself at the college level, we all understand  the commitment and importance of education. It is the ultimate civil  right. It unlocks so much potential, and it makes sure that America  stays number one in the world in intellectual capacity.

These A ratings are proof that Florida's educational system works. We  are a State that believes in school choice where the parents, not the  bureaucrats, have the final say in where their child goes to school  each and every day.

I am immensely proud of the Brevard, Indian River, and Orange County  School Districts for doing the right thing and making education a  priority and leading the way so that Florida can truly be the future of  not only space but of all intellectual abilities.

Mr. Speaker, I thank each of these counties, the teachers, the  administrators, and the team that makes Brevard, Indian River, and  Orange County schools true A school districts.