Condemning Benjamin Netanyahu


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695067/condemning-benjamin-netanyahu


Mr. POCAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to speak out against the  genocide that is occurring in Gaza against the Palestinians.

I am not ignoring the outrageous attacks on October 7 that left at  least 1,200 people dead and the dozens of hostages who remain. Nor am I  ignoring the decades of isolation that Gaza has endured by the Israeli  Government, essentially turning the small but densely populated region  into an open-air prison from which few could easily come and go as they  pleased.

However, it is simply outrageous what is occurring in Gaza right now,  and not speaking out against the inhumanity could be considered  complicity.

At least 64,000 people have been killed in Gaza since October 7,  2023, including tens of thousands of mothers, children, and other  innocent people. Sadly, it is likely that the actual death toll is even  higher. The U.N. estimates that approximately 92 percent of residential  buildings and 70 percent of all the buildings in Gaza have been  destroyed.

Starvation is rampant, as is disease. Famine is no longer an imminent  threat. It is happening now, and babies are dying. The killing of  people in hospitals and those trying to get food aid, normally  considered off-limits even in war, occurs regularly, with an official  shrug when the Israeli Government is called out.

The definition of genocide by the New Oxford American Dictionary is  ``the deliberate killing of a large number of people from a particular  nation or ethnic group with the aim of destroying that nation or  group.''

That is exactly what we are seeing in Gaza right now by the Israeli  Government under Benjamin Netanyahu, an accused war criminal by the  International Criminal Court.

This war isn't a targeted response against Hamas, guilty of the  October 7 attacks and decades of violence. This is a wholesale attack  on the people of Gaza.

Israeli groups like B'Tselem and Physicians for Human Rights-Israel  have recently called what is happening genocide. International human  rights groups like Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International have as  well.

Recently, the International Association of Genocide Scholars added  their voices on the genocide. The United Nations' special committee  said last November that Israel's war conduct in Gaza is ``consistent  with the characteristics of genocide,'' including mass civilian  casualties and using starvation as a weapon.

No weapons should be sent from the United States to Israel that could  be used against the people of Gaza. Instead of photo ops with Benjamin  Netanyahu, it is time for condemnation. Help facilitate the serving of  an arrest warrant from the ICC to him.

Let's make him the international pariah he should be. Let's use our  leverage to pressure him not to commit genocide in Gaza. People of good  conscience must join in this denunciation of what is happening in Gaza  and the West Bank.                           Funding Meals on Wheels

Mr. POCAN. Madam Speaker, the Republicans in the appropriations  process  are leaving seniors to starve, underfunding the Meals on Wheels food  assistance program by $600 million, a move that is likely to cost 1.9  million needy people their access to food. This follows the big, ugly  bill, which all but three Republicans voted for, making it the largest  cut to food assistance in our Nation's history.

By flat-funding the vital Meals on Wheels program for seniors in the  Health and Human Services appropriations bill, Republicans are ignoring  the real increase in food costs that Americans are experiencing due to  a lack of action by the administration to lower costs.

With all of this talk of Republicans making food access harder and  harder for millions and millions of Americans, what did they do this  weekend at the White House? They held an extravagant dinner in the  newly paved area that once was the Rose Garden and had a three-course  dinner and drinks, featuring Rose Garden salad--at least we know where  the plants went that once were there--steak, and a fudge-filled, seven- layer cake, making their cuts to food assistance even more tone deaf  than ever.

A fudge-filled, seven-layer cake? I guess the theme of the White  House event was ``let them eat cake.'' How fitting.