Listening to Our Constituents


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689813/listening-to-our-constituents


Mr. POCAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to discuss the special election that  we had in Wisconsin last Tuesday for the Wisconsin Supreme Court. It  was an overwhelming rebuke of the Trump-Musk agenda of cutting  Medicaid, healthcare, long-term care, education funding, and food  assistance to pay for a transfer of wealth of $4.5 trillion from the  middle class and those aspiring to the wealthiest in this country.

It wasn't just a 10-point win that mattered. In fact, more than the  win was the turnout. We rivaled a midterm congressional election  turnout in a spring nonpartisan election. People are pissed, they are  scared, and they are feeling unheard. So they came out to vote to be  heard.

I know GOP leadership is telling its Members to ignore their  constituents and not have townhalls, but I think that is backfiring. In  fact, that is what we heard with that Wisconsin election.

I have had multiple townhalls, both in my district and in neighboring  congressional districts in Wisconsin. We have had record turnout.

In Belmont, Wisconsin, population 1,000, we had over 200 people show  up; and we had to turn people away. People were watching the townhall  through the windows. In Viroqua, a town of 4,500 people, 300 to 400  people showed up to voice their displeasure with the Republican agenda.  When we go home for this coming Easter break, I will do more townhalls,  both in my district and in Republican districts, to make sure that  people are being heard.

This is not winning for the American people. Trump's tariffs are  taxes on working people. He is crashing the stock market and making  costs go up. This is the opposite of what he had promised.

People don't want their services cut to fund a tax cut for the most  wealthy. They don't want people who work for veteran hospitals or  Social Security to have their jobs cut just to pay for Elon Musk and  Donald Trump's tax cuts. They want the Federal Government's hands off  the programs they value.

They are rightfully afraid that the Republicans are going after their  Social Security, after Musk called it a Ponzi scheme, after Trump lied  about the program over and over in the state of the Union, and after  the Secretary of Commerce said people could go a month without  their Social Security check unless they were fraudsters.

It is their money. Leave it alone. That is the pledge. Mr. Speaker,  Republican Members of Congress can ignore their constituents, but  listen to the lesson from Wisconsin at your own peril. Figure out how  to listen to your constituents or get a discount card at Costco so you  can buy Depends by the carton. Those are pretty much your choices.

People don't support what is going on. Represent them, not Donald  Trump and Elon Musk.