Confirmation of William Kimmitt


Mr. MORENO. Madam President, I would like to congratulate William  Kimmitt on his confirmation as the next Under Secretary of Commerce for  International Trade. This is an outstanding appointment not just for  the Department of Commerce, but also for the American people.

Mr. Kimmitt's life has been defined by service, both of his own and  that of his family. His grandfather Stan Kimmitt, a decorated war  veteran who served in World War II and in Korea, devoted his career to  Senator Mike Mansfield and ultimately served as Secretary of the Senate  from 1977-1981. His uncle Jay Kimmitt spent decades on the  Appropriations Committee as a professional staff member. His aunt and  godmother Judy dedicated nearly her entire professional life to serving  six different Senators. This is a patriotic family who clearly values  the dignity of public service. I trust that William will continue the  family tradition as the Under Secretary of Commerce for International  Trade.

However impressive Mr. Kimmitt's family might be, his personal career  speaks volumes to the type of man he is. He served as counselor to  then-United States Trade Representative Bob Lighthizer and helped  implement the historic USMCA. William defended our steel and aluminum  industries and worked tirelessly to ensure that America's trade policy  put our workers, farmers, and manufacturers first--and not the other  way around. While working for the USTR, he navigated the complex  intersection of law, diplomacy, security, and commerce, while always  advancing President Trump's America First agenda.

Mr. Kimmitt also brings over a decade of private sector experience as  a partner at Kirkland & Ellis, where he represented U.S. companies in  cases before the International Trade Commission and advised on supply  chain issues. He understands, from the boardroom to the factory floor,  how trade policy impacts ``Forgotten Americans,'' real businesses, and  our long-term competitiveness against geoeconomic rivals like China.

As Under Secretary, Mr. Kimmitt will lead the International Trade  Administration and will be responsible for: No. 1, promoting market  access for American goods and services; and No. 2, enforcing our trade  laws to combat unfair practices. Both functions are critical to our  safety and prosperity.

On market access, when American farmers and manufacturers have a fair  chance to compete against international firms, they always win. Whether  it is automobiles from Ohio, refined chemicals from Pennsylvania, or  soybeans from Iowa, our products are second to none. ITA ensures that  foreign markets are open to those goods by cutting through redtape and  breaking down trade barriers. That means more exports, more jobs, and  stronger communities here at home.

On enforcement, ITA plays a vital role in confronting dumping  practices, countering illegal subsidies, and ensuring that foreign  competitors play by the rules. For too long, American workers were  undercut by countries exploiting loopholes, manipulating markets, and  ignoring labor standards. Under Mr. Kimmitt's leadership, we will have  an Under Secretary committed to using every tool available to level the  playing field and bring justice to American workers.

Mr. Kimmitt has pledged to use America's trade tools strategically,  enforce our laws vigorously, and give our exporters the support they  need to succeed globally. I know he will deliver on these promises. His  deep understanding of how trade policy intersects with our national  interest will serve this Nation well.

So today, I congratulate William Kimmitt on his confirmation as our  next Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade. I thank him,  his wife Heather, and their four children--Kaitlyn, Kevin, Will, and  Abby--for once again answering the call to serve. I am certain that he  will make the ITA a tireless champion for the American worker.