Adriana Smith


Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share the story of Adriana  Smith.

Adriana Smith was a 30-year-old nurse from Georgia and the mother of  a vibrant 5-year-old boy. She started to experience debilitating  headaches, and she sought medical care. She was discharged and her pain  was dismissed, as is so often the case for Black women in this country  and certainly in our healthcare system.

The next morning, Adriana woke up gasping for air and was taken to  Emory Hospital, where she was declared brain dead.

There are no words to provide healing for a pain this deep--a  dedicated and loving mother, a compassionate nurse, gone at the age of  30.

In the days that followed, Adriana's family and son should have been  able to make a solemn, independent decision about what happened next as  they celebrated her life; as they mourned this devastating loss; as  they pieced their lives back together; and as they began helping their  5-year-old cope with the grief and loss of his precious mother.

Yet, the State of Georgia denied Adriana her bodily autonomy and  dignity in death. In the days and weeks that followed, her family found  themselves in a desperate battle with Emory Hospital.

The hospital believed that the anti-abortion bill that Georgia  enacted in 2022 following the gutting of Roe v. Wade tied the  hospital's hands and mandated that Adriana's body, her brain-dead body,  remain hooked to machines. Mr. Speaker, this was not because there was  any chance of survival, she had already transitioned, but because  Adriana was 9 weeks pregnant, about a month past a missed period.  Adriana's body has been turned into an incubator; an incubator with no  medical rationale, no ethical reason, and no compassion.

Mr. Speaker, from the days of enslavement, Black women's bodies have  been subjected to medical abuse, assault, and degradation in this  country. We are more likely to die in childbirth. We are routinely  denied medical care. We are dehumanized. Like in the case of Adriana  Smith, our bodies and our dignity are desecrated in death.

This is cruelty. It is the latest episode in a long history of the  experimentation and exploitation of Black bodies. I grieve for  Adriana's family, for the torture they are experiencing layered with  the daily uncertainty that they are navigating as they try to do right  by their daughter and lay her to rest peacefully.

Her parents are by her bedside. Her 5-year-old asked: When will Mommy  wake up?

Adriana should be here today, her blood clots treated, her voice  trusted, and her pain believed. She should be decorating a nursery for  her little son with her family and celebrating her son's last day of  kindergarten, but Adriana's body lies hooked to machines in a hospital  bed as part of an unjust medical experiment for more than 3 months. No  family should have to endure this.

None of us are free until all of us are free.