Designation of Haiti for Temporary Protected Status


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701856/designation-of-haiti-for-temporary-protected-status


Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, once again, my colleagues across the aisle  prove that they have no idea who or what actually makes this country  great. It seems you don't know who the brilliant and effective  educators in our classrooms are, or the owners of the restaurants that  might provide your favorite meal, or even more, the healthcare  provider, the home healthcare provider that is taking care of your  aging loved one in a hospital or a nursing home.

I know firsthand how important our Haitian neighbors are to our  communities, to civic life, to culture, to workforce, and to our  economy.

During my mother's cancer battle, may she rest in peace and power, a  battle of CLL, leukemia, that she ultimately lost, as her only child  and her medical proxy in her final days, I was working daily to extend  her life and to center her dignity. She spent her final moments in a  hospital room in bed. The room was cold, but the Haitian nurses who  cared for her provided much-needed warmth and compassion, oiling her  scalp, braiding her hair, and going above and beyond to comfort my  mother. I am eternally grateful to those women for their kindness,  their competence, and their empathy.

I will not stand idly by while our Haitian neighbors are denigrated,  dehumanized, criticized, or forced to live in fear of deportation. The  unique care provided to my mother and millions of people cannot be  replaced by AI.

Haitian TPS holders are not the problem. Quite the contrary, they are  part of the solution. They are not our enemies. They do not exploit our  Nation. They enhance it.

Secretary Kennedy himself has said that we are in a caregiving  crisis. One in four of our long-term healthcare workers are Haitian,  and one in five of our healthcare workers are Haitian.

The caregiving crisis impacts families throughout America. Our  seniors need care to age with dignity and community. It is Haitian TPS  holders who disproportionately serve as caregivers and home health  aides, who during the pandemic, risked their lives to care for the sick  and the ailing.

Further, with the lack of affordable housing leading to an increase  in evictions and a decrease in homeownership, it is Haitian TPS holders  who are part of the solution as construction workers helping to build  our housing supply.

Republicans have selective amnesia or are simply in denial about who  and what actually makes this country great. They are the beneficiaries  of their contributions. Haitian TPS holders are not the problem. They  support our families, our economy, and our country.

Ms. PRESSLEY. They are our neighbors, our educators, our congregants,  people we work and worship with, and they are our friends. That is why  I support my bipartisan legislation to extend Haiti TPS, and I urge my  colleagues to vote ``yes.''