Health Disparities in Minority Communities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690241/health-disparities-in-minority-communities


Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to be here to mark National  Minority Health Awareness Month and to do so shoulder to shoulder with  two of my esteemed colleagues, Mr. Clyburn and Congresswoman McClellan.  Thank you both for the strength of your convictions.

Mr. Speaker, today in America the color of your skin and the ZIP code  you are born into are critical determinants of health.

I represent Massachusetts' Seventh Congressional District where in a  3-mile radius from Cambridge to Roxbury, the Blackest part of my  district, life expectancy drops by 30 years.

Now, some have tired of hearing these sobering statistics, but I will  enumerate them time and again until they change. If you are tired of  hearing them, imagine how tired people are of living them.

These health disparities persist despite the fact that we in  Massachusetts are home to some of the finest hospitals and brightest  minds in healthcare worldwide.

In the Congressional Black Caucus, we are daily organizing and  legislating towards a different vision: one of true healthcare justice,  a vision where Black men can grow old, where birth is safe and sacred,  where every baby has clean air to breathe and safe water to drink,  where health equity is a given and not an afterthought, where Black  pain is believed.

As we stay head down working toward that vision, the status quo is  stark. In 2023, the Boston Public Health Commission reported that  diabetes mortality for Black women was three times that of White women.

The same report detailed that our Hispanic and Latino neighbors were  four times more likely to end up in the emergency room for asthma  emergencies compared to White residents and our Black neighbors nine  times more likely than our White residents.

The disparities don't end there. They persist for cancer, heart  disease, life expectancy, and more.

The work to address these injustices is urgent. It is a matter of  life and death.

Meanwhile, we have a Trump White House threatening to gut and defund  essential health programs. They are gutting Medicaid and tearing away  school lunches. They are coming for Planned Parenthood. They are  cutting regulations, poisoning the air we breathe and the water we  drink. The cruelty is the point.

I recently returned from rural Louisiana where my colleagues and I  went behind the wall at two remote detention facilities. These  facilities have a history of unjust and unsafe conditions. Behind the  wall, as co-chair of the House's Reproductive Freedom Caucus, I met  women who were pregnant, entering the latter months of their pregnancy  and being denied routine prenatal care. I spoke to a woman diagnosed  with cancer who has pleaded to anyone she can reach to spare her life  and to deport her. While that may put her safety at risk, she said at  least if she is deported, she may be able to get cancer treatment and  fight for her life.

Mr. Speaker, what the other side wants is for us to harp on our  differences and to get distracted, but let me say this: A threat to one  of us is a threat to all of us. A cage is a cage at a for-profit prison  or at a detention center.

Everyone deserves to live free from fear. Policy is not abstract. It  is not a dusty document on a shelf. Policy determines who lives. Policy  determines who dies. Policy determines who survives. Policy determines  who thrives.

These disparate outcomes are the result of policy choices. There is  no deficit of resource in this country, only a deficit of empathy. I  will tell you this: Every day I will use each tool I have to fight for  the lives of my constituents, neighbors, and families across this  Nation that I have never met. Lives depend on it. Our greatest wealth  as a nation is the health of our people, and Black health matters.