Notice of Intention to Offer Motion to Discharge Committee on Rules From Further Consideration of House Resolution 965


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701754/notice-of-intention-to-offer-motion-to-discharge-committee-on-rules-from-further-consideration-of-house-resolution-965


Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to clause 2(c) of rule XV, I rise  to provide notice of my intent to offer a motion to discharge the  Committee on Rules from further consideration of House Resolution 965.

Ms. PRESSLEY. I did, Mr. Speaker.

Ms. PRESSLEY. I do.

Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise to make a motion to discharge H.R.  1689 to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to designate Haiti  for temporary protected status.

This is a commonsense policy that will save lives and benefit the  American public.

Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I support this motion, and I urge my  colleagues, including the 218 Members from both sides of the aisle who  signed this discharge petition, to vote ``yes.''

I yield back the balance of my time.

Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in unequivocal support of this  vote. I am immensely grateful to the Members who supported my discharge  petition on both sides of the aisle and the broad, intergenerational  and multiracial coalition of justice seekers throughout the country who  power this movement, and my indefatigable staff, my A team, who power  this work.

I am grateful for labor unions like SEIU, business industry like  ABIC, faith leaders like the Conference of Catholic Bishops, civil  rights groups like Black Lives Matter Grassroots, IFC, and so many  more, who have joined the movement to extend TPS for Haiti.

Now, this issue, Mr. Speaker, is not the most glamorous, and I don't  fault anyone at home who perhaps has never heard of this, but for those  who know those three letters, TPS, they know it is life-changing.

Temporary protected status is a legal status for 1.3 million  immigrants in the United States. The application process is arduous,  requiring piles of paperwork, undergoing a background check, spending  hundreds of dollars, and coming from one of the few countries on the  list, like Haiti or Venezuela.

Technically, the deadline for maintaining Haiti TPS has already  passed. That is why this vote is so urgent. That is why I filed the  discharge petition, and that is why Democrats, Republicans, and an  Independent have come together to take action.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' to extend temporary  protected status for Haitians who are living in the United States and  building a future that will help all of us.

Haitians like Rebecca in my district, the Massachusetts Seventh, who  shared her personal story with me. Rebecca moved to the United States  in 2010, not by choice, but out of necessity following the catastrophic  earthquake that killed more people than any other earthquake in the  history of the Western Hemisphere.

She witnessed the rise in gangs and saw her beautiful country  overtaken by  political violence and instability. After surviving multiple kidnapping  attempts, out of desperation Rebecca made the same decision that any of  us would make in her position. She immigrated to the United States. She  quickly enrolled in school to learn English. She obtained a job to  support herself and her family.

Now, in 2026, thanks to her legal status under TPS, Rebecca is a  certified nursing assistant. She told me that she cares for her  patients with great joy, pride, and dedication.

Mr. Speaker, let the record reflect that 20 percent of Haitians in  the United States, that is one in five, work in healthcare, bridging  the critical workforce gaps that define our caregiving crisis.

Rebecca is not our enemy, and she should not have to live with shame  nor fear of being deported solely because of where she was born. She  told me that she cannot return to Haiti, and she has no other place to  go.

Mr. Speaker, Rebecca's letter ended with two words that no person  wishes they would ever need to use: Please help.

Today, Congress has the ability to do just that for Rebecca in  Massachusetts, for the teacher in Ohio, for the entrepreneur in  Florida, and the more than 350,000 Haitian TPS holders whose lives hang  in the balance.

Congress can help. Congress can do the right thing. There is nothing  stopping us. Congress, right now and right here, can vote to save  lives.

Gillen).

Ms. PRESSLEY.  Clarke).

Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr. Speaker, let me add my voice to that of  those who have thanked both Representative Gillen and, of course,  Representative Pressley for their leadership and their stewardship in  bringing us to this day.

Mr. Speaker, I rise on this day as just one out of many voices  proclaiming that we will not stand idly by as 5,400 Haitian TPS holders  in New York City and approximately 345,000 others across America who we  have come to call our neighbors, friends, and loved ones are forced  back to the same gang violence, exploitation, chaos, and instability  that they once narrowly escaped with their lives.

As I stand here, I do so in diametric opposition to this  administration, which knows full well of our Haitian neighbors' plight  yet does not seek to alleviate their pain. Instead, they hope only to  become an active participant in it.

That is because in the twisted, dystopian, political sphere that has  been created by the Trump administration and its leadership, these are  not innocent families and children struggling for freedom and yearning  for any semblance of safety, but instead are nothing more than numbers  to fuel their ever-cruel, forever-hungry deportation machine.

Since the moment they arrived in America, Haitian TPS holders have  dedicated themselves to contributing to this Nation. They have built  businesses, built families, and built up their communities. Through  their undeniable strength of character and resilient spirit, they have  become an inseparable part of our city and country's social fabric. If  anyone would like an example of what it truly means to be a good and  decent American, let's look towards Haitian Americans and the families  up the street.

My colleagues and I have repeatedly urged the administration to  extend protections for our most vulnerable neighbors at this most  perilous time. Thus far, our call has gone unanswered.  If Donald Trump intends to continue this injustice by covering his ears  and pretending we are silent, let this bipartisan discharge petition  serve as a blaring beacon that even he cannot ignore.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to make the moral decision to pass  this necessary humanitarian legislation, protect our Haitian neighbors  from certain devastation, and vote ``yes'' on this resolution.

Ms. PRESSLEY.  A vote against this resolution is a vote against our country's  best interests, plain and simple, but don't just take my word for it,  Mr. Speaker. Republicans in the executive branch agree.

If you go to the State Department's website, you will see the Trump  administration has designated Haiti as a ``Level 4: Do not travel (Code  Red)'' because of the multilayered humanitarian crises of natural  disasters, gang violence, and political instability impacting the  island.

That is why TPS is warranted in this moment, and Secretary Rubio  knows that. In fact, when he was in the Senate, it was Rubio who  authored the very legislation we are voting on today.

It is not just him who agrees. The U.S. Ambassador to the United  Nations, Mike Waltz, has repeatedly discussed the dire conditions of  Haiti and its strategic importance to our national security.

Ambassador Waltz, who was recently a Republican in this very body,  believes we should be working to stabilize Haiti. He knows that the  international effort to restore order in Port-au-Prince would be  undermined if we deported hundreds of thousands of Haitians to the  island.

This isn't just about foreign policy. Secretary Kennedy of the  Department of Health and Human Services said something families across  the country already know too well: America is facing a caregiver  crisis. If we were to deport Haitians, we would lose even more nurses,  aides, and caregivers that we desperately need. Those jobs can't be  replaced by AI. The solution is clear.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' to extend TPS  because it is the economic thing to do. It is the strategic thing to  do. It is the humane thing to do. But most of all, it is the right  thing to do.

The previous question is ordered.

Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.