Protecting Our Immigrant Communities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692413/protecting-our-immigrant-communities


Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of our neighbors  and community members, our immigrant brothers and sisters who are being  targeted and abducted, taken from their homes, torn away from their  babies, and disappeared on their way to church, work, and school.

There are children crying in their teachers' arms, families  separated, and communities traumatized that if they have not already  been kidnapped, they are fearful that they will be.

Children crying in their teachers' arms are afraid that they are  going to come home and their parents will be gone. There are elders  carrying all of their medications with them in their comings and goings  for fear of being abducted and sent somewhere without access to  necessary healthcare.

We see a spike in no-shows and cancelations at health clinics as  patients would rather miss critical care than risk detainment. We see  young parents and grandparents alike attending their immigration court  hearings, eager to officially call this country their home, only to be  met with handcuffs and shoved into cars by masked ICE individuals.

This is Donald Trump's America, but these are real people. These are  hardworking people whose labor and contributions make our communities a  better place. These are young people who show up every day in our  schools as part of our learning communities. These are mothers and  fathers working overtime to provide for their children.

In my district, Massachusetts-07, my Chelsea constituent Kenia and  her three children were driving to a Mother's Day church service with  her husband, Daniel, when ICE agents in unmarked vehicles ambushed  them, broke the passenger side window, forcefully extracted Daniel from  the car, and slammed his face on the hot sidewalk while their three  children watched on in horror.

In East Boston, my constituent Mercedes and her son are struggling  after her husband, Jose, was arrested at work and detained for 2 days  at an ICE facility in Burlington. Jose was living here legally with  temporary protected status but was told by the ICE agents who detained  him that only people born here have rights.

These are real people--real people--children and adults alike  traumatized, whose lives have been disturbed, upended, and irreparably  harmed.

Donald Trump and ICE claim that they are committing this assault on  our communities in the name of safety. Terror makes no one safe. It  does the opposite. It sows chaos. It breeds fear and fosters unrest.

From my home in Massachusetts-07, where mothers have wept on my  shoulder, pleading for their husbands to come home and for their  families to be reunited, to Los Angeles, where Donald Trump sent the  National Guard and the Marines to descend on justice-seeking, peaceful  protesters, the hurt and harm of this hostile White House is felt by us  all.

This has nothing to do with law and order. That is laughable coming  from the most godless, lawless Oval Office occupant in our history.

This has everything to do with power and control: deploying the  National Guard without a Governor's approval and taking unwarranted and  unprecedented action against peaceful justice seekers and freedom  fighters.

We must see our neighbors' humanity in this moment. Yet, across the  country, occupant Trump is working overtime to be a fascist dictator,  to weaponize our government against its own people, to sow fear and  chaos, and to silence dissenting voices in our communities, at our  colleges, in the courts, and, in fact, even in Congress.

These actions are lawless, a complete violation of our constitutional  rights to due process, and void of common sense and compassion.

Know this, for those of you watching at home who might be tempted to  think that this is not your problem: An extremist march toward fascism  is everyone's problem. Trust me, if you are not already suffering, you  will be.

We need solidarity, resistance, and a rejection in this moment of  these attacks on our immigrant communities. An attack on our immigrant  communities is an attack on all of us.

As a woman of faith, my God tells me to welcome the stranger. Do not  be indifferent to the suffering of your neighbors. Immigrants make our  country a better place. Immigrants make America great, and our  immigrant brothers and sisters deserve to call this country home.