Recognizing His All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695860/recognizing-his-all-holiness-ecumenical-patriarch-bartholomew


Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to welcome His All-Holiness  Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew to the United States of America as he  accepts the prestigious and well-deserved Templeton Prize, one of the  world's most prestigious awards in Religion and Science.

On behalf of the thousands of Greek Orthodox constituents who call  the Massachusetts 7th Congressional District home and the more than 300  million followers worldwide, it is an honor to host the longest serving  Archbishop of Constantinople in the Church's history and a humbling  opportunity to say thank you for his efforts on behalf of the entire  human family. Since being elevated to primus inter plares (first among  equals) in 1991, he has worked tirelessly to promote religious freedom  and human rights, foster cooperation and understanding among all people  of faith, convene peace conferences around the globe, and call all of  us to care for and preserve the environment we all share and will pass  to our children and our children's children. His personal attention and  institutional leadership to address issues that transcend borders or  religious affiliation have led him being hailed as ``The Bridge  Builder'', ``The Patriarch of Peace'', and the ``Green Patriarch.''

Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew's words and deeds have been in  pursuit of justice, love, and reconciliation. And his lifetime of  service and leadership has placed him among the illustrious company of  previous Templeton Prize honorees--The Dalai Lama, Desmond Tutu, and  the first ever recipient, Mother Teresa.

As His All-Holiness reminds us, ``We have it in our power either to  increase the hurt inflicted on our world or to contribute toward its  healing. The choice is ours.'' and each day he rises and chooses serve,  to lead, to guide, to empower, and to divine God's grace into healing.  And it is my humbling honor to note for the Congressional Record the  unique gift of Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew's leadership and  spiritual guidance and for his innumerable contributions to peace and  harmony during his visit to the United States.