Witness Testimony During the Congressional Field Hearing on Haitian Tps Termination


Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, as part of the Congressional Field Hearing  on Haitian TPS Termination held in the Massachusetts 7th Congressional  District, witnesses from the community were invited to discuss the  importance of extending TPS for Haitian nationals. Therefore, I include  in the Record their testimonies:

To the Honorable Congresswoman Pressley, Senator Markey,       and other participating members of the Massachusetts       Congressional Delegation,

Thank you for receiving this testimony in support of       Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitians. I am a primary       care physician at the MGB Chelsea Community Health Center in       Chelsea, Massachusetts, where I care for adults and children.       I also serve as Associate Medical Director for Internal       Medicine for the MGH Center for Immigrant Health and as       faculty at Harvard Medical School. I write this testimony in       my individual capacity and my views do not necessarily       reflect those of my employers.

Securing the ongoing designation of TPS for Haitians is       critical for the health of all people in our Commonwealth. We       know that Haitian health care workers make up a huge       percentage of our health care workforce, particularly in       entry-level jobs like home health aides, certified nursing       assistants, and nursing home staff, which have already been       facing critical staffing shortages. As the population ages,       these shortages will become even more pronounced. Already,       nearly half of US nursing homes report they've had to limit       admissions because of staffing shortages and only 19%       currently meet the minimum staffing levels that the Centers       for Medicare & Medicaid Services have mandated these       facilities achieve by 2029. I myself have encountered       challenges with my own patients--some have lingered on       inpatient units for extra days waiting for a rehab facility       to have a bed available. Others have reported feeling rushed       out of the rehab facilities before they were ready--      potentially a result of the high demand and backlog of bed       availability.

These problems will only get worse with the end of TPS for       Haitians. Across the US, approximately 3.9% of immigrant       healthcare workers, and 1.7% of all home health aides in the       US are from Haiti. The Massachusetts Senior Care Association,       which presents nearly 400 nursing and rehab facilities across       the Commonwealth, estimates that 2,000 caregivers at their       facilities will be affected with the ending of TPS. In our       hospital system, many of our colleagues will likely be       dismissed once they lose the work permits that have been tied       to TPS status. This hurts all of us--our patients, our       hospital system, and, of course, our impacted colleagues and       their families.

In addition to the impact on the healthcare labor force,       there are many additional health impacts that are expected to       come because of TPS termination for Haitians. Many Haitian       TPS-holders express a fear for their lives if they were to       return to Haiti. Furthermore, the Haitian health care system,       despite the valiant efforts of brave healthcare workers, is       in shambles and many facilities have been forced to close.       Patients I have cared for with complex medical issues,       that rely on daily medication or regular treatments for their       well-being, will most likely be forced to forego care. That       is, if they survive the tragic violence engulfing the       country.

For those who evade deportation and are forced to live       undocumented in the US, the stress of living with fear of       detention and deportation is known to increase risks for       anxiety, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, and       physical health symptoms. These health impacts extend to       family members and citizen children, and can be exacerbated       if families avoid seeking social services and health care for       which their children are eligible, out of fear of       deportation. I have already been seeing the impact of this       fear on Haitian immigrants I care for in the community. The       fear can be disabling. Naturally, the impacts on citizen       children are even more severe if the child is separated from       their caregiver through detention and deportation. Multiple       studies demonstrated that children who are experience this       type of family separation suffer increased rates of mental       health disorders, developmental delays, and long-term health       problems. I have witnessed these impacts in my own patients       who have had parents deported.

Of course, the main reason TPS for Haitians should be       extended is because it's simply the right thing to do, given       the extreme violence and instability Haiti is experiencing       right now (and, not to forget, the US's role in fomenting       that instability over the years). Our Haitian neighbors, like       all people, deserve to live with dignity, peace, and freedom.       That is what allows people to not only be healthy, but to       thrive, and to contribute to our Commonwealth in countless       ways.

In addition, it's important to consider the impacts that       ending TPS for Haiti will have on population health, health       care workforce, and impacted families and communities in       Massachusetts, as I have discussed above. At the very least,       if TPS is ultimately revoked this February 3rd, we must think       creatively about ways to support impacted families so that       their livelihoods, well-being, and health can still be       supported within our communities.            Sincerely,                                         Juliana E. Morris, MD, EdM                                __________

My name is Colin O'Leary, I am the Executive Director at       Laurel Ridge Rehab and Skilled Care around the corner in       Jamaica Plain and I want to thank you for your time this       morning. Laurel Ridge is a not for profit nursing home and is       a part of the Ascentria Care Alliance, a not for profit,       mission driven organization that has been around for over 150       years.

As a Skilled Nursing Center we rely on a large labor force       to care for our residents. Throughout COVID many of these       positions sat vacant as undesirable jobs or careers. Over the       past few years we have been able to slowly regrow our       workforce and we are not in a healthy, albeit precarious,       staffing position.

Now, I am looking at losing 40% of my dietary aids and more       concerningly 15% of my CNA workforce, some who have been at       my facility for over 4 years, to lost employment       authorizations. CNAs are the backbone of our industry. They       care for our residents' most basic needs, personal care,       grooming, toileting, feeding. These are not jobs that can be       easily filled, and require a personal relationship between       the staff and the residents that are forged over months and       years together. When these relationships are lost the       residents suffer.

A staffing shortage like this creates a domino effect that       will impact resident care for the foreseeable future. This       begins with the largely unknown ripples of this sudden change       in the labor force. It is clear that we have relied on TPS       employees to fill the CNA labor pool across the state, what       is unclear now is how the sudden drop of CNAs across the       state will impact our ability to fill these suddenly vacant       positions. Unlike COVID however this is not a problem that is       easily solved. Instead of a suddenly voluntary departure from       the workforce in this case we are shrinking the workforce.

Unfortunately, when there is a limited pool of CNAs       healthcare facilities are forced to compete with one another       for the limited staff that is available. This causes       healthcare facilities, like mine, to pay over market rate for       CNAs, use overtime, pickup bonuses, and find other ways to       lure staff to work for the facility.

Please, don't get me wrong, I think that throughout the       COVID epidemic as an industry we were able to give our staffs       well deserved raises this time however, we will not have the       Medicare, Medicaid, and bailout money to fund these raises.       Now, we are looking at cutting programing, reducing expenses,       and limiting capital investment (much of which comes in the       form of deferred maintenance that occurred during the       pandemic crunch.) Inevitably it seems that we are going to       end up spending more money to provide less care to our       residents. If we are not able to pivot and find replacement       workers this will lead to nursing home closing and hospitals       being stuck with the overflow, people being sent home from       the hospital without much needed rehab, and residents not       being able to get the care they need with the dignity they       deserve.

We have a group of people who have become part of our       community and want to give care to our family and neighbors.       It is devastating that I will have to turn these valuable       caretakers away.                                __________                                               ENRIQUE PEPEN, BOSTON CITY COUNCILOR DISTRICT 5

On January 20th, my team attended the congressional field       hearing hosted by Congresswoman Pressley and Senator Markey       regarding the pending termination of Haitian Temporary       Protected Status (TPS). The hearing was hosted in Boston's       Mattapan neighborhood, the largest Haitian community in       Massachusetts. Thanks to TPS, close to 50,000 Haitian people       have become a part of Massachusetts as our neighbors,       friends, and family. That is 50,000 members of our community       serving in essential positions in health care,       transportation, law, education, and other businesses. With       TPS at risk, these vital members of our community stand to       lose all they have worked hard to build, and we stand to lose       all they have contributed to our Commonwealth.

The Trump Administration's decision through the Department       of Homeland Security to terminate TPS places thousands of       Haitian families at risk of separation from their loved ones,       their communities, and the places they have called and made       home. Stripping TPS forces many to return to a country that       is currently facing extreme humanitarian and security       concerns that no one should have to endure such as widespread       gun violence, political instability, and larger crumbling       infrastructure. The Trump Administration has taken the       position that conditions in Haiti have improved, a conclusion       that goes against Trump's own Department of State that has       advised zero travel of any kind to Haiti. How can we in good       conscience force this part of our community to return to a       place we have deemed unsafe?

The termination of TPS eliminates essential safeguards such       as protection from deportation, legal status, and the ability       to work. For years, these measures have enabled Haitian       families in my district to build stable lives, strengthen the       local economy, and care for their loved ones. Massachusetts       stands to suffer a massive blow to our economy and essential       services should the Trump administration's efforts succeed.       Ending TPS now worsens an ongoing humanitarian crisis and       exposes already vulnerable families to greater danger.

I urge serious consideration of the devastating       consequences this decision will have on our communities.       Rather than terrorizing an already vulnerable mass of people,       the Trump administration should acknowledge the incredible       contributions these individuals have made and create a path       to citizenship for the hardworking and beloved TPS holders in       our nation.                                __________

Statement on the Importance of Maintaining Haitian       Temporary Protected Status (TPS) Jacky Poteau, Brockton,       Massachusetts

Temporary Protected Status for Haitian nationals is not       only a humanitarian necessity--it is a matter of economic       stability and public well-being for Massachusetts. The       Commonwealth is home to an estimated 75,000-90,000 residents       of Haitian descent, with significant concentrations in       Boston, Brockton, Mattapan, Cambridge, Everett, and       Springfield. Thousands of these residents rely on TPS to live       and work lawfully, care for their families, and contribute to       the state's economy.

Haitian TPS holders are disproportionately represented in       essential sectors. In Massachusetts, immigrants comprise       nearly 30 percent of the healthcare workforce, including home       health aides, nursing assistants, and support staff in       hospitals and long-term care facilities. Haitian and other       TPS holders also play critical roles in public       transportation, construction, food services, childcare, and       elder care--industries already experiencing severe labor       shortages. Nationally, TPS holders contribute an estimated       $6.9 billion annually in wages and $1.6 billion in state and       local taxes, strengthening local economies and tax bases.

Behind these numbers are families and human lives. Many       Haitian TPS holders have lived in Massachusetts for over a       decade. They are parents of U.S.-citizen children,       homeowners, church leaders, and small-business owners.       Terminating TPS would strip work authorization from law-      abiding residents, destabilize families, increase housing       insecurity, and place U.S.-citizen children at risk of long-      term trauma and poverty.

At the same time, Haiti remains in a state of profound       crisis. Escalating gang violence, mass displacement, food       insecurity, and the collapse of healthcare and public       institutions make safe return impossible. Ending TPS under       these conditions would contradict both the statutory intent       of the TPS program and fundamental humanitarian principles.

We urge Congress and the Administration to extend and       redesignate Haitian TPS. This decision is lawful,       economically prudent, and deeply humane--and it affirms the       dignity and indispensable contributions of the Haitian       community in Massachusetts.                                __________

My name is Reina Reyes, resident of East Boston. I       appreciate the opportunity to present my testimony to       Congresswoman Ayanna Presley and Senator Ed Markey.

During the crisis at Terminal ``E'' of Logan International       Airport, I had the privilege of collaborating with the       Haitian community. I was not the only one to participate;       various organizations, churches, institutions and members of       the community came together to address the serious       humanitarian crisis faced by our Haitian brothers       and sisters, a crisis that persists and is characterized by       the displacement of their country of origin. This situation       is the result of a legacy of Colonialism and an interaction       of internal armed conflicts, institutional collapse, natural       disasters and extreme socioeconomic conditions, which has       forced them to emigrate not only to the United States of       America, but also to several Latin American countries.

Through this experience, I was able to understand firsthand       that, like many of us, immigrants from other countries are       looking for opportunities to improve our lives, those of       their families and those of this nation. There are numerous       factors that drive us to emigrate to this great nation, where       we begin to develop a sense of belonging.

I have had the privilege of meeting numerous highly trained       Haitian women, selfless mothers committed to the education of       their children, as well as men who practice various       professions, such as plumbing, masonry, accounting, teaching,       agricultural work, electricity, construction, textile and       other industries. I have heard many of them express their       desire to work hard to get their families ahead and provide       them with a promising future. I have also met young people       who, although they miss their small island, have aspirations       to study, work and, eventually, return to contribute to the       development of their homeland. Both young people and adults       are deeply affected by sadness, but they are willing to fight       once their immigration status is regularized. Who has the       right to undermine the scarce peace they are trying to build       in this great nation, which has always been benevolent and       balanced between its humanitarian commitments? Therefore, it       is imperative to maintain Temporary Protection Status (TPS)       and refugee status, ensuring that they continue to be a       humanitarian protection that confers clear rights and       obligations. Maintaining TPS, asylum and other status is a       matter of humanity and a fundamental right . . .