Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendments to H.R. Consolidated Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Disapproving the Action of the District of Columbia Council in Approving the D.C. Income and Franchise Tax Conformity and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Critical Mineral Dominance Act


Mr. AMO. Mr. Speaker, Republicans are trying yet again to write a  blank check for ICE while American families struggle to afford the  basics.

If we defeat the previous question, we can claw back the $75 billion  in the ICE slush fund that Trump and Republicans established with their  big, ugly law and redirect that money to where it belongs: lowering  healthcare costs.

In that same bill, Republicans cut more than $1 trillion from our  healthcare system, jeopardizing millions of Americans. Reclaiming this  $75 billion from ICE would prevent 700,000 Americans from losing their  health insurance. That is 700,000 Americans protected. That is 700,000  Americans being spared from choosing between seeing a doctor or paying  rent or paying for their groceries. This is a simple question of our  values.

Taxpayer dollars should be used to care for people, not to fund  masked agents terrorizing our communities, spreading panic, making us  less safe, and killing people.

Instead of lowering costs, Republicans poured billions into DHS, an  agency spreading chaos and making choices with deadly consequences, all  while ignoring the needs of working families. That tells you what their  priorities are.

Mr. Speaker, everyone in this Chamber has a chance to decide today:  Do we want to lower costs and protect 700,000 Americans receiving  Medicaid or fund Trump's domestic mass army of terror? It is that  simple.

Here is the kicker. This effort was bipartisan in the Senate when  Senator Sanders introduced it. Democrats and Republicans agreed that we  should cut the ICE slush fund to protect Medicaid. It should be  bipartisan here, too.

I hope Republicans make the right choice, but my expectations are  pretty low. I hope the American people are listening. They are most  certainly watching on their screens every night.

Mr. Speaker, this vote is about using taxpayer dollars to lower costs  for Americans over fueling the fear that persists in our cities. It is  about caring for our neighbors when they are sick over sending masked  agents to terrorize our communities. It really is that simple.

Choose care over cruelty. I urge a ``no'' vote.