Sharia-Free America


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701404/sharia-free-america


Mr. CRANE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to warn Americans about the  growing threats posed by adherence to sharia law.

Supporters of this radical framework believe in a mandate to dominate  those who refuse to conform to their belief system.

Across the West, politicians have welcomed millions of foreigners who  do not share our values, culture, or tradition. As a result, they have  undermined not only stability but also the identity of their own  nations. In Europe especially, weak leaders have ignored serious human  rights abuses while punishing their citizens for speaking out against  open-border policies.

While Washington prioritizes neutralizing the capabilities of  adversarial nation-states, we too often ignore growing dangers from  within our own borders.

These internal vulnerabilities are far more difficult to confront  since they spread quietly through our culture, rather than kinetic  warfare. Whether it is communism, socialism, or radical frameworks like  sharia, we have all observed movements counter to our Nation's interest  on the rise.

If we don't shield our Constitutional Republic from ideological  subversion, we risk eroding our liberties to appease those who refuse  to assimilate.

This should not be a controversial message. We have every right and  obligation to defend the principles and structure implemented by our  Founding Fathers.

If people wish to live under sharia law, there are dozens of nations  that operate under it. That is not the system we have chosen, nor is it  compatible with our Constitution. Our laws are rooted in individual  liberty, not religious authoritarianism.

Mr. Speaker, I am honored to join Representative Roy, Representative  Self, and other colleagues as a member of the Sharia-Free America  Caucus. We refuse to sit by as radicals pursue their goal of a global  caliphate, and we will not pretend it has no threat to our way of life.