Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700664/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. RICKETTS. Mr. President, it has now been 26 days since Homeland  Security has been funded and 51 days since the Democrats have announced  their intention not to fund the Department of Homeland Security.

The Democrats want the Department of Homeland Security to be closed.  How do I know they want it to be closed? Well, it is because the  Democrats are refusing even to talk to Republicans about what sort of  deal we may be able to do to get the funding for the Department of  Homeland Security.

Just this past weekend, my freshman colleague from Alabama who sits  on the Appropriations Committee and has the subcommittee that oversees  the Department of Homeland Security offered the ranking Democrat on  Appropriations a meeting, a meeting with our Republican leader, a  meeting with the Appropriations chair--the esteemed Senator from  Maine--and the White House. And the ranking Democrat refused to even  meet, much less negotiate.

Republicans want the Department of Homeland Security opened.  Democrats want to keep it shut down. Democrats are playing politics  with our national security and the safety of Americans and people in my  home State of Nebraska.

The Department of Homeland Security is funded to pay, for example,  our Coast Guard. In recent days, our Coast Guard in the Gulf of America  just intercepted a shipment of marijuana and cocaine worth about $1.3  million. That is what the Coast Guard does, keeps us safe from illegal  drugs coming into our country, and yet they go unpaid.

In fact, a Nebraskan called in to my office. His son and daughter-in- law in the Coast Guard are deployed right now in Bahrain. They are  risking their lives for us, they are risking their lives to keep us  safe, and the Democrats won't pay them.

Or let's take your TSA agents that handle the security for a billion  travelers in the United States every year. They, too, are working  without pay because the Democrats will not fund the Department of  Homeland Security. TSA agents process about 2\1/2\ million people every  day going through our airports to keep us safe, and the Democrats won't  pay them.

I stood here not long ago, sadly, talking about our air traffic  controllers. I read letters from them and how the government shutdown  that Chuck Schumer led the Democrats on just a short while ago put  pressure on their families. Many of those air traffic controllers were  veterans.

The minority leader led the Democrats on the longest shutdown in  American history. Does nobody remember that, what it did to the  families? And yet the Democrats are doing the same thing again now on  the Department of Homeland Security.

The Agency that is assigned to keep us safe from the standpoint of  cyber security--the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Agency--has  furloughed 1,200 of their 2,000 people. Only 800 people are working  right now, putting us at risk.

We have a conflict in the Middle East right now with Iran, the  largest state sponsor of terrorism in the world, that country that  regularly chants ``Death to America.'' We know that Iran has plotted  assassinations of our President, other officials, and dissidents here  on our very soil. And yet the Democrats are not willing to fund the  Agency that is meant to help keep us safe. Again, they are playing  politics with our national security and our safety.

There is common ground we can come to, to be able to get the  Department of Homeland Security open. But if the Democrats refuse to  even meet with Republicans to discuss this, the only conclusion I can  draw is that they don't want the Department of Homeland Security open.  And so they put all of us at risk, including my fellow Nebraskans.

Democrats must come to the table to meet. We must reopen the  Department of Homeland Security. We must pay our heros in the Coast  Guard, TSA, Secret Service, CISA, all these people who are working  right now to keep us safe are keeping us safe during this conflict in  the Middle East with the largest state sponsor of terrorism.

The least the Democrats can do is agree to meet with leadership and  have a conversation.

This must end. Democrats must talk.