Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Internal Revenue Service Relating to ``Interim Guidance Simplifying Application of the


Mr. RICKETTS. Mr. President, in the last several weeks, we have  witnessed some terrible tragedies in Minnesota that involved law  enforcement operations and the loss of life. We should all continue to  pray for the families of Renee Good and Alex Pretti.

As a former Governor, I know that when there is an officer-involved  shooting, there is always an investigation to determine whether the  shooting was justified, and there will, indeed, be multiple  investigations into these shootings.

I also know that as a former Governor and having had the State patrol  of Nebraska report to me, that our law enforcement officers are  dedicated professionals, women and men who put their lives on the line  to keep us safe, and they will do a great job for us in investigating  what could be done better.

The Department of Homeland Security should take this opportunity to  review its policies and procedures because of this investigation to  determine if there are areas to improve upon.

One of the areas I think they will define is that there could be  better cooperation with the local law enforcement. However, this is not  the fault of ICE or Customs and Border Protection; this is the fault of  the mayor who is not allowing his administration to work with ICE, for  example, to apprehend criminal illegal aliens who are in their jails  and forcing them to go out on the streets to apprehend these folks. And  they are not providing the sort of crowd control that would allow  protestors to exercise their rights and keep them safe and stop them  from interfering with law enforcement operations.

So the Democrats are holding up the Department of Homeland Security  bill. Ironically, because of the continuing resolution that we passed,  we are funding ICE with more money than we would have otherwise if we  just passed the regular Homeland Security bill because Republicans are  working on fiscal restraint.

Also ironically, they actually can't get at the Agency they are mad  at. ICE is fully funded for the next 3 years because of the  reconciliation bill we passed last year. So Democrats really can't  impact the funding of the Agency that they are unhappy with.

Now, they have various demands that they have with regard to this,  and again, some of these demands are already addressed in the Homeland  Security bill. For example, they want body cameras. There is actually  funding for body cameras in the Homeland Security bill if the Democrats  would join us in passing it.

There is also funding for deescalation procedures. Presumably,  Democrats would want that. There is also funding for an inspector  general. Presumably, Democrats would think that was a good idea. All of  these things that are in the Homeland Security bill, the Democrats  would just work with Republicans to pass it, but they are not doing so.

They have some demands, like better cooperation with local law  enforcement. Well, that is something that we would like too. We would  like to see it in sanctuary cities that are blocking our Federal law  enforcement officers from apprehending illegal immigrant criminals who  are in their jails.

Work with us to be able to allow us to do that. That would be great-- I am sure the ICE members are saying to themselves. So that cooperation  would be wonderful. In fact, that is the key. I see it in my home  State, that our local law enforcement, our county sheriffs, they don't  do ICE's job for them, but they do cooperate to be able to get criminal  illegal aliens into the custody of ICE and also provide security to  make sure that law enforcement is not interfered with and that  protesters can have their ability to exercise their rights in a safe  way.

One of the other demands that they have is for no masks. And again,  talking to local law enforcement in Nebraska and my own experience with  Nebraska State Patrol, I know that typically our law enforcement  officers wear a badge, a name, but in special operations, that is not  always the case, that we see that masks are necessary to protect the  identities of our law enforcement officers.

Far-left radical people are using face recognition software or use  that to identify law enforcement officials and then dox them. That is a  risk. In fact, we have seen it in Nebraska. I was talking to one of my  county sheriffs about one of his deputies who was doxed; his name and  address, his children's names were published on the internet and even  going so far as to  publish his parents' names and addresses in different city. This is  just pure intimidation.

I know that when we have drug interdiction programs, we want our  officers to wear masks because, again, the cartels want to intimidate  our law enforcement officers into not doing their jobs. This is  something we have to be worried about.

If the left continues to villainize our law enforcement officers who  are there to keep us safe, it will make the job less attractive. It  will be hard for us to track the right kind of people we want to be  able to fill those positions in law enforcement. It is absolutely  appropriate in certain circumstances to wear a mask.

In fact, in some operations, it is a safety issue. If we are having  our law enforcement officers, for example, go into a residence where  they know there is a criminal and they are using, say, an ordinance to  do that, the mask actually helps protect them. So there are times and  circumstances where that is appropriate.

Certainly, protecting our law enforcement officers from malicious  actors who want to intimidate them is important. It is a time to make  sure we are keeping our law enforcement officers safe and making sure  we continue to have people--brave women and men--who want to step up  and do that job.

One of the other things that our Democrat colleagues want is to end  administrative warrants. A little history: Administrative warrants were  originally passed in the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1952, so  they have been around for nearly 75 years. Getting away from that would  bring our law enforcement operations with regard to illegal immigrants  in this country to a halt. This is an important way that we actually  get to deport the people who are here illegally.

So that is a nonstarter. We can't slow down the system. Yet we just  saw under the Biden administration an open border policy and 10.5  million illegal entry attempts into the United States.

The President has now brought those down 95 percent and, since April  2025, has stopped releasing illegal immigrants into our country. That  is progress. But I believe the President was hired to address the issue  Joe Biden created. So we need to give the right tools to our law  enforcement officers to be successful.

I encourage my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to work with  the White House and Senate Republicans to come up with a reasonable  compromise based on common ground and to make sure that we are funding  Homeland Security.

That funding runs out Friday at midnight, and if Democrats allow this  to happen, it won't impact ICE operations, but what it will do is  interrupt FEMA. We just had a major winter storm on the east coast and  parts of the South. FEMA will be interrupted if Department of Homeland  Security is not getting funded.

Our TSA agents who help make sure we get around the country safely  through our airports, they will stop getting paid. That could  potentially lead to slowdowns at airports. The Coast Guard will stop  getting paid. Our heroes who keep us safe on our oceans and rescue us  when we need it, these are all the things Democrats will be putting at  risk if they don't fund Homeland Security. And, of course, any  continuing resolution will just mean that the Democrats are funding ICE  to a greater degree than they would otherwise.

So, again, I encourage my Senate Democratic colleagues to work with  the White House and Senate Republicans on a reasonable compromise. And  one more thing, if we cannot fund Homeland Security, I urge my Senate  Democrats to not go on all the codels they are supposed to be going on  starting on Friday.

We need to stay here and get it fixed. We need to get Homeland  Security funded.