Great Lakes Fishery Research Reauthorization Act


Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues for considering this  bill, the Great Lakes Fishery Research Reauthorization Act.

This bill would reauthorize critical Great Lakes research programs at  $15 million per year for 5 years. I thank my colleague, Representative  Huizenga, for his partnership on this bill in the House.

Protecting and restoring our Great Lakes has long been a bipartisan  priority. I am proud of our work together on this topic. Lake Michigan  is the pride and joy of Chicago, but the native ecosystems are at risk.

My colleagues might have noticed the poster behind me. This is a sea  lamprey. They are not native to the Great Lakes, but they have found  their way in. When left unchecked, they wreak havoc on our ecosystems.  If this graphic doesn't convince my colleagues that we don't want these  suckers in the Great Lakes, I am not sure what will.

Kind of like a giant leech, their suction-cup mouth clamps onto  native fish species to feed on them. One sea lamprey can kill up to 40  pounds of Great Lakes fish over a 12- to 18-month feeding period, and  that is just one of the threats we are currently up against.

Alongside the sea lamprey, there are over 60 invasive species in the  Great Lakes. Those include zebra mussels, rusty crayfish, and round  goby. They compete for the same resources and prey on native species.  Many don't have natural predators in the Great Lakes. Without  intervention, these invasive species will be ``eely'' bad for our  native fish and plant populations.

Mr. Speaker, 61 native fish species are currently threatened or  endangered. In the 1950s, the United States and Canada established the  Great Lakes Fishery Commission to shore up our shared fisheries.  Decades of overfishing, invasive species, and human impact on lakes  threatened the native fish species and led to 20 species going extinct.

For all those in the region who depend on fisheries for food,  livelihood, and sport, it is critical we continue to monitor the Great  Lakes and our native fish species. The total value of commercial,  recreational, and Tribal fishing in the Great Lakes is at least $5  billion. The industry supports an estimated 75,000 jobs across the  region.

Research into the Great Lakes fishery provides us with the data and  information necessary to manage fish populations, conduct habitat  maintenance, roll out educational programs, and more.

For the last 5 years, this program has provided funds for the U.S.  Geological Survey and, more specifically, the Great Lakes Science  Center to conduct scientific research and invest in new technology.

With the help of this funding, the Great Lakes Science Center has  field operations in five of the eight Great Lakes States, where it owns  and operates a fleet of large research vessels to monitor the lakes and  the fishery. This information is used to ensure that these crucial  ecosystems stay healthy and productive.

Other researchers across the region rely on data collected over  decades to analyze trends in the Great Lakes and help keep them  healthy. Reauthorizing this program now will allow the Great Lakes  Science Center to continue its research and provide datasets that are  stable and reliable into the future.

The Senate has already passed this reauthorization. I encourage my  colleagues to help get this bill over the finish line.

Lastly, I thank my colleagues on the other side of the aisle and in  the Senate, including Senator Peters who introduced the version of the  bill we will vote on today, and Senator Husted representing the great  State of Ohio.

Mr. Speaker, I thank them for their consideration, and I urge my  colleagues to vote ``yes.''