Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to begin consideration of H.R.  6938 today, which includes the fiscal year 2026 Department of the  Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act.

First, I commend Chairman Cole for his leadership over the  Appropriations Committee and his continued support of the Interior  bill. A lot of people don't realize how hard it is to get all these  bills done. We had them all marked up through the committee by the end  of September, on time. That is an amazing task by the chairman of this  committee, and I thank him for his continued work on this.

I also thank Ranking Member Pingree for her partnership, as well as  Ranking Member DeLauro and the subcommittee members for their work on  this bill.

The fiscal year 2026 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies bill  provides $38.6 billion in total nondefense discretionary funding,  reducing spending from fiscal year 2025 by $1.9 billion.

This legislation prioritizes critical needs and addresses specific  concerns brought to my attention through more than 8,000 Member  requests.

The bill invests $1.74 billion in 1,277 Community Project Funding and  Congressionally Directed Spending projects. These projects will improve  clean and drinking water infrastructure throughout this country.

This bill also fully funds all of our, what I call, must-pays, such  as PILT payments--payments in lieu of taxes--to States and territories  and payments to Tribes through Contract Support Costs and section  105(l) leases.

This bill eliminates waste and restores fiscal responsibility,  prioritizes unleashing American energy, and protects public lands and  access to those lands. It bolsters national security and public safety  by reducing our reliance on foreign countries for energy and mineral  resources and by increasing law enforcement funding for our land  management agencies and for our Tribes.

It protects our communities, fully funding firefighter pay to support  wildland firefighters and prevent catastrophic wildfires.

The bill prioritizes upholding our trust and treaty responsibilities  with Tribal nations. I continue to say that I refuse to balance this  budget on the backs of our Tribes, and I am proud that this bill does  not do that. The bill increases support for public safety and justice  through Indian Country and provides over $8 billion to the Indian  Health Service for key healthcare programs, prioritizing Federal  investment where it is needed.

We need to pass this bill that efficiently invests in our priorities,  supports the programs our communities care about, and reduces the  bureaucratic overreach of the prior administration. This bill does just  that, and it makes sensible cuts across 28 bureaus and agencies and  closing one agency that has completed its mission.

Thoughtful cuts were made to the Department of the Interior,  resulting in a nearly 2 percent reduction in the top line. EPA is cut  by nearly 4 percent.

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, renewable energy is cut by $34 million,  while providing targeted increases that preserve our Nation's natural  heritage and ensure a sustainable and fiscally responsible future.

Passage of these bills will send a strong message that Congress is  determined to return to regular order and deliver results for our  districts.

Mr. Speaker, this bill works to ensure our priority programs receive  funding without any poison pills. We had to make some tough decisions,  but I am proud that this is a bipartisan, bicameral bill that both  parties and Chambers see as a benefit to the American people. I urge  its adoption.