Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing''


Mr. CRENSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.J. Res. 61 because  it is common sense. The Biden administration decided to put these  additional regulations on tire manufacturers. The inevitable  consequence of that, of course, is increasing the cost of tires for the  American people.

The American people might be okay with such a regulation if it was to  have a meaningful, positive effect. Everybody wants to protect the  environment. I can't name a single Member who doesn't. As policymakers,  we have to ensure that regulations are pragmatic and balance the  inherent trade-offs. That is what policymaking is about. That is what  regulation is about, trade-offs.

The Biden-era regulation on tire manufacturers is a perfect example  of when regulators fail to do a proper cost-benefit analysis.

Let's talk specifics. This EPA rule piles on huge costs for our  domestic tire makers. It is going to hit close to 100 rubber-mixers  across the country. That jeopardizes jobs, increases prices, and makes  American manufacturers less competitive globally.

Worse, there is not really a benefit to this. These regulations don't  do much of anything to actually improve the environment. Under the  final rule, tire manufacturers have to install expensive new devices  like regenerative thermal oxidizers, which require incredible amounts  of energy to operate. Therefore, you offset the so-called benefit by  burning a lot more energy, meaning you are burning a lot more carbon  dioxide, by the way. In other words, you are left with a policy that is  pretty much all cost and no clear upside to it.

If you look at the justification, the Biden EPA claimed they  implemented this rule to address hazardous air pollutants from tire  manufacturers. Here is the thing: The agency's own data found that our  existing standards already kept those emissions in check and protect  public health. Why did they do it anyway? It is simple. It was because  the political appointees at Biden's EPA are beholden to a bunch of  radical environmental groups.

They went for the optics. They want headlines like ``Tough on  Pollution'' instead of trusting the data that says actually we are in a  good place here. They want the headlines. They believe in this crazy  philosophy that if 1 regulation is good, then 10 more must be better.  You can never do enough.

Of course, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have started  with the scare tactics claiming the sky is falling, the air quality is  plummeting, and people are dying and they are not going to have  healthcare. There is no evidence for that, of course.

The evidence actually shows the opposite. The EPA's own website shows  criteria pollutants have dropped by nearly 80 percent over the last  several decades. We have already made a huge amount of progress. The  data backs that up, not doom-and-gloom talking points.

Mr. Speaker, I say to anyone watching at home, don't buy into the  fear-mongering that the Democrats are selling. This resolution is about  protecting American jobs and keeping an eye on costs for everyone. It  won't hurt the environment at all. It just reverses a burdensome rule  that does more harm than good.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to stand with Chairman Griffith in support of  this resolution. I urge all my colleagues on both sides to do the same.