State Planning for Reliability and Affordability Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697885/state-planning-for-reliability-and-affordability-act


Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I rise today as families across the  entire country are struggling with rising costs at the grocery store,  on their healthcare, their health insurance, and this year especially,  on their utility bills. In fact, in Washington State, average  electricity rates are up nearly 17 percent since Trump took office less  than 1 year ago.

With energy demand skyrocketing in the region, prices have continued  to climb.

Let me be clear. This is a direct result of the harmful and reckless  policies of this President and Republicans in Congress. They have  canceled billions of dollars in investments for our State, including  the hydrogen hub that would expand research and development of hydrogen  fuel, bolster American energy dominance, and bring nearly 10,000 jobs  to the region.

They have created chaos at critical agencies that keep the lights on  like Bonneville Power Administration. Moreover, with their big, ugly  bill they have gutted clean energy investments meant to lower utility  bills and strengthen our energy infrastructure in the Pacific Northwest  and keep the lights on.

With Republicans in charge here in Washington, D.C., jobs and  innovation are down, clean energy projects are canceled, and energy  prices are up. My constituents deserve better. They want real solutions  that will lower costs and better their lives.

At a time when families are struggling to pay for the essentials, the  single most valuable thing we can do in the energy sector is roll out  more low-cost, clean energy, not hinder it.

We have a real shot at meaningful reforms that will cut red tape and  accelerate the build-out of abundant, affordable energy. We can build  more power lines for a more connected and nimble grid, and we can  secure our supply chain of critical grid infrastructure, as well.

This bill that we are voting on today does none of that, and that is  why I am asking my colleagues to oppose this bill and start a good- faith, bipartisan discussion to bring real solutions to the American  people, not just empty promises.