Defunding Planned Parenthood


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694154/defunding-planned-parenthood


Ms. SIMON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address the House and oppose  the defunding of Planned Parenthood clinics nationwide.

The Republicans' cruel budget bill, which all Democrats opposed,  included a provision to block Federal Planned Parenthood clinics from  receiving Medicaid funds. This was a devastating choice that  Republicans have made which will undoubtedly impact families across the  Nation.

Planned Parenthood does not just provide birth control. Clinics  provide basic healthcare exams, cancer screenings, and vaccinations.  Women across this country today will walk into Planned Parenthood  clinics across counties and States to receive both diagnostic and care  for cervical cancer, hypertension, and basic medical care.

Earlier this year, the largest Planned Parenthood health center in  the country opened in my district, named after my predecessor and  champion of reproductive health and access, Congresswoman and now Mayor  Barbara Lee. The Barbara Lee Oakland Health Center has over 19 exam  rooms and is transit accessible, but the Republican budget bill will  put Planned Parenthood centers like ours across the country at risk.

Mr. Speaker, 200 of the 600 Planned Parenthood clinics across the  country may close and women will die. Planned Parenthood closures will  disproportionately impact Black and Brown mothers, who already have a  maternal mortality rate more than three times their White counterparts.

These cuts will disproportionately impact poor folks' access to  reproductive care, since 40 percent of all births in this country are  covered by the very Medicaid services that are now being gutted. These  are matters, as I said before, of life and death for us in our district  and for women across the country.

I was a young mother living in public housing in San Francisco when I  had my first daughter at 19, but I was able to get by. I was able to go  to school and raise a wonderful daughter and put her through college  and law school because I had access to care and institutions that cared  about my life.

If we want people to be healthy in this country and to participate in  their communities and work, we need to open up choices, and we need to  provide more opportunities instead of less. That is why I offered an  amendment to the Republican budget reconciliation bill that would have  protected the vital services of Planned Parenthood.

Republicans killed that amendment, but this will not stop our  collective work, my work, to ensure that people in my district and  around the country in rural and urban communities have the access that  they so deserve. Their lives are depending on it.

Just this week, the district courts put a temporary pause on parts of  the Republican bill that would defund Planned Parenthood. We will  continue to fight back. Planned Parenthood is vital. It is vital to  communities' health, and I will not stand by while it is defunded and  while our health is devalued.

I was that young mother. We and our families, our children, deserve  better.