In Defense of Children


Ms. SIMON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in defense of every child in  this Nation who deserves to enter into a classroom and be treated with  dignity, care, and respect.

In writing these remarks, I thought of my kindergarten teacher, Ms.  Jasko at Claire Lilienthal Elementary School in San Francisco.

On my first day of kindergarten--I remember it very, very clearly--my  last name starts with an s, so I sat at the back of the classroom and  kept my head down. I was not verbacious then.

Within about 5 minutes of the class starting--and there was a lot of  chatter of little children--Ms. Jasko noticed that my head was bowed.  She brought me up to the classroom board, and she saw clearly that I  was a child with an acute visual impairment. She kissed me on my  forehead and asked me to sit by her desk where I sat for the rest of  the year. She understood me. I did not have to fight for the right to  learn in that class. I sat next to the board.

This week, the Supreme Court handed the President of the United  States the power to gut the Department of Education without  congressional approval. Nearly 1,400 Federal staff at the Department of  Education may be fired, including those tasked with protecting the  civil rights and the human dignity of students.

The Court's decision sets a dangerous precedent as it tells the  executive branch that it can effectively dismantle the very agencies  that Congress has created without any oversight.

Let us remember why the Department of Education exists in the first  place. The Department of Education was not a bureaucratic creation. It  wasn't an organization developed just to create more staff salaries.

The Department of Education was a victory secured through the long  and  hard march of civil rights in this country. It was built to ensure that  children in every part of this country could have a real chance. It was  not to standardize curriculum but to standardize the worth of children.  It was to guarantee that, no matter your background, your race, your  ability, your identity, where you lived, or who you prayed to, the  Federal Government would have the backs of every student in this  country.

If this decision stands, the Department of Education's Office for  Civil Rights will be shattered and gutted, which means that, within  this office, which was created and implemented to investigate when  students in this country were not treated respectfully or with dignity,  that schools would potentially not be required to provide  accommodations for students with disabilities.

Mr. Speaker, for every mother fighting for their child with autism,  for every parent fighting for their child with a visual or intellectual  disability, and for every child who rolls in with their wheelchair  every single day, mighty with pride and glory that they, too, can learn  and be integrated, there may not be any Federal protections to make  sure that they are respected.

Rapes and sexual assaults on college campuses may no longer be  investigated. When the cities don't investigate those sexual assaults,  the Federal Government--particularly the Office for Civil Rights under  the Department of Education--took on that role.

Shame on us.

National standards for protecting LGBTQ students, because they are  students and are children, will go away. Native students, Black  students, Latino students, students navigating poverty, and students  who have disabilities may no longer have the Federal support that they  so deserve. This is a betrayal. It is cruel, and it is a deep attack on  our children.

How will the United States of America compete academically,  economically, or morally if the Federal Government walks away from its  most sacred responsibility to guarantee basic fairness in education?

We cannot meet the demands of the future by returning to a past-- returning to a past--where only the privileged are protected. The work  of the Department of Education was never about charity. It has always  been about justice.

As bell hooks taught us in ``Teaching to Transgress,'' teaching is  about liberation. Education is about more than information. It is a  practice of freedom.