Main Street Parity Act


Ms. SIMON. Madam Speaker, I thank Representative Velazquez for her  support, particularly for freshman members from the Democratic side on  the Small Business Committee and to Representative Williams for his  collaboration on this bill.

Madam Speaker, I am extremely proud to lead the Main Street Parity  Act with Chair Williams. As members of the Small Business Committee,  one of the most bipartisan committees in the 119th Congress, we hear  the same messages repeated every single day: Small businesses don't  need special treatment. In fact, they are just asking for a fair shot  in this economy.

The SBA's 504 loan program is designed to provide that fair shot  through basic good policy and affordable, long-term financing. The  financing helps small businesses buy buildings, buy property, expand  operations, and employ Main Street neighbors throughout our community.

Under the current law, not all small businesses are treated the same.  Owners of so-called small purpose properties are required to put up  significantly more cash up front, often 5 to 10 percent more than  standard property owners. These include places like bowling alleys, car  washes, marinas, funeral homes, and recreation centers. These are the  kinds of small businesses that serve local families, create jobs, and  keep our communities vibrant.

For many entrepreneurs, the higher equity requirement is the  difference between jumping in headfirst and creating new economic  opportunities for their communities and families or walking away  entirely.

This way of doing business just doesn't reflect our current economic  or technological realities. This bill offers a new opportunity for  Americans across the country to step forward.

The Main Street Parity Act is common sense. It is a clear fix that  brings these loans in line with the 504 standardization programs by  setting an equity requirement at 10 percent.

Madam Speaker, I encourage Members from both sides of the aisle to  put small business owners and their employees first by supporting this  bill.