Providing for Consideration of H.R. Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.R. Special Interest Alien Reporting Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Jeremy and Angel Seay and Sergeant Brandon Mendoza Protect Our Communities From Duis Act of and Providing for Consideration of H. Res. Condemning the Violent June 2025 Riots in Los Angeles, California


Ms. SIMON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern) for yielding time.

As the Representative of California's 12th Congressional District,  representing the East Bay, I rise today in opposition to H. Res. 516.  This resolution is a partisan, disproportionate response to the ICE  protest in Los Angeles. Republicans are intentionally misleading the  public on the scale of the  violence in an attempt to justify the blatant overreach of Federal  power.

I want to be clear. There was no doubt there was violence. I am from  California. I was present at some of the protests. The scale was  unworthy of Federal condemnation and certainly the scale was unworthy  of Presidential overreach.

It was the President who overstepped his authority and escalated and  instigated chaos, sending the National Guard and our Marines against  the will of my Governor, the mayor of Los Angeles, and the people of  California.

The Trump administration has made it clear that they do not believe  in the right of Los Angeles to exist, as it has done since its  founding, as a multicultural, vibrant, and working-class city. The  violence was in less than three to five blocks.

Mr. Speaker, I think the resolution is an attempt to rewrite history  in real time and to prescribe extreme violence onto the people of Los  Angeles, California, who were exercising their First Amendment right to  free speech. This resolution is in no way sufficient. It is a way to  roll back free speech.

Let's be clear. We do not have a democracy if we erode the right to  free speech. We will not have a democracy if the President of the  United States continues to abuse his power and push authoritarian  measures.