Thinkdifferently About Disability Employment Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691779/thinkdifferently-about-disability-employment-act


Ms. SIMON. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman McGarvey for yielding me  the time.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Stauber, and I am excited to work  with him so closely during my time in Congress to advance the  opportunities for folks with disabilities in this country. It is just a  deep honor for the two of us to continue on our path of  representing Americans with disabilities.

As the first congenitally blind person to serve in the United States  Congress, I am honored to rise today in support of this bipartisan bill  with Representative Stauber, the ThinkDIFFERENTLY About Disability  Employment Act.

As a community organizer and leader for over 20 years, I focused on  finding jobs and opportunities for low-income folks in the bay area in  California, and I came to Congress to bring those communities with me,  particularly the disability community, a community that I belong to.

The disability community is too often left out of policy  conversations, and today, Democrats and Republicans are bringing our  brothers and sisters to the table.

Right now, the unemployment rate for people with intellectual,  physical, and developmental disabilities remains alarmingly high in  this country. Ashamedly, it is at 80 percent. Yes, 80 percent. This, we  know, is unacceptable.

We can close the disability employment gap, not only to advance  independence, dignity, and freedom for Americans with disabilities, but  to drive economic growth.

This bill, my bill, our bill, creates an essential partnership  between the Small Business Administration and the National Council on  Disability to help individuals with disabilities pursue self- employment, dignity, launch small businesses, and thrive in the  workforce.

I strongly urge my colleagues to support this bill and build an  economy that works for all of us. Mr. Speaker, I am so honored to say  we can move this forward today.

Mr. Speaker, I again thank Representative Stauber for advocating for  his son and the millions of folks with disabilities in this country to  have their just due and to support me in this legislation moving  forward. Finally, Mr. Speaker, I thank Chair Williams and Ranking  Member Velazquez for their efforts in moving this bill forward.