-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697705/9999


Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, as my colleagues are understandably  greeting my colleague, I just wanted to take a moment and take the  floor to express my deep admiration for a man that I have known for  decades.

I first met  Andy Kim when he was a college student and I was  interviewing him for a Rhodes Scholarship. I was part of this panel of  people who had to interview some of the best people from the State of  New Jersey for this vaunted scholarship. I will tell you right now,  when  Andy Kim walked in that room, he blew away every one of the  interviewers.

I like to brag around New Jersey now that while now hundreds and  hundreds of thousands of people have voted for  Andy Kim, I was perhaps  the first person to do so.

What I saw in a young college student decades ago has only blossomed  so much more as he has gone from a young man to a U.S. Senator.

We throw around the word ``patriotism'' a lot, and it is often used  in a way to brandish pride or, at its worst, as a way to condemn  others. But the truth of patriotism was in the language we heard today;  it is in the language of love, the fact that you cannot love your  country unless you love your fellow country men and women.

I am excited that New Jersey has a Senator of unassailable  brilliance, but what makes him special is not simply his extraordinary  head but the profound depths of his heart.

New Jersey is a State that often I call the Rodney Dangerfield State  where we get no respect, but the truth of the matter is, New Jersey has  a representative that in this body that is known for partisanship, he  is a person that is seen by colleagues on both sides of the aisle as  someone that has a soul force, someone who has a heart, someone who is  determined to be the kind of patriot this Nation needs.

I would be remiss in not mentioning this: I love the fact that we  have this body that represents so many American traditions, so many  streams of lived experiences that make this a great representation of  our Nation. But the truth is, we are still seeing so many firsts in  this body.

One first we should recognize is the one that  Andy Kim exemplifies.  He is the first Korean American to serve in this body at a time that  Korean Americans have made contributions--from the academics, to the  sciences, innovators, businesspeople, farmers. But this is the first  time the United States of America has seen a Korean American, the son  of immigrants, stand in this body. I will tell you this--not just  because of his heritage, not just because of the uniqueness of his  presence on this floor, but because of the depth of his humanity, his  demonstration today of the urgency that we stand up and allow people to  see our vulnerability, see our frailty. In fact, in many ways,  Andy  Kim has shown that often the greatest courage is found in the depths of  our frailty, our vulnerability, and our candor and honesty with our own  struggles.

I am a man of great physical stature relative to my smaller Senator,  but I hope everybody in America knows this: I may have greater physical  stature, but since I met him as a college student, I have looked up to  my friend and my brother, a giant of a human,  Andy Kim.