Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699090/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, I want to thank Senator Mark Kelly for  bringing people to the floor to talk about that which is,  unequivocally, the greatest threat to American democracy right now. It  is the cancer that is metastasizing more and more and more.

Since the Citizens United decision, I have watched as to how this  body has seen clearly corrupt forces beginning to overrun the common  sense and the will of the people in policy. More and more are being  bent to the whim and the will of the wealthiest of the wealthy in our  country and the world, as well as to corporations--many of them,  multinational corporations.

We are in crisis--our Nation is in crisis--as more and more Americans  lose trust and lose faith in our country, in our democracy, in the  people who serve--the 535 Members: the 100 Members of the Senate and  the 435 Members of the House of Representatives. They feel more and  more that they are in it for themselves and for the corporations and  not to do the hard work of the people.

Trust is vital for a democracy to thrive, and there has been nothing  more powerful in the undermining of that trust, in the years that I  have been in the Senate, than what I have seen in the destructive force  of money in our politics. We know that the decision that was made by a  conservative majority of five Justices--three of whom are still on the  Court--permitted those billionaires and corporations to pour unlimited,  unchecked money into our elections, drowning out the collective voices  of the people.

Let me give you an example, a sobering fact. In 2024, about 44  percent of all of the money raised to support Donald Trump came from 10  individual donors.

Think about that for a second. Of the billions of dollars that were  spent on this election for the President of the United States right  now, 44 percent of that money was contributed by 10 people. This is not  just a purview of any party, though; this is something that is  infecting our entire system.

People ask the question rightfully: What does all that influence and  money buy? Well, right now, we are seeing it. Individuals like Elon  Musk and other billionaires are exercising an outsized influence on our  party, threatening people in this body and other bodies to drop  millions and millions of dollars against them. And to say that doesn't  have an influence is wrong. Unlimited corporate cash literally buys  policies that put even more money in the pockets of the wealthiest,  allows them to rig the system to benefit them, while working-class  Americans more and more get a raw deal.

We are seeing a virtual welfare state for the wealthiest of the  wealthy in our policies that benefits and protects the wealthiest, that  serves the largest corporations, that is designed to line the pockets  further and further of the wealthy. It is a tax cut for corporations  that we have seen in policies, while Americans and their most important  issues--whether it is their healthcare, whether it is their ability to  make a living--are further and further undermined.

Citizens United has created a system where Presidential pardons are  pay-to-play, where environmental regulations that keep us safe and  healthy are slashed, where corporate mergers are rubberstamped by  Federal regulators.

For 16 years now, we have seen the slow, cancerous corruption of  American democracy. We have seen how folks who pay the price get  outsized influence, that a small group of billionaires and corporations  wield enormous power over elections and, in turn, over the policies  that all Americans have to live under. And this has fueled what is  growing to be a growing discontent.

Ending Citizens United is wildly popular on both sides of the aisle.  The majority of Americans want to see an end to this cancerous  decision. Americans are sick and tired, and they are demanding that we  act.

I believe this body should come together in a bipartisan way to end  the nightmare that has been unleashed on America by Citizens United. I  know from private conversations with people on both sides of the aisle  that it would be a relief not to have this outsized influence of money  and power on this body. It would allow us to focus in an undeterred way  on the business of the people.

I am proud to cosponsor bills that would end this nightmare like  Democracy for All, the amendment to overturn this misguided decision. I  am proud to champion commonsense reforms like the Freedom to Vote Act  and--God--the DISCLOSE Act, which would ensure that the dark money  pouring into our elections, the cancerous resources unleashed by the  wealthiest of the wealthy--that at least they could not pour that money  in and then hide their identity. It would shine light on what is a  dark, dark process.

I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle but particularly my  Republican colleagues to listen to the overwhelming majority of  Americans who just not only want to avoid the dark, cancerous reality  that Citizens United brought to us but are hoping and yearning for our  democracy to get back to the ideals that we all share, that we pledge  allegiance to, that could make this 250th anniversary of our country  something truly to celebrate: that we are a nation free from this  cancer, free from the dark money that is flooding our politics; that,  indeed, we are free at last to see what can happen in America that  focuses on the people and the power of the people and not just the  power of the wealthiest.