Privileges of the Floor


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689305/privileges-of-the-floor


Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, I am really grateful you are in the Chair  and grateful to be able to rise right now and speak.

I want to say at the top that I have a tremendous love for this  institution, and a lot of that is born from the people that are here-- from the pages I get to know in every class, to the folks that work the  door, the clerks, the Parliamentarians. It is a special place, and a  lot of people who are known here are not the ones that really keep this  place functioning.

I come in here days and I have good moods or bad moods but always  find myself lifted when I walk onto this floor. It is a sacred civic  space. It is extraordinary. And I am always aware of the weight of  history when I walk in here. No matter a good day, bad day, whether I  am in a rush or not, when I touch the Senate floor, I feel something  really magnificent.

I don't think that our Founders would have ever imagined a body like  this with Black people on both sides of the aisle, with women serving  here, with folks from many different backgrounds. We are in many ways  doing what the Founders had envisioned, which was this idea of every  generation making this a more perfect Union.

But there have been times in this journey where our Union was in  crisis and was in peril. There were times in this great American  journey, over our 250 years, where so many heroes had to emerge, people  that I have come to revere, like Joshua Chamberlain from Maine, who  played such a pivotal role in the Battle of Gettysburg. What a noble  soul he was. He would later go on to be Governor of his State and go on  to do great things, but his heroism lay that in a time of crisis, he  stood up.

I know there are veterans in this body--I admire them so much--who  have answered that call to serve our country and put their lives in  sacrifice.

There are people I admire that are heroes of mine that were  suffragettes. There were people who fought as abolitionists. There are  people more recently that I have come to lionize and admire because  they did so much for this country--not with titles, not with high ranks  or positions, but folks who, when this country was facing crossroads,  was facing crises, they stood up. They spoke up.

One of my greatest heroes of life was a man I got to serve with named  John Lewis. I served with him while in this body. Every opportunity I  had, I would ask him about the times when he was just a 20-something.  He was the youngest person who was a feature speaker on the March on  Washington. He was called the bravest man in the civil rights movement  because he kept putting himself in harm's way to dramatize, to let  folks know, to bring attention to the injustices in this world and to  say very strongly that this--what was going on in our country--is not  normal, that what is going on in our country is wrong.

I stand on this floor as a U.S. Senator, but I revere people who  never stood on this floor; people who, before they even got to their  thirties and forties and fifties in life, were out there as great  patriots fighting for this Nation.

I rise today in an unusual manner, and I want to be clear and explain  that. But I just want to tell you what John Lewis said. It is a quote  so many people know. He really spoke not to Members of the Senate or  the Congress; he was really speaking to Americans. He said:

Get in good trouble, necessary trouble, and help redeem the       soul of America.

John Lewis died in 2020, in July, at a time that--it was Donald  Trump's first term in office. He did what Congresspeople did, but he  also did some really extraordinary things to fight for healthcare.

My friend Chris Murphy knows about that. He was there when John Lewis  did an open Facebook chat--not in this Chamber or the House Chamber; he  sat on the steps, and people were there. I remember when he did a sit- in. They had to shut the cameras off him. He got in good trouble on the  House side too.

So I start tonight thinking about him. I have been thinking about him  a lot during these last 71 days--``Get in good trouble, necessary  trouble, and help redeem the soul of America,'' and I had to ask  myself, if he is my hero, how am I living up to his words?

I think Democrats and Republicans have made a lot of mistakes. No  side has a monopoly on the truth. No side has been perfect servants of  this country. But what has happened in the last 71 days is a patent  demonstration of a time where John Lewis's call to everyone has, I  think, become more urgent and more pressing. If I think it is a call  for our country, I have to ask myself, how I am living these words?

So tonight, I rise with the intention of getting in some good  trouble. I rise with the intention of disrupting the normal business of  the U.S. Senate for as long as I am physically able. I rise tonight  because I believe sincerely that our country is in crisis. And I  believe that not in a partisan sense because so many of the people that  have been reaching out to my office in pain, in fear, having their  lives upended--so many of them identify themselves as Republicans.  Indeed, in conversations from in this body, to in this building, to  across my State, and recently in travel across the country, Republicans  as well as Democrats are talking to me about what they feel is a sense  of dread about a growing crisis or what they point to about what is  going wrong.

The bedrock commitments in our country that both sides rely on--that  people from all backgrounds rely on--those bedrock commitments are  being broken. Unnecessary hardships are being borne by Americans of all  backgrounds. Institutions which are special in America, which are  precious, which are unique in our country, are being recklessly--and I  would even say unconstitutionally--affected, attacked, even shattered.

In just 71 days, the President of the United States has inflicted so  much harm on Americans' safety, financial stability, the core  foundations of our democracy, and even our aspirations as a people from  our highest offices, a sense of common decency. These are not normal  times in America, and they should not be treated as such.

John Lewis and so many heroes before us would say that this is the  time to stand up, to speak up. This is the time to get in some good  trouble, to get into necessary trouble.

I can't allow this body to continue without doing something  different, speaking out. The threats to American people and American  democracy are grave and urgent, and we all must do more. We all must do  more against them.

But those 10 words--``If it is to be, it is up to me''--all of us  have to think of those 10 words, those 10 two-letter words--``If it is  to be, it is up to me''--because I believe generations from now will  look back at this moment and have a single question: Where were you?  Where were you when our country was in crisis and when American people  were asking for help: Help me. Help me. Did we speak up?

When 73 million American seniors who rely on Social Security were to  have that promise mocked, attacked, and then to have the services  undermined, to be told ``There will be no one there to answer if you  call for help''; when our seniors became afraid and worried and  panicked because of the menacing words of their President, of the most  wealthy person in the world, of Cabinet Secretaries, did we speak up?

When the American economy, in 71 days--71 days--has been upended;  when prices at the grocery store were skyrocketing and the stock market  was plunging; when pension funds, 401(k)s were going down; when  Americans were hurting and looking up; when the resounding answer to  this question was no--are you better off economically than you were 71  days ago?--where were you?

Did you speak up at a time when the President of the United States  was launching trade wars against our closest allies, when he was firing  regulators who investigate America's biggest banks and biggest  corporations to stop them from taking advantage of the little guy or  the little gal or my grandmother or your grandfather, dismantling the  Agency that protects consumers from fraud--the only one whose sole  purpose is to look out for them?

Did you speak up when the President of the United States, in a way  that is so crass and craven, peddled his own meme coin and made  millions upon millions upon millions of dollars for his own bank  account at a time so many are struggling economically?

Did you speak up when the President of the United States did what  amounts to a car commercial for the richest man in the world right in  front of America's house, the White House?

When the President tried to take healthcare away, where were you? Did  you speak up? Threatening a program called Medicaid that helps people  with disabilities, helps expectant mothers, helps millions upon  millions of Americans. And why? Why? As a part of a larger plan to pay  for tax cuts for the wealthiest amongst us who have done the best over  the last 20 years, for billionaires that seem so close to the President  that they sat right on the dais at his inauguration and sit in his  Cabinet meetings at the White House.

Did you speak up when he gutted public education, slashed funds for  pediatric cancer research, fired thousands of veterans who risked their  lives for their country; when he abandoned our allies and our  international commitments at a time when floods, fires, hurricanes, and  droughts are devastating communities across this country; when  countries all around the world are banning together to do something and  he turned his back?

Did you speak up when outbreaks of dangerous, infectious diseases are  still  a global threat, yet we have stopped engaging in the efforts necessary  to meet those threats?

Where were you when the American press was being censored; when  international students were being disappeared from American streets  without due process; when American universities were being intimidated  into silence, challenging that fundamental idea of freedom of thought,  freedom of expression; when the law firms that represent clients that  may not be favored are attacked and attacked and attacked? Where were  you? Did you speak up when they came for those firms?

What about when the people who attacked the police officers who  defended this building--an American democracy--on January 6; who just  outside those doors put their lives on the line for us, and many of  them would later die--where were you when the President pardoned them,  celebrated them, and even talked of giving them money, people who  savagely beat American police officers?

Did you speak up when Americans from across the country were all  speaking up, when more and more voices in this country were speaking  up, saying: ``This is not right. This is un-American. This is not who  we are. This is not America''? Did you speak up?

So I rise tonight because I believe to be about what is normal right  now when so much abnormal is happening that is unacceptable. I rise  tonight because silence at this moment of national crisis would be a  betrayal of some of the greatest heroes of our Nation, because at stake  in this moment is nothing less than everything that we brag about, that  we talk about, that makes us special.

At stake right now are some of our most basic American principles  that so many Americans understand are worth fighting for, worth  standing for, worth speaking up for--like, if you work hard your entire  life and pay into Social Security, it should be there for you when you  retire, and you should not have to question that those paychecks will  arrive and that the government should strive to improve service to you,  not brag about cutting it; basic American principles like, if you serve  your Nation in the military, if you put your life in danger abroad, you  will be respected and taken care of. You will be cherished and honored  and not forced to worry that the Federal employees who provide you with  care, many of whom were veterans themselves, will be fired or the  benefits that you rely on will be denied or that your healthcare needs  won't be met; basic American principles like your child will have  access to a high-quality public education, that every child has a  unique genius, even our children--beautiful children--with special  needs; they have genius; and that our children can go to school and  parents and teachers know that they will be safe there.

Safe now are those basic American principles; that the people you  elect to serve you in government will represent you and not to try to  make themselves richer, not run some scam, and call you a sucker; the  basic ideals of our Nation that everyone's rights will be equally  protected, and everyone will be held accountable under the law. Right  now, all of this--things that make our country different--are under  attack. Our constituents are asking us to acknowledge this. Everywhere  I travel now, I hear from Republicans and Independents and Democrats  who are afraid, who are worried, who are angry.

I think about John Lewis, who taught me that fear is not something to  be shunned. It is almost a signpost that you are headed in the right  direction. It is something that is a necessary precondition. You cannot  have great fear without great courage. John Lewis would tell us that  this is a time for great courage. He would tell us that anger is a  fuel. It can consume you, debilitate you, or it can fuel you to put  yourself in the service of others. I feel, if my friend were here, if  my hero were here, he would tell us and try to teach us that this is a  moment to know that despair is only possible if you don't meet it as an  agent of hope.

If John Lewis were here, he would look at me and say: What are you  doing? What are we doing?

So, tonight, I rise in an unusual way. I rise with the intention to  stand here until I can stand no longer, until I am physically unable to  stand anymore. I am going to speak up. I am going to try to cause some  good trouble in this body I respect so much. I am going to try to cause  what I believe is necessary trouble. I am going to try to honor the  legacy that I know I have inherited as an American, the legacy I think  about when I come to this floor and feel sometimes overwhelmed with all  of the sacrifice and struggle that had to get me here: good people who  caused good trouble in the face of slavery; good people who caused good  trouble in the face of the denial of the right to vote; good people who  caused good trouble in the cause of equal rights; good people who  caused good trouble in the fight against hate; good people who caused  good trouble in the fight against demagogues from McCarthyism to Father  Coughlin, to big people who showed such small character when they tried  to suppress others. I want to cause good trouble and prove worthy of  those who came before.

This is not normal. Listen to America. Listen to Americans. They seem  to always be ahead of this body. They are rising up in State after  State, not along partisan lines, but along an American line, not  because they hate other Americans, but because they love America. What  does love look like in public? It looks like justice, and there is so  much injustice going on.

I don't know how long I can stand, but I will stand and speak up. I  want to start by reading some of these letters to try to give folks a  flavor of what has happened in my office for 71 days. The calls we have  gotten have gotten more and more and more numerous. I know I am not the  only one because the calls became so numerous to the Senate as a whole  that it locked up the lines. There are letters I am getting and emails  I am getting. There are people taking scraps of paper and just writing  their hearts out and sending them in to say: These are not ordinary  times. These are painful times, frightening times, times when people  question what is happening to America and worry that there are powerful  people trying to fundamentally change our Nation in a way that will  hurt people to the benefit of the powerful and the wealthy.

I look at these letters like this one. I won't read the name, but  they say:

Hi, Senator Booker. Medicaid has saved my life many, many       times. Without it, many people in America will die. Please,       help us.

It is underlined multiple times.

Here is another scrap of paper on which somebody writes their heart  out:

Dear Senator Booker, when I got out of the Navy, I had       mental illness. I needed psychiatric medicine to stop going       in and out of the hospital. Because of Medicaid, I have       medicine that has kept me out of the hospital for 18 years.       Without Medicaid and my medicine, I will wind up in the       hospital.

Americans are telling me their most vulnerable pains. Their most  terrified realities are now confronting them, rendering their pride and  telling their truth.

Here is another one:

Dear Senator Booker, I am writing you today as a       constituent. In addition to being a concerned citizen, I am a       25-year employee of the local board of education and a parent       of a permanently disabled daughter who has just started       receiving Medicaid. Even with her master's degree, my       daughter is only able to work 19 hours a week. Therefore,       insurance is not provided. Medicaid is a necessity to       maintain her physical and emotional health and provide       services to assist with her independence so she can continue       to be a contributing member of society. By withdrawing       funding for Medicaid, the policy would disrupt programs       serving disabled and elderly people in New Jersey and       throughout the country. And Medicaid is only one area which       will potentially be affected by Donald Trump's funding       freeze. Please protect Social Security and Medicare for the       hard-working Americans who have earned it. Social Security       isn't a ``handout.'' We have paid into it with every paycheck       throughout our entire working lives, and the 66 million       seniors relying on Medicare could have their healthcare put       on hold or canceled. We deserve to know these programs will       be there for us. If Federal grants are limited, medical and       science research limited, including vaccines and disease       prevention, they will all be severely impacted. The United       States should be a world leader in healthcare and education       and scientific advancement. This is an embarrassment to us as       a country. It should not be possible in America for one       single man--even an elected President--to stop funds which       Congress has already allocated. I implore you to use your       power as my Senator and a key member of our government to       stand up for what is important to the people of your       district. We want to go to work, take care of our families,       and ensure all citizens have the health services they       deserve. These latest orders are inappropriate, untenable,       and illegal. As a Senator, please       take action. Please take action to defend and protect these       programs. Thank you for your time.

Cory Booker, recently it has come to my attention that my       students' rights in New Jersey are under threat from new       legislation. This has caused distress and uncertainty in my       classroom for my students who depend on funds from Medicaid.       My students depend on consistency, and a lapse in their       education and care would result in regression, trauma, and       worse. I teach students in New Jersey who are supported by       your legislature. I teach all abilities, meaning many of the       students live with ADHD, autism, and other disorders that       require extra care and attention. It is my life's mission to       bring what I know to those who want to learn it. I love the       job I do. I love that I get to spend time with those who need       it most and deliver care and education. The job that I do       helps my students live more independently and achieve richer       and more fulfilling lives. I live out of State, but most of       my students are from the State you help legislate. My       students' rights are in trouble and need you to advocate for       them. I urge you to continue to fight for Medicaid. Please       work to oppose any and all cuts or caps to the Medicaid       program.

Dear Senator Booker, my name is--I am a registered voter in       New Jersey. I am writing today to strongly urge you and your       fellow policymakers to oppose all cuts to the Medicaid       program as it is a lifeline for individuals with       disabilities. Oppose all cuts or caps. I was a special       education teacher for 30 years, and after I retired, I       volunteered as a special education advocate for 10 years. I       had the privilege of advocating for many disabled children       and young adults who were receiving Medicaid services.       Medicaid gave many of my clients the opportunity to       participate in society by providing daily life skills for       independence. Skills reinforced through Medicare programs       include shopping, safety, job search, speech and language--      just to point out a few of the services provided by Medicaid.       My clients require repetition of these skills to function in       their daily lives. Without these programs provided by       Medicaid, regression will occur, and learned skills will not       be retained. Without Medicaid, this community will struggle,       isolate, and lose any quality of life they have enjoyed since       receiving Medicaid services. Medicaid has made a critical       difference in the lives of my clients. Cutting and capping       Medicaid will have devastating consequences for them and       their family.

Senator, there are 1.6 million New Jersey residents with       disabilities who rely on Medicaid for access to vital care,       resources, and essential medications needed to survive.       Please support and fight for these vulnerable New Jersey       citizens. Please take action to protect these vital programs       provided by Medicaid.

Thank you in advance for your anticipated efforts in my       request of your support for our most vulnerable residents.

I am going to rise tonight, as I said, and stay for as long as I  physically can, and I am going to go through issue area after issue  area after issue area and talk specifically to the concerns, the fears,  the actions taken, to the hurts that are already being felt throughout  America, elevating others' voices who don't have the privilege of  standing in this body, honoring those Americans who, even though they  don't have such a position, they are raising their voice. I will rise  for as long as I can to honor them and raise mine.

The first area I want to talk about is Medicaid, Medicare, and  healthcare, as my constituent spoke to.

I don't need to tell anyone the importance of healthcare to humanity.  Without our health, we would not be able to do anything else. We would  not be able to provide for our families, spend time with our loved  ones, do all of the things that make life worth living. That is why I  am going to stand here and explain to people what is going on and how  our healthcare programs are at risk and being undermined.

The Trump administration and Republicans in Congress are, right now,  discussing how to cut these programs in a way of putting those savings  either into tax cuts for the rich--I say ``either'' because they are  going to be putting them into tax cuts for the rich, but those tax  cuts, as we know, are still going to blow massive trillion-dollar holes  in our deficits.

They are trying to gut Medicaid and Medicare programs on which nearly  a third of our country rely, all to pay for those tax cuts to  billionaires and corporations. They are also dismantling the very  institutions meant to safeguard our Nation's health and well-being. And  this is not the first time.

They tried this before during Trump's first administration when he  unsuccessfully tried to repeal the Affordable Care Act and cut  Medicaid, despite its popularity across the Nation, across the  political aisle. He was going after something that wasn't left or  right, that Americans were saying in the course of conviction that this  is about right or wrong, and it is wrong to take away healthcare for  millions of people.

Let me explain, if I can, or speak to a few points from a recent  report by Protect Our Care to explain what the administration is trying  to do to our healthcare system. They want to slash almost a trillion  dollars--about $850 billion--from Medicaid, forcing people to choose  between healthcare and putting food on the table.

In every State, hundreds of thousands of seniors, children, and  working families could lose their health insurance, thanks to  Republicans' plan to cut those hundreds and hundreds of billions of  dollars from Medicaid.

It would impose, they seek, burdensome work requirements for people  on Medicaid. The last proposal coming from Republicans of that work  requirement has one goal: to make it harder for people to qualify for  Medicaid, to slash benefits, and deny up to 36 million people access to  healthcare so they could fund, again, those tax breaks for the  wealthiest, for corporations.

Work requirements only increase the redtape of hard-working families  already burdened by working multiple jobs, caring for children, and  more. They are simply increasing the redtape working families have to  go through to obtain affordable care.

Their intention is also to hike premium costs. Millions of families  who use private health insurance saved an average of $2,400 per year on  their premiums, thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act advanced premium  tax cuts. But now the proposals Republicans are putting forth want to  end these savings and raise costs for over 24 million Americans.

The proposal wants to take away protections from people with  preexisting conditions. The GOP plans to repeal and undermine the ACA;  meaning, if they are successful, 135 million people with preexisting  conditions like asthma, cancer, and diabetes would lose critical  protections, and private insurers, insurance companies can charge them  higher premiums.

The efforts that they are discussing--Republicans are discussing-- would raise prescription drug prices. It would stop medical research  and stop medical debt relief.

Over the first 3 months of his administration, Donald Trump and  Republican allies have increased the prices of prescription drugs-- including cancer and heart medications, as well as vital antibiotics-- delayed the implementation of a Biden administration rule that barred  medical debt from showing up on credit reports, cut NIH grants, halted  all studies and activities within the NIH relating in any capacity to  the health of LGBTQ Americans, including active research programs, and  President Trump violated court orders to halt funding freezes to  organizations like the NIH.

Republicans rejected legislation to cap insulin costs for millions of  people with diabetes nationwide. Now they want to raise costs for  seniors by repealing the cap for people who rely on Medicare. As many  as one in four of the 7.5 million Americans depending on insulin are  skipping or skimping on doses. I want to say that again. As many as one  in four of the 7.5 million Americans depending on insulin are skipping  or skimping on doses. This is a life-threatening practice. No one in  this country should have to bear that.

This week, we know Republicans in the Senate will make us vote on a  budget that will, inevitably, intend to harm the strength of programs  like Medicaid and vital health programs in general.

Here is what a few organizations are saying about the impact of the  budget that will soon be put on this floor, what impact it will have on  our health systems.

According to this nonpartisan Center on Budget and Policy Priorities,  a nonpartisan policy and research institute, this is what they write:

The House Republican budget would require deep cuts to       Medicaid, and recent statements from House Energy and       Commerce Committee Chair Brett Guthrie suggest the Affordable       Care Act's . . . Medicaid expansion to adults with low       incomes--which covers more than 20 million [Americans]--will       be a prime target. Cutting Medicaid by hundreds of billions       of dollars and focusing many of those cuts on the Medicaid       expansion would lead millions of people to become       uninsured. Eliminating Medicaid expansion was a key goal of       Republicans' failed effort to repeal the ACA eight years ago,       and Congress should once again reject efforts to undermine       it.

Recent Republican proposals such as reducing the federal       matching rate for Medicaid expansion, repealing the 2021       Rescue Plan's incentive for new states to expand, or taking       away Medicaid coverage from certain adult enrollees by       imposing work requirements would leave expansion enrollees at       risk. They could lose their coverage due to work       requirements, or their state might drop their coverage due to       a drastic increase in state costs. Twelve states--

Twelve American States--

have ``poison pill laws'' that would automatically end       expansion coverage or require review of the coverage if the       federal matching rate drops below 90 percent. In [those]       states, expansion enrollees are at even greater risk.

[Representative] Guthrie's recent statement confirms that [House]  Republicans are eyeing proposals such as work requirements, a reduction  in the federal matching rate, or a per capita cap on funding for the  expansion group. This last option could shift . . . $72 billion and  $190 billion in costs to states from 2026 to 2034--

Putting that burden from $72 billion to $190 billion on States--

increasing the state costs of expansion by 41 to 108       percent and [thus] jeopardizing [medical] coverage for       millions.

Forty states plus Washington, D.C. have adopted the       Medicaid expansion--

Forty States, plus the District of Columbia have adopted the Medicaid  expansion--

helping adults with low incomes become healthier and more       financially secure. Health coverage through expansion       improves people's access to--

Something that makes so much economic sense. It--

improves people's access to preventive and primary care,       [it also] provides care for [people with] chronic illnesses,       prevents premature deaths, and protects people from       catastrophic out-of-pocket medical costs.

Let me pull away from the nonpartisan group's remarks for a second  because I saw this as a mayor. When you scrimp on regular treatment for  people with chronic care, when you scrimp on preventing disease, it  costs more to taxpayers. I saw that because folks would end up in my  emergency rooms in Newark. And the care there is so much more  expensive. For a taxpayer, you get a much better deal in helping  someone treat their chronic disease. You get a much better deal in  giving them regular access to doctors. But to cut that makes no sense.

Not only are you cutting it to give, again, those larger tax cuts to  billionaires and corporations, but you are cutting it, and you are just  going to add more and more to the overall healthcare costs of our  country and to the size of the debt.

Let me go back to the text.

Having health coverage also makes it easier for adults to       work or . . . look for a job. Considering that Medicaid       supports work and that 9 out of 10 Medicaid adults are       already working, caring for family, attending school, or are       ill or disabled, work requirements are unnecessary. [They       are] burdensome. [They are more redtape and hassles.]       Proposals to use work requirements as a way to take away       Medicaid coverage from certain adults are just another way to       undermine the Medicaid expansion.

Attacks on the Medicaid expansion are often based on false       claims that covering adults with low incomes takes away care       from groups traditionally eligible for Medicaid. In reality,       Medicaid expansion supports better outcomes for all groups,       including children, older adults, and people with       disabilities.

Medicaid expansion has driven coverage gains for parents,       which improves their access to care as well as [their]       overall well-being [the overall well-being] of their       children.

Stepping away from the text, there is not a parent in America who  knows that when you are sick, when you are being hurt by your chronic  disease, it is harder to take care of children, and their well-being  suffers.

Back to the text:

Expansion has also driven coverage gains among people with       disabilities. People with disabilities who receive       Supplemental Security [insurance] Income generally also       qualify for Medicaid, but 2 out of 3 people with disabilities       who participate in Medicaid qualify on another basis, meaning       Medicaid expansion is an important path to coverage for those       with low incomes.

Medicaid expansion also supports hospitals and other health       care providers by reducing their uncompensated care costs and       improving their operating margins, especially [especially,       especially] for rural and safety-net hospitals. If all states       [in America] were to drop the Medicaid expansion in response       to a decline in federal support, a recent analysis found that       [the] provider revenues would fall by $80 billion and       uncompensated care costs would increase by $19 billion in       2026 [alone].

That is the end of the article. This is not a hyperbole or scare  tactic. These are real possibilities. Even the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office has said there is no way to meet the  Republican budget resolution dedicated cuts without cutting Medicaid or  Medicare.

(Mr. MORENO assumed the Chair.)

Tonight and into tomorrow morning, I am going to do everything I can  to elevate the voices of Republicans because this is not intended to be  a partisan speech.

From the Cato Institute to the Wall Street Journal, to nonpartisan  groups, to the Congressional Budget Office, everyone is pointing to  what is happening as not normal, not what the President says it is, as  something that is going to hurt Americans, something that is going to  cost us more money in the long run--that someone is going to take  people with disabilities and put them even more in the shadows and in  the margins when they should be centralized and empowered, that what  they are proposing is not just morally wrong; it actually adds to the  fiscal crisis of our country.

It will drive up healthcare costs in America. It will drive up  chronic disease in America, an issue so important to me that I have  been fighting for it since I got here, because America--this great  Nation, this great land--is one of the leading countries on the planet  Earth, in the Western World--in the leading democracies, I should say-- that has maternal mortality rates that are extraordinarily high.

Forty-plus percent of our babies are born on Medicaid.

Here is an article from NBC: ``Republicans can't meet their own  budget target without cutting Medicare or Medicaid.''

House Republicans can't meet their own budget target that       is necessary to pass President Donald Trump's legislative       agenda without making significant cuts to Medicare or       Medicaid, the official budget scorekeeper confirmed       Wednesday.

House Republicans adopted a budget blueprint last week that       opens the door to pass Trump's policy priorities on       immigration, energy and taxes. It instructs the House Energy       and Commerce Committee to cut spending under its jurisdiction       by $880 billion.

The Congressional Budget Office, a nonpartisan in-house       think tank that referees the process, said that when Medicare       is set aside, the total funding under the committee's       jurisdiction is $8.8 trillion over 10 years. Medicaid       accounts for $8.2 trillion of that, or 93%.

When Medicare and Medicaid are excluded, the committee       oversees a total of $581 billion in spending--much less than       the $880 billion target--the CBO said. The letter outlining       the figures was in response to a query by--

I will step away from the article for a second--by my friend and  longtime New Jerseyan Representative Frank Pallone--he is the ranking  member of the Energy and Commerce Committee--and Brendan Boyle, a  Democrat, of Pennsylvania, the ranking member of the Budget Committee.  They asked the question.

That leaves Republicans in a deep predicament. The budget       resolution, adopted by the slimmest of margins in the       narrowly divided House, was the delicate product of       negotiations among conservative hard-liners who demand steep       spending cuts and swing-district GOP lawmakers who say they       don't want to slash funding for the health programs their       constituents rely on.

Off the article for a second, God bless you for caring about your  constituents.

Revising the target would mean upsetting one of those       factions and potentially risking the support of key votes to       pass the eventual budget reconciliation bill that advances       Trump's agenda.

Democrats have made protecting Medicaid a centerpiece of       their attack on the party-line GOP agenda, accusing Trump of       trying to cut health care for the working class to pay for       tax cuts for the wealthy.

``This letter from CBO confirms what we've been saying all       along: the math doesn't work without devastating Medicaid       cuts,'' Pallone said Wednesday in a statement. ``Republicans       know their spin is a lie, and the truth is they have no       problem taking health care away from millions of Americans so       that the rich can get richer and pay less in taxes than they       already do.''

You see--stepping away from this--they are saying we are going to  make these cuts to balance the budget, but their budget blows a bigger  hole in our deficit. If this is what Trump said, then why are they  proposing to cut $880 billion from critical healthcare programs  like Medicaid, Medicare, and the Children's Health Insurance Program?

You can't have it both ways. Donald Trump promised to make America  healthy again, but gutting healthcare for millions of Americans-- gutting healthcare for millions of Americans--rolling back healthcare  for millions of Americans, rolling back support for new mothers,  slashing innovative cancer treatments--this doesn't help families.

I love what Dr. King said. Martin Luther King famously stated:

Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health is the       most shocking and inhumane.

Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health is the       most shocking and inhumane.

Paul Farmer--extraordinary leader, physician, anthropologist,  renowned humanitarian, pioneer of global health--I read his book  ``Mountains Beyond Mountains.'' In another one of his books,  ``Pathologies of Power: Health, Human Rights, and the New War on the  Poor,'' he wrote:

If access to healthcare is considered a human right, who is       considered human enough to have that right?

I think, in a country this wealthy, where we are seeing stratospheric  wealth created here in individuals, we are seeing some of the richest  people in the world, and yet we still are targeting--for tax breaks for  them, we are targeting millions and millions of Americans who rely on  things like Medicare.

I started my speech with John Lewis. Let me quote him now. In 2012,  he said:

Healthcare is a right, and it is not a privilege, not just       for some people but for all people.

John Lewis was a visionary.

So let me tell you a bit more about Medicaid. If you are watching,  let me break it down and show just how critical it is for millions of  Americans.

Medicaid, right now, is in the crosshairs of many, many Republicans  in Congress. It is on this precipice. It is not abstract policy. It is  not just numbers in a line item in a budget.

At stake, when we talk about Medicare, it is millions and millions of  Americans' health. It goes to this question: How deeply do we care for  one another?

I love what our Founders said in the Declaration of Independence. At  the very end of that, they say: ``We [must] mutually pledge''--pledging  to each other--``our Lives, our Fortunes, and our sacred Honor.

Are we living up to that when we are saying we are going to take away  healthcare from millions of Americans in order to have greater tax  cuts?

You see, people want to just say, ``Oh, it is a government program,''  as if that is a slur, when, really, it is something that we the people,  in order to create a more perfect Union, created as a lifeline to tens  of millions of Americans that, but for programs like this, would be  succumbing to diseases, succumbing to ill health. And we as an entire  country would suffer.

Think about this not as that slur where they try to call this in ways  that try to shift public opinion away from human beings, fellow  Americans, our patriots. Think of it instead as a lifeline.

It is the reason a child with asthma can breathe easier. It is the  reason a senior can receive the care they need in a nursing home--our  elders. It is the reason a low-income mother can take her child in for  vaccinations or a person with a disability can live with dignity and  independence.

Congress is entertaining proposals now--conversations are being had  in this building and in Senate and House office buildings about how we  can gut programs.

God, I wish somebody said: In a bipartisan way, let's come together  and find healthcare savings. I offered that. I literally said to the  now-Secretary of Health--I told stories about private sector folks who  saved money by expanding access to food--to healthy, fresh food. Let's  say that, because I know private sector companies that have bent their  cost curves and saved money not by cutting healthcare but by giving  people better access to nutritious, healthy foods. You are what you  eat.

We are not coming up with bipartisan proposals to save money, to  create efficiencies, to do things that can make programs run better.  Heck, when I was mayor, we were able to lower expenditures, create more  efficiency, have more customer service. There are ways to do that.

But no, this is folks coming with an ax to cut your healthcare or  your neighbor's healthcare or your elder's healthcare.

It is not a government program; it is a commitment we make to each  other. In the greatest Nation on the planet Earth, we say we will take  care of our children; we say we will take care of expectant mothers; we  say we will take care of our own.

But they passed that House budget resolution. Republicans who call  themselves moderates or budget hawks, they all voted for it except for  one, who had this crazy thing to do in Washington--to tell the truth.  Massie said that, by their own numbers, this don't add up; what they  are pushing on the American people, it is going to steal from the  future generations by racking up trillions of debt. He stood on  principle.

They are not even doing what they are telling us they are going to  do. And $880 billion in Medicaid funding cuts, that is not trimming the  fat. It is not finding deficiencies. It is not a plan to cut out any  possible corruption. It is to make children and expectant mothers and  seniors and people with disabilities have a harder time accessing  healthcare, which we already said--Martin Luther King said:

Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in healthcare is       the most shocking and inhumane.

Not bigotry, not poverty--two things he fought so nobly against--he  said the most inhumane, the most unjust are what we are talking about  here.

Take away access to healthcare from children, take away access to  healthcare from our elders, take away access to healthcare from people  with chronic diseases. Why? Why? To cut the deficit?

Well, there are some Republicans willing to tell the truth. It is not  going to cut the deficit. It is to take from the poor and give it to  the rich and powerful. Well, we know the rich and powerful will get  bigger tax cuts.

They are not shrinking the government, folks. They are creating  bigger and bigger governmental obligations.

And what do they mean when you look at 10 years out and have  trillions and trillions and trillions of more? It means that future  generations--or maybe 10 years from now--their debt payments are going  to grow more and more and more, taking away more money that we have as  a collective body, as Americans, to invest in scientific research, to  invest in cutting-edge medical technology.

So let's be clear. Let's be clear. Children from low-income families  would lose access to routine checkups, vaccinations, and emergency  care. Seniors who depend on Medicaid for long-term care, many of whom  are already exhausting their life savings, would be left without  options. People with disabilities who require constant medical  attention, specialized equipment, and home-based services would face  uncertainty and loss of those services.

And let us not forget the low-income adults who gained coverage  through Medicaid expansion, who worked hard every day. They got access  to Medicaid through expansion under the Affordable Care Act. For them,  this is not ideology. For them, this is not political philosophy. For  them, this is life or death. It is about survival.

These proposed cuts would also devastate the very infrastructure of  our healthcare system.

These proposed cuts would also devastate the very infrastructure of  our healthcare system. I have heard this from hospitals--again,  Republican and Democratic leaders in my State who know our hospitals  are speaking to this injustice. Medicare provides nearly 19 percent of  all hospital revenue. It allows rural hospitals already on the brink to  keep their doors open--rural hospitals.

It would take safety-net hospitals that serve uninsured and  underinsured populations. Without Medicaid, with these cuts, these  institutions would crumble. That is not rhetoric. I have talked to my  safety-net hospital.

I did an event, and I remember the fear in this hospital  administrator's eyes who lives every day to help the poor, to help the  uninsured. In many ways, we share a faith, and I know he believes he is  answering the highest calling of his country and his faith to  help those who come with nothing because when hospitals close and when  Medicaid staff lose their jobs, tired communities lose access to care.  Ambulances end up having to drive farther and farther. Wait times  increase. Lives are at risk.

The ripple effects are vast. Schools will suffer when children with  disabilities lose access to Medicaid support services like physical  therapy, transportation, and mental health support. Children's  abilities to learn and thrive is compromised. Schools in rural areas  where Medicaid often funds onsite nurses and telehealth programs, they  would be stripped of essential support.

What we are witnessing is--again, don't get caught in this Washington  parlance. This is not a normal time. This is a threat to millions of  Americans. It is not a budgetary proposal.

It is like the metaphorical sword of Damocles. It is people all over  this country who are beginning to see what this really means. It is an  economic crisis that would be rolled upon States and rural areas and  communities and cities. It is a moral crisis that speaks to the soul of  our Nation.

It is a deliberate, calculated--and being calculated right now--it is  a deliberate and calculated attack on healthcare for Americans in  order, again, to give tax cuts to the wealthy.

If the enhanced Federal match for Medicaid is eliminated, one of the  things on the chopping block: States would be forced to absorb the  difference, an estimated $80 billion every year. That is a 29-percent  increase in State-funded Medicare spending per resident.

To fill those holes, States would be left with impossible choices.  Either raise taxes or slash services; education, infrastructure, public  safety. For them, they would have to figure out where to get the money  from, or else they would be slashing services.

It is an unholy choice. Cutting Medicare doesn't make us stronger. It  will weaken our economy. It will raise healthcare costs for everyone  and push millions of Americans into crises that will ripple and radiate  through their lives, their families' lives, their work lives.

Hospitals will pass unpaid bills onto insured patients. Healthcare  premiums will rise. People will delay care, omit medications, and then  show up in emergency rooms later, more sick, and therefore more  expensive to treat.

And in the end, who pays for it? Who pays for this moral failure,  this financial failure? Who pays for it? We do, the American people.  And who gets rich on this? Well, I know the last tax cut they wanted to  extend to the people who make the most money off this system and these  cuts because the tax cuts they will get will be billionaires.

And working families in America, the people who are paying insurance  rates--hurts; it is hard; it is difficult. The people who have high  premiums, copays--it is the rest of us that pay.

So I want to talk about the people at risk. There are nearly 12  million people who qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid, our Nation's  most vulnerable. They would lose critical wraparound services, services  like long-term care, dental care, vision, and nonemergency  transportation services that are not luxuries for these folks, but they  are lifelines.

A higher share, those with both Medicaid and Medicare, have cognitive  impairments and conditions, impairments like Alzheimer's, and God, my  father who had dementia.

We are a well-off family. I saw the challenges, the resources, the  drains, the physical challenges for his primary caregiver, my mother.

Millions of Americans, though, would rely on Medicaid, and they would  face devastating choices; to quit their jobs to provide full care-- full-time care--or leave their loved ones while they go off to work on  a job without the support they need.

When it comes to Alzheimer's and dementia, I know personally you  cannot leave someone without the care. Nursing homes may be forced to  shut their doors and cut staffing levels to dangerous lows. In fact,  people who can't take care of their elders, they might be going to  nursing homes, which again, increases costs for taxpayers. Home  healthcare services, often the only thing keeping people and their  communities out of institutions, that would disappear.

This would be a crisis for elder care. This would be a crisis for  disability services. What it is: When a nation isn't taking care of its  elders, it is a crisis of our national character.

Medicaid also plays a profound role in the success of children and  their well-being. Nearly half of all children in the United States are  covered by Medicaid and CHIP. Research shows that when children have  access to care, they are more likely to stay in school, graduate, and  earn more as adults.

That is not surprising to people just to think it through. It is  true. If kids have access to healthcare, they succeed more in life.  Medicaid helps diagnose learning disorders, treat chronic conditions,  and ensure children don't fall behind simply because they are born in  poverty. It is essential to the American dream, that just because you  are poor, it shouldn't affect your destiny.

For us to be the America of which we speak, a child born in poverty  shouldn't have their future cut off because they can't get the  healthcare to empower them to thrive. Talk to any school district in  any State in any county. Those resources are necessary to help  children.

Medicaid pays for nearly half of the births in the United States. The  United States, as I said earlier, has a shameful distinction of a  massive maternal health crisis. We have the highest rate of maternal  deaths of any high-income nation. I am going to say that again: America  has the highest rates of maternal deaths--women dying in childbirth or  in the days after--of any nation. A majority of these maternal deaths  take place during that postpartum period, the days after birth.

For years, I fought for Medicaid to provide coverage for women for up  to 1 year postpartum instead of just 60 days. In 2022's Congress, I was  so happy that States had the option to expand Medicaid coverage for up  to 1 year postpartum. It was one of the solutions to this maternal  healthcare crisis that expert after expert after expert says: Just make  sure those women who gave birth are not knocked off of healthcare after  2 months.

As of this January, 49 States, plus the District of Columbia, have  expanded postpartum Medicaid coverage past those 60 days. Hey, we are  stepping in the right direction to show that we love our moms, we value  those lifegivers that are mothers. We value them. But cutting Medicare  means potentially eliminating the progress we made toward ending that  maternal mortality crisis. There is just no justifying that in a nation  this great and this wealthy.

We talk so much about children and motherhood. All of us should be  coming together about this maternal health crisis, but what is  happening now, again, is the very program that has helped us to begin  to address this is under attack.

When we invest in Medicaid, we are investing in the future. Children  will grow up to be healthier, and seniors will age with dignity in  rural communities with limited access to healthcare and services and  families who don't have to choose between a prescription and rent.

This is about health, but I want to tell you, for all those doing the  math at home, you cannot have a thriving economic engine without good  healthcare. The two are incompatible. Widespread sickness, illness, and  disease and people can't get their health issues covered, it takes away  from our economic strength.

In fact, just cutting Medicaid would cost jobs, nurse's aides,  support staff, medical technicians. Entire communities depend on  funding that Medicare provides. Cutting it would destabilize State  budgets, force those impossible tradeoffs and widen the gap--widen the  gap--between the richest in our country and the rest, a gap that is  already widening at stunning rates.

These cuts are not about efficiency. Don't let anybody tell you these  cuts are about efficiency. I know a lot about making government more  efficient. This is not about innovation. There are so many things that  we as a country should be doing to deal with medical innovation. I will  be the first to say: Republicans and Democrats have failed to step up  to the 21st century and do things that really can create more  efficiencies in our healthcare system.

I really hope to see more bold thinkers about creating real  efficiency. But  what they are doing now is not about efficiency. It is not about  innovation. It is not about the heart priorities of Americans who know  everything that I am saying.

The letters I have gotten, Republicans and Democrats and Independents  in my State, scared people--they know what this is about. Republicans  in New Jersey who run hospitals know what this is about. This should be  a bipartisan strategy to how do we make our society more healthy and  less dependent on healthcare. When it comes to healthcare, heck, let's  not do the stupid things like cutting scientific and biosciences and  the research that often leads to medical breakthroughs.

Let's come together and figure out how to deliver services more  efficiently. Making Americans healthier, I don't believe them. They are  cutting access for kids to fresh and healthy foods. They are cutting  school lunch resources. There is a way to do this that should be  bringing the best ideas from both sides of the aisle to deal with these  issues, but that is not what they are doing.

Every data point, every story, hospitals from rural areas to urban  areas, everyone is saying the same thing to illustrate the same point:  Medicaid is critical to the health of some of the most vulnerable  Americans. It is critical to our elders, to our children, to our  mothers. It is a lifeline for more than 72 million people.

With control of the Senate, the House, and the Presidency,  Republicans have the opportunity to dream big. They have an opportunity  to lead with a vision for better health in America, to come before the  people and Congress and hearings and say: This is our vision for  American health and well-being. We are going to show what some private  companies did. They cut their healthcare costs and improved the health  of their employees by providing better access to food.

There are so many good ideas that I learned when I was mayor, from  Republicans, from private sector people, but those aren't the ideas  coming forward. The ideas coming forward are: Hey, let's just send to  the Energy and Commerce Committee the mandate to cut $808 billion.  Let's rush now. Let's rush now. Let's get it done before our narrow  majority somehow gets undermined. Let's just cut, cut, cut, cut, cut,  and in the end, what is the result?

Americans get sicker, driving up overall healthcare costs, all to  give billionaires more of a tax cut.

I know the character of so many of my friends in this body on both  sides of the aisle. This is not who we are. It is not who we are.

But God, there is no big vision, there is no big dream for  healthcare. Instead of improving Medicaid and increasing funding, as 42  percent of Americans support, they want to make extraordinary cuts that  will demolish the program. They are proposing that $880 billion cut  from Medicaid, taking healthcare away from millions of Americans. They  want to impose work requirements even though 90 percent of Medicaid  beneficiaries are already working or cannot work for legitimate  reasons.

Arkansas actually tried this. I love case studies. They tried this in  2017, and the results were disastrous. People lost coverage that they  shouldn't have, and employment didn't increase.

Nationally, such requirements could put 36 million people at risk of  losing their healthcare.

They are proposing failed policies, not breakthrough ideas, not a  bold vision that I know is in America's heart.

This repeal that some folks are saying that they want to do to save  money, the hatred for the previous President--they want to repeal  Biden-era rules that made Medicaid and CHIP enrollment easier, less  redtape, easier for seniors and children. Let's repeal that, they say.

They want to end a rule requiring minimum staffing standards in  nursing homes, including 24/7 access to registered nurses--one of the  hardest, most underappreciated jobs in America. Let's give less access  to these noble, noble professionals.

They propose per capita caps that would upend Medicaid's financial  model in every State, leaving States with less money to meet their  residents' needs. In States that expanded Medicaid under the ACA, these  cuts could jeopardize coverage for 20 million people who gained access.

The budget that they are proposing would require deeper cuts.

Speaker Johnson claims these changes are about rooting out fraud,  waste, and abuse, but that is not what is happening, folks. What is  happening is an assault on a program that provides dignity, health, and  stability, economic growth, improved outcomes for kids, and more  respect for our elders and care for the disabled. Nearly 2 million New  Jerseyans, 2 million people in my State rely on Medicaid, and yet our  State is slated to see cuts of up to $5.2 billion.

Medicaid accounts for a quarter--more than a quarter--of New Jersey's  State budget. Think about that. It accounts for more than a quarter of  our State's budget. My State--one of the hardest working States that  are out there--just their work requirement would put about 700,000 of  my neighbors at risk of losing their healthcare.

Medicaid covers about one-fifth of hospital spending. At University  Hospital in Newark, New Jersey's only level I trauma center, more than  $149 million in potential cuts loom. I know this hospital. I have been  there when my officers have been injured. I have been there when my  firefighters in Newark were injured. I have been there when heroic  citizens are injured and brought there. It is our level I trauma  center. People from all around our region are sent there. These  emergency room workers are incredible. Heck, they have treated me  coming out of an emergency. And they are facing $149 million in cuts.  And their leadership, knowing how vital that hospital is, how that  hospital stands in the breach between life and death, health and  illness, they know what it would mean.

We should be strengthening this program through innovations that come  from people on both sides of the aisle. We should be coming together as  a body and saying: OK, let's spitball this. Let's put up the best ideas  in America to make things more efficient.

Well, wait a minute, you mean if we treat chronic diseases with  access to healthy food, we might actually be able to lower diabetes  rates, lower hypertension rates, lower obesity rates? Well, that is one  great way to make this investment happen.

There is technology and innovation that are happening right now with  our best scientists that could create better access to telehealth, that  could create more efficiency in medical records, that could cut down on  mistakes that are still made in medical care, like combining the wrong  drugs or other challenges that drive up costs.

There are systems that we could create that could create more  transparency and eliminate more real fraud and go after the fraudsters  themselves in a more efficient manner.

There are so many things that we could do if we came together as a  body. But what are we doing instead? Following our President that wants  his tax cuts renewed.

What did those tax cuts do the first time around? Most of the  benefits went to the wealthiest people and corporations, and it drove  trillions of dollars--the largest deficit growth that we have seen in a  generation; rapacious, rapacious, misguided budgeting, creating bigger  and bigger debt payments.

I remind you that Clinton balanced the budget.

Bush--the first President in American history that didn't call for  the common sacrifice to go to war. We spent trillions of dollars in  those foreign wars. And guess what he said. No common sacrifice. Only  about 1 percent of our people will fight in those wars. I am going to  give you a tax cut.

Well, that makes no sense. You are going to drive up deficits that my  children will have to pay for.

Obama comes along, and at least he lowers deficit spending, but then  Trump comes in and increases it by trillions of dollars on the backs of  working Americans to give those benefits to the wealthiest.

Now, Biden, who shrunk the deficit a bit--didn't eliminate it--still  spent what any fiscally prudent person might say is really problematic.  Let's not make this blindly partisan. But for anybody who would  criticize Biden and follow Trump into what he is doing with this budget  proposal that is going to slash healthcare for millions of Americans,  increase the deficit by trillions and trillions of dollars, and make  Elon Musk richer and richer--is that your solution? It violates our  values. It violates our national character. It violates the highest  principles put forth by the most noble people in American history.

I stand today--and I will not sit down for hours and hours if God  gives me the ability to stand here--because I want to be the voices of  Americans. I want to share their voices in this body. I want it to echo  in history. I want it to be recorded by these extraordinary people who  stand here every day and record my words and my colleagues' words. I  want it to be in the Congressional Record.

I want DeAnna's story--DeAnna's daughter is disabled, and Medicaid  provides her with lifesaving medications, medical equipment, orthotics,  and multiple specialists for her rare disease diagnosis. She has life- threatening seizures and requires rescue procedures, medications,  oxygen, CPR, and has nurses that accompany her to school and meet her  medical needs during the day so that DeAnna can go to work.

DeAnna is ``terrified''--she uses this word--she is ``terrified'' of  her daughter losing her Medicaid. She is so afraid, she is literally  talking openly about going to Canada and asking for asylum there so  that her daughter has her healthcare needs met. That is outrageous to  me, that an American who is fearful for their child would think about  fleeing to Canada for better healthcare.

Wendy and Cassie. Wendy is the mother, and she wrote about the  threats that Medicaid cuts would pose to her daughter Cassie.

Cassie is 32 years old. She has Rett syndrome--R-E-T-T--a rare  neurological disorder that significantly impairs even basic motor  functions, requiring the individual to have lifelong care and  supervision. Without Medicaid funding, Cassie and Wendy would not be  able to afford housing, the day program, and the prescriptions that she  needs on a daily basis.

Tonya and Cameron. God, Tonya uses Medicare and Medicaid to care for  her son, her beloved child Cameron. Cameron is battling stage IV cancer  and is confined to a wheelchair. Due to the severity of his illness, he  cannot be without his cancer treatment and prescription medication.  Medicare and Medicaid coverage are for them, they say, a matter of life  and death for Cameron.

Here is this amazing group in New Jersey, in Cherry Hill--amazing  group--the Cherry Hill Free Clinic. Volunteers sustain the Cherry Hill  Free Clinic, doctors who give up their own time because they are driven  by the conviction that in America, we take care of each other, we love  each other.

When you say ``Love your neighbor,'' love requires sacrifice and  service, and these doctors and professionals that volunteer their time  at the Cherry Hill Clinic--I just want to tell you: God bless you.  Thank you for living our American values and the values of your faith's  traditions.

The Cherry Hill Free Clinic provides free healthcare treatment and  medication to low-income individuals not just in Cherry Hill but  throughout New Jersey. Without the support of Medicare and Medicaid  coverage for their patients, the free clinic would not be able to  provide the extent of services and care their patients desperately  need; they would not be able to be the source of light to so many  people that are facing scary darkness.

They think: That is not going to happen to me. That cancer diagnosis  is not going to happen to me. That rare disease that affects the  child--it is not going to happen to me.

But when it does and they can't imagine how they will make ends meet,  they find in the Cherry Hill Clinic doctors and medical professionals  willing to step up. And they have been doing extraordinary things. It  would make every American proud. And now they see what is coming from  this Republican, from this Donald Trump proposal.

Jeanne is an awesome soul. She is a disabled citizen. She relies on  Medicaid coverage for her frequent hospitalizations. Without Medicaid,  she would be unable to receive the critical care that she needs.

God bless you, Jeanne.

Susan writes to us. She is a disabled person who is confined to a  wheelchair. Susan relies on Medicaid for her healthcare. Medicaid  provides her wheelchair transportation to get her to her medical  appointments. Without Medicaid, she would not have medical coverage or  the transportation means to receive the essential healthcare.

Edna. Edna. Edna is 98. God bless her--98. What a life. Now, as a 98- year-old, she has dementia. Her daughter is 78 years old. I can't  imagine this moment when you realize at 78 that you can't any longer  care for your 98-year-old mom due to her worsening dementia. Edna  receives Medicaid coverage and is now able to have full-time care at a  rehabilitation center for senior citizens.

Her daughter, at 78 years old, is so grateful, so grateful to live in  a country where her 98-year-old mom can be in a rehabilitation care  center. But they know what savage cuts in Medicaid would do.

Randi and Dylan. Randi enrolled her son Dylan in Medicaid. Dylan is  10. He is wheelchair-bound due to Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Dylan requires frequent medical care and daily heart medications to  prevent the issues with his heart functioning.

Randi relies on Medicaid to provide medical care for Dylan, whom  Randi loves so much. Medicaid covers the costs and his critical  prescription medications.

And then there is Theresa, who recently lost her job, and required  urgent medical assessments due to a medical issue that was discovered  by her doctor.

During what was a difficult time where you go to the doctor and the  doctor discovers something that is so urgent you need immediate  support, Theresa was without insurance and needed to receive care as  instructed by her doctor. Due to her enrollment in Medicaid, she was  able to receive the diagnostic testing that she needed.

It is a good story, but stories like that have become more difficult  if cuts are made.

Pamela: Pamela writes that Medicaid is essential to her 22-year-old  son's life. He has epilepsy, cerebral palsy, vision impairment, and too  many other complex medical issues for Pam to list to us. Medicaid  provides his health benefits and is his funding source to attend his  day program and receive therapies. Private duty nursing comes to his  home, and it pays for vital medications.

She writes to me that ``Our private insurance is not enough to cover  our son's complex medical needs. We would not be able to pay for his  monthly prescription costs, nor the lengthy hospital stays when he is  sick. We would not have the nursing hours to support his care to be  able to continue to live at home, nor would we be able to leave home on  weekdays and have a day program to attend.''

Pamela writes:

As his parent, I need to take an early retirement from       public school teaching to care for our son because the       medical coverage he has just isn't enough.

It doesn't provide for his transportation and his day programs. So  she is leaving her job early.

She writes--and she bolds this:

Our disabled community members and their families deserve       better. Medicaid provides for a bare minimum existence.

And she has a message for the lies being told by too many. She says:

There are no excesses here in my house.

Sally and Mike:

We rely on Medicaid for our two adult children with       disabilities for long-term care, especially for my daughter       who just finished her 2\1/2\-year chemo treatment regime. We       will need it for monthly checkups and prevention of a       relapse. We use the funding to provide the much-needed care       she needs at home.

We also have 90-plus-year-old parents who need Medicaid in       order to survive. We are the real sandwich generation, caring       for two adult children with special needs and two very       elderly parents who couldn't survive on their own. Please do       everything in your power to help fund and not cut Medicaid in       any way. Thank you for your time and your commitment in       helping the more vulnerable population.

I mean, Sally and Mike, you are not alone. That sandwich generation,  taking care of children and parents. You are taking care of adult  children and 90-plus-year-old parents. I hear you. I hear you.

Carole:

My son Jason is 41 and autistic. He has severe behavioral       issues. Medicaid has enabled my son to attend a day program 3       days a week. The program bills Medicaid for his       participation. We would not have the financial resources to       pay for my son's day program. Medicaid helps us to have our       son living at home with his loved ones, not in a group home.       We save the State money by taking care of him. Do not cut--do       not cut--this vital program.

Rosemari: Now, Rosemari says that she has an adult son, and that son  has CP, a seizure disorder, cystic--this is where maybe I should have  gone to medical school and not law school--cystic encephalomalacia. My  cousin, the doctor is here. She would be able to help me if she was  down here.

But it is her son, her adult son is on the autism spectrum, yet he  earned a BA--``yet he earned a BA on the autism spectrum and lives  `independently' but with our support and works a part-time job.'' She  put ``independently'' in quotes.

If he loses his medical coverage, he would not be able to       afford to live where he lives and, most importantly, will not       be able to afford his meds. He has medications that would run       $500 a month. We live with the anxiety.

We live with the anxiety. We live with that anxiety that millions of  Americans live with; that erodes them; that burns at their spirit. That  anxiety that has put millions of Americans in bankruptcy. That anxiety.  That anxiety that I can't afford my medications. That anxiety that I  can't care for my children. That anxiety that I won't have the  resources. That anxiety.

We live with the anxiety of Medicaid cuts, every report       about what House Republicans are doing. We support anything       that can be done to maintain Medicaid. Please, Senator.

Danielle, she writes:

I am the oldest sibling to my two younger brothers, Matt       and Christian, who have been living with a rare neuromuscular       disease since they were diagnosed as babies. Throughout their       lives, Matt and Chris, along with my parents and family, have       fought to ensure that they have the best care possible,       despite how unknown and underresearched their condition is.

Taking Medicaid away from them would strip Matt and       Christian of basic access to specialized care that they rely       on and therefore strip them of their dignity and their       independence.

As someone who has had a front row seat watching two people       I love suffer from a neuromuscular condition and as a human       being who believes in the right to access medical care, I       implore--

I implore; I implore--

our representatives and the Trump administration to       consider the devastating impact that these cuts would have on       people like my brothers. Slashing funds for an already       underfunded program is not only the wrong target in the name       of, quote, efficiency, but also a decision that would cement       our Nation's treacherous path toward becoming a nation that       does not seek--

Does not seek--

justice for all. Instead a nation that only serves those in       power, only serves the powerful, only serves the wealthy. As       your constituent affected by neuromuscular disease, I am       concerned about the potential unintended consequences of the       efforts to so-call reform Medicaid.

Seventy-two million Americans rely on Medicaid for affordable  accessible and State health coverage, including children, pregnant  women, parents, seniors, and individuals with disabilities. Any effort  to reform Medicaid should not inadvertently prevent patients from  having access to the healthcare that they deserve. Danielle, I hear  you.

Judith: She goes right to the point.

Please stop Trump. Please stop Trump now. He is going after       Medicaid. I have an adult, severely autistic granddaughter       who relies on Medicaid for her special needs program. She       writes:

A country is judged by how it meets the needs of the       weakest people. Please stop him.

I want to read your words again, Judith:

A country is judged by how it meets the needs of its       weakest people.

A country is judged by how it meets the needs of the weakest people.

Elizabeth writes:

Medicaid helps me access healthcare and direct supports in       my home, in my community. Cuts to Medicaid would mean I       wouldn't have the services I need to live on my own with       supports and would be forced to live in a more restrictive       setting.

Sandra writes:

Medicaid has allowed my son's needs to be met at home and       not in a group home. It has allowed my husband to participate       in his caregiving, not a stranger. It has allowed him to be       employed with the aid of a job coach.

These are just a few things, in addition to healthcare, if the cuts  to Medicaid happen--it goes away.

Alicia:

Medicaid provides healthcare and services to my       developmentally disabled adult child. If Medicare funding is       cut, my son will not have the healthcare they need and the       programs to attend.

Maggie:

My 28-year-old son Will has Down's syndrome. He currently       lives a full and active, inclusive life.

His life is full. His life is active.

He is in the community where he is cherished.

He lives in the community. He is cherished.

He has wonderful support staff and has lots of activities       that keep him healthy and happy. His days include       volunteering at a senior citizen center, working at the local       gym, shopping, leisure activities, speech therapy. He does       music therapy.

We follow the self-direction model, which is work on my       end, but I would not have it any other way. But if Medicare       funding is cut, these cuts would impact his livelihood.

Nybil:

Without my Medicaid, I would not be able to be as mobile       nor independent. Without Medicaid evaluating my physical       disability, cerebral palsy, and related limitations and       prescribing me an electric power wheelchair for daily       independence and assistance with mobility and even pain       management due to not being able to walk well. I am actually       up for a new wheelchair this year, as it was allowable every       5 years for a new wheelchair prescription.

Without my Medicaid, I would not have been properly       diagnosed with things like sleep apnea in 2017. I now use a       CPAP machine to force air into my body so I can sleep       peacefully instead of gasping for air at night. Without my       Medicaid, I would not be able to be fitted for a leg brace       for my physical support and mobility, enabling me to actually       stand up straight and walk without my wheelchair. Without my       Medicaid, I would not be able to be a full-time employee, a       full-time worker.

Laura:

Medicaid has provided my sister with benefits to help       support her medical and mental health issues since she       graduated high school. She is now 33 and living with me and       my husband after being separated from our parents that are       now in assisted living and nursing home arrangements.

Wow.

Susan has never worked or been married because of her       mental disability, and she is dependent on her Medicaid       benefits. Please keep these benefits in place for people like       my sister who don't have much in their lives they can depend       on.

Laura, your sister is now living with you after being separated from  your parents, who are now in a nursing home. I see you.

Michael:

I need Medicaid because it provides me the ability to get       my anxiety medication and to afford my therapist. I use       Medicaid for medical, dental, and visual visits. I wear       glasses. Without Medicaid, I am unable to live or function in       this world.

Robin:

Courtney is my 35-year-old daughter with severe       disabilities. From 2009 to present, she has needed crucial       surgeries, as well as medications and hospital stays.       Medicaid has made the financial support for these procedures       possible and to save her life.

And I know, I can tell from her letter, that Robin loves her 35-year- old daughter Courtney.

Mary:

Medicaid is helping to improve my daughter's life through       the services of the Division of Developmental Disabilities.       Without it, she would be left to whittle away at home 7 days       a week with no community interaction. She is learning       prevocational skills in a manner that she is validated and       viewed as a person with strengths.

Thank you, Mary.

Allison:

I am my daughter's caregiver in New Jersey. Medicaid-funded       programs allow her to remain an active part of our community       at home with her family. If Medicaid is cut, we would lose       our healthcare. It would be devastating.

Gihan:

My daughter has a disability. Through Medicaid, she       receives a lot of services that help her improve and       progress. Also, to help her stay active and social, she gets       speech therapy, occupational and physical therapy. People       come to our home to help her as well. If Medicaid cuts       happen, she will stop all the services she receives, and her       life will be threatened. Please, she must keep her Medicaid       because, as a parent, I don't know what I can do with my       daughter if that is happening. It will be so hard for her and       us.

Roseanne:

Medicaid has supplied the nurses that take care of my       disabled granddaughter that I am raising at home, instead of       being sent to an institution. She will put her life at risk       for a medical emergency or fatal injury without nurses here.

Ash:

My daughter takes speech therapy, occupational and physical       therapy, and tutoring. So if that is all gone, she will stop       progress, and she will be more disabled and will be unable to       do anything by herself or live inadvertently. She needs a lot       of help. And if these Medicaid cuts happen, I don't know what       I will do with her, and it will make life so hard.

These Americans are facing challenges that I can't imagine. And what  is amazing about so many of them is they find the goodness and the  decency of their neighbors, of people who are helping and supporting  them, of people who do the jobs, the occupations that many Americans  would find incredibly challenging--the occupational therapist, the  physical therapist, the person who does the transportation, the nurses  that take care of folks. It is a community of people out there that are  trying to make our Nation stand for what we say we do. They are trying  to show that we are a loving and caring and compassionate community.

And what I love is that this is not partisan. I keep saying this over  and over again for this whole time I can stand. I hope it is as many  hours as possible. I am going to be bringing in the voices of  Republicans and Democrats because it is not a partisan issue. Maybe it  is in Congress, but the Republicans and Democrats of America don't want  Medicaid cuts. They especially don't want them to benefit the richest  amongst us, who don't need more help. God bless them. They are doing  all right.

And it is not going to solve our budget problems. Their budget  proposal, as was said by the one lone Republican who voted against it  because he is such a fiscal hawk--he said: If you just read their own  numbers, this is a lie, a sham. It increases the deficit by trillions.

Let me go to some Republicans.

Joe Lombardo, the Governor of Nevada:

An abrupt reduction in federal funding would not only       disrupt care of those who rely on Medicaid, but would also       destabilize public and private healthcare providers, leading       to workforce reductions, service limitations, and financial       strain on already overburdened health care facilities.

The Governor of Nevada knows that my mom, my aunt, my uncle, my other  aunt--they live in Nevada. My mom lives in a retirement community  there. This Governor knows that that State would be hit so hard by a  reduction of these services that it would be like an impact that  ripples out throughout the State, raising costs, lowering care, hurting  Americans, hurting Nevadans.

My colleague Mike Rounds of South Dakota said:

That is not a cost-cutting measure--that's a cost transfer.

He said:

And when you've got partnerships with the states, you       shouldn't be doing that without having them involved in the       discussion.

I tell you, I have conversations with lots of my Republican  colleagues, and I appreciate this quote from one of them.

The Coalition of State Medical Associations writes:

On behalf of 50 state medical associations and the District       of Columbia, the hundreds of thousands of physicians we       represent--

I am adding this. I am sure of both political parties and  Independents.

Back to what they write:

--and the 80 million Medicaid patients we serve, we are       united in urging the U.S. [Senate] . . . to protect Medicaid       from the devastating $880 billion [cuts] . . . in spending       reduction target in the House Budget Resolution.

If these cuts are enacted millions of Medicaid patients       will lose their coverage and we expect all Medicaid patients       to lose some of their existing benefits--

``All Medicaid patients''--``all Medicaid patients to lose some of  their existing benefits''--

and access to essential healthcare services.

The American Academy of Pediatrics, Children's Defense Fund,  Children's Hospital Association, Family Voices National, First Focus  Campaign for Children, March of Dimes, and National Association of  Pediatric Nurse Practitioners--they all came together to jointly write:

By reducing vital support from Medicaid and CHIP, you would       not just be cutting a budget line--you would be eliminating       the health prospects of our children, leaving them without  the care they need to grow into healthy adults.

AARP:

More than half of all the funds for long-term care in       America come from Medicaid. As our country gets older, and as       millions of Baby Boomers continue to age, our country is on       the brink of a serious long-term care crisis.

AARP would welcome the long-overdue debate about how to       address this challenge, which should involve reforms to       remove Medicaid's bias toward institutional care and       increased support for families who take care of their loved       ones at home. Large-scale cuts, however, threaten millions of       seniors with disruption to the care they need.

Listen to AARP: ``We would welcome the long-overdue debate''--``We  would welcome the long overdue debate on how to address this  challenge.''

But we are not having a long-overdue debate. We are not bringing  together the world's most deliberative body to focus on how to solve  these problems.

Michael Tuffin, the president and CEO of AHIP, America's Health  Insurance Plans:

Medicaid is indispensable to low-income people and working       families. If their Medicaid coverage is disrupted, these       Americans will lose access to primary care and be unable to       fill prescriptions for drugs to treat chronic illnesses. Many       will end up in the emergency room, the costliest site of       care. Loss of Medicaid coverage means people will be less       healthy and their care will ultimately cost more.

Rick Pollack, president and CEO of the American Hospital Association:

On behalf of the hospitals, nurses, doctors and those who       care for and serve the needs of 72 million patients that rely       on Medicaid, we urge you to consider the implications of       hinging the budget reconciliation bill's fate on removing       health care access for millions of our nation's patients.       These are hardworking families, children, seniors, veterans,       and disabled individuals who rely on essential care services.

We ask the House to construct a path forward that protects       Medicaid from [these] harmful cuts that would impact the       access to care for millions of Americans.

We did Republican Governors. Here is a Democrat. Colorado Governor  Jared Polis joined with Oklahoma Governor Kevin Stitt. They are the  chair and vice chair of the National Governors Association--Democrat  and Republican--and they write:

Without consultation and proper planning, Congressionally       proposed reductions to Medicaid would impact state budgets,       rural hospitals and health care service providers. It is       necessary for Governors to have a seat at the table when       discussing any reforms and cuts to Medicaid funding. States       and territories should be afforded more flexibility when it       comes to administering these programs in a manner that best       suits the need of [their States].

What a radical thing that a Republican and a Democratic Governor are  simply asking for a seat at the table in the conversation. What is the  table? Is there a hearing? Are there discussions? Did we form a  national commission? None of that. None of that. And they warn about  what it will mean to their States.

The American Academy of Family Physicians, American Academy of  Pediatrics, the American College of Gynecology, the American College of  Physicians, the American Psychiatric Association, all together write:

Our organizations, representing more than 400,000       physicians who serve millions of patients, are alarmed by       proposals to implement cuts or other structural changes to       Medicaid during the budget reconciliation process. Cuts to       Medicaid will have grave consequences for patients,       communities and the entire health care system.

Lisa Lacasse, president of the American Cancer Society Cancer Action  Network:

ACS CAN opposes cuts that will increase the number of       uninsured nationwide by severing the lifeline that Medicaid       provides for cancer patients and those at risk for cancer. It       is imperative for cancer patients and millions more at risk       that this valuable health insurance program be protected for       decades. ACS CAN has advocated in support of Medicaid and we       will continue to advocate at the federal and state levels in       support of expansion of access to the program and against       policies that jeopardize individuals' access to lifesaving       health insurance coverage.

Bruce Siegel, president and CEO of America's Essential Hospitals:

This budget resolution will open the door to devastating       Medicaid cuts that will impact millions of Americans,       especially those middle-to-low-income working Americans in       both rural and urban communities, who rely on Medicaid access       to critical health care services.

This budget resolution and its directive to the House Energy and  Commerce Committee to cut $880 billion of federal spending will slash  the Medicaid Program and threaten to discontinue lifesaving, safety-net  services in many communities.

Thirty-eight national parents organizations--I didn't know there were  38  national parents organizations. But they wrote in a chorus of  conviction:

Cuts on this magnitude would require enormous changes--such       as instituting per capita caps, reducing the federal match       rate for Medicaid expansion, adding barriers to coverage       including work reporting requirements, and repealing rules       that strengthen enrollment processes and access to care in       Medicaid--that would severely harm many individuals fighting       serious and chronic health conditions. Our organizations--

All 38 national parents organizations--       oppose any cuts to either traditional or Medicaid expansion       that take away coverage, jeopardize access to services and       providers, shift costs to states and reduce patients' access       to care.

Here is a huge group that includes the National Alliance on Mental  Illness, the March of Dimes, the Muscular Dystrophy Association, the  National Cancer Coalition, the National Health Council, the National  Kidney Foundation, the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, the  National Organization for Rare Disorders. It is about--and I will  estimate and give it to the Congressional Record--325 or 330  organizations.

On behalf of the undersigned chapters of the American       Academy of Family Physicians, representing over 130,000       family physicians and medical students across the country, we       write to convey our deep concerns regarding proposals to       reduce Medicaid funding or implement further eligibility       restrictions. We strongly urge you and your colleagues to       reject any reforms that have the potential to impede access       to essential care for millions of Americans who rely on       Medicaid, including our Nation's most vulnerable populations.

Mr. BOOKER. I would yield specifically for a question, yes.

Mr. BOOKER. To my leader, Leader Schumer, I mean, that is the pain of  these stories from the families that I read of the fear that they have  to rely on these lifelines that are going to be cut and of the services  that are going to be cut that are going to affect their beloved parents  or their children with disabilities.

When they ask the question, Why? Is it for a noble purpose? Is it for  collective sacrifice? No. The answer that they have to stare at is that  you are going to cut services for my vulnerable child or for my parents  in order to give tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans, in order to give  tax cuts to the billionaires.

Here is the insult added to that injury: It is also this lie that we  are going to be focused on the fiscal strength of our Nation. They are  going to give all those tax cuts away and give away healthcare  benefits, and the results are going to be even bigger deficits. So  people like Elon Musk and Donald Trump--billionaires, where most of  these tax cuts will accrue to their benefit--will get more, more, more  money. And if you were spending $100,000 a week for the rest of your  life, you wouldn't get near the net worth of Elon Musk.

Mr. BOOKER. Yes. Yes.

Mr. BOOKER. That is accurate.

It is stunning that they know that they can't do this, so they are  going to use some budget trickery to mask the truth. Math doesn't lie.  Numbers don't lie. You may be able to mask it so you could use rules of  reconciliation and try to force it through, but the result for the  American people is going to be the same.

Chuck, people will lose healthcare, healthcare benefits, and watch  the deficit of this Nation not increase but explode, which means the  cost of our debt payments alone are going to be more than the very  programs that they are going to be slashing for families. That is  outrageous, cruel, unacceptable, and we have to do everything we can as  a people to stop it.

Mr. BOOKER. Yes, sir.

Mr. BOOKER. I was reading stories, and many of them will live with  me. There is a family who is taking care of their two parents in their  nineties and their disabled adult children. They are desperately  relying on these programs. No matter what you do or say or call it or  label you slap on it, those are the kinds of Americans who are stepping  up to take care of their loved ones who will get hurt.

Mr. BOOKER. Yes.

Mr. BOOKER. Yes, Senator Schumer.

To tell a family to just double up or triple up drives up their  costs. It is often that the elder who is living with them who might  have dementia demands care. So the family member who is caring for them  has to decide, Oh, my God. Am I going to give up my job, which I need  to pay the rent? Am I going to stay home to take care of them or go to  the job and let really difficult things happen? This is the thing that  the leader is pointing out that, I think, is really important.

Mr. BOOKER. Yes, please.

Mr. BOOKER. I appreciate the Democratic leader's question.

I think that all 100 of us in this body are getting what I have  gotten. I can't go to the grocery store. I can't walk my neighborhood.  I just did a travel around the country to do what a lot of us elected  officials do, and I got stopped in the airport by people who want to  tell me stories about a parent with dementia or a disabled child or a  child with a rare disease who has seizures. It is story after story  after story.

There are people who have been writing in to me, some of them on  scraps of  paper, just to try to tell us: Please--they are not saying don't do  $880 billion in cuts; they say any diminution of resources. They live  on such a precipice that any diminution of resources would drive their  families into crisis and despair. Many of the professionals I am  quoting are saying: We don't need to be cutting. We need to be finding  ways to extend services to do more. How can we do more?

I talked earlier about the fact--and you helped with this, Senator  Schumer, when we were battling, many of us, and I know my friend Lisa  Blunt Rochester was a leader in the House when we said: Why are so many  women dying in childbirth in a postpartum period in America? It is  shameful that we are the worst Nation of all the wealthy nations, and  that is for us as a whole, but for Black women, it is almost four times  as much.

So what do we do here, Chuck? You remember this. Excuse me. Senator  Schumer, what do we do here?

Mr. BOOKER. ``Chuck'' is OK.

We came together, and we said: This is a time for Medicaid expansion.  It was to say to a woman: You don't just get 60 days postpartum; we are  going to expand that beyond 60 days. State after State--red and blue  States--said: You are right. This is a crisis. That which should be the  happiest period of a woman's life is the most devastating with women  hemorrhaging and dying. We began to treat that.

Now what is the threat? The threat is that they are going to cut  these things that we did to help more people, to stop more folks from  dying.

And here is the trick: You know this battle well. I wasn't here,  Chuck. You were here, and I know my chief of staff was on your staff,  writing this in. This is why you all said: We are going to try to  incentivize States to expand Medicare. We are going to cover 90 percent  of the costs.

I still don't understand why some States--talk about cutting off your  nose to spite your face--said no. In my State, the Republican Governor  said: Heck, yes. Sign New Jersey up. But many of those States have this  automatic trigger that if the funding is cut--even if they say we are  not going to cut $880 billion, just $250 billion--well, that is going  to trigger many States to give up that Medicare expansion and go back  to the days where millions upon millions of Americans don't have  coverage at all.

So, again, this whole speech is because, Chuck--Senator Schumer--it  has been business as usual in this place when that kind of threat has  been happening; that of the stories that I read that I had to struggle  through. We should be doing hearings. We should be bringing in the  people. I know the values that we share on both sides of the aisle. How  could we be so abjectly cruel, and why? To push through a tax break  plan from which families in the neighborhood I live won't see the  benefits.

Mr. BOOKER. Thank you for allowing me to yield the floor for you to  ask a question.

I see my colleague here from Delaware. I am going to read a few more  stories, but I suspect that she, too, has a question because she and I  did not just meet when she was sworn in here in January. God bless her.  She is my colleague, but she is my sister, and she has inspired me for  years.

When she heard I was doing this--and I am not sure how much this is  done on the Senate floor--my sister came over and prayed with me that I  could stand for a long time because she knew what we were trying to do,  which was to try to create--with whom we served--John Lewis-type good  trouble in this institution, to not do things as normal, and to begin  to say that the voices I am reading are of Democrats and Republicans.  The voices I am reading are of Democratic and Republican Governors, of  Democratic and Republican heads of hospitals, of Democratic and  Republican heads of medical associations, of Democratic and Republican  constituencies. This is not right or left. This is right or wrong.

My colleague--my colleague--I am going to put her on blast, but God  bless your friends who remind you of who you are when you forget. She  didn't know that I really wanted to give a speech that was speaking to  all of America, but she came up here, and when we were praying, she  said: I pray that you speak words of love because she and I know love  is ferocious. It is the strongest force on the Earth. It is not soft.  She asked God to give me words of love today.

So I know that this friend of mine--my sister here, my colleague-- whom I have worked with for years and years and years, asked me if she  could come to the floor and ask a question. So, as I am instructed to  do, if you were asking me to yield for a question, then I am going to  say: Go ahead if you want to ask me.

Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. I would ask my colleague, the great Senator from  the State of New Jersey, if he would yield the floor.

Mr. BOOKER. I will yield for a question. I yield for a question while  retaining the floor.

Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. I want to begin by thanking you so much, Senator  Booker, for your leadership, and thank you for the opportunity to ask  you a question.

As I stood and listened to you, I was reminded of why we are in this  place in the first place. I see my colleague--the Presiding Officer, a  member of my class--and I think one of the key things that you talked  about was ensuring that we recognize that we are all in this together.  I think it was even Martin Luther King who said we may have come over  on different ships, but we are all in the same boat now. We may have  come over on different ships. I feel like, in this very present moment,  we have to recognize we are all in this together.

And, to your point, when we think about the importance of Medicaid to  this country, a lot of people don't even realize that they are on  Medicaid. They might think of a health program that they are on, but  they don't even make the connection with the fact that they are on  Medicaid and that almost half of the babies in this country are born  because of Medicaid. And it is not just from birth; it goes all the way  to seniors who are aging with dignity because they have access to  Medicaid, and it is allowing their family members to go to work because  they don't have to worry about that family member. And so I wanted to,  No. 1--in addition to asking my question--say thank you to you for not  only shining a light on these potentially dangerous cuts but also  ringing the alarm.

It is alarming that we are faced with this kind of question of do we  take money from those who are in need and are connected--because we are  all connected--and give it to a few.

As I think about our work on maternal mortality and how we are trying  to make sure that our country is not only one of the richest in the  world but the lowest in our maternal mortality numbers, as we look at  issues of families who might have a family member who has a special  needs child, or when I went home on our recess break, I was able to  meet with folks from our developmental disability council. I heard a  gentleman named Emmanuel. He is a wheelchair user. He said to me  something that just stuck. He said: If you pull the thread of Medicaid  out of my life, it will unravel.

He had been sleeping in his car before Medicaid. He wasn't sure if he  was going to have employment before Medicaid. And even he and his wife  thought about what impact it might have, whether they were able to stay  married or whether he would have to go into a facility.

So I want to thank you for shining the light and ringing the alarm.  And I want to ask you, what do you think will be the impact on children  in this country without Medicaid?

Mr. BOOKER. I am so grateful for that question. It sobers me when you  ask it because just a reduction in Medicaid--I love that metaphor use-- is pulling a string out for families who are barely holding it together  right now--families with children with disabilities or who are  developmentally disabled who have been struggling so much to get their  children into programs that could help move them--some of them to  independence, some of  them into adulthood where they can get jobs. So many of these things  that help to propel these children would be undermined. Just  transportation services going away would create hardship and  devastation on families.

So here we are in America, when costs are going up, housing is going  up; we are about to have these awful tariffs where the price of  vehicles will go up, the price of transportation will go up. So the  ripple effect of an impact on children, just by a fraction of the cuts  that they are proposing--not to mention the grandeur of the $880  billion--would have a devastating impact on millions and millions of  children.

But it doesn't stop there. You quoted King. King said in the letter  from the Birmingham jail:

We are all caught in an inescapable network of mutuality,       tied in a single garment of destiny.

To think that there could be an injury to their family and their  child and have it not affect you is not only self-defeating ignorance,  it is callous and uncaring, and it demands us to step up for those  children that you so rightfully asked me about in your question.

Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. Would the gentleman yield for another question?

Mr. BOOKER. I will definitely yield for a question while retaining  the floor.

Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. As the former executive of a city, a major city  in this country, can you talk a little bit about the impact that these  cuts will have on cities, municipalities, and States, because some  might think: Oh, this is just a nice issue? No, this is an economic  issue as well. If you can talk a little bit about the impact that this  is going to have and why mayors across this country should care, why  Governors across this country should care, and city councils. Why  should they care?

Mr. BOOKER. Well, that is the thing that is so significant. Already,  Governors and mayors are writing letters and speaking up.

When I go to different cities in New Jersey, I am often called by  local leaders because they know, No. 1, the stories of the people who  rely on Medicaid--the seniors, the children, the disabled families. But  more importantly than that, they know their hospitals who already have  very fragile budgets, to carve out millions and millions of dollars, as  I said, over tens of millions of dollars for our level 1 trauma  hospital in New Jersey, that would devastate the entire economic model  for our hospital. It would affect jobs. It would affect the economy. It  would affect small businesses. It would be devastating.

Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. I will end my questions at the moment by saying,  again, thank you so much, Senator Booker, for your leadership. We have  had an opportunity to work on food as medicine--

Mr. BOOKER. Yes.

Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.--maternal mortality. There are so many more  important things to work on. But the fact that you are spending your  time, your energy, and your intellect to stand up for millions of  Americans, I commend you for that. I am grateful to serve with you.

I had the opportunity to serve with John Lewis in the House and get  in good trouble, and I am glad to be here with you in the Senate.

I yield back.

Mr. BOOKER. Thank you. Thank you very much.

I am going to continue elevating here, throughout the hours and hours  of my speech, the voices of Americans from all backgrounds, all  geographies, elevating the stories of leaders--Democrat, Republican,  and Independent.

I want to start with Matthew Cook, who is the president and CEO of  Children's Hospital Association. Matthew Cook writes:

The House budget resolution directive to the Energy and       Commerce Committee to cut 880 billion in spending will almost       certainly lead to deep reductions in Medicaid funding for       children who rely on the program and destabilize the       financial viability of the providers caring for them.

To the point that my colleague from Delaware asked:

Slashing funding would mean fewer healthcare providers,       fewer services, and longer wait times for patients who       already--

Who already--       face significant barriers to care. These cuts will impact the       37 million children on the Medicaid Program, including the       nearly 50 percent of children with special healthcare needs.

Three million children in military-connected families--

I am going to repeat that.

Three million children in military-connected families, more       than 40 percent of the children living in rural areas and       small towns, patients in rural communities would be hit       especially hard as hospitals and clinics in these areas rely       heavily on Medicare funding to stay open.

Here is a letter from the Mental Health Liaison Group:

In the midst of our Nation's ongoing mental health crisis--

I am going to pause there. When I ran for President and moved around  the country, in townhall meeting after townhall meeting after townhall  meeting, I was even surprised with how many Americans--I don't think we  had a townhall where someone didn't want to stand up and tell me about  the mental health crisis in America and how poorly we were doing. So  when the Mental Health Liaison Group starts off with that, it hits me  very hard.

I still remember meeting with a guy in a New Jersey diner who had  mental health issues, was a teacher in a high school, and he stabilized  his mental health because of his prescription drugs but then stopped  being able to afford them, started skimping on the drugs, had a mental  health crisis, lost his job, and his whole life destabilized. Just  because of not being able to have access to a costly prescription drug,  a valued teacher had his life upended.

I start this letter again:

In the midst of our Nation's ongoing mental health crisis,       including its devastating impact on youth and our ongoing       overdose epidemic, it is paramount that access to lifesaving       MHSUD services is not reduced and the integrity of the       Medicaid Program to serve as a vital Federal and State       partner safety net is preserved. Limiting access to Medicaid       threatens to undermine gains in reducing overdose mortality       rates and could lead to increasing rates of incarceration and       hospitalization.

My colleague from Delaware knows this. The biggest mental health  institutions in America--the biggest ones--pick your State, from  Illinois to Los Angeles, the biggest mental health institutions are Los  Angeles prisons, are Chicago's prisons and jails, wasting taxpayer  dollars. Where folks got their mental health treatment, their lives  could stabilize. They could be workers. They could be helpers. They  could not be sick.

Here is Chip Kahn, the CEO of the Federation of American Hospitals:

Key Republican lawmakers recognizing that so many       constituents rely on Medicaid for critical care made it clear       that their vote today was based on an understanding that the       final reconciliation bill would not include devastating cuts       or changes. I believe that is gratifying.

Chip Kahn writes:

It is important that these members came to the same       conclusion. Medicaid cuts should be off the table.

Medicaid cuts should be off the table.

It is up to these lawmakers to follow through and ensure       spending cuts don't come at the expense of care for over 70       million Americans, including kids, seniors, and hard-working       families.

I love the appeal in that letter because it was an appeal that I am  reminded of when my colleagues Lisa Murkowski and the great John McCain  and an extraordinary friend Susan Collins when they voted to save the  Affordable Care Act. They listened to the appeal of people like this  gentleman.

My colleague sitting there, it is like, often, we resort to words of  vicious cruelty. John Lewis didn't do that when he advocated against  the most horrific racists. He didn't take on words of hate. We have got  to appeal to colleagues of good conscience, not to let--as this person  says, no Medicaid cuts; no Medicaid cuts.

I know President Trump has said that Medicaid cuts are off the table.  He said that over and over and over again. We will see. We will see.

Modern Medicaid Alliance:

With over 70 million children, seniors, and hard-working       families who are relying on Medicaid for their health and       well-being, it is critical Congress listens to State and       local government officials, faith leaders, healthcare       providers, and hard-working Americans, and blocks proposed       cuts to the program.

As organizations representing and caring for the millions       of Americans who receive coverage and benefits through       Medicaid, we know firsthand how the current level of cuts       being considered by Congress would impact       their care. They will cause Americans to lose coverage,       reduce health access, and increase costs. We oppose any       cuts--

We oppose any cuts.

We oppose any cuts or harmful policy changes to Americans'       Medicaid benefits as part of the budget reconciliation       process and call on congressional leaders to reverse course       and protect the program moving forward.

Here is the Modern Medicaid Alliance:

The latest House vote breaks a vital promise to more than       70 million Americans who depend on the Medicaid Program and       now face the potential for unprecedented, destabilizing cuts       to their coverage and access to care. The full extent of cuts       being considered go far beyond addressing ``waste, fraud and       abuse'' and would undermine Medicaid coverage for those who       depend on it. Already, Senators are issuing stark warnings       about the impact of Medicaid cuts on the stability of their       communities, State budgets, hospitals and providers. We urge       members of the House and Senate to block any Medicaid cuts or       harmful policy proposals as part of the ongoing budget       process.

Sister Mary Haddad, President and CEO of Catholic Health Association:

We are deeply concerned that the budget resolution would       force the House Energy and Commerce Committee to slash $880       billion from the Medicaid Program, an essential healthcare       program for nearly 80 million low-income Americans. Medicaid       provides coverage for one in five individuals, funds 41       percent of all national births, and is the largest payor for       long-term care and behavioral health services. These cuts       would have devastating consequences, particularly for those       in small towns and rural communities, where Medicaid is often       the primary source of health coverage.

Medicaid is not just a health program; it is a lifeline. It       provides access to care for those who need it most--poor and       vulnerable children, pregnant women, elderly adults, and       disabled individuals in our Nation--while ensuring their       dignity. Their dignity.

Here is the Partnership for Medicaid again:

The Partnership for Medicaid, a nonpartisan nationwide       organization representing clinicians, healthcare providers,       safety-net health plans, and counties, calls on Congress to       reject cuts to Medicaid during the budget reconciliation       process. The Partnership for Medicaid stands ready to work       with policymakers to identify more sustainable strategies to       strengthen Medicaid and improve upon its promise of providing       high-quality coverage and access to care populations.

So this is another organization saying: Hey, put me in. Let us help  you improve this program, and maybe we can achieve some of our mutual  goals.

Here is Susan Kressly, president of the American Academy of  Pediatrics, the great AAP:

The American Academy of Pediatrics urges lawmakers to       reject the budget resolution before the U.S. House of       Representatives and to protect programs that are vital to the       health and well-being of children. We oppose the proposed       funding cuts to programs like Medicaid and the Children's       Health Insurance Program, which cover nearly half of all U.S.       children, as well as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance       Program. These cuts would have devastating consequences for       children and families.

We are going to talk about cuts to SNAP later, but I love how Dr.  Susan Kressly, president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, can't  help but mention them together. Why is a doctor concerned about  healthcare also mentioning SNAP? Well, fundamental to our children's  health and well-being is having access to fresh and healthy foods.

This is me being a little critical of people saying they are MAHA-- Make America Healthy Again--and then immediately cutting kids' access  to fresh, healthy fruits and vegetables.

I love this doctor. It is almost like you are doubling down on the  injury to our children. We are cheapening highly processed and sugar- filled, nutritionally empty foods, denying access to fresh, healthy  fruits and vegetables, and then not letting people with chronic  diseases get healthcare. I love this doctor for pointing out those  connections.

Now I am going to go to Brian Connell, who is the vice president of  the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society:

The fiscal year 2025 budget resolution would create not       just the opportunity but the obligation for the House       Committee on Energy and Commerce to make dangerous cuts--

Dangerous cuts--       to the Medicaid program in the budget reconciliation process       expected in the coming week. The hundreds of billions of       dollars of cuts demanded by the budget resolution cannot be       achieved without slashing benefits for enrollees or       altogether taking away Medicaid coverage for millions of       Americans.

To be clear, the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society and the       patients we represent are clamoring for Congress to lower       healthcare costs, but the framework before the House today       would pave the way for policies that do just the opposite,       putting affordable access to healthcare out of reach of       millions of Americans.

Feeding America--I love this organization:

Cuts to vital federal nutrition programs like SNAP,       necessitated by this resolution and the Senate version passed       last week, will harm families grappling with high food costs,       hurt rural economies and strain food banks already       overwhelmed by rising demand. We urge the House to reject       spending cuts to nutrition programs in the budget       reconciliation process and support the work the House and       Senate agriculture committees are doing to create a strong,       bipartisan farm bill.

The Federal AIDS Policy Partnership:

We are writing on behalf of 95 national, regional, and       local organizations advocating for Federal funding       legislation and policy to end the HIV epidemic in the United       States. We urge Congress to reject all proposals to enact       cuts to Medicaid, whether through per-capita caps or block       grants, restrictions to the Federal Medical Assistance       Percentage, or FMAP, or mandatory work requirements during       reconciliation for the 2025-2026 fiscal year budgets.

Medicaid is the most important source of health coverage       and lifesaving care for people living with HIV--

The most important source of health coverage and lifesaving care for  people living with HIV--       providing coverage for more than 40 percent of the people       living with HIV and contributing 45 percent of all Federal       funding for domestic HIV care and treatment.

The next letter starts:

To be clear, the cuts outlined above are being proposed for       one simple reason: to pay for $4.5 trillion in tax breaks       that disproportionately benefit the wealthy. Congress can and       must take a different path--

Congress must take a different path--       one that lifts more families out of poverty and provides more       Americans with the opportunity to reach their full potential.       A people-first agenda should include expanding the child tax       credit for the 17 million children who don't receive the full       credit due to low family incomes, expanding rental       assistance, increasing SNAP benefits to reflect rising       grocery prices and closing the Medicaid coverage gap.

If Congress focused on ensuring that wealthy Americans pay their fair  share rather than providing additional tax breaks, we could fund these  initiatives and so much more.

This is a group of groups that you will recognize or many people will  recognize: American Association of Nurse Practitioners, Gerontological  Advanced Practice Nurses Association, the National Association of Nurse  Practitioners in Women's Health, National Association of Pediatric  Nurse Practitioners, and the National Organization of Nurse  Practitioner Faculties. They write:

We are deeply concerned with the impact of these cuts on       the healthcare system and their potential to harm our most       vulnerable patients. Further, these cuts will threaten the       viability of practices that treat Medicaid patients,       financially destabilizing and having a disproportionate       impact on those who provide care to underserved and rural       communities.

Association of American Medical Colleges, AAMC:

We remain extremely concerned that the budget resolution's       reconciliation instructions would result in unsustainable       cuts to Federal healthcare programs--specifically Medicaid--      by requiring at least $880 billion in savings from the House       Energy and Commerce Committee. Cuts of this magnitude would       jeopardize both access to care for millions of Medicaid       enrollees and the financial stability of the providers who       care for them.

Here is one from Chimes International:

Cuts in Medicaid will have a dramatic negative impact on       our healthcare system and the first responder community.       Millions of Americans will be at risk of losing access to       housing, thereby increasing homelessness for some of the most       vulnerable members of society, especially in areas that       already lack affordable housing. Provider organizations like       ours will be forced to close the doors of residential       facilities and reduce support staff, which is already in       short supply.

Katie Smith Sloan, who is the president and CEO of LeadingAge:

States would have to fill in massive budget holes if       Federal funding to Medicaid programs were cut. Even if a cut       such as a change to the expansion FMAP proposal does not seem       to directly impact aging services, it would because the cost       of the cut would have to somehow be absorbed by State       budgets. That type of hole cannot be filled in via       more efficiency. Balancing the 10-year program budget cycle       on the back of the Medicaid program is not a good tradeoff       for the American people.

Alan Morgan, who is the CEO of the National Rural Health  Association--this letter is powerful. He represents the National Rural  Health Association:

Any cuts to the Medicaid program will disproportionately       affect rural communities. Rural Americans rely on Medicaid       coverage, with about 20 percent of non-elderly adults and 40       percent of children living in rural areas enrolled in       Medicaid and CHIP. In almost all States, rural areas have       higher rates of Medicaid enrollment than metropolitan areas.       Cuts to Medicaid would shift healthcare costs onto rural       families, many of whom already struggle with financial       instability. Medicaid cuts would force families to face       higher out-of-pocket expenses, leading many to delay or forgo       necessary treatments. The burden would worsen health       outcomes, especially for those managing chronic conditions       like diabetes, heart disease, and cancer.

To the extraordinary prescience of my colleague from Delaware, who  knew this letter was coming, I imagine, this is a letter from the U.S.  Conference of Mayors, the National League of Cities, the National  Association of Counties, the National Conference of State Legislatures,  the Council of State Governments, and the International City/County  Management Association.

I am going to pause for a second just to remind folks--because I have  been involved in the U.S. Conference of Mayors and the National League  of Cities. I have dealt with the National Association of Counties on  things that were important here in the Senate. All of these groups are  bipartisan. All of these groups represent Democrat and Republican  mayors, Democrat and Republican city council people.

I was actually a nonpartisan mayor. New York does not have partisan  elections. So they have nonpartisan folks.

This is a group of people who have those jobs where the rubber meets  the road. A change in State policy, a change in Federal policy--we had  to eat it when I was mayor if it cost us more money. I was a mayor that  talked like lots of mayors do, not in partisan lingo. They just talk  about: Hey, it is an unfunded mandate. Hey, that is adding more  bureaucracy. Hey, that is going to cause more people in my community to  be homeless. It is going to cause more children in my community to use  an emergency room as their primary care physician.

When I meet a mayor, I look at them and I thank them because it is  one of the hardest jobs in America.

So this organization that represents Democrats and Republicans--they  write:

As a coalition of bipartisan membership organizations       representing State legislatures, mayors, cities, and       counties, we are committed to working collaboratively to       strengthen the Medicaid program so that the States and       localities can continue to meet the needs of their residents       effectively. We write to express concern over proposed       changes to Medicaid financing and requirements that could       significantly impact State and local budgets, healthcare       infrastructure, and millions and millions of Americans who       rely on the program.

I would say so far there are at least half a dozen to a dozen of  these letters where bipartisan groups are saying: Let us help you.  Don't rush this through in a way that is going to cause havoc to State  and local governments, cause havoc to children and seniors and the  disabled, cause havoc to hospitals and businesses, cause havoc to rural  communities, cause havoc to the idea of what it means to be an  American: that we take care of our own, that we stand up for each  other, that we lend a hand, that we lift folks up. And here it is, this  voice of bipartisan sensibility that says: Hey, hold a hearing. We will  come. Put some of us on a commission.

This is a group called Advocates for Community Health:

Medicaid's successes as a national program derive from its       variations across different States.

Different States doing things in different ways.

Medicaid looks different in every State and territory       because the program is able to reflect and accommodate the       specific needs of the State's patients, providers, and       communities.

These State-based programs are vital to the patients served       by community health centers, patient-to-direct primary care       providers that serve rural and underserved communities       nationwide.

As the House and Senate work toward a budget reconciliation       package, Advocates for Community Health encourages a cautious       approach to changes to Medicaid policy as broad changes have       a potential to destabilize State Medicaid programs and       community health centers, impact local economies and job       creation, and further exacerbate rural healthcare access       challenges.

Families USA. Their executive director--his name is Anthony Wright:

Americans are storming townhalls, calling their       Representatives in Congress, and demanding that House       Republicans stop their plan to massively cut the healthcare       that Americans want and need. President Trump and some       Republicans have said they won't touch Medicaid, but their       vote today is when we see who walks the walk. The vote is the       walk-the-plank moment for moderates who say they don't want       Medicaid cuts but are being asked to cut over $880 billion to       the care and coverage of their constituents.

Policymakers and the public alike understand that there is       no version of this budget resolution that does not include       deep cuts to vital programs, services, and benefits the       American people use every day to help them see a doctor, pay       rent, or feed their families.

Justice in Aging is an organization that is led by its executive  director, Kevin Prindiville. He writes:

With this vote, lawmakers endorsed taking away Medicaid       from millions of Americans, including older adults, all to       bankroll tax cuts for the wealthy. Thanks to our collective       advocacy, the vote to pass this dangerous budget blueprint       did not come easily, and we will make sure lawmakers know       that voting to enact these cuts would be voting to abandon       older Americans.

The National Alliance for Caregiving:

The House budget blueprint to eliminate at least $800       billion in Federal funding unfairly targets critical       healthcare and supportive services that older adults, people       with diabetes, and their family caregivers depend upon to       maintain health and economic security for families and       themselves.

Home- and community-based services funded via Medicaid are       cost-effective. They save millions of taxpayer dollars on       unnecessary and often unwanted institutional care. Most of       all, Medicaid-funded HCBS--

Home- and community-based services--       offers consumers a choice in how they receive care in the       dignity of their own homes.

In the dignity of their own homes. Dignity.

The Coalition for Whole Health Legal Action Center:

Among the options being discussed are work requirements for       enrollees, despite the fact that most people receiving       Medicaid do work, and other cuts to Federal funding that       would disproportionately harm people with substance abuse and       mental health conditions and those with arrest and conviction       records by making it harder to access critical health       coverage and service, medications, and support.

Such individuals already face pervasive stigma and       discrimination, including significant barriers to employment       that threaten their stability and well-being, at a time when       overdose and suicide are claiming more than 400 lives a day.       We cannot afford to reduce access to comprehensive healthcare       services that people with substance abuse use, mental health       conditions, and those rebuilding their lives after       incarceration desperately need to recover and thrive.

Let me tell you something about that that really strikes me. I was  blessed to go to colleges, and there, people would use drugs. Now I  live in a community where the consequences for drug use often mean jail  time. In fact, if you look at low-income people, their chances of being  incarcerated are far greater than college kids, who have drug usage  rates at about the same.

So now you say to somebody who has an arrest record and served some  time that when they come out, they can't get help? People with mental  illness are over-incarcerated. You are going to say to them ``You have  this mental illness. Now you have a record, and you also can't get  healthcare services?'' That is, again, self-defeatist when it comes to  our Nation trying to give people ways of elevating themselves above  their past mistakes or the diseases that challenge them.

Here is another group, Community Catalyst:

These cuts will hit hardest where healthcare access is       already fragile.

Here is the Alliance for Ageing Research:

We, the undersigned organizations, urge you to oppose any       cuts to Medicaid and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance       Program, SNAP, including those called for in the proposed       budget resolution. We are concerned about the negative impact       these deep cuts will have on the Americans living with       chronic disease and other disabilities.

But we are willing to draw your attention now to how       devastating it will be on those with Alzheimer's and related       diseases, including frontotemporal degeneration and Lewy body       dementia, and their family caregivers.

April Verrett, the president of SEIU:

Let's be clear, Americans have flooded congressional phone       lines, rallied at townhalls, and lifted their voices to make       it clear that they do not want massive cuts to the healthcare       and public services they depend on. Despite that, today       Speaker Johnson pressed a budget resolution forward that puts       our Nation on a disastrous path to ripping away healthcare       from 80 million children, pregnant women, veterans, seniors,       people with disabilities by gutting Medicaid.

Lee Saunders, the president of AFSCME:

This budget proves that extremists are more concerned with       giving wealthy trillions in tax cuts than helping working       people. Voters across the country are packing townhalls to       demand no cuts to Medicaid and SNAP. They are calling       Representatives and asking them, Please save these services.

They want elected leaders who will lower rising costs, who       make it easier to afford rent and food, but instead of       listening to workers, the House moved forward on a budget       plan that will cause millions to lose their healthcare,       increasing food insecurity for families, and jeopardize       Medicare and Social Security in the long term.

He calls this ``shameful.''

The Diabetes Leadership Council and the Diabetes Patient Advocacy  Coalition:

We are deeply concerned about the budget resolution passed       in the House of Representatives this week. This budget       resolution will likely lead to cuts to the safety-net       Medicaid programs, which provide health insurance to almost       80 million Americans, including children, pregnant women,       elderly adults, people with diabetes, and low-income adults       and families.

This action would disproportionately impact Americans who       most need us, including those with diabetes or other chronic       conditions who rely on Medicaid to access medications and       technology that they need to manage their conditions.

Members of Congress should, instead, work to ensure access       to health insurance through the Medicare program--work to       ensure access to healthcare without barriers for the most       vulnerable Americans.

Here is the Alliance for Childhood Cancer:

Work requirements may also impact caregivers of children       with cancer who are unable to work due to the demands of       cancer treatment for young adults with cancer who may not be       eligible for insurance via their employer or may not be able       to work due to their diagnosis. Many young adults rely on       Medicaid, especially Medicaid expansion, for coverage, and       research shows a clear increase in survival for young adults       with cancer in Medicaid expansion States.

UnidosUS:

The proposed resolution would slash at least $880 billion       from programs that have long provided lifesaving, affordable       coverage to millions of Americans. Medicaid alone serves 80       million people, covering nearly 40 million children, half of       those with special healthcare needs, and more than 40 percent       of all births.

In Latino communities, Medicaid reaches 20 million       individuals, protecting nearly one-third of community       members, more than half of Latino children, and roughly 30       percent of Hispanic elders. Without these vital programs, it       would be higher hospitalization rates, delayed diagnoses, and       increased mortality. This would become the norm, placing an       unsustainable strain on public health and national financial       security.

As UnidosUS recently pointed out, these proposed cuts would represent  the largest cuts to Medicaid in U.S. history.

The Coalition of Survivors of Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault:

On behalf of the adult and child survivors of domestic       violence and sexual assault, we serve and advocate for them.       We, on behalf of them, write to ask you to reject cuts to       Federal Medicaid funding.

Survivors rely on Medicaid every day to escape abuse, to       rebuild their lives after violence, to care for their       children and families.

The Catholic Health Association of United States, the United States  Conference of Catholic Bishops, and Catholic Charities USA:

Weakening Medicaid through structural challenges such as       per capita caps or block grants would undermine these values       and risk leaving millions without access to essential health       services.

Furthermore, policies like work reporting requirements have       shown clear evidence of creating artificial barriers to care,       generating paperwork and bureaucracy while doing little to       support people looking for work. These requirements also fail       to recognize that most people on Medicaid already work and       ignore the realities of low-wage workers, caregiving       responsibilities, and health limitations, and studies have       shown they frequently result in loss of coverage for eligible       individuals and children.

The Disability and Aging Collaborative and the Consortium for  Constituents with Disabilities on behalf of 107 national organizations  and more than 230 State and local organizations:

The undersigned members of the Disability and Aging       Collaborative, the health and long-term service and support       task forces of the Consortium for Constituents with       Disabilities, and allied organizations write to urge you to       exclude Medicaid cuts, work requirements, or any changes that       limit funding or eligibility from budget reconciliation or       other legislation.

People with disabilities, older adults, family caregivers       and their children, direct care workers and other low-income       individuals and families depend on Medicaid every day for       their health, safety, and independence. Medicaid enables our       communities to go to work and to care for loved ones. It is       our community's lifeline, and we cannot afford for any part       of it to be cut.

(Mr. BANKS assumed the Chair.)

The Jesuit Conference:

Programs that meet basic needs such as SNAP, Medicare and       Medicaid, health insurance premium tax credits, and Social       Security should be protected and remain as robust as       possible. We oppose modifications that would have the effect       of reducing important benefits or excluding vulnerable people       from participating.

Thank you, the Jesuit Conference.

Why? I mean, we have just read dozens and dozens of letters from real  people who are relying on these programs to take care of their elderly  parents, to take care of their loved one with dementia, to take care of  their children, to take care of their adult children with disabilities,  to take care of their children with special needs, to take care of  their families, to take care of their communities, to take care of  rural towns, to take care of the hospitals that take care of people.

Why? Why? Why are all of these people lifting their voices now,  pointing to the crisis that can't be normalized, pointing to the  challenges? Because we have seen this reconciliation process call for  $880 billion of cuts, when, as I read earlier, there is only one place  that the majority of those cuts can come from, and that would be  hundreds of millions of dollars in cuts to Medicaid, which organization  after organization told you it is already a delicate balance; that cuts  to these programs could ultimately tear down people's access to  lifesaving benefits.

People use the word ``dignity'' over and over again--dignity. It is a  value in our country that we treat our elders with dignity, that we  give people struggling with chronic disease dignity, that we give  parents who are slammed with the unimaginable diagnoses for their  children--we help them to access dignity.

People that we have talked about and that we read their letters, they  all said: We can help you find efficiencies. We can help you make the  programs work better. We can help you, but why are you doing this if it  is all part of a larger package to give tax cuts to the wealthiest  Americans, to give tax cuts to billionaires? How does that work?

That Elon Musk should get richer and richer and richer, and  families--the love in these letters--who love their children, who love  their aging parent, who love that person with dementia, even though  they don't recognize them anymore. But that doesn't stop the heroic  love. And they piece together their finances in a nation where housing  costs are going up, food costs are going up, and transportation is  going up. They piece together the fragile finances of their lives. The  Medicaid funding is one part of it that gets yanked away, and  everything unravels. Why, they ask, why? They plead for help. They ask  us to do something.

I want to read some articles, coming from a variety of backgrounds-- but perhaps this one from PBS, ``A closer look at who relies on  Medicaid.''

This is what PBS wrote:

As congressional Republicans seek about $4.5 trillion to       extend expiring tax cuts, the Federal Government will need to       find savings elsewhere.

You are going to give that $4.5 trillion that disproportionately go  to the wealthy, and you are going to have to find savings elsewhere.

Experts say budget cuts could affect Medicaid coverage for       as many as millions of Americans, at a time when the program       may need more funding, not less.

The proposed House bill requires the Committee on Energy       and Commerce to find $880 billion in spending cuts, which       means some aspects of Medicaid, which the committee oversees,       may be on the chopping block.

Medicaid is a massive . . . program that provides free and       reduced-cost health care for eligible enrollees. It offers       critical coverage to a wide variety of Americans, including       children, adults with disabilities and older people in       nursing homes.

Even for Americans who have private insurance, Medicaid can       play a part in their health care. That's because Medicaid is       such a large engine of funding for so many aspects of the       country's health coverage.

So many benefit from these aspects of this country's health coverage.

The public health insurance option is funded in part by the       Federal Government and in part by states, covering around 72       million [Americans].

The Federal Government spent about $880 billion on Medicaid       in fiscal year 2023, the most recent year for which there's       data, according to an analysis by the nonprofit health policy       research organization KFF.

Medicaid is an extremely popular entitlement program, said       Robin Rudowitz, director of the program on Medicaid and the       uninsured at KFF.

More than 9 in 10 adults say Medicaid is ``very'' or       ``somewhat'' important to their local community, according to       recent KFF polling. Forty percent of respondents said they       wanted Medicaid funding to remain the same, while 42 percent       wanted to increase funding for the program. Just 17 percent       wanted to decrease funding ``a little'' or ``a lot.''

Some studies have found that expanding Medicaid can save       money for states, including in spending reductions in       corrections health care as well as mental health and       substance abuse care.

Pulling away from the article for a second, that is so logical.  Expanding health coverage for people with mental health challenges or  substance abuse means an investment now and saves a lot of money for  society later and saves them from being rearrested because of their  disease.

Back to the article:

President Donald Trump has said his administration will not       cut Medicaid benefits, and will instead reduce spending by       eliminating waste and fraud.

[Well,] according to health policy experts, there may not       be a way to fund the tax cuts without cutting Medicaid. Doing       that will have real implications, said Allison Orris, senior       fellow and director of Medicaid policy at the Center on       Budget and Policy Priorities.

Another nonpartisan group.

``It's fair to say if Medicaid is cut by hundreds of       billions of dollars, people will lose coverage. But some of       the ways in which they will lose coverage and health care and       access are a little bit tricky,'' she said.

[So] who and what relies on Medicaid?

Medicaid covers low-income Americans in all 50 states, as       well as D.C. and the American territories, but the program's       benefits are farther reaching.

Medicaid pays for around 2 in every 5 births in the       country. The program accounts for about 20 percent of both       hospital funding and total health care spending nationwide,       according to KFF. That organization's analyses of hundreds of       studies conducted since 2014 largely found that Medicaid       expansion helped cut hospital costs associated with uninsured       patients. Many studies also found that Medicaid expansion       helped with overall hospital funding and resulted in fewer       hospital closures.

And Medicaid--not Medicare--is the single largest payer of       long-term coverage, including nursing home care.

Here are some of the ways Medicaid is crucial for so many       Americans' health care.

Long-term care for people with disabilities.

According to KFF analyses, 35 percent of Americans with       disabilities have Medicaid, [that is about] 15 million       people. That compares with 19 percent of people without       disabilities, [and] the majority of whom have employer-      provided health insurance.

Currently, Medicaid covers about 60 percent of long-term       care coverage, much of which provides care for younger adults       with disabilities.

Nursing homes.

Medicaid is the primary payer of nursing care in the U.S.;       it covers 63 percent of nursing home residents.

For many older adults, ``Medicaid is the safety net,'' says       David Grabowski, professor of health care policy at Harvard       Medical School. ``An individual can be middle-income their       entire life and then reach their older, long-term care years       and have to enter a nursing home.''

Because nursing homes can be so expensive, families can       quickly deplete [all of] their assets, then rely on Medicaid       to cover long-term care.

Another group:

Children.

Thirty-seven percent of people enrolled in Medicaid are       children, but they account for only about 15 percent of the       program's spending.

In 2023, KFF found that of the 72 million people enrolled       in Medicaid, about 30 million were children. Millions more       children are enrolled in the Children's Health Insurance       Program, which some states run with Medicaid expansion funds.

They are tied. Forgive me. That is off the article.

Back to the article:

So far, political conversation has not yet focused on       cutting CHIP.

Rural maternal health.

Medicaid covered around 40 percent of births nationwide in       2023, KFF found, and nearly half--

Nearly 50 percent--       of all rural births.

Studies also show that being enrolled in Medicaid leads to       improved health outcomes for children, including declines in       infant and child mortality, preventive care visits on par       with privately insured children and even potentially positive       outcomes into adulthood, such as improvements in education.

That is what studies show being enrolled in Medicaid leads to.

How about Native Americans and Alaskan Indians?

Four in 10 American Indian/Alaskan Native people are       enrolled in Medicaid, the highest enrollment rate among any       race and ethnicity category. This includes about 23 percent       of nonelderly AIAN adults and 44 percent of [American Indian/      Alaskan Native] children.

How the Federal Government funds the states' Medicaid       plans.

Medicaid began as an optional program in 1966 alongside       Medicare, with around 8 million people eligible for       enrollment. By the 1980s, all states had opted into providing       health insurance through Medicaid.

Though eligibility requirements have changed over the last       60 years and vary by state, the most significant change to       Medicaid was the enactment of the Patient Protection and       Affordable Care Act in 2010. It required states to cover       adults with incomes up to 138 percent of the [federal]       poverty line. After the Supreme Court ruled in 2012 that       expansion for states should be optional, 40 states and       Washington, D.C., have expanded Medicaid.

Forty of our 50 States accepted ``federal funds at a much higher rate  than the match rate for non-expansion coverage.''

That is a good summary by PBS of how far-reaching this program is,  how many Americans in every single State, from all backgrounds, from  both sides of the political aisle--Independents, old, young, hospitals,  businesses, care professionals, and more--this is who we are. We have  expanded the program. We have made it better. We have brought  improvements. And yet we are doing a process, and it is not going  through a committee. We are not soliciting the best ideas from both  sides of the aisle about how to make it more efficient, more effective.  We are not bringing in private sector professionals to give advice and  input or hospital providers or people that are seeing things that we  can learn from and craft legislation to make the program better.

And the letters are even showing that we are not even doing any of  those things, and then we are cutting the very programs that allow  people access to fresh, healthy food, that then cause us to need more  health care for chronic diseases.

This alone would be bad enough if we were gutting a program with no  input from professionals, if we were taking away healthcare from  seniors, children, expectant mothers, the disabled. That would be bad  enough.

But why? Again, why? Because it is part of a larger budget package to  give trillions of dollars in tax cuts disproportionately to the  wealthiest Americans and still add trillions to the national deficit.

I talked about American Indians and Alaskan Natives. I mentioned that  I recently visited some proud Native Americans and heard their stories  and was inspired by their conviction and their grit, and how under  incredible odds, they were able to create better lives. After  extraordinary oppression and vicious policies and more, they found a  way forward.

There is a disproportionate number of Native Americans and Alaska  Natives that rely on these programs, people who have maintained  extraordinary dignity despite promises made and promises broken.

So many people are talking about that idea of a sacred trust; that  the richest Nation in the world, to honor its ideals of freedom, has to  focus on keeping people free from fear that one medical bill will throw  their family in crisis or fear that one diagnosis for their child will  unravel their lives or fear that, if their parent gets dementia, there  will be no care for them.

So much of this conversation is within this larger understanding of  who we are, and what do we stand for. I want to take a look at some of  the things the Trump administration is doing that is going to undermine  not just Medicaid but health insurance coverage for Americans, for all  Americans, and raise the cost of healthcare, and negatively impact our  health. At a time when basic prices of everyday goods are going up, the  President is making healthcare harder to access and drug prices even  higher.

I want to explain this. On his first day back in office, Trump  rescinded the  policy that extended the enrollment period for ACA plans. This policy  gave Americans sufficient time to enroll in healthcare for the year,  and enrollment in the ACA continues to go up as people see how  affordable this program is and how they can get quality healthcare. But  the first thing--one of the first things he does--is rescind the policy  that extended the enrollment period.

In addition to this, Republicans in Congress want to take away the  tax credits that make healthcare more affordable for so many people.  Millions of working-class Americans rely on Affordable Care Act tax  credits to access affordable, quality healthcare and coverage.

I could go on with the things. For example, currently these tax  credits, they are set to expire at the end of this year. If these tax  credits were taken away, families will pay up to 90 percent more for  their healthcare, and 5 million Americans could lose their healthcare  altogether. All, again, if this goes through in 2025, billionaires and  CEOs will get a huge tax break while working Americans relying on this  tax credit will lose it.

Think about that. This would allow billionaires and CEOs to get more  of a tax break, while these tax credits that help more Americans access  healthcare would expire.

For New Jerseyans, ending the ACA tax credit would make health  insurance less affordable for 352,000 hard-working people and their  families and would force 75,000 people to go uninsured--75,000 people  in my State alone.

Last year, 24 million people chose Affordable Care Act plans during  the most recent open enrollment due to these expanded tax credits that  made plans available to people for little or no monthly premiums and  extended the enrollment period, which I just said the President has  rolled back.

President Trump also overturned an effort for Medicare to lower drug  costs like implementing a $2 monthly out-of-pocket cap on certain  generic drugs as well as a measure that would reduce Medicare payments  for rare disease drugs and drugs that treat life-threatening  conditions.

I just don't understand that. I really see that as cruel. Americans  struggling to afford their drugs had a cap of out-of-pocket expenses on  certain generic drugs, and that was overturned.

Costs are going up. Costs are going up. And now this President is  expanding costs for out-of-pocket generic drugs as well as Medicaid  payments being eligible for rare diseases.

I had the privilege of becoming close to John McCain. I came here in  the Senate, got this admonition, almost, from Bill Bradley, somebody  who held my seat beforehand, and he challenged me to go and have lunch  with or meetings with all my Republican colleagues at the time. That  was way back in 2013. And I was told by John McCain's staff that I had  like 10, 15 minutes, but I was going to take it. This is John McCain.  He is legend.

And I go in and meet with him, and I don't come out of that office  for 90 minutes. We both got emotional as he showed me pictures and  documentation from his time as a prisoner of war.

In 2017, he was under extraordinary pressure in this healthcare  crisis, and there were thousands of Americans descending on our  Capitol. I will never forget the ``little lobbyists,'' they called  themselves, kids in wheelchairs that would roll up to Congress people  and raise their little voice, respectfully, and ask them not to take  away their health coverage.

I remember people coming in here with preexisting conditions and  saying: Don't repeal my healthcare and not even have a plan to replace  it.

President Trump was asked about healthcare when he was Candidate  Trump for this office, and he said he had, I think it was,  ``conceptions of a plan.'' And since he has been in office, I haven't  heard a vision for healthcare besides budget proposals that would cut  people's healthcare.

But John McCain, I will never ever forget that moment. I was actually  standing on the Republican side, if I remember correctly, having  conversations, and he came to the floor, after listening to Arizonans  tell stories like the ones I have been reading, and put his thumb down.

He wrote a speech about his decision, and I want to read a part of  that now.

I have been a Member of the U.S. Senate for 30 years. I had       another long, if not as long, career before I arrived here,       another profession that was profoundly rewarding and in which       I had experiences and friendships that I revere. Make no       mistake, my service here is the most important job I have had       in my life. I am so grateful to the people of Arizona for the       privilege--for the honor--of serving here and the       opportunities it gives me to play a small role in the history       of the country I love.

I have known and admired men and women in the Senate who       played much more than a small role in our history--true       statesmen, giants of American politics. They came from both       parties and from various backgrounds. Their ambitions were       frequently in conflict. They held different views on the       issues of the day. They often had very serious disagreements       about how best to serve the national interest.

But they knew that however sharp and heartfelt their       disputes and however keen their ambitions, they had an       obligation to work collaboratively to ensure the Senate       discharged its constitutional responsibilities effectively.       Our responsibilities are important--vitally important--to the       continued success of our Republic. Our arcane rules and       customs are deliberatively intended to require broad       cooperation to function well at all. The most revered Members       of this institution accepted the necessity of compromise in       order to make incremental progress on solving America's       problems and to defend her from her adversaries.

That principled mindset and the service of our predecessors       who possessed it come to mind when I hear the Senate       referred to as the world's greatest deliberative body. I       am not sure we can claim that distinction with a straight       face today. I am sure it wasn't always deserved in       previous eras either. I am sure there have been times when       it was, and I was privileged to witness some of those       occasions.

Our deliberations today, not just our debates but the       exercise of all our responsibilities--authorizing government       policies, appropriating the funds to implement them,       exercising our advice and consent role--are often lively and       interesting. They can be sincere and principled, but they are       more partisan, more tribal more of the time than at any time       I can remember. Our deliberations can still be important and       useful, but I think we would all agree they haven't been       overburdened by greatness lately. Right now, they aren't       producing much for the American people.

Both sides have let this happen. Let's leave the history of       who shot first to the historians. I suspect they will find we       all conspired in our decline, either by deliberate actions or       neglect. We have all played some role in it. Certainly, I       have. Sometimes, I have let my passion rule my reason.       Sometimes I made it harder to find common ground because of       something harsh I said to a colleague. Sometimes I wanted to       win more for the sake of winning than to achieve a contested       policy.

Incremental progress, compromises that each side criticizes       but also accepts, and just plain muddling through to chip       away at problems and to keep our enemies from doing their       worst aren't glamorous or exciting. It doesn't feel like a       political triumph. It is usually the most we can expect from       our system of government, operating in a country as diverse,       quarrelsome, and free as ours.

Considering the injustice and cruelties inflicted by       autocratic governments and how corruptible human nature can       be, the problem-solving our system does make possible, the       fitful progress it produces, and the liberty and justice it       preserves, are a magnificent achievement.

Our system doesn't depend on our nobility. It accounts for       our imperfections and gives an order to our individual       strivings that has helped make ours the most powerful and       prosperous society on Earth. It is our responsibility to       preserve that, even when it requires us to do something less       satisfying than winning, even when we must give a little to       get a little, even when our efforts managed just 3 yards in a       cloud of dust, while critics on both sides denounced us for       timidity, for our failure to triumph.

I hope we can again rely on humility, on our need to       cooperate, on our dependence on each other to learn how to       trust each other again and, by so doing, better serve the       people who elected us. Stop listening to the bombastic       loudmouths on the radio and television and the internet. To       hell with them. They don't want anything done for the public       good. Our incapacity is their livelihood.

Let's trust each other. Let's return to regular order. We       have been spinning our wheels on too many important issues       because we keep trying to find a way to win without help from       across the aisle. That is an approach that has been employed       by both sides: mandating legislation from the top down,       without any support from the other side, with all the       parliamentary maneuvers it requires. We are getting nothing       done.

All we have really done this year is confirm Neil Gorsuch       to the Supreme Court. Our healthcare insurance system is a       mess. We all know it, those who support Obamacare and those       who oppose it. Something has to be done. We Republicans have       looked for a way to end it and replace it with something else       without paying a terrible political price. We haven't found       it yet. I am not sure we will. All we have managed to do is       make more popular a policy that wasn't very popular when we       started trying to get rid of it.       I voted for the motion to proceed to allow debate to continue       and amendments to be offered.

I will not vote for the bill as it is today. It is a shell       of a bill right now. We all know that. I have changes urged       by my State's Governor that will have to be included to earn       my support for final passage of any bill. I know many of you       will have to see the bill changed substantially for you to       support it. We have tried to do this by coming up with a       proposal behind closed doors in consultation with the       administration, then springing it on skeptical Members,       trying to convince them it is better than nothing--that it is       better than nothing--asking us to swallow our doubts and       force it past a unified opposition. I don't think that is       going to work in the end and probably shouldn't.

That is prescient. I mean, that is prescient. As a great New  Jerseyan, Yogi Berra says ``It's like deja vu all over again.'' To hear  what John McCain was criticizing--one party behind closed doors without  consultation of experts, against the wishes of Republican Governors, is  trying to force something through past a united opposition--he  literally is describing what is happening right now and condemning both  sides of this institution for playing this record over and over and  over again.

Yes, I am a Democrat, and I admit that our healthcare system needs so  much help and so much reform. One out of every three of our tax dollars  is being spent on healthcare. That is ridiculous. And what are we  getting from it? A society that is getting more and more sick.

And what are our solutions as a body? Did we come together as a team?  Did we set up a special conference, set up a special committee to study  the issues, to bring in the experts, to involve the best technology, to  learn the lessons from private sector and public sector, from  universities, from scientists--are we doing that, or are we doing  exactly what John McCain said we shouldn't do, exactly what he  described why he voted no?

It is maddening in this country to create greater and greater  healthcare crises and for us not to solve it but to battle back and  forth between trying to make incremental changes or to tear it all down  with no plan to make it better, leaving more and more Americans  suffering what is still one of the most significant ways people go  bankrupt, which is not being able to afford their healthcare.

And what are we doing it for this time, John? Senator McCain? I know  you wouldn't sanction this. I know you would be screaming. I have seen  how angry you can get, John McCain. I have seen you tear people apart  on the floor, Democrat and Republican, for doing the same stupid thing  over and over again.

Listen to John McCain explain why he voted no the last time the  Republican Party tried to unite and tear down healthcare with no idea  how to fix it and threatening to put millions of Americans in financial  crisis and healthcare crisis.

I can't believe we are here again with thousands upon thousands upon  thousands of Americans writing letters, storming into townhalls-- hospital leaders, private sector leaders, Republican Governors,  Republican mayors, Democrat Governors, Democrat mayors, all saying:  What are you doing in Congress and why?

I think what is even more outrageous this time is the why--to redo  the tax cuts that independent budget analysis says, no, that the  overwhelming benefit went to the billionaires who sat on stage with  Donald Trump during his inauguration. We are not saving any money in  our budgets. Their plan is to expand our budget crisis. Their plan will  add trillions of dollars to our budget and give tax cuts to the  wealthiest and not help the people that John McCain is talking about.  His echoes haunt me that he said we are mistaken when we don't come  together across the aisle--across our differences--to try to make  things better.

There is a healthcare crisis in this country. One out of three  dollars in our government is going to healthcare. And we have more  chronic disease in this Nation than we have ever had before. And there  is no solution being offered in this reconciliation to deal with that.  In fact, we are making it worse because we are denying children access  to healthy foods. This is ridiculous.

If they are successful, what kind of country will we be with more  stratifications of wealth, with people who have done so good?

I am not one of these Democrats who hates successful or wealthy  people. Heck, people in my neighborhood--I am the only Senator that  probably lives in a low-income neighborhood--strive to be wealthy. They  are doing great. The top quartile of our country the last 20 years has  made extraordinary wealth. God bless them.

But when you see that 70, 80 percent of Americans don't want Medicaid  cuts because most Americans know neighbors, family members, church  members who rely on Medicaid; they know that their grandmother in a  nursing home relies on Medicaid; they know that the disabled child next  door relies on Medicaid. And now we want to gut it $880 billion?

John McCain--most people remember the thumb down. They don't remember  his words; they don't remember the warnings. This man is in Heaven now  and his words, they speak to us in this moment again. Why won't we  listen to them?

Our deliberations today, not just are debates but the       exercise of all our responsibilities--authorizing       government policies, appropriating the funds to implement       them . . . They can be sincere and principled, but they       are more partisan, more tribal more of the time than at       any time I can remember. Our deliberations can still be       important and useful, but I think we would all agree they       haven't been overburdened. . . . Right now, they aren't       producing much for the American people.

Both sides have let this happen. Let's leave the history of       who shot first to the historians. I suspect they will find we       all conspired in our decline, either by deliberate actions or       neglect.

Listen to John McCain:

Our system doesn't depend on our nobility. It accounts for       our imperfections and gives an order to our individual       strivings that has helped make ours a most powerful and       prosperous society on Earth.

Listen to us:

Let's trust each other. Let's return to regular order. We       have been spinning our wheels on too many important issues       because we keep trying to find a way to win without the help       from [the other side]. That is an approach that has been       employed by both sides: mandating legislation from the top       down, without any support from the other side . . . We are       getting nothing done.

All we have really done this year is to confirm Neil       Gorsuch. . . . I voted for the motion to proceed to allow       debate to continue and amendments to be offered.

I will not vote for the bill as it stands today.

I will not vote for the bill.

We have tried to do this by coming up with a proposal       behind closed doors in consultation with the administration--

Donald Trump--       then springing it on skeptical Members, trying to convince       them it is better than nothing . . . asking us to swallow our       doubts and force it past a unified opposition. I don't think       that is going to work in the end and probably shouldn't.

Well, this shouldn't work either. This shouldn't work either. This is  wrong. This is wrong.

I see the leader here. I am sorry, sir. I should be conserving my  energy.

Mr. BOOKER. I would yield for a question while retaining the floor.

Mr. BOOKER. Collins, Murkowski, and McCain, I think, took a lot of  courage. They were getting a lot of pressure from the White House. John  McCain was viciously attacked afterwards. But his private conversations  with Members and you, Senator Schumer--I know at the last lap around  his track of life, he didn't want to be remembered as someone doing  something--to use John McCain kind of language--boneheaded; to hurt a  lot of innocent, fragile people and leave them without a plan. When his  own Republican Governor--I read Republican Governors earlier who were  saying, don't do this.

I want to say something else to the Senator in response to his  question. I watched you that night, and I just loved something you did.  I never said this to you. People over here tried to start applauding  and you stood up angry and told them not to because what John showed  was something bigger than partisanship. He talked about it, one side  trying to win; it is more ego sometimes than it is ideals. And you  stood up and said, no, this is not that moment. We are watching a man  take a position that was not easy. It didn't serve his politics but  served his spirit.

I don't know if my staff has the envelope of the article I want,  specifically because there is a story in there--I don't have it now, I  will read it later--about John McCain in the prison camps.

I wasn't here when we had this moment. But when I got here weeks  after this moment, Mr. Leader, all my colleagues on both sides of the  aisle talked about a special conference in the Old Senate Chamber. I  was not there, but the Democrats and Republicans--it actually changed  our behavior in here. It didn't last. But I came here and people said,  because of that, we were all going to partner up, and for State of the  Union Addresses, you have a Republican partner and Democrat--we would  go as couples, basically.

Mr. BOOKER. It was something about this man where the dignity that he  had that we all treasured, in a moment like that, he began to elevate.

I had my partner Senator here say to me when I got here: You are not  a full Senator until you get ripped by John McCain's anger.

Mr. BOOKER. And I never got ripped by him. After my meeting, I  mentioned earlier in his office, he started inviting me with him. My  first codel was with him. He told me all the time: Booker, there are  two types of Senators here. I don't mean to cast any aspersions on  others, but there are people who represent their States, and there are  statesmen. He kept challenging me to be a statesman, not a great  Democratic Senator but to be a great American Senator. He would  challenge me over and over and over again.

I would go to his national security conferences out at his ranch. One  of my favorite moments as a Senator--if I have my top 10 favorite  moments as a Senator, this is one of them. The leader knows that I am a  vegan, and when you go to one of his open barbecues, there is nothing  vegan. I mean, they even saturated every vegetable in butter, and  mayonnaise was everywhere. But I am not going to complain. I am just  going to sit and enjoy conference conversations.

So now I am in a golf cart, going home at the end of the night, and  the young man who was shuttling me home goes to me: How was the food?  Did you enjoy the dinner?

I go: Well, actually, if I am going to be honest, I didn't eat.

They go: You haven't had dinner?

I go: No. I am a vegan.

They go: Well, we are about to pass John McCain's home, where he  lives, and I am sure it is late, and I am sure he is asleep, but maybe  we can break in and see what is in his fridge.

And I am like: Dude, I am from New Jersey. I love this. Breaking into  John McCain's house, and I won't have to worry about getting arrested?  I am all in.

And so we went in, and as soon as we looked around in the kitchen, I  looked through the kitchen, and John McCain was sitting there with  another elderly, tough-looking man on the couch, engaging in some  conversation. So I didn't get my joy of breaking into John McCain's  house, but I walk in, and he is sitting there with a former Secretary,  if I remember correctly, of the Navy.

And they were like: Booker, skedaddle. We are going to have a  meeting.

So I am sitting there, eating peanut butter and, like, celery or  whatever, and these two men are talking about government inefficiency.  They say the place that we could be saving the most money--the former  Secretary, if I remember correctly, of the Navy and one of the great  men on national security. They started detailing the waste in the  military. They both claimed that we could have much more capacity and  greater military effectiveness for billions and billions and billions  of dollars less.

I will never forget. Again, this is me new to the Senate. I don't  know foreign policy like I do 12 years later or the military like I do  12 years later, but I was listening to these two experienced men  complaining about the gross waste that was undermining our overall  effectiveness and efficiency. That is why, to this day, I am infuriated  that, when people come in and say they want to cut budgets, the first  thing they want to go for is not to have a real conversation--because  the military hasn't passed an audit in years--about a lot of the baked- in corruption and misspending in the military, but they are going after  programs that hospital after hospital, that healthcare provider after  healthcare provider, that leader after leader, and that Governor after  Governor says: Are you crazy?

So this is one of the more preposterous moments. You and I both know,  if John McCain were here right now, he would reject this whole thing  because we were literally repeating the same thing we did in 2017, 8  years ago.

Mr. BOOKER. I will yield for a question while retaining the floor.

Mr. BOOKER. Resoundingly, yes.

I am just laughing that every time DOGE puts up their supposed  savings, they then try to take them down because, as soon as they are  fact-checked, so many of them are not done. And I don't want to say all  of them. I don't want to paint that broad a brush. I know about having  Microsoft licenses, too many. Yes, there is waste. I wish we were doing  this in a bipartisan way. Those cuts would be bigger and probably have  a lot more staying power than what they are doing, which is ready,  fire, aim, and then having to beg people to come back to work because  they fired FAA people or nuclear regulators or what have you.

But this is the bigger point that you are making that really is  getting me: So you know this. I used to be an executive. There is  nobody in this body--here is a bold, bold, braggadocious thing to say,  but fact-check me, anybody. There is nobody in this body who was a  Governor, a county executive, like Coons or a mayor who cut government  as much as I did. I had to cut my government by 25 percent. Imagine  that here at the Federal level. I had to do it because I couldn't print  money. It was a national recession. I was left with a mess. I had to do  it, but we  found ways to do it cooperatively with the legislature and bringing in  experts.

But this is the point I want to make to you: One thing I couldn't cut  were my healthcare costs. So I started asking people: What can I do?

Do you know whom I found? I found a big business owner, with tens of  thousands of employees, who said: I had the same problem, and do you  know what I did? I went into my cafeteria where thousands of people  eat--a big, big place--and I saw deep fryers and, like, Cinnabon-like  products and all this unhealthy stuff, and I ripped it all out and had  the union ready to go crazy on me, but then I brought in the best chef.  I paid extra money to get the best kind of all healthy, nutritious  whole foods. Then they loved it, and then they started asking me: Can  we get food to take home for our kids? Because we stop at McDonald's  and Burger King on the way home. Long story short, he said it began to  bend their cost curve.

What are we doing in the United States of America? What has Donald  Trump--I just read all he is doing. He is cutting access to healthy  lunch programs. He is cutting--they are threatening to cut the SNAP  program. They are cutting the things that give our residents in America  not the cheap, hyperprocessed, empty nutrition foods but the stuff that  is healthy for our kids.

There is so much hypocrisy based in this that even the private sector  folks are saying: You are going to drive up costs for your country when  you make people get their healthcare in emergency rooms. You are going  to drive up costs for your country when you are going to force people  to have to quit their jobs so they can come home and take care of their  loved ones with dementia. This will drive up costs, ultimately, for our  country and put more hardship on people, all while giving the most  wealthy people who don't need it bigger tax cuts. It makes no sense,  and that is the spirit of why John McCain voted against this effort in  2017.

(Mr. CURTIS assumed the Chair.)

Mr. BOOKER. I appreciate your allowing me to yield to you to answer a  question while retaining the floor.

I am going to continue with a little bit more here before we change  topics for the night.

I want to point out how grateful I am for my friend Chris Murphy. The  last time I stood on this floor for many hours was just in support,  doing like my colleague is doing for me right now, after the Pulse  shooting. We wanted a vote on commonsense gun safety--bipartisan- supported, commonsense gun safety. We didn't get it. Chris Murphy, who  is right down there, held the floor for 15 hours. I paced around,  walked the floor, helped to support things, stayed up with him all  night. So it is profound to me, when I told my brother that I wanted to  cause some good trouble and that I was going to rise, that he said: I  am in. I am in. So there he is, helping me out, especially as we  approach 11 o'clock at night and the fourth hour. I am just grateful  for him. I am grateful for him.

I want to go now to cuts that are being made to local and State  health department funding. Again, from Republican and Democratic  Governors, we have letters from people on both sides of the aisle who  are saying that this is just wrong, and it makes no sense, but here we  go.

It is actually, really, what I would call a dangerous reversal.  Trump's HHS recently announced the cancelation of almost $12 billion in  Federal grants that State and local health departments have been using  to track infectious diseases, health disparities, vaccinations, mental  health, substance use and services. Because of that reversal, my State,  for example, is going to lose $350 million in Federal funding for  health programs due to these cuts. My Governor, Phil Murphy, said that  these cuts would create an unfillable void in funding that will have  disastrous ramifications for our most vulnerable neighbors.

Last week, we learned that HHS planned to cut an additional 10,000  jobs. In total, since January, HHS has cut 20,000 of its employees.  That is over a quarter of its workforce. These are people who inspect  nursing homes to ensure that they are safe. They approve diagnostic and  treatment services for children. They regulate health insurance to make  sure that they are not discriminating against you based on your health  conditions and health status. They protect you from infectious  diseases. They conduct inspections to make sure that infant formula is  safe.

I want to tell you that Secretary Kennedy has committed to bringing  radical transparency to the HHS. I would love radical transparency, but  at the end of February, Secretary Kennedy announced that HHS is no  longer required to undergo the public comment period--a practice that  has taken place at the Agency since 1971.

Another critical resource of health information for the American  public is the CDC's ``Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.'' It has  been published since 1952 and is often called the voice of the CDC.  Unfortunately, on January 23, for the first time since its inception,  the report was not published in a direct response to the Trump  administration's freeze on public communications.

In addition to pausing the critical publication, it also reported  that the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System had halted  operation. This PRAMS, which was developed in 1987, is designed to  identify groups of women and infants at higher risk of health problems  to monitor changes in health status, to measure the progress toward  goals, and improve the health of mothers and infants. Over the last 38  years, the program has collected essential data on maternal behaviors  and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. Maternal  care providers rely on that data collected by PRAMS--the sole source of  this type of information--to enhance prenatal and postnatal care. The  United States is in the midst of a mortality crisis, which we mentioned  before. We have the highest rate of maternal deaths of any high-income  nation.

As I learned when I was a mayor, data is power. You can't manage a  problem unless you have measures on the problem. If you pull back  things like that, again, you are reducing transparency, and you are  cutting back on vital reports that people who are trying to meet this  crisis rely on to inform their strategies.

Again, the frustration is that we are the worst in maternal health  outcomes for developed nations, but even in our country, African- American women are three times more likely to die from pregnancy- related causes than the majority. This is one of the countries where it  is profoundly dangerous to have kids.

Again, this is yet another thing that HHS is doing. It is leaving us  more vulnerable, less informed, and less empowered to deal with the  health challenges that we still deal with.

Since the Trump administration made the disastrous decision for  Agencies to pause external communications, we have been seeing  significant delays in critical information from other key Agencies.

There have been avoidable delays in critical data from the CDC so  that States are starting to speak out, saying that they need to protect  the health of their communities. As of March 20, when it comes to  vaccines, what we are seeing in America--talk about getting less safe-- there were 378 confirmed cases of measles throughout the United States.  As one of my doctor friends said, there are more children with measles  right now than there are trans athletes in the NCAA.

This is a real crisis. For the first time in a decade, a child who  was not vaccinated for measles tragically died in that outbreak. And  while measles is spreading across our Nation and we are having one of  the worst flu seasons in the last decade, HHS has delayed the convening  of critical advisory councils of the CDC and FDA. These advisory  councils are responsible for determining the vaccine schedule--what  vaccines must be covered by insurance--and the safety, effectiveness,  and appropriate use of vaccines. They do essential and timely work to  keep people safe, and disruptions to their work can be harmful to the  health of American people.

Let me go to the National Institutes of Health. It is the largest  public funder of biomedical research in the  world. It is facing devastating cuts. The NIH is one of the greatest  successes in publicly funded scientific research in all of human  history. The United States is one of the best places to do scientific  research because it has had more capacity than any other country to  fund and conduct research at the highest levels.

Pauses, lapses, and elimination of NIH funding will drive researchers  to do their research in other countries and undermine the efforts to  cure diseases, to find solutions to conditions from obesity, to  Alzheimer's, to cancers. One of the best taxpayer dollars we can invest  is in NIH because it returns more than 5 taxpayer dollars back in the  breakthroughs that they make.

We have put the future of scientific research in the United States at  grave threat with what the Trump administration is now doing. They have  imposed cuts and a number of harmful orders on the NIH that have both  stalled its research and confused its partners.

Now, 99.4 percent of the FDA-approved drugs come from the NIH-funded  research. Let me just say that again. NIH-funded research has led to  99.4 percent of all the FDA drugs that are out there.

The NIH funding cuts will directly affect your access to future novel  treatments that can improve the quality of life for your children or-- if you love your neighbor like so many religions call us to do--your  neighbor's children as well.

Here is an example of that. Hepatitis C is a liver disease caused by  the virus HCV, and it is one of the most common types of viral  hepatitis in the United States. It is estimated that 3 to 4 million  Americans have hepatitis. In 2014, the first complete treatment for  hepatitis C was approved by the FDA. The development of this  revolutionary new treatment that has since been used to cure millions  of people around the world was funded by--you know--NIH research.

This is the type of lifesaving innovation we will lose out on if we  defund the NIH as the Trump administration is currently doing. American  enterprise and knowledge will be drained. We will fall behind.

We already know there is fierce competition for the researchers by  countries like China. They are aiming--in fact, they are upping their  investments in scientific research, doing everything they can to keep  scientific researchers in their country.

I was just talking to an innovator out on the west coast who was  telling me that they are starting to take passports away from their  researchers.

There is a fierce competition going on to keep the best minds here in  this country or be drawn away to other places, from Europe to China.  And we are stopping our funding?

I have heard from academic institutions that are telling me that they  are not even offering as many Ph.D. programs in some of these key areas  of science because of the attacks that are happening on our  universities, all while China is upping their investments in  universities. I can't believe that they are trying to out-America us  and we are trying to turn our backs on our most successful traditions.

In one of his first actions, President Trump imposed a communications  freeze on all U.S. health Agencies, effectively silencing some of our  Nation's top researchers, scientists, and public health experts. This  action stalled 16,000 grant applications for around $1.5 billion in NIH  funding. The NIH has since begun to incrementally send notices to the  Office of the Federal Register to resume reviews.

The combination of these actions has irresponsibly stalled our  Nation's primary source of lifesaving biomedical research. It is our  understanding that full communications have not been resumed and that  it continues to impede critical research at the NIH.

As I have been told time and time again by experts in this area, just  to pause funding could set research back years because, when you are  conducting research, whether it is in a test tube, a biomedical  researcher can't pause; or whether it is a human body, in biomedical  research, you can't pause.

Across the Nation, brilliant researchers have been finding out daily  the Trump administration has canceled their research--research on  critical issues like maternal health, long COVID, diabetes, new  pharmaceutical drugs, cancer, and so much more.

The NIH has decided to cancel its 2025 summer internship program. On  average, 1,100 interns participate in this program each year, helping  develop the next generation of scientists and researchers. A small  number of summer interns had already accepted their offer to join the  NIH in 2025. The decision follows the Trump administration's Federal  hiring freeze.

Again, in my faith, as I said, you train a child in the way he shall  go, and he will not depart from it. These are our young people. These  are the future scientists who now aren't getting the experience of a  lifetime. I have met people in this institution who first came here as  college summer interns.

The NIH has decided not only to cancel those internships but to shut  the door to many kids who had already made their summer plans. Many  people here know what it is like to have a summer plan, have a summer  internship, and not apply for other ones. It is another act of just  meanness and cruelty. Let this class come in and then say: OK. I am  going to cut the program next year.

But the way they are doing things is mean and cruel and is having an  impact on people's lives.

Congressionally directed medical research programs--I have worked  across the aisle with my colleagues. I have friends in here that have  worked with me on specific diseases in a bipartisan way. I am so proud  of some of that work.

Well, we have long appropriated about $1.5 billion a year in Federal  funds for medical research, nearly half of which typically goes to  cancer. It is something that we have found common ground on in my 12  years here in significant stretches.

The medical research program was created and sustained by Congress  and competitively awards funds to hundreds of projects each year at  both the Defense Department labs and outside research institutions,  including at many American universities, to study everything, again,  from cancer, to battlefield wounds, to suicide prevention.

In 2024, $130 million was specifically appropriated in a bipartisan  way in this body--incredibly good Senators of good conscience coming  together and saying: We should do more in these areas.

They approved $130 million for research in breast, kidney, lung,  melanoma, ovarian, pancreatic, prostate, and a handful of very rare  cancers. Why? Because there are people of good conscience here.

We meet folks who come to this--not lobbyists. They come and they  tell us about their stories of rare cancers. There are people on both  sides of the aisle who have marched for prostate awareness, for breast  cancer awareness. There is goodness and decency here.

But in 2024, this funding--it is a bill that passed in March. It was  now slashed--slashed--by 57 percent. And I told you earlier, that  data--one of the best taxpayer dollars we can spend is in medical  research. We have all heard this in this body when the NIH has come  through and has shown that $1 invested and you get more than $5 back.  Any Wall Street executive that would get five times their money back  from an investment--who is this helping? And do we think about the  people?

I thank God I don't have any family members that are going about  their day, go to the doctor, and come back with cancer. I know lots of  people, though. I know their stories, when they are diagnosed with a  cancer and they are told there is no cure. I have seen people go  through what you go through with that.

So how could a country that has led humanity for more than a  generation or two suddenly have a President come along and say: I am  going to slash all of these things. Oh, by the way, I am going to give  billionaires a big tax cut.

So what do we say when these folks come to our offices? Some of the  people with rare diseases came to my office a couple weeks ago. And the  amount of their funding is so small. And maybe--maybe--if it was to  solve our budget deficit. If we are going to do this as a country, we  have to come together in a bipartisan way. The debt is--I am one of  those Senators who believe it is a real crisis. But we are not solving  the deficit in what they are proposing here.  They are cutting and cutting and cutting things that make no sense to  cut, and they are doing it for tax breaks which disproportionately go  to the wealthiest and to rack up even more debt.

I want to read this article. My staff told me that we have lots of  sections to go through, and it has been 4 hours, 11 minutes. But this  is one that hurts me because I have met so many people who fall into  this category. I want to read an article that deals with an issue  called medical debt and the ongoing impact it has on people as part of  their lives.

The Affordable Care Act--when we did that, we lowered the costs and  implemented protections for Americans, requiring insurers to cover  preexisting conditions; expanding Medicaid, which we have talked a lot  about tonight; implementing caps on out-of-pocket costs for Americans.  All of these helped in alleviating medical bankruptcy for some.

Medical bankruptcies in America have gone down but not all. We still  live in a country where one of the top reasons for bankruptcy is  medical debt.

One of my staffers kind of shook me with the reality she was dealing  with, which is she has stratospheric medical debt.

So here is an article from Healthcare Insights. It is not a partisan  rag; it is a scientific journal. ``How Medical Debt Is Crushing 100  Million Americans.'' It is from October of last year.

This author--I just want to give a little more understanding of what  kind of article this is--is John August. He is the Scheinman  Institute's director of healthcare.

George Curlee is one of 52 million people or 1/3 of       Americans in the workforce who earn $15/hour or less.

I had the opportunity to interview George recently about       his experience with medical debt and how it has impacted his       life. Having suffered an industrial accident, and even though       his employer was responsible for his injuries and he carried       health insurance, he still accumulated $20,000 in medical       debt.

George grew up near Dallas, and spent his life working hard       as a full-time warehouse and retail worker.

At one point in his life, he found a job he enjoyed as a       fork lift driver in a factory that produced ceramic tile. In       time he switched jobs, working on the production line. One       fateful day a piece of metal struck him in the foot. He had       to have surgery and underwent the amputation of one of his       toes.

He had to take a month off of work, and when he returned he       went back to driving the forklift truck. He found that due to       his accident and surgery, he could not operate the forklift       to his satisfaction. He became frustrated with not being able       to operate the forklift, grew depressed, and left the job.

``It took me three months to get back on my feet after the       toe amputation. There was nursing care for two months to help       me walk again. This life saving medical procedure left me       with over $20,000 in debt, even with insurance!

I avoided doing [necessary] follow up with doctors due to       not being able to afford additional needed care.

There were hard times on top of this. I suffered a great       deal of depression due to losing my job during my leave of       absence. This medical debt is currently following me. There       was a point of time that I was rebuilding my credit. Before       the surgery, I built it up by over 120 points. With this       medical debt on my credit report, my credit score dropped 60       points.

The big drop in score has not allowed me to get my own       place. I'm not able to continue to pursue my dream of being a       voice actor due to not having proper financial footing to get       back to school. I can't travel and do things I would like to       do. I am working, but things are very financially tight. The       medicine I need is being paid out of pocket.

After paying my bills, I am in the negative. There is no       money left over to pay my medical debt. I can't save money       right now, not even towards retirement. To have this medical       debt on my credit score means not being able to pursue a       better life.''

He went on short-term disability for a while, but then       found a part time job he holds now at Walgreen's. He had to       return to work to pay for the house he and his brothers had       purchased.

Through this period, George had to take payday loans.       Between those loans and his weekly wages, he attempted to pay       back the money he owed the hospitals.

He learned that because of his medical debt, his credit       rating was destroyed by credit agencies who learned that he       had fallen behind on his payments to the hospitals.

According to the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau--

Which I guess barely exists now--       100 million Americans owe $220 billion in medical debt.

So ``100 million Americans owe $220 billion medical debt.''

George told me that the medical debt has had several       devastating impacts on his life:

Inability to borrow money for a mortgage or a car.

Employees ask for credit reports, and reports that show an       applicant for a position are often rejected due to a poor       credit report. This has impacted his ability to find a better       job than his part-time job at $15/hour with no benefits       working at Walgreen's where he lives in Garland, TX.

Incredible stress that further impacts his health       conditions including diabetes. (An additional note: Garland,       TX, where George lives, is near Dallas. Tarrant County, which       includes Garland and Dallas, is a locality with high medical       debt and high profit for healthcare systems in the region.)

Though George makes very low wages, medical debt is a       broadly shared experience by Americans across income groups.       Clearly, low-wage workers suffer a worse burden, but the       problem is pervasive and a broad feature of American life.

Some background.

In the oft-sited study, as many as 66.5% of people who file       for bankruptcy blame medical bills as a primary cause.

I am going to repeat that in the article: 66.5 percent of Americans  ``who file for bankruptcy blame medical bills as their primary cause.''  Two-thirds of Americans who are filing bankruptcy point to medical  bills as the cause.

As many as 550,000 people file for bankruptcy every year       for this reason.

More than half a million Americans, year after year after year after  year after year after year, for no fault of their own--because of a  metal bar shoved up through his toe, because of a diagnosis of cancer,  because of diabetes, because of things outside of their control--they  rack up medical debt that, as this man, can erode their well-being.

This data has been known [about how many Americans are       affected] and has continued with the passage of the       Affordable Care Act.

Lesser known is the amount of medical debt that Americans       carry.

What are the causes of the burden on so many?

While more Americans have health insurance today than ever       before, coverage has many gaps. High deductibles and narrow       networks which prevent patients from seeking health providers       of their choice are common causes of accumulation of high       cost bills. When patients understandably seek care from a       preferred provider, too often that care is not covered.

Most healthcare plans only provide 80% of payment for       covered cost. 20%--

Twenty percent--       patient responsibility of high medical bills can leave people       unable to pay their bills.

Approximately 14 million people in America (6% of adults)       in the U.S. owe over a $1,000 in medical debt and about 3       million people (1% of adults) owe medical debt of more than       $10,000.

Additionally, this government report identifies many of the       components of medical debt which are completely out of       control of the patient. In most cases these practices are       unlawful, but hospitals use these tactics frequently to press       patients to pay, including:

Double billing: Companies cannot attempt to collect on       medical bills that have already been paid by the consumer,       insurance, or a government program such as Medicare or       Medicaid. This practice can coerce consumers into paying       twice for the same service.

Exceeding legal limits: Companies must attempt to collect       amounts that surpass federal or state caps, such as those set       by the federal No Surprises Act or state laws on       ``reasonable'' rates. These violations can saddle consumers       with unjustly high medical debts, burdening their finances.

Falsified or fake charges: Debt collectors must not collect       on bills that include ``up coded'' or exaggerated services,       or charges for service the consumer did not receive.

Collecting unsubstantiated medical [debts]: Debt collectors       must not attempt to collect medical debts.

These are all awful practices that go on.

Here is Paul Sugar's story, compelling and tragic.

Paul spent much of his life, starting as a child, learning       about jewelry, living in a small town near Albuquerque, NM.       At an early age, he earned enough money selling silver and       turquoise necklaces to be able to buy a motorcycle. As he       became an adult, he developed a successful business in the       mining and selling of silver and turquoise used in making       jewelry.

He also worked at a GE engine plant, but was laid off       during the time of industrial downsizing. He also [went] to       work for Quest, installing communications infrastructure, but       was laid off from that job when Quest was acquired by US       West.

So, he returned to his business.

On January 9, 2019, he was terribly injured in a fire in       his home. He is still recovering physically and economically.       After losing 66 percent of his skin and getting care at a       specialty trauma unit in another part of the country, he       ended up owing over $82,000 in medical bills. The medical       debt on his credit       report means he has not been able to get loans to expand his       business and earn more. After the fire, his medical bills       [totaled] $550,000.

Insurance covered most of it, but it was still more than he       could pay. He made payment plans with all of his various       bills, but when his credit card number changed, some of the       automatic payments he had arranged for did not go through,       and the bills ended up in collection before he even knew he       was behind.

Prior to the fire, he had always had a stellar credit       rating, but since this medical debt, it has gone down. In his       business, it is important to be able to take out short-term       loans to resupply the company, but now he can't do that at       reasonable terms and rates. He spent his retirement savings       account trying to pay back all his medical bills--

His retirement savings--       but it wasn't enough. Now, he worries about his future. How       will he retire? Will he have enough for his daughter's       college education? Can he move homes if he needs to?

At one point, he needed to replace his car because he and       his wife had to travel in 18 hours round trips every couple       of weeks to receive prescriptions for pain medication. He was       denied the credit to do so.

Our Health Care Professionals are on the Frontlines of       Impact of Medical Debt.

Doctors and other healthcare professionals experience       firsthand when patients are denied care due to medical debt.       This article describes how healthcare systems deny patients       with medical debt.

Dr. Matt Hoffman, who is a leader in the successful effort       to form a union with Doctors Council in 2023 [talked about       this problem.]

[They] instructed staff to stop providing care to patients       more than $4,500 in overdue bills, going beyond the more       common practice of turning such debts over to collection       agencies.

He and his follow doctors protested their health system's       decision to deny the patients access to care due to medical       debt. Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison banned the       denial of care for patients . . . [with] medical debt.

I mean these practices sound like they are Byzantine. They sound  like--they don't sound like America or at least who we should be.

There are a lot of New Jerseyans who are dealing with medical debt.  There are a lot of New Jerseyans who are being impacted by these  programs that the President has already rolled back.

I am standing today because of this crisis in our country, and one of  the strategies that Donald Trump and ]his team talked about is to flood  the zone--flood the zone, flood the zone. So sometimes the press  doesn't even cover the cutting of some of these programs, some of these  benefits that help people who are struggling with medical debt or  struggling to make ends meet, to help them access healthcare.

It is a level of distraction and cruelty. Again, why? Why are they  cutting this? They are saying they are trying to make government more  efficient or more effective. Well, it is not effective for these folks.

What are the savings going to go to? Is it going to go to expanding  medical research, expanding those things that, when the taxpayers  invest money, they get a return? No. They are cutting medical research.  They are cutting the things that empower children to grow up and have  healthy, productive lives. And again, what they are aiming to do with  it--what they are aiming to do with it--is to provide massive, massive  tax cuts.

I am coming to the end of this section, but there are more voices  that I want to include. I want to read a few, and then I think I am  going to get a question from my colleague. So a few more pages, if I  may, before we begin to dialogue--or at least I will receive a  question, I imagine.

I want to elevate some of these voices.

This is a person writing to me in February 28:

Dear Senator Booker, I am writing to you as a concerned       citizen, most importantly as a proud aunt of a Ph.D. in       neuroscience, dedicating her life to research that could lead       to lifesaving treatments.

As a minority in science, she has worked incredibly hard to       break barriers in a field that has not always welcomed people       like her.

Watching the current political attacks on research funding       is not just heartbreaking; it is dangerous for our country's       future.

Science is not political. It serves all people, regardless       of race, background, or party affiliation.

Yes, funding cuts to Agencies like NIH and the National Science  Foundation threaten to halt critical research, slowing the development  of treatment for diseases that impact millions. These cuts will push  out brilliant young scientists, many of whom have already had to fight  to get where they are to do the research they are doing.

This is not just about my niece or scientists in general.       It is about every American. Disease does not choose a       political party. Cancer, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and       countless others affect Republicans and Democrats alike.       Without strong investment in research, we are all at risk of       losing the chance for better treatments, new cures, and       improved healthcare.

Beyond health, defunding science will hurt our economy.       Scientific research drives innovation, creates jobs, and       ensures that the U.S. remains a global leader.

A country that does not invest in science is a country that       falls behind.

I urge you to continue standing with the scientific       community, supporting young researchers from all backgrounds,       and fighting to protect and expand research funding. This is       one of the most critical investments we can make for health,       for economic growth, and for the future of every American.

Thank you for your time, leadership, and dedication for       building a stronger, smarter, and healthier Nation.

A couple of New Jersey sources--this is a letter from someone in  Somerset, NJ:

At my university, I am extremely concerned that we are not       as large an institution as some of the others and do not get       as much State aid. We rely on these funds for more than       running facilities.

If this goes into effect, it will ultimately lead to the       loss of jobs, research, opportunities for students, and will       stunt our growth as we embark on a journey to become an R1       institution. I am not sure we can recover from this anytime       soon.

Another person on these cuts to the NIH:

I am a postdoctoral researcher performing basic science       research on bacterial communication. In short, I am seeking       to understand bacterial chemical communication to find new       pathways for therapeutic development.

Antibiotic resistance is already killing thousands of       Americans each year. We need new treatments provided by       indirect costs to find these cures.

Indirect costs, actually, directly funded my day-to-day       work, providing funds for building maintenance staff,       university shared resources, such as electron microscopes,       and common laboratory supplies, such as liquid nitrogen.

Without any of these resources, my job and those of other       researchers seeking new cures would be impossible. Thus,       eliminating or reducing these funds will have negative       repercussions on the health and well-being of the American       people for generations to come.

That is my constituent from Plainsboro, NJ.

Relating to Federal grant fund freezes, another New Jerseyan writes:

I am a researcher at the University of New Jersey where I       study ways to combat cancer and promote infant health,       critical research that ensures generations grow into healthy       adults. My aspirations align with yours, fostering a strong,       healthy, and educated population. For this reason, I urge       you, Cory Booker, to take immediate action to restore normal       federal grant operations so that my colleagues and I can       continue making paradigm-shifting, state-of-the-art       discoveries with the potential to save millions of lives.

This university is dependent upon federal grants, a       testament to the world-class quality of our research and its       leadership in the biomedical field. These grants enable       groundbreaking advancements that position the United States       at the forefront of scientific information.

I had planned to apply for a federal grant in 2025 to       further my research, but with the current uncertainty, I am       deeply concerned about my application's future.

Here is another scientist:

My 5-year NIH grant is in its second year; and although my       first-year budget ended and I submitted all the required       documents, my second-year funding was cut. We need the       funding to be able to continue our critical research.

Here is another patient story:

At age 17, a large black spot blocking his vision suddenly       appeared in my patient's right eye. Over the next couple of       months, multiple trips to increasingly specialized doctors       led to a clinical diagnosis of Von Hippel-Lindau disease, the       diagnosis received by phone on his 18th birthday. This is a       genetic disease in which the damaged VHL tumor-suppressor       gene fails to stop tumors from growing. Patients experience       randomly occurring tumors in up to 10 organs, and the only       available treatment was surgery to try to remove the tumors.

The patient is one of about 10 percent of patients who are       de novo, the result of random genetic mutation. In this       patient's case, scans had revealed not only a large tumor on       the optic nerve of his right eye but also a huge tumor       encompassing one of his adrenal glands that, in retrospect,       had been causing him headaches, inability to concentrate, and       anxiety due to consistently elevated adrenal levels. While       MRI scans also relayed tumors in his spine, kidney, and       pancreas, this tumor and entire adrenal gland needed to be       removed.

After months of injections in his eye interspersed with       laser treatment, he lost the vision in his right eye. The       time needed for       medical care required him to give up his team sport, losing       both his support group and his chance to compete in the       Division I level, but he continued with his final exams,       graduation, and plans to study engineering at the university.       With continued regular monitoring, he was able to attend       university, but the trauma of his diagnosis and the       processing of the impact of what it might mean for his life,       coupled with the stress of engineering studies, brought on       significant mental health challenges.

He did go on to graduate, traveling to the NIH for his       regular surveillance, supported by various specialists. In       2022, a kidney tumor had grown large enough that he needed       surgery again. The kidney is a sensitive organ and will       normally have full nephrectomy of the affected kidney.       Doctors were treating him, and now at age 24, his tumor was       removed in a successful kidney-sparing robotic operation, yet       tumors on his spine continue to grow.

This experience with my patient and many others       encapsulates that the miracle of medical research funding has       such a powerful impact on people's lives. We were able to get       seriously miraculous things done; but without funding for       these diseases, we may never have had a chance to test the       ideas and develop them in a way that led to a drug that       ultimately helped this patient with these tumors.

This is a success story, but will we have more? Will we       have others? The drug we've developed is expensive. Current       recommendations are to take it daily. Nothing is known about       its long-term side effects. More research isn't done. It's       not known whether patients can take breaks from the drug.       Stopping at some point might mean tumors would resume. One of       the congressionally directed medical research program grants       recommended for FY25 funding is going to look precisely at       many of these questions. Two others will examine other       aspects of critical treatment.

These are life-or-death issues for the patients, and yet       this funding now is threatened, yet this research now is       threatened. Please continue to fully fund the congressionally       directed medical program.

I am going to read a few more and then pause, just in case my  colleague wants to ask a question.

But this is Kerry Muller from Texas:

My family has benefited from congressionally directed       medical research programs because my 13-year-old daughters       have neurofibromatosis, a rare genetic disease which causes       uncontrolled tumor growth. My daughter Kaitlyn was diagnosed       with a brain tumor 2 years ago, and thanks to the drug whose       research was seeded with a congressionally directed medical       research program, her brain tumor has decreased to the point       that it is now undetectable on an MRI.

Without this drug, she would have had to have tried other       chemotherapy treatments that would have been more invasive,       in addition to brain surgery to bypass the blockage the tumor       would have caused.

This is Samantha Pearson from Las Vegas:

For just over 4 years, I have been at a clinical trial at       UCLA. The meds were just recently FDA-approved. While the       side effects have made me question agreeing to the trial,       being told my tumors have drastically shrunk made it all       worthwhile. My pain has decreased. My plexiform neurofibroma       is 90 percent smaller, and I am so happy that I get to be a       part of this clinical trial made possible by NFRP because of       my participation in the drug trial.

There is story after story here of people: Camille Oldenburg; Jane  Dmochowski; Lola Neudecker; Professor Alexander Rabchevsky; Kyle Reitz;  Karissa Haberkamp from Illinois; Samuel Kirton; Dr. Stephanie  Buxhoeveden; Katharina Hopp; Jerrod Kerr; Dr. Terry Watnick; Scott  Howe, Marine Corps retired; Van Stewart, United States Navy; Reid  Novotny, colonel, Air National Guard; Alex and Lesley; Chip and  Kristin; Gregg and Molly from Denver.

William Tuttle, United States Navy:

After my son's birth and diagnosis, I was diagnosed with       tuberculosis sclerosis complex at the age of 43, just 3       months after I retired from a 23-year naval career.

The complexity of this disease means that it remains to be       seen whether my young son will be able to live the typical       life that I have been fortunate to live. Because of research       conducted through the TSCRP, my son has effective treatment       options available to him that were not available even just a       decade ago. But there is still so much to learn.

Again, another person benefiting from our research, benefiting from  the funding that is now being threatened and cut.

Beth Tinlin from Nevada; Shelly Meitzler; Ron Heffron; David and  Brooke Carpenter, military family; Major David Long, U.S. Air Force;  Debora Moritz; Fran Hillier.

I just want to say that the Declaration of Independence clearly  states:

We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are       created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with       certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life,       Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.

How can you have life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness without  health? Health is at the core of life. Health is at the core of true  liberty. Health is at the core of the pursuit of happiness.

The right to health is fundamental for overall well-being and for the  realization of other human rights. In his annual State of the Union  Address to Congress on January 6, 1941, President Franklin Delano  Roosevelt underscored the importance and shared commitment to four  freedoms. Many of you know them.

The first freedom is freedom of speech and expression; the second is  the freedom of every person to worship their own way; third is the  freedom from want, which means every person deserves peace and health,  among other things, he said. The fourth freedom is a freedom from fear,  which in our country of great wealth, no one should fear their  healthcare going away.

We have known from our country's beginnings and throughout that we  must do all we can to provide for our people, and we have tried to do  that over the years from the Social Security Act of 1965, which created  Medicaid and Medicare, the Health Insurance Portability and  Accountability Act of 1996, HIPAA, the Patient Protection Affordable  Care Act of 2010--the ACA.

We should be adding to these protections and benefits trying to get  more people health coverage. We should be caring for each other. We  should be loving each other. We should be fighting for the justice of  each other. We should be hearing the cries of parents worried for their  children. We should be hearing the agony of a partner whose spouse has  Alzheimer's. We should be standing up for these folks. This is why we  fight. This is why I stand.

Mr. BOOKER. Yes, I will yield for a question while retaining the  floor.

Mr. BOOKER. First of all, thank you for the question. But I just want  to reiterate the friendship I have with Chris Murphy and his  willingness to spend the night with me here on the floor as we go hour  after hour after hour. I just want to say this again, and I am going to  say it a few times in this long speech that will go on for as long as I  am physically able.

Chris, the last time we spent 15 hours on this floor together was a  health issue. It was yet another stunning mass shooting, this time at  the Pulse nightclub.

You and I talked a lot before we got on this floor, and I think the  agony that you and I were feeling was, how can this be the strongest  Nation in the world, organized government?

If you read our founding documents, if you read our Founding Fathers,  one of the first things they organized this government for--you know,  it is good to carry around the Constitution. It is so important to  understand what the preamble to the Constitution says we are about.

We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more       perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic       Tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the       general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to       ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this       Constitution for the United States of America.

Which each one of us, each one of us in this body, went down there  and swore an oath to uphold. Those are the first words of this, Chris.

And, God, I remember your agony.

Folks, I want you to know, when I came to this body, my staff was  talking about the maiden speech, the maiden speech.

Please don't go back and look at my maiden speech--not great.

But the maiden speech my staff wanted me to watch was yours, and it  was gut-wrenching about Newtown, gut-wrenching that the strongest  Nation on planet Earth should now be this Nation where we tell our  children in this implicit lesson--not explicit but implicit lesson-- that we are going to teach you how to hide, we are going to run active  shooter drills because we can't protect you.

My mom lives in Vegas--that Vegas shooting. The shooting at a  synagogue in Pittsburgh.

So here we were in yet another of these maddening realities in our  country that the leading cause of death for our children is shooting.  In our conversations leading up to it, I still remember you and I  saying: We need to come to this floor.

You said: I am going to stand and do something different.

And we--again, just like tonight--we had no end to that. We were 9  years younger, my friend, and we said we were going to stand down here  and try to get this body to do something different, try to get this  body to recognize the gravity of what was going on in the strongest  Nation on Earth that was having child after child after child, American  after American dying of gun violence. And the response we were getting  from this body--the world's most deliberative body--was nothing is  going to change. We can't do anything.

I mean, I am giving you respect years later. You were part of the  first gun legislation to pass out of this body in 30-something years.  And now I just found out that the Community Violence Intervention money  that you allowed me to fight so hard to get in that bill is being  clawed back by Donald Trump--our bipartisan bill, our bipartisan- approved finances, money, and I think the taking away of our power in  this body--from the bill that you were one of the main architects of  with Republican colleagues, God bless them, people like Cornyn and  others.

I want to take people back to what the insider conversations--and you  were generous. I want to remind you, teasingly, on the floor, you never  asked me if you could publish my text messages, but you put them in  your book.

Mr. BOOKER. It is a great book. I actually learned--I read my  colleague's book, and I learned a lot of data about gun violence from  your book.

We were talking about this belief that these words--this belief in  our country that these words, why this government was formed is so  important. America, this is who we are, these imperfect geniuses. We  formed this:

We the people, in Order to form a more perfect Union,       establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for       the common defense, promote the general Welfare, and secure       the Blessings of Liberty.

You stood right down there for 15 hours. I paced this room pledging  to you I wouldn't go to the bathroom. I wouldn't sit down. And I was  hurting after 15 hours, but you were steadfast until we finally got  Mitch McConnell to give us something. It was one or two votes. It was  two votes. Both of them failed; we didn't get 60. At least what we  forced this institution to do was to confront the horrendous horrors of  that nightclub shooting.

So you ask me now--as you and I and my dear brother whom I have known  since he was coming out of college, three of us on this floor at a new  day, it is past midnight, a new month, it is past midnight as we sit  here--why? Because of your question. I can't stand anymore to live in a  country where it seems that these convulsions come that threaten our  most vulnerable over and over again. I can't stand it. I have to stand  up and speak up. We have to do something different yet again. You and I  talked about this last week.

America, we are not doing a good job right now. We read the section  about medical debt. Tens of millions of Americans are saddled with  medical debt. Sixty-six percent of the people that declare bankruptcy  is because they can't afford their medical bills because something that  happened to them could happen to us and our families.

My mother, my brother, and I had a lot of challenges, a lot of  problems, but we weren't saddled with a rare disease. We didn't have  tumors springing up all over our bodies. I don't know what that would  have done to my family.

Mr. BOOKER. Yes.

Mr. BOOKER. Yes.

Mr. BOOKER. Yes.

Mr. BOOKER. In answering this question--again, I continue to yield  the question to you while retaining the floor. I want to just compound  this for people. I know these numbers--$880 billion, 100 million  Americans affected that would be affected directly by Medicaid cuts or  the people that work in the hospitals will be affected by Medicaid cuts  or nursing homes affected by Medicaid cuts--these are big, big numbers.  But people, these are human beings.

I was in a community that had a horrible lead poisoning problem for  their kids, that had horrible toxic sites. And children born around  toxic Superfund sites, as you know they are called, have higher rates  of autism, higher rates of birth defects.

Even coming up as a city council person, I saw that the environmental  injustices surrounding my community were causing parents to have to  deal with medical complications amongst their children at alarming  rates and needed help, and Medicaid was the program--no fault of their  own, environmental injustice.

Here is the double insult of the Trump administration. One is they  gutted the Environmental Justice section at the DOJ. They are not  investigating corporate polluters. They are not investigating the  injustices environmentally that big, powerful, wealthy people do that  often cause people--we all saw ``Erin Brockovich''--that cause people  to get seriously hurt.

And then the second part of that insult is, we are not only not going  to hold people accountable and let them get away with that, the  polluters, the folks causing the source of the disease, we are now not  going to get healthcare to the families who often live in fragile  communities that have these resources.

These are the people, when you sit with them in your offices, as you  and I have and the other Senator from New Jersey on the floor tonight  has--as you sit with them and they tell you their stories and you see  that this is a lifeline, this Medicaid Program--and you are so good by  telling people--I saw this during the Affordable Care Act. Just the  name alone, people were like, I don't have ObamaCare. Yes, you have the  ACA, and let me explain it to you. It is under many, many different  names, including in my State that people don't know this is a Medicaid- funded program. So they don't know this is a sort of Damocles of their  family's well-being. But this is the larger issue, Senator Murphy, is  these are real people in every county, in every State.

It is why their representatives--it is why I read statements  demanding there not to be cuts by the organizations that are  bipartisan. I read the League of Cities--the largest mayoral  association--Republican Governors, and others are all saying do not cut  this program. They are not even saying, ``Don't do $880 million, just  do $400 million.'' They are saying, ``Do not cut this program.''

Many are saying we need to find ways to expand the program because  there are still gaps that people are falling into. And it doesn't make  economic sense because if you get regular care, if your chronic disease  is treated, it ultimately could be cheaper to the taxpayer as opposed  to people ending up in hospitals. But those hospitals now, because of  what is being threatened in this bill, rural hospitals and tier I  trauma hospitals, are all being threatened in their care.

So tonight, it is not normal. I ask everybody to understand this is  not a normal moment in America. This is a crossroads moment in America.  It is one of those times where the values that we talk about in the  Constitution are at stake. What is going to define us, our commitments  to ideals of justice, fairness, of being there for each other.