U.S. Government Accountability Office Legal Opinion


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693338/us-government-accountability-office-legal-opinion


Department of the Interior, U.S. Fish and           Wildlife Service--Applicability of the Congressional           Review Act to Record of Decision for Barred Owl           Management Strategy.      File: B-337059.      Date: May 28, 2025.                                    digest

In August 2024, the U.S. Department of the Interior, U,S.       Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) issued a record of decision       titled, Record of Decision for Final Barred Owl Management       Strategy Implementation and Issuance of a Migratory Bird       Treaty Act Special Purpose Permit in Washington, Oregon, and       California (Barred Owl ROD or ROD). The ROD announced FWS's       decision to adopt a barred owl management strategy to improve       the survival and recovery of northern spotted owls and to       prevent declines in California spotted owls, both of which       compete with barred owls. The Barred Owl Management Strategy       adopted by the ROD provides a framework for federal, state,       or tribal government agencies, or private landowners, to       implement barred owl management through the lethal removal of       barred owls.

The Congressional Review Act (CRA) requires that before a       rule can take effect, an agency must submit the rule to both       the House of Representatives and the Senate, as well as the       Comptroller General. CRA incorporates the Administrative       Procedure Act's (APA) definition of a rule for this purpose,       with three exceptions. We conclude that the Barred Owl ROD is       a rule for purposes of CRA because it meets the APA       definition of a rule, and no CRA exception applies.       Therefore, the ROD is subject to CRA's submission       requirements.                                   decision

In August 2024, the U.S. Department of the Interior       (Interior), U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) announced       its decision to adopt a barred owl management strategy.       Record of Decision for Final Barred Owl Management Strategy       Implementation and Issuance of a Migratory Bird Treaty Act       Special Purpose Permit in Washington, Oregon, and California       (Aug. 2024) (Barred Owl ROD or ROD). We received a request       for a decision as to whether the Barred Owl ROD is a rule for       purposes of the Congressional Review Act (CRA). As discussed       below, we conclude that the ROD is a rule subject to CRA's       submission requirements.

Our practice when rendering decisions is to contact the       relevant agencies to obtain factual information and their       legal views on the subject of the request. Accordingly, we       reached out to Interior on February 4, 2025, and received       Interior's response on March 18, 2025.                                  background       Barred Owl ROD

The Barred Owl ROD documents FWS's decision to adopt the       Final Barred Owl Management Strategy (Barred Owl Management       Strategy or Strategy) and issue an associated permit under       the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA) to implement the       Strategy. The ROD states that the purpose of the action ``is       to reduce barred owl populations to improve the survival and       recovery of northern spotted owls'' (a threatened species       under the Endangered Species Act) ``and to prevent declines       in California spotted owls'' (proposed for listing under the       Endangered Species Act). The ROD explains that barred owls, a       non-native invasive species in western North America, compete       with northern and California spotted owls, and this       competition ``is a primary cause of the rapid and ongoing       decline of northern spotted owl populations'' and poses a       similar risk to California spotted owls as barred owl       populations expand southward.

The Barred Owl Management Strategy provides a framework for       federal, state, or tribal government agencies, or private       landowners, to implement barred owl management. The Strategy       involves the lethal removal of barred owls from specific       areas and describes removal protocols and a monitoring plan       for FWS as well as governmental and non-governmental entities       designated by FWS. The Strategy provides for barred owl       management in all provinces in the northern spotted owl range       and throughout the California spotted owl range.

The MBTA prohibits the lethal removal of protected       migratory bird species, including the barred owl, unless       authorized by FWS in accordance with 50 C.F.R. parts 13 and       21. As part of the Barred Owl ROD, FWS approved the issuance       of a Special Purpose Agency Species Protection Permit to the       FWS Oregon Fish and Wildlife Office under the MBTA to       implement the Strategy in Washington, Oregon, and California,       and to authorize the lethal removal of barred owls by       FWS and other governmental or non-governmental entities       designated by FWS. In particular, implementers and removal       specialists designated by FWS under the MBTA Permit must meet       the training and skill requirements described in the Strategy       and must follow the Strategy's removal protocols.

The ROD states that it was prepared in accordance with the       requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of       1969, as amended (NEPA), the Council on Environmental       Quality's NEPA implementing regulations in effect when the       NEPA process commenced, and Interior's NEPA regulations. As       part of the NEPA process, FWS developed a draft strategy and       shared it for public comment along with a draft Environmental       Impact Statement (EIS). After considering and addressing       comments and input from the public and various stakeholders,       FWS revised the draft Strategy and released it with a final       EIS. The final EIS evaluated six alternatives, and the ROD       adopted the preferred alternative, with some minor clarifying       edits and corrections to the Strategy.      Congressional Review Act (CRA)

CRA, enacted in 1996 to strengthen congressional oversight       of agency rulemaking, requires federal agencies to submit a       report on each new rule to both houses of Congress and the       Comptroller General for review before the rule can take       effect. The report must contain a copy of the rule, ``a       concise general statement relating to the rule,'' and the       rule's proposed effective date. CRA allows Congress to review       and disapprove rules issued by federal agencies for a period       of 60 days using special procedures. If a resolution of       disapproval is enacted, then the new rule has no force or       effect.

CRA adopts the definition of ``rule'' under the       Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which states that a rule       is ``the whole or a part of an agency statement of general or       particular applicability and future effect designed to       implement, interpret, or prescribe law or policy or       describing the organization, procedure, or practice       requirements of an agency.'' However, CRA excludes three       categories of APA rules from coverage: (1) rules of       particular applicability; (2) rules relating to agency       management or personnel; and (3) rules of agency       organization, procedure, or practice that do not       substantially affect the rights or obligations of non-      agency parties.

FWS did not submit a CRA report to Congress or the       Comptroller General on the Barred Owl ROD. In its response to       us, Interior provided additional information about the Barred       Owl ROD but did not state a position as to whether it is a       rule under CRA.                                  DISCUSSION

To determine whether the Barred Owl ROD is a rule subject       to review under CRA, we first address whether it meets the       APA definition of a rule. As explained below, we conclude       that the ROD meets this definition. The next step is to       determine whether the document falls into one of the       categories of APA rules excepted from CRA's requirements. We       conclude that the ROD does not fall within any of the       exceptions. Therefore, the ROD is a rule subject to CRA's       submission requirements.      The Barred Owl ROD is a Rule Under APA

The Barred Owl ROD meets the APA definition of a rule.       First, the ROD is an agency statement as it is an official       document issued by FWS.

Second, the ROD is of future effect. An agency action of       future effect is one ``concerned with policy considerations       for the future rather than the evaluation of past or present       conduct.'' In particular, we previously examined another FWS       record of decision documenting the actions necessary to       restore and maintain certain types of fish in a particular       river. We determined that the essential purpose of the record       of decision was ``to set policy for the future,'' and it was       ``clearly intended to have future effect, namely the       restoration and maintenance of . . . [certain] fishery       resources in the . . . [r]iver.'' Like the record of decision       at issue in B-287557, the Barred Owl ROD sets policy for the       future, namely the adopted Barred Owl Management Strategy,       and is likewise intended to restore and maintain certain       wildlife populations, in this case the northern spotted owl       and California spotted owl, in particular geographic areas,       specifically portions of Washington, Oregon, and California.

Finally, the Barred Owl ROD prescribes and implements law       and policy and describes agency procedure and practice       requirements. An agency statement implements, interprets, or       prescribes law or policy when the action creates new       regulations, changes regulatory requirements or official       policy, or alters how the agency will exercise its       discretion, among other things. The ROD prescribes and       implements a new policy, the Barred Owl Management Strategy,       to improve the survival and recovery of northern spotted owls       and to prevent declines in California spotted owls from       barred owl competition through the lethal removal of barred       owls from specific areas.

An agency statement describes agency organization,       procedure, or practice requirements when the statement       discusses the internal operations of an agency, including       statements that govern the conduct of agency proceedings. The       Barred Owl ROD adopts the Barred Owl Management Strategy,       which includes detailed procedures and practices for barred       owl management, and these procedures and practices apply to       FWS to the extent the agency itself engages in barred owl       management. The Strategy also describes procedures for       designating other governmental and non-governmental entities       as implementers and removal specialists. In particular, the       Strategy describes the information that requesting entities       and individuals must submit to FWS and the process for FWS       review and approval. In addition, the Strategy includes a       monitoring program under which implementers must submit       certain information to ensure actions are consistent with the       Strategy and to assess the success of the management effort.      CRA Exceptions

Having determined that the Barred Owl ROD meets the APA       definition of rule, we next consider whether the ROD falls       within one of the three categories of APA rules not subject       to CRA.      (1) Rule of Particular Applicability

The Barred Owl ROD is not a rule of particular       applicability. Such rules are addressed to a specific,       identified person or entity and address actions that person       or entity may or may not take, taking into account facts and       circumstances specific to that person or entity. In       determining whether a rule is one of general or particular       applicability, we have noted that a rule need not apply to       the population as a whole to be considered a rule of general       applicability; rather, all that is required is that the rule       has general applicability within its intended range,       regardless of the magnitude of the range. For example, we       have determined that a rule is one of general applicability       even if the rule is limited to a specific geographic area, so       long as the rule does not apply to specific, identified       persons or entities.

The Barred Owl ROD adopts the Barred Owl Management       Strategy, and although the Strategy is focused on specific       areas within Washington, Oregon, and California, the Strategy       is not addressed to specific, identified persons or entities.       Instead, the Strategy provides a framework for any federal,       state, or tribal government agency, or private landowner, to       implement barred owl management.      (2) Rule of Agency Management or Personnel

The Barred Owl ROD is not a rule of agency management or       personnel. This exception applies to rules relating to       ``purely internal agency matters.'' These include rules       related to controlling, directing, or supervising internal       management issues, as well as those related to personnel       issues like communications between employees and managers,       leave, or benefits.

The Barred Owl ROD does not involve internal agency       management or personnel matters. Rather, the ROD adopts a       Barred Owl Management Strategy that provides a framework for       federal, state, or tribal government agencies, or private       landowners, to implement barred owl management. Although FWS       will be one entity implementing the Strategy--as demonstrated       by the issuance of the MBTA Permit to the FWS Oregon Fish and       Wildlife Office--FWS contemplates designating other       governmental and non-governmental entities to implement the       Strategy under its MBTA Permit and also expects that other       entities could potentially apply for their own permit using       the Strategy.      (3) Rule of Agency Organization, Procedure, or Practice that           Does Not Substantially Affect Non-Agency Parties

Finally, the Barred Owl ROD is not a rule of agency       organization, procedure, or practice that does not       substantially affect the rights or obligations of non-agency       parties. A rule of agency organization, procedure, or       practice is a rule that is limited to an agency's methods of       operation or how the agency organizes its internal       operations. Although certain rules directed at non-agency       parties are considered rules of agency organization,       procedure, or practice--such as those that affect the way       regulated entities submit information to an agency, how the       agency reviews that information, or the type or timing of       actions the agency will take based on that submission--rules       that are directed at and primarily concerned with the       behavior of non-agency parties do not fall within this       category.

As discussed above, the Barred Owl Management Strategy       adopted by the ROD provides a framework for non-agency       parties to implement barred owl management. This includes       detailed requirements and guidance for non-agency parties       designated by FWS to implement the Strategy, including       removal protocols and how those parties might prioritize       actions under the Strategy. These elements of the Strategy       are primarily focused on the behavior of those non-agency       parties rather than FWS's internal operations.

On the other hand, the Barred Owl Management Strategy also       describes FWS's methods of operation. For example, the       implementation requirements and guidance apply to FWS to the       extent the agency itself engages in barred owl management       under the Strategy. The Strategy also describes procedures       for designating other governmental and non-governmental       entities as implementers and removal specialists. In       particular, the Strategy describes the information that       requesting entities and individuals must submit to FWS and       the process for FWS review and approval. However,       notwithstanding the inclusion of these agency procedures and       practices, the Strategy's primary focus on the conduct of       non-agency parties implementing barred owl management       establishes that the       ROD does not qualify as a rule of agency organization,       procedure, or practice.

In addition, the ROD substantially affects the rights or       obligations of non-agency parties. Although the Strategy       adopted by the ROD does not require an entity to implement       barred owl management and actions are limited to the lands of       willing landowners and land managers, we have previously       concluded that rules establishing requirements for voluntary       programs may still substantially affect non-agency parties       that choose to participate.

In B-334146, we examined U.S. Department of Agriculture       actions establishing four new financial assistance programs.       The actions prescribed each program's eligibility       requirements, application requirements, calculation and       distribution of funds, and, in some cases, reporting       requirements and limitations on how funds could be used.       Although participation in the programs was voluntary, we       concluded that the actions substantially affected non-agency       parties because they directly determined whether interested       entities would receive funding under the programs, and, for       certain programs, imposed additional implementation and       reporting requirements on program participants.

The ROD's adoption of the Barred Owl Management Strategy       establishes a new voluntary program for interested       governmental and non-governmental entities. Like the       eligibility and application requirements included in the       actions at issue in B-334146, the Strategy prescribes the       information that must be submitted by non-agency parties       interested in becoming implementers and removal specialists,       as well as qualifications for persons participating in       removal activities. And just as some of the actions in B-      334146 imposed additional requirements on program       participants, the Strategy includes requirements for       individuals and entities designated as implementers by FWS.       For example, the Strategy prescribes detailed protocols for       removal activities, as well as reporting requirements. In       short, the ROD and adopted Strategy substantially affect non-      agency parties by describing who may implement barred owl       removal activities, the information those persons or entities       must submit to FWS (both to be designated as implementers or       removal specialists and as part of subsequent reporting       requirements), and the protocols those persons or entities       must follow when conducting removal activities.                                  CONCLUSION

The Barred Owl ROD meets the APA definition of a rule, and       no exception applies. Therefore, the ROD is subject to CRA's       requirement that it be submitted to Congress and the       Comptroller General before it can take effect.