Unanimous Consent Requests


Mr. BOOKER. To the esteemed Presiding Officer, I am going to reserve  the right to object.

Mr. BOOKER. I am really grateful that this is one of the areas where  we have a lot of bipartisan support because this body I would say  unanimously believes that we have to do more to help local law  enforcement.

I see it in my State. We have real challenges--challenges with  recruitment, challenges with officers who are in incredibly stressful  situations for their mental health, and even empowering officers to be  able to do their job, which is a job that everyone wants our officers  to do.

I say this all the time: If you polled my city, which is a majority  minority city, a majority African-American city, and asked them ``Hey,  do you want more police, less police, or the same amount of police?''  undeniably, they would want more law enforcement.

When I talk to the law enforcement officers in not just my city but  up and down the State, they want more resources. That is why I have  multiple bills to actually fund our police departments around our  country and specifically in New Jersey to empower them on everything  from closing out murder investigations all the way to mental health.

In fact, the legislation that is being brought forward--it is right,  it is bipartisan legislation. I am the cosponsor of some of the bills  we have right now on the floor. We should be united in this body, all  100 of us, to stand up for public safety and to fund our police, get  them the resources and the equipment they need to do their job.

Unfortunately, that is not what is happening. President Trump,  through an arbitrary Executive order, has told this body: Your  intentions will not be followed.

The legislation that is being proposed today--the President has  already said that those DOJ grants will not go to certain States-- Illinois, California, New York, New Jersey--that they are not eligible  for these grant programs. That is not a bipartisan way of going about  it. That is singling out certain States over other States. That is  actually defunding the police departments in certain States for other  States when you say that these States that have gotten many of these  grants in years past can no longer get them. None of us in this body  should support that. All of us in this body should join together and  say: When Congress passes a grant program, the President of the United  States cannot arbitrarily decide which States receive those grants and  which States don't.

I feel a driving sense of urgency that we must support our police  officers. They are facing greater and newer challenges in this country.  I feel a deep urgency to support mental health issues in particular  because I lost one of my dear childhood friends, who died by suicide in  uniform.

I want to make a simple adjustment to this legislation--very simple.  What it would do is basically say that when this body has approved  these grant programs, the President can't undermine the  Founders' intention that we hold the purse strings, that the President  can't undermine that and these grants have to go out as Congress  intended them.

That is all I am asking from my colleague across the aisle, and it is  all I am asking from this body, is that we, together, say: We need to  get resources for police officers in all of our country. We shouldn't  be picking out some departments and not others.

This is just simply making sure that this is a bipartisan effort to  fund local police officers.

So I ask my colleagues to pass these bills as I amend them so that we  can refocus on the urgent work of reopening the government and then  providing all law enforcement agencies with the resources they need,  ensuring every law enforcement agency has a fair opportunity to secure  funding to support their work, to support the men and women, to support  their sacred and noble duties. We should work in a bipartisan way.

So I ask that the consent be modified such that my amendments to S.  180, S. 419, S. 539, S. 1316, and S. 1563, which are at the desk, also  be agreed to, with all the other provisions that my colleague is asking  for remaining intact, so that we can fund all of police and stop our  President's attempt to defund police departments in blue States.

Mr. BOOKER. Yeah, I just--again, I have so much respect for my  colleague that I want to respond to some of the things he said,  because, again, I just want to affirm that he is right on the urgency  to help our police officers. He is right that States should abide by  Federal law that passes from this body. But what we have now is a  President who, in his first term, didn't ever try something like this,  which is undermining the will of Congress. This is really  unprecedented. It has never happened--Republican President, Democratic  President--including Donald Trump's first term, where he suddenly said:  I am going to turn off the spigot of support to local law enforcement  agencies because I don't agree with your policies.

I think that is a threat to the independence of our branch of  government. I think that is in so many ways violative of our shared  values on both sides of the aisle. But let me go further than that.  What the President is doing is saying: Not only am I going to stop  funding from going to the State of New Jersey, I am going to go to red  counties in New Jersey, red counties in California.

I actually went out and talked to people. Republican legislators in  States, Republican police officers, a Republican union leader told me  this as well: This is ridiculous. This is insane that we would hold  grants back from the entire State. He said: I don't agree with  Democrats' policies, but we are out here putting our lives on the line,  and Republicans in Congress want to stop resources coming to our police  departments.

One of the union leaders said to me: My guys are out there  sacrificing their lives, and we can't get help that both sides of the  aisle agree on?

So, yes, my colleague and I disagree on domestic immigration  policies. One thing he and I don't agree on--because I was the mayor of  a city that basically said: In order to keep my city safe, we are going  to cooperate with the police department. It was an overbroad  generalization that was made on the Senate floor that we are not  supporting ICE and immigration activities. I know this up and down the  State of New Jersey. Not only do we support them, but we detailed  officers with Federal immigration enforcement. I did it when I was  mayor.

You want to talk about cooperation. Anybody who knows local  government from the FBI to the ATF to ICE, all over New Jersey, we are  cooperating with Federal authorities. What we have simply said is we  are responsible for local law enforcement. We are not going to do  things that create such fear in our communities that immigrant  communities are afraid to come to local police to report crimes. And  that somehow--not in Trump's first term--but somehow in this term of  office, that is a bridge too far.

Let me tell you right now, the way immigration is being pursued in  our neighborhoods, where masked agents are coming out of unmarked cars  or going to court appearances and schools and hospitals--my local  police officers are telling me how much more dangerous this  administration is making communities because people who are the victims  of crime now are afraid to go to local police officers and report those  crimes.

Again, this is not coming from politicians in New Jersey. This is  coming from law enforcement officers that have said that we have  created such a climate of fear in our country that just solving crimes  is getting harder and harder because people are afraid to come to the  police.

So, yes, we have policies that say there are certain things we won't  do to maintain a community of trust within our communities.

I understand there is a lot of rhetoric. I could turn on shock news  and all of that, but when you talk to the law enforcement officers in  many of the most Republican parts of my community, they are outraged  about what is happening right now.

Again, we can debate policy on immigration, but, to me, for a Senator  to allow a President to undermine the power of the purse relegated by  the Constitution to this body is outrageous. It has never been done  before, not in Trump's first term, not by Bush, not by Reagan, not by  Clinton, not by Obama. We are in new territory here in our country  where we see a President encroaching upon our powers. I can't be  complicit in that.

Everybody in this body--I would never question any of my colleagues  on either side of the aisle. We all want our local police departments  to not only be able to do their job, we all want to have more equipment  and resources. That is why these bills are bipartisan. How can we allow  bipartisan bills passed out of the Senate to then be stopped, in a  partisan way, by a President who is then going to choose red States and  hurt blue States, even though my State has millions of Republicans who  deserve to have their communities safe as well?

I am standing today just to say, let's use common sense and help our  police officers together; get the resources desperately needed out to  our communities now and not let this fall victim to something that  wasn't even an issue in Donald Trump's first term.