Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, everybody has a story. Actually, everybody  has a journey, when you think of life. Some are heartbreaking, but some  are uplifting, and some are hopeful. Tomorrow night, during senior  night, the University of Vermont men's basketball team is going to  celebrate one story that is all of these things: heartbreaking,  uplifting, and hopeful. They will celebrate that when senior Josh  Speidel takes the court for the first time--and what will be the only  time--in his college career. 

  Josh is a native of Columbus, IN. He dreamed from a very young age of  playing college basketball. At Columbus North High School in Indiana,  Josh was the basketball team's all-time lead  point scorer and an Indiana All-Star. In November of 2014, just before  his senior basketball season, he committed to play for the University  of Vermont, and he accepted a scholarship at the university to play for  the team. 

  Here is the heartbreaking part. Just a few months later, in February  of 2015, Josh's dream was derailed when he suffered a traumatic brain  injury, resulting from a devastating car crash. Josh would go on to  spend the next 4 months in the hospital and in rehab. But just a few  days after the accident, the University of Vermont's head coach, John  Becker, went to Indiana and visited Josh there with a simple message  for him: You are still welcome at UVM. Your scholarship will be  honored, and we will help you in any way we can. That is, after all,  the Vermont way. 

  Josh would ultimately arrive at UVM in August of 2016. While he  hasn't suited up with the team, he has worked with trainers; he has  improved his physical condition; and he has remained active on the  court. What is so inspiring, his team was at his side throughout. He  has been a constant fixture of the team, on the sidelines at games,  cheering his teammates on. I have been at games and have seen him doing  that. 

  Off the court, Josh has been working toward a degree through the  College of Education. He is choosing a self-designed major to prepare  him to work with children through sports, with a double minor in  behavior change and coaching. 

  He has been a committed student throughout his time at UVM. He is set  to graduate this May. After graduation, Josh hopes to use both his life  experience and his education to work with children. 

  Tomorrow night, the University of Vermont men's basketball team will  celebrate senior night. In a special arrangement with their opponent,  Albany, Josh, wearing number 32, will suit up, take the court, and  notch the night's first basket after the tip-off. 

  I so wish I could be there because when Josh steps off the court, it  will surely be to the standing ovation of this young man--the  personification of perseverance, determination, dedication, and hope he  so richly deserves. I know my fellow Vermonters who are at these games,  and I know there will be very few dry eyes in the house. 

  We are, all of us, the product of our life experiences, of the  community that supports us, and of the will we carry to press on. Josh  Speidel is a remarkable young man. At the packed gym tomorrow night,  there is going to be an emotional and vibrant celebration. 

  Josh, from the floor of the U.S. Senate, I congratulate you on a  recognition so richly deserved. 

   1, 2020]   UVM's Josh Speidel and His Remarkable Journey Set for Emotional Stage                              on Senior Night                             (By Alex Abramif)  

       Fruit was a big part of Josh Speidel's diet when he first       arrived at the University of Vermont in the summer of 2016. 

       ``He just loved bananas, it was his main food,'' said       Everett Duncan, Speidel's dorm roommate that year, ``I'm       personally OK with bananas, but I was wondering, `Where are       we getting all these fruit flies?' And at the time Josh was       leaving them in this little trash can that he had on the       right side of his desk.'' 

       A brief argument ensued. 

       ``I was like, `You are not eating bananas in here anymore,       just keep it at the dining hall,' '' Duncan recalled. ``But       then I realized that I'm yelling at this man for eating       bananas. It's funny now when we think about it.'' 

       The next year, Speidel roomed with another teammate, Ben       Shungu. The duo would take advantage of the 5-minute walk       from their University Heights dorm to Patrick Gym, routinely       setting the alarm clock before 6 a.m. for workouts. Most       mornings the UVM men's basketball players had the gym to       themselves. 

       On one end of the court, there was Shungu working on his       jumper with a shooting machine. And on the other end, there       was Speidel putting up layups and doing his exercises. 

       ``We would get up and do our thing,'' Shungu said. 

       Fast-forward to the past two years: Speidel moved into an       off-campus house with Duncan, Shungu and the rest of his       upperclassmen teammates on the UVM men's basketball team, the       sort of thing college student-athletes everywhere do. 

       Except none of it was guaranteed for Speidel when he       stepped onto the Burlington campus in 2016. 

       Already committed and signed with the Catamounts when he       was a senior at Columbus North High School in Indiana,       Speidel was in a car accident on Super Bowl Sunday in 2015--      one that caused a traumatic brain injury, left him in a coma       for weeks and nearly took his life. 

       The 6-foot-8, 215-pound star forward went from averaging       25.6 points and 9.3 rebounds a game to learning how to walk       and talk again. Basketball, his passion, remained a guiding       light on his road to recovery, on his path back to being an       independent person. 

       ``It's unbelievable what's he's gone through,'' Shungu       said. ``To see him stand on his own two feet and just living       his life--it's just incredible, an incredible story. 

       ``His story definitely inspires.'' 

       And more than five years after that accident, Speidel will       finally fulfill a dream he's had since he was a little kid:       Play in a Division I college basketball game. 

       The Catamounts' senior night on Tuesday has afforded       Speidel the chance to suit up and start for the first and       only time in his career. In a pre-game arrangement, Speidel       and Albany, UVM's opponent, will trade baskets after the       opening tip. Then Speidel will exit, surely to a lengthy       standing ovation from the Vermont faithful. 

       ``I didn't get to experience my senior night in high       school, I didn't get to walk out with my parents,'' Speidel       said. ``I don't think it's hit me fully yet, but just being       able to walk them out and embrace them and thank (my       parents), thank coach (John Becker) for all he's done--it       will be pretty emotional. It's hard to put into words. 

       ``For four years I've been hearing the starting lineup and       I've always envisioned my name said. I think that'll be       something.'' 

       Speidel's parents, Dave and Lisa, have also waited--and       hoped--for a day like this to arrive. 

       ``It's a moment we believed would happen. We never wanted       Josh to give up,'' Lisa Speidel said. ``Without basketball,       Josh wouldn't be where he is. Without UVM, Josh wouldn't be       where he is.''                     Determination, faith drive recovery  

       About six months after the accident, a doctor's evaluation       didn't forecast a favorable outcome for Speidel's reading       comprehension. 

       ``He said Joshua wouldn't be above a fourth-grade level,       ever,'' Lisa Speidel said. 

       ``I told him that you are not going to tell Joshua that and       he agreed,'' she said. ``I still have those results in an       envelope, but I have yet to open it.'' 

       Not long after that, Josh Speidel began an online course at       a community college and started seeing noticeable gains in       his recovery. 

       ``Things really started clicking for Joshua then, it was       really amazing,'' Lisa Speidel said. Positivity was a must.       There was no room for negative vibes or prognoses that       didn't align with the Speidels' confidence for a full       recovery. 

       Josh Speidel and his parents also relied on their religious       beliefs for strength and direction. 

       ``Faith has always been instrumental in my well-being and       having that relationship with God has always been first in my       life,'' Josh Speidel said. ``Sticking with that through the       ups and downs, my parents never wavered in their faith, they       never took a step back and questioned God. Seeing how they       handled it, I think helped me and continues to help me.'' 

       Becker, in his ninth year as bench boss of the Catamounts,       flew out to Indiana during a snowstorm just a couple days       after Speidel's accident. Becker told the Speidels that their       son had a scholarship waiting for him when he was ready (the       NCAA later granted UVM a scholarship waiver). 

       ``You could see the qualities that made him a great player,       just really determined and hardworking and competitive,''       Becker said. ``He's just a wonderful person off the court and       takes time with people. 

       ``Only a special person can come as far as he has in just a       couple years.'' 

       UVM has reached the NCAA Tournament twice, produced the       America East Conference's first unbeaten season and garnered       the league's top seed in four straight seasons during       Speidel's time in Burlington--achievements Becker believes       are forever tied to Speidel. 

       ``I told Josh that the (four) years he's been here are the       best years of this program's history arguably. I don't think       that's a coincidence,'' Becker said. ``It's hard to know why.       I just think there's something that you can't really explain       and you don't know what it is, but there's something there--      he's been in some way a big part of it and he'll always be       linked to this program's history in my mind.''                    Speidel continues to inspire UVM team  

       UVM associate head coach Kyle Cieplicki was the lead       recruiter on getting Speidel to commit to UVM back in Aug.       2014. Cieplicki spent about a year on the recruitment trail       of a rising star from a hoops-crazed state who was fielding       more than a dozen D-1 offers and had drawn interest from Mark       Few of Gonzaga. 

       ``We've never recruited a kid harder than when we recruited       Josh. He went on a limb       to choose us,'' Cieplicki said. ``His commitment was really       special to me and the rest of the staff.'' 

       The accident and how Speidel approached his life on a daily       basis revealed a side Cieplicki had yet to see.         ``He's shown me and all of us how to handle adversity,''       Cieplicki said. ``To have to work as hard as he did to get       back and then to deal with the emotional component, the       mental component of physically not being what he once was and       to see him deal with that every day and maintain his work       ethic and work habits--that's the biggest inspiration.         ``A lot of things have changed for him but it's never       allowed him to slow down.'' While senior night can't replace       a playing career that didn't come to fruition, Speidel can       soak in the achievement of earning this moment in front of       hometown fans.         ``To see him out there and participating, it's going to be       a crazy thing,'' Everett Duncan said. 

       Duncan's the lone player left on the team when Speidel was       honored before a Jan. 2016 game vs. Stony Brook. Duncan said       his fellow Indiana native continues to motivate the       Catamounts. 

       ``I think he's meant everything. I know that every single       guy in the locker room wants him to play,'' Duncan said.       ``There are days we see him on the sidelines watching every       single second of practice. For some of us like Benny, Anthony       and me, we've known him for such a long time, he's one of our       best friends. 

       ``Even now, this is our last go-round, Josh is with us.       He's more a part of this senior class than me or Anthony.       He's a big part of this senior class who's done a lot for       us.''                         Speidel will graduate in May  

       Driven to return to the game he loves, Speidel came to       grips with one harsh reality: He wasn't going to play       basketball for UVM. Though that didn't make it any easier to       accept.         ``It's a tough question but I've battled with that for a       while. Obviously, I'm OK with that I'm not able to play and       I'm not back to where I was,'' Speidel said. ``That was a       tough pill to swallow, but when I think about all that I've       gained, maybe I didn't get back to playing, but I'm still       bettering myself by working out every day and being in the       best shape physically and basketball has helped me with       that.'' 

       Speidel put his focus and much of his energy into his       classes and becoming more independent away from school. He       learned to cook for himself--a crockpot came in handy--and       manage his money. 

       And when it came to living off campus, it was Speidel who       pushed for it.         ``I told my parents that I just wanted to test myself. I       wanted to see if I was able to take care of myself,'' Speidel       said. 

       In school, Speidel has earned a 3.40 grade-point average,       the highest on the team, through an individualized major in       education and social services. He also has a double minor in       behavior change and coaching.         ``Josh has always had a knack for working with kids and       relating to kids. To see that more amplified after his       accident is just awesome,'' said Lisa Speidel, an elementary       school principal. 

       Speidel will graduate this May--in four years' time. How       remarkable is that? 

       Speidel shied away from praising himself.         ``It's kind of hard to say that for myself because I'm       living it. But I love when people say, `Oh Josh, you've come       so far' or `Josh, you are walking so much better,' '' Speidel       said. ``It's those little things that go such a long way and       it gives me a sense that all this hard work is doing       something.'' 

       The network of support at UVM--from academic advisors,       teachers, teammates, coaches and athletic trainers--hasn't       been lost on Speidel and his mother.         ``I can't put into words how thankful and how blessed and       lucky I am,'' Speidel said. 

       Lisa Speidel: ``We love UVM and everything they have meant       and done for us. It's amazing.'' 

       Josh Speidel is 24 years old. He said he could write a book       of all the things he's been through and learned over the last       five years. If anything stood out above it all, if there was       anything Speidel wanted others to absorb from his story, it       was this: Don't give up on your dreams. 

       ``I tell this to people: Always have an end goal in your       head and chase after it as hard as you can,'' Speidel said.       ``And whenever you need help, ask the people around you       because I think there are more people than you think who are       there to help you. 

       ``I've held on to that and really tried to live by that.''  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I want to do this because in an era where  we hear so much bad news, it is wonderful to hear inspiring news. This  is an inspiring young man. I congratulate him and the University of  Vermont for what they have done. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I note that somebody else is not waiting  to speak. When somebody does, I, of course, will yield the floor.                                 Coronavirus  

  Madam President, I want to bring my colleagues up to date on where my  head is as vice chairman of Appropriations. All of us worked very hard  throughout the weekend and all last week--Republicans and Democrats  together--along with our counterparts in the other body. 

  Each one of us looks with some trepidation to the latest report on  the virus attacks, including the serious ones in the United States, and  the deaths that have occurred around the world. We are trying to put  together an appropriations bill that will give our administration the  tools they need to protect America and to help our allies, not only to  protect us from having what has come to our shores but what is already  in our shores, the coronavirus--that we be able to protect Americans  from it. 

  I want to compliment those who have been working on it in both  parties. As often happens in the Appropriations Committee, we pretty  well leave our labels at the door. We work together--both Republicans  and Democrats--to get a good bill. I urge both the majority leader and  the Democratic leader that, once we have it and as soon as the House  acts, there will be an appropriations bill. They will go first, but we  move very quickly. 

  Frankly, when I look at the dangers facing America, I am perfectly  willing to stay here throughout the weekend, if need be, as many of us  did last weekend, to get this passed and on the President's desk. We  are not Republicans or Democrats in this matter. We are Americans, and  we are U.S. Senators. The Senate has so often set the standards for the  rest of the country. We can do it here. I hope that as soon as we can  vote on this, we will. 

  I commend Senator Shelby. He is the chairman of the committee. I am  the vice chairman of the committee. We have worked together. I also  commend all the other Senators, both Republicans and Democrats, who  have worked with us. 

  I hope this body will be able to vote, ideally this week--if not this  week, the very first part of next week. This is an important matter.  Cancel the weekend, if need be. Stay here and get it done. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT