Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, Chairman Shelby just spoke. He and I  have worked so hard together on the Appropriations Committee on the  emergency coronavirus supplemental request. I have always enjoyed  working with Chairman Shelby, and I am pleased we can announce that we  have reached a bipartisan, bicameral agreement on an emergency  supplemental to address the spread of the novel coronavirus and protect  the health and safety of the American people. So I thank my friend  Chairman Shelby, Chairwoman Lowey of the other body, and Ranking Member  Granger for their cooperation. 

  I think one of the things I found during my time on the  Appropriations Committee is that we tend to leave our labels at the  door. We worked together. We did not see each other as Republicans and  Democrats. We looked at each other as Members of the House and the  Senate trying to get this done. I urge both the majority leader and the  Democratic leader to move as quickly as possible, once the House acts  today, to get this agreement to the President's desk. 

  As I said last weekend, there is no reason why we cannot and should  not finish this bill this week and get it down to the President for  signing. If we have to work Friday or even Saturday, let's get it done  and get it done now. 

  Now, what the House of Representatives is debating today is vastly  different from the $1.25 billion grossly inadequate proposal from the  Trump administration that was sent to Congress just 9 days ago. This  was so poorly thought out that both Republicans and Democrats said it  made no sense. 

  Where President Trump's proposal would rob Peter to pay Paul by  stealing hundreds of millions of dollars from funds meant to contain an  ongoing Ebola crisis and take money from programs the American people  rely on, like the low-income heating assistance program, LIHEAP, our  agreement provides $7.8 billion in new emergency funding to address  this crisis without raiding these important programs. We cannot just  turn our backs on funding to address the ongoing Ebola crisis. 

  And millions of Amricans rely on programs like LIHEAP. I would invite  any of those from the White House who think we do not need this heating  assistance in places like my home state of Vermont, where just a few  days ago it was 10 below zero. 

  Our agreement does not rob Peter to pay Paul. We are not stealing  hundreds of millions of dollars from funds meant to contain an ongoing  Ebola crisis but simply providing $7.8 billion in new emergency funding  to address this crisis without raiding those important programs. 

  We also include a $500 million authorization to enhance the  availability of telehealth services--something that could be so helpful  in virtually every one of our States. 

  We also reject the President's extreme ``America First'' mantra that  would include nothing for USAID to help contain the spread of the  coronvirus abroad. Let's be realistic. At a time when communicable  diseases are only an airplane flight away, that is a recipe for  failure. If we can stop this before it gets to our borders, why  shouldn't we work with other countries to do that? So, we instead  provide $1.25 billion in new resources for the global health response,  provide humanitarian assistance, and secure funding for emergency  evacuations of U.S. citizens, if needed. 

  We provide $2.2 billion to support Federal, State, and local public  health agencies to prevent, prepare for, and respond to the  coronavirus. The funds will support laboratory testing and monitoring,  infection control, and public health preparedness. Again, we are taking  this completely out of politics and going to where our best people are  who need the resources to address this crisis. I talked about some of  the need for help with the Governor of our State, who is a Republican,  and we worked very, very closely together. I applaud what he has been  doing to prepare for this virus. 

  Our agreement is going to provide more than $3 billion for research  and development of vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics to prevent  or treat the effects of coronavirus. We are going to include provisions  to ensure that vaccines developed with the support of Federal dollars-- our tax dollars--remain affordable to those most in need. The taxpayers  pay for it. They should not have to pay for it a second time because a  large company wants to make a huge profit. In fact, we provide nearly  $1 billion for healthcare preparedness, the procurement of  pharmaceuticals and medical supplies and funding to support community  health centers, which provide healthcare to so many in our underserved  urban areas and rural communities. 

  We provide $61 million to the Food and Drug Administration to  facilitate the development of new therapies and vaccines to combat the  coronavirus but also to mitigate the potential medical supply chain  interruptions. 

  Importantly, this agreement includes $7 billion in small business  disaster loans. What is happening can really hit the small businesses,  which are the backbone of America's economy. We have this money, the  small business disaster loans, to help mitigate the economic impact of  the spread of the coronavirus in the United States. 

  When we confront this widening crisis, it is important to remember  that we are not doing it as Republicans or Democrats seeking to score  political points in addressing this threat. It is not something for the  Republican Party or the Democratic Party to deal with. We should deal  with it as who we are. We are Americans, and we are U.S. Senators. One  hundred of us have to speak to our own conscience. At times of crisis  in our Nation's history, the Senate has proven its ability to be the  conscience of the Nation and a steady guiding hand. That is what we  have to do now. 

  I am pleased that the House measure does not include legislation  related to extending FISA, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.  We have had months to deal with that controversial legislation. It has  no place on urgent funding legislation to combat the current health  situation. 

  I am confident we can, once again, put aside partisan squabbles and  help to lead our Nation forward. Taking up this agreement as soon as  possible is the first step. 

  I will work with Chairman Shelby. The two of us will work together to  shepherd this bipartisan, bicameral agreement through the Senate and to  the President. 

  I would note--and I will speak further on this later on--that there  are an awful lot of members of our staffs, both Republican and  Democratic, who have worked and worked and worked late nights, worked  weekends, and worked on days off to get us here. I applaud the men and  women who have done that. 

  I see my distinguished colleague on the floor, so I will yield the  floor. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT