As Senate Session Resumes, Leahy Joins In Introducing Resolutions To Halt Trump's Conflict With Iran


[As the U.S. Senate came back into session this week after the Christmas break, Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) cosponsored three resolutions aimed at preventing further U.S. military strikes against Iran.  Leahy is a cosponsor of a resolution headed by Senator Tim Kaine (D-Va..), which would direct the removal of U.S. armed forces from hostilities against Iran that have not been authorized by Congress.  Leahy is a cosponsor of legislation that will be introduced by Senator Bernie Sanders D-Vt.), to prohibit the use of funds for military force against Iran.  Leahy is also a cosponsor or a resolution that will be introduced by Senator Ed Markey (D-Mass.), which condemns threats by President Trump to violate the law of armed conflict in Iran and affirms that cultural sites are protected by international law.  Leahy is the Vice Chair of the Appropriations Committee and Ranking Member of the State Department's budget committee, the Appropriations Subcommittee on the State Department and Foreign Operations.  Leahy on Tuesday released the following statement:]

Only President Trump would assert that the purpose of assassinating an Iranian general, ruthless yet revered by the Iranian people, was to "keep us out of a war,' and to then threaten disproportionate attacks against dozens of targets in Iran including cultural sites that are protected under the Geneva Conventions. 

Only Secretary Pompeo would insist that killing Soleimani has made America "absolutely safer,' when Iran announced it would no longer recognize limits to uranium enrichment and vowed to avenge the death of Soleimani, millions of Iranians have united in calling for "death to America,' the Iraqi Parliament voted to expel our forces, counter-ISIS operations in Iraq have been at least temporarily suspended, and thousands of U.S. troops are suddenly being deployed to the region.  Without bothering to consult with anyone but themselves, the Administration has put all Americans, as well as our allies, at unnecessary risk. 

It is impossible not to feel that dark days are ahead, all because of another reckless act by President Trump, for whom bombastic threats and the use of sanctions and military force are the solution to every foreign challenge. 

It's up to the Congress to protect the American people, including our men and women in uniform and our diplomats posted overseas, from a President who cannot be trusted to act prudently, rationally, or strategically.  That is why I am cosponsoring Senate legislation to prohibit the use of funds for military force against Iran, to direct the removal of U.S. armed forces from hostilities against Iran that have not been authorized by Congress, and condemning threats by President Trump to violate the law of armed conflict in Iran.