Congressional Power of the Purse Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, the authors of our Constitution  purposefully built checks and balances into the foundation of our  democracy, and the power of the purse is a critical part of those  checks and balances. Article 1, section 9 of the Constitution states  ``No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of  Appropriations made by Law.'' That means Congress, not the executive  branch, is charged with making decisions about how to invest and spend  Federal revenue. As the vice chairman of the Appropriations Committee,  I take this responsibility very seriously. 

  When Congress appropriates Federal dollars, we expect those dollars  to be used as directed. We expect appropriations laws to be upheld, and  we expect the administration to be transparent in its actions. 

  But for too many years, Presidents of both parties have encroached on  the power of the purse as they have tried to expand their budgetary  powers and, in some cases, substitute their judgement for that of  Congress. This has been acutely true under this administration. No  President has pushed the boundaries of and contorted appropriations law  more than President Trump. 

  When Congress refused to give President Trump the money he requested  for a wall on the southern border, he directed his administration to  sidestep Congress and take it from funding for our military and their  families. He continues to do so to this day. 

  The President wanted to pressure the Government of Ukraine into  investigating his political rival, so he withheld security money for  Ukraine in violation of the Impoundment Control Act. An action that  would eventually lead to his impeachment. 

  Last year, the administration asserted to Congress that it had the  power to propose rescissions in the last quarter of the fiscal year and  further asserted it had the power to allow the funds to lapse if  Congress did not act on its proposal, essentially claiming the  executive branch, not Congress, had the last word on spending. The  Government Accountability Office, GAO, thankfully and rightfully,  disagreed. Last year, this administration also overturned a long held  precedent that the executive branch did not need to respond to findings  by GAO of violations of the Anti-Deficiency Act. Finally, this  administration has suppressed OMB and executive branch agency  cooperation with GAO in investigating the execution of appropriated  funds. 

  The push and pull over the power of the purse between Congress and  the executive branch did not start with President Trump and will not  end when he is no longer in office. Administrations of both parties  have clashed with Congress over this authority. But the actions of this  President make clear that Congress needs to reassert itself and defend  its constitutionally granted prerogatives. This should not be a  partisan issue. The Founders chose to vest the power of the purse with  Congress. It is an important part of our system of checks and balances,  and we must defend it. 

  That is why I am introducing the Congressional Power of the Purse  Act. This bill will restore Congress's central role in funding  decisions, increase transparency in the executive branch, and add teeth  to existing budget laws. 

  The bill strengthens the Impoundment Control Act, including the  addition of penalties for failure to comply. The bill strengthens  administration reporting requirements and congressional oversight  tools, so Congress can better follow the money and ensure the law is  being complied with. Finally, the bill reforms the National Emergencies  Act of 1974 to provide more Congressional control over these  designations and how they are used. I hope all members can support it. 

  I commend Representative Lowey and Representative Yarmuth for  introducing a similar bill in the House, and I hope that the House will  send the bill to the Senate in July. 

   I would note that this  list of cosponsors includes every Democratic Member of the  Appropriations Committee. 

  (At the request of Mr. Durbin, the following statement was ordered to  be printed in the Record.)    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT