Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I know other Senators have already spoken  on this, but I would hope Members would oppose the Paul amendment. 

  The amendment would cut, among other things, $7.3 billion from the  Department of State and the USAID. It would decimate programs that fund  the foreign policy priorities of both the administration and the  Congress. A cut of that size would be about two-thirds of the total  funding appropriated for these purposes, some of which has already been  spent. 

  I remember when James Mattis was the Secretary of Defense. He is a  man I admire for his work as a four-star general with the Marine Corps  and as Defense Secretary. He is not a man who looked at the world or  the needs of our military in an abstract fashion; he dealt with it  every day. He came before our Committee on Appropriations and said: If  you want to cut foreign aid, buy me more bullets. 

  He made it very clear that there are areas in the world where what we  do keeps us from having to go to combat. 

  The Paul amendment would practically eliminate the remaining budget  for programs to strengthen democracy, combat corruption, promote  economic growth, improve water and sanitation, aid victims of war and  natural disasters, and support our allies and partners in countless  ways. 

  The reason the State Department and USAID need supplemental funds is  that the resources provided in fiscal year 2020 are not sufficient to  meet the unanticipated public health, economic, and humanitarian  challenges presented by the coronavirus. Yet the Paul amendment would  cut billions from the same accounts for which additional resources are  needed. 

  The funding for the programs that would be cut by the Paul amendment  is how we make our presence felt around the world. It actually totals  less than 1 percent of the Federal budget. 

  Senators of both parties--of both parties--voted overwhelmingly to  include this funding in the fiscal year 2020 State, Foreign Operations  appropriations bill. 

  In case anybody has forgotten when that was, that was just 3 months  ago. 

  The Paul amendment would also eliminate $475 million that Congress  enacted less than 3 months ago for educational and cultural exchanges,  including $160 million for the Fulbright Program--so no more Fulbright  Program, no more International Visitors Program, no more exchange  programs for young leaders in Africa, Southeast Asia, or Latin America.  These programs enrich the lives of Americans and directly benefit the  economies, in every State of the Union, and create lasting ties between  U.S. and foreign communities, universities, and governments--but not if  the Paul amendment passes. 

  The amendment would eliminate all funding for the Inter-American  Foundation, which, with a budget of just $37 million, supports hundreds  of projects to combat poverty in Latin America and the Caribbean. 

  It would eliminate funding for the East-West Center, which has a long  history of strengthening relations and building understanding between  the  United States and the Asia/Pacific countries. 

  Both the Inter-American Foundation and the East-West Center were  established by acts of Congress. It is in our national interest to  fight poverty in Latin America and support engagement with countries in  the Far East. 

  The coronavirus represents a serious public health threat. We have to  respond now. We have to treat this as the emergency it is. 

    Global Leadership Coalition, addressed to Senator Graham and myself-- incidentally, they represent more than 500 U.S. business and  nongovernmental organizations--opposing this amendment be printed in  the Record. 

   Global Leadership                                                       Coalition,                                                      March 5, 2020.      Hon. Lindsey Graham,      Chairman, Subcommittee on State-Foreign Operations, Committee           on Appropriations, U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.      Hon. Patrick Leahy,      Ranking Member, Subcommittee on State-Foreign Operations,           Committee on Appropriations, U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 

       Dear Chairman Graham and Ranking Member Leahy: On behalf of       the more than 500 business and NGO members of the U.S. Global       Leadership Coalition (USGLC), including business, military,       and faith-based leaders in all 50 states, I write in strong       opposition to an amendment proposed by Senator Rand Paul that       would offset emergency funding to address the growing       coronavirus threat by canceling over $8 billion in       congressionally approved funds for the International Affairs       Budget. 

       If enacted, this amendment would cancel critical funding       for State Department, USAID, and other development programs       around the world, undermining our national security and       economic interests and placing America's global leadership at       risk. Cuts of this magnitude would have devastating       consequences on our ability to confront unprecedented global       challenges--including countering China's growing influence       around the world, supporting partners in the fight against       extremism, and addressing the impacts of the Venezuelan       refugee crisis on key allies like Colombia. 

       There is a strong bipartisan legacy in the Senate of       rejecting deep and dangerous cuts to America's development       and diplomacy programs. I urge the Senate to once again take       decisive action and reject Senator Paul's shortsighted       amendment. Doing so will ensure that resources already       approved by Congress can be fully deployed to support cost-      effective programs that advance America's interests. 

       Thank you for your unwavering support of America's       international affairs programs and your commitment to       strengthening the critical resources needed to advance       America's global leadership.            Sincerely,                                                      Liz Schrayer,                                            President & CEO, USGLC.  BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I agree with what Chairman Shelby has said.  We have tried to set an example. The two of us are from two different  parties, from two different parts of the country and, I think it is  fair to say, have two different political philosophies. Yet we have  come together on this, as we have on so many other issues on  appropriations, to show, as an example to our colleagues, what we think  is best on this bill. 

  This week, Congress showed strong, decisive leadership in addressing  the novel coronavirus. As appropriators of both parties often do, and  as Members of Congress have proven still capable of doing even in the  most partisan of times, we have put our labels aside and have come  together for the American people. 

  I was concerned that this was something the President was not doing.  We saw the President spread misinformation on national television that  downplayed the potential risk to the American people. I was concerned  that he was worried more about the market impacts than about human  lives. His administration's initial proposal for $1.25 billion of new  spending, plus the authority to divert $1.25 billion from such things  as Ebola prevention and low-income heating assistance, was reckless and  devoid of substance. 

  Those in the administration sought vague transfer authorities to  allow them to move other money around in unidentified ways. It showed  how little thought was given to what was needed and to how much was  needed. I thought it was the latest attempt to undermine Congress's  power of the purse--the power of the purse that Republicans and  Democrats have always tried to protect. 

   Vought, Acting Director of the  Office of Management and Budget. 

  I asked to submit the acting OMB Director's request letter as an  example of what not do in an emerging crisis. 

  Fortunately, there are those who remain in our government who are  very forthcoming with me and with our bipartisan staff members--my  staff and Senator Shelby's staff--about the real needs of confronting  the coronavirus, needs that are based on facts and science. I do thank  the staffs at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the  National Institutes of Health, the Office of the Assistant Secretary  for Preparedness and Response, and the Office of the Assistant  Secretary for Financial Resources. Their help was invaluable in  producing in only 9 days the package we are going to be voting on  today. During those 9 days, there was a lot of evening and weekend work  by our staffs and by the Senators involved. We did it in 9 days because  of the emergency, and their help was invaluable. 

  The crisis is real. Worldwide, there are now 92,000 confirmed cases  and 3,200 confirmed deaths. Here in our country, that number is rising  as there have been more than 150 confirmed cases and 11 deaths. The CDC  has told us that the public health system will be able to test up to  75,000 people by the end of the week and that we should expect the  number of cases here to rise. So I strongly support this $7.8 billion  package and the other money that is available. 

  This package is going to provide nearly $1 billion directly to State,  local, and Tribal governments to support public health preparedness and  response; over $3 billion in the research and development of vaccines,  therapeutics, and diagnostics; nearly $1 billion for healthcare  preparedness, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies, and community health;  $1.25 billion to support our needed response overseas; $7 billion in  low-interest loans for small businesses; and nearly $500 million to  enhance the availability of telehealth services across the country.  This is, certainly, something very important to those who might have  rural areas in their States, and, frankly, we all do. 

  The American people are looking for leadership, and they want  assurance that their government is up to the task of protecting their  health and safety. I think we have to provide this leadership. 

  I am pleased that Congress included language in the bill--supported  by both Republicans and Democrats--that specifies that the funds can  only be used to prevent, prepare for, and respond to the coronavirus.  If there is a cynical effort, for any reason, by the President to shift  funds from the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease  Control and Prevention, or the Public Health Social Services Emergency  Fund, which are the agencies at the epicenter of this crisis--to divert  funds, for example, to activities along the southwest border--it will  violate the law. 

  As I have said several times on this floor, I thank Chairman Shelby  and his staff, as well as the majority and Democratic leaders, for  their cooperation. 

  I will submit a list of committee staffers who worked through  weekends and late into the nights to make this possible. It is a long  list, but it shows some of the most professional people we have working  in the Senate. I know that Senator Shelby has a similar list from his  office. 

                                     ____           Executive Office of the President, Office of Management             and Budget,                                 Washington, DC, February 24, 2020.      Hon. Michael R. Pence,      President of the Senate, U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC. 

       Dear Mr. President: In late December 2019, China identified       a novel coronavirus which was causing human-to-human       transmission and has subsequently been named COVID-19. On       January 30, 2020, the World Health Organization declared a       public health emergency of international concern due to       widespread transmission of the virus. As of February 23,       2020, there are 78,811 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in       approximately 30 countries worldwide; the total number of       COVID-19 related deaths is now over 2,500 people, the       majority of which are in China. In the United States, there       have been 14 confirmed cases of COVID-19 presenting in seven       states (not including 39 persons repatriated to the United       States who have tested positive). 

       The President's priority is protecting the homeland, and       the Administration is working aggressively to minimize the       risk of the virus spreading in the United States. The       President has created a Coronavirus Task Force to direct the       U.S. response. This Task Force is led by the Secretary of       Health and Human Services (HHS) and is composed of subject       matter experts from across Government, including some of the       Nation's foremost experts on infectious diseases. On January       31, 2020, the Secretary of HHS declared a public health       emergency. HHS has tapped into the Centers for Disease       Control and Prevention's (CDC) Infectious Diseases Rapid       Response Reserve Fund to help combat the virus. In addition,       fiscal year (FY) 2020 funds are being re-prioritized across       HHS as necessary to address the virus. 

       The Government has taken unprecedented steps to minimize       the risk of travelers spreading COVID-19 to the United       States. The President suspended entry into the United States       of certain foreign nationals who have recently traveled to       China and who pose a risk of transmitting the virus and       directed inbound flights from China to 11 airports where       enhanced screening now takes place. 

       The Government has conducted numerous charter flights to       evacuate American citizens from Wuhan, in the Hubei Province,       China and the cruise ship Diamond Princess back to the United       States. All passengers were screened for symptoms before the       flights, and medical professionals continue to monitor the       health of all returning passengers. 

       At the direction of the President and under the auspices of       the Task Force, several Federal agencies are contributing       significant resources and personnel to support the domestic       and international response. To this point, no agency has been       inhibited in response efforts due to resources or       authorities. However, much is still unknown about this virus       and the disease it causes. The Administration believes       additional Federal resources are necessary to take steps to       prepare for a potential worsening of the situation in the       United States, and requests an appropriation of $1.25 billion       of emergency funding in the       Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund at HHS to       continue supporting critical response and preparedness       activities. In addition, the Administration is requesting       that the Congress permit the $535 million in emergency       supplemental funding appropriated in the Agriculture, Rural       Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related       Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020, to the Public Health and       Social Services Emergency Fund at HHS for the prevention and       treatment of Ebola to be used for COVID-19 response.       Tremendous progress has been made on Ebola and the current       national response priority should be COVID-19. These two       proposals would make $1.8 billion in new resources available       for the current response. 

       This funding would support all aspects of the U.S.       response, including: public health preparedness and response       efforts; public health surveillance, epidemiology, laboratory       testing, and quarantining costs; advanced research and       development of new vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics;       advanced manufacturing enhancements; and the Strategic       National Stockpile. Funds would also be made available, as       necessary, to affected States that are making contributions       to the current national response. 

       Because this funding arises from an unforeseen,       unanticipated event and is necessary for the protection of       human life, these supplemental resources should be designated       as emergency funding. In addition to these emergency       supplemental appropriations, the Administration is seeking       enhanced authorities to use existing resources most       effectively and to create additional flexibility for       directing resources toward the response. These flexibilities       include the ability for HHS to transfer funds to CDC, the       National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug       Administration, the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and       Response, and other components as necessary to carry out       further response activities. This also includes enhanced       transfer authority for the Secretary for the COVID-19       response, similar to the authority already provided for the       HHS Refugee and Entrant Assistance account. In addition, the       Administration seeks an increase of the authorized funding       level, to $10 million, for the repatriation program within       the Administration for Children and Families for potential or       future response activities. 

       With the appropriation of new emergency funding, as well as       the repurposing of FY 2020 Ebola resources, reprioritization       of other FY 2020 funding across HHS, and contributions from       other Government agencies, across the Government we expect to       allocate at least $2.5 billion in total resources for COVID-      19 response efforts. 

       Thank you for your consideration of these funding needs. I       urge the Congress to take swift action to provide the       additional funding requested to support the United States       response to COVID-19. I stand ready to work with you to       achieve this goal.            Sincerely,                                                 Russell T. Vought,                                                   Acting Director.  BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT