Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, while the distinguished Senator from Rhode  Island is still on the floor I recall that, just within the last year,  I had the privilege of being on the lawn of our former Embassy in  Saigon. I stood there with other Senators, Republicans and Democrats,  and with officials from the State Department, and I was mesmerized as  Senator Whitehouse recounted what he had observed there a lifetime ago. 

  I think every one of us had the same reaction. We stood there and  looked around. We could feel the helicopters, we could hear the  helicopters, but of course we didn't see them. Mostly, I saw the face  of my dear friend, the Senator from Rhode Island, and heard what he  said. What he was saying ultimately showed his pride in being an  American. 

  I thank Senator Whitehouse for recounting that again.                                 S.J. Res. 68  

  Mr. President, on another subject, last month the United States and  Iran came frighteningly close to war. If any of Iran's missiles had  killed American soldiers at those military bases in Iraq, President  Trump would have reacted very differently and, most likely, without  consulting Congress. 

  Rather than the self-congratulatory statements by the President who  depicted the brazen, ballistic missile attacks against our bases that  failed to kill any of our troops stationed there a victory, we could be  in the midst of a calamity spiraling out of control. 

  Obviously, I think of the soldiers who have brain injuries from the  attack, injuries that the President dismissed as minor headaches. Well,  those who have actually served in the military and were not able to get  deferments from serving know that an attack like that can produce  lasting injuries. 

  This is the nightmare scenario we have to avoid. We have been on a  path to war with Iran ever since President Trump recklessly abandoned  the Iran nuclear agreement, with no credible alternative strategy.  There was nothing to replace it. 

  Today, while the White House insists there is no need for the  resolution we are debating because the danger is behind us, the  possibility of war with Iran remains very real. As we saw only a month  ago, we could again find ourselves on the brink of war with Iran at any  time. 

  For too long, this President and previous Presidents have sent U.S.  forces into hostilities without obtaining the consent of Congress, and  the Congress has been a willing party. The Congress has abdicated its  constitutional responsibility as the sole branch of government with the  authority to declare war. It has permitted the misapplication of open- ended and outdated authorizations for the use of military force. 

  The result is endless wars the American people don't support, at a  cost of thousands of American lives lost and trillions of dollars spent  that could have been far better used fixing problems here in our own  country. 

  No one denies any President's right to act in self-defense, to  respond to an imminent threat if reliable intelligence shows that such  a threat exists. But neither is it credible to rely on an authorization  for the use of force to remove Saddam Hussein--an authorization that  was based on lies by the White House about nonexistent weapons of mass  destruction--to justify attacks against Iran nearly two decades later. 

  Not a single Member of this body who voted for that use of force in  2002--and I did not because I had read the intelligence and knew the  stories coming from the White House were not true. Not a single Member,  though, who voted for that use of force can honestly say they could  have imagined or intended that authorization for the use of force in  Iraq would be used to justify armed hostilities against Iran so many  years later. 

  A few weeks ago, a top administration official said it would be a  mistake for the Senate to even have a debate about the President's war  powers. He said it would embolden Iran's leaders if they saw that there  are differences of opinion among us. Has he ever read a history book?  Has he ever read our Constitution? He said it would be wrong for us to  disagree on an issue as consequential as attacking another country, as  though in the United States we should simply serve as a rubber stamp  for the President. 

  That is so beneath the United States of America. That is so beneath  our Constitution. It is so beneath the democratic principles we believe  in, to be told by a top administration official that we shouldn't even  debate an issue like this. As others have said, including Senators in  the President's party, that is an insult, it is dangerous, and it  belies a fundamental lack of understanding of Congress's role in this  democracy. 

  Others, including the President, have falsely accused Democrats of  sympathizing with Mr. Soleimani or even with the Ayatollah, both of  whom are responsible for heinous crimes. That kind of baseless,  partisan slander and fearmongering is what we have come to expect from  this White House, but it belittles the Office of the Presidency, as  does a statement from a top official that we should not discuss our  disagreements. 

  But too many of our friends in the other party--unlike the way the  Senate used to be--have remained mute. By saying nothing, they condone  such reprehensible behavior. One can only wonder how they would react  if the tables were turned and they were the targets of such despicable,  ad hominem attacks. 

  Under the Constitution, it is our job, it is our responsibility to  debate and vote, especially if it involves war and peace and the lives  of our servicemen and women and their families. 

  I would make a suggestion to the President and to members of his  Cabinet: Read the Constitution. And I would say to those in this body  who too often ignore what the Constitution says: Read the Constitution.  Think of the lives lost, the many more grievously wounded, the families  destroyed, the millions of innocent people forced to flee the carnage,  and the huge amount of tax dollars wasted because of that fateful vote  in 2002. A vote based on false pretenses. A vote that made the world  less safe. We can't afford to repeat that unforgiveable mistake. 

  This resolution, of which I am a cosponsor, ensures that debate will  happen, and that we will have another chance to exercise our authority  under article I of the Constitution and do what is right. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT