Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, we know that America is hurting. It is  reeling from a deadly pandemic that has taken more than 100,000 lives  and then from witnessing the broad daylight murder--murder--of yet  another Black man by an officer of the law. It seethes with rage and  sorrow about the racial injustices that still plague our society.  America is suffering from unprecedented political divisions that are  routinely worsened and deepened by a President whose every utterance  only tears us further apart. In my decades in the U.S. Senate, I have  never seen our country so in need of healing. 

  I was a prosecutor. So, when I first saw the video of George Floyd's  murder--a human being who was pinned down by the neck, cried ``I can't  breathe,'' and desperately called out for his mother--I was shocked to  my core. For millions of Americans and for me, that shock swiftly  turned into anger. 

  How could a police officer, who has sworn an oath to protect and  serve, so casually take a human being's life? Why did his fellow  officers who witnessed the murder that we all witnessed on video stand  there and do nothing to stop it? How could this happen in plain sight  when multiple onlookers begged the officer to relent--stop his  murderous conduct--as George fell unconscious? 

  I was left sickened and shaken. 

  I do not know and did not know George Floyd, but imagine if he were  your neighbor or your friend. Imagine if George Floyd were your  brother, your son, your husband, or your grandchild. Imagine if George  Floyd simply looked like your loved one and shared the same skin color.  Imagine the concern you would have for such a person who lived in  constant fear of those who are responsible to protect us all. So it is  no surprise that protests swept our Nation in the wake of this murder.  Communities of color and all those who sympathize with them are fed  up. They are sick and tired of the fact that African Americans are  nearly 2\1/2\ times as likely as White Americans to be killed by police  officers. No one of good conscience can sit idly by while African- American lives are treated with less worth. Our country long ago  promised equal rights and equal justice.  

  Now protesters are aching for real accountability for officers of the  law who engage in lawless violence. It is not simply justice for George  Floyd; it is justice for Eric Garner, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice. The  list goes on and on, which is why the protests go on and on. Too often,  people feel the police officers who take Black lives are treated like  they are above the law. They feel the justice system has been fueled by  a culture of impunity that shields the same officers who abuse the  public's trust. Too often the accountability comes after  incontrovertible evidence, such as a damning video, happens to surface  and the public demands justice. 

  I can say, as one who served proudly in law enforcement and has  served proudly in the Senate, ultimately accountability will require  dismantling this culture of impunity, as well as ensuring that law  enforcement agencies have training and policies in place to serve to  rebuild trust in communities of color. 

  The protesters demand more from our justice system. They demand more  from a nation that promises that nobody is above the law. Well, I stand  with them, and Congress has to, too. None of us condone, and indeed I  have strongly condemned, the looting and violence that has sadly taken  place alongside the peaceful protests and the extremists and  opportunists who have co-opted the peaceful process. They are not  serving justice. They are not going to bring the change our country so  badly needs. 

  My hero, a dear friend who has called me his brother, Representative  John Lewis, said just a few days ago:  

       [L]ooting and burning is not the way. 

       Organize. Demonstrate. Sit-in. Stand-up. Vote. Be       constructive, not destructive.  

  I hope everybody will listen to what Representative Lewis said. I  hope our fellow Americans will heed his wise words. I refuse to partake  in efforts seeking to delegitimize all protesters and create even more  distrust and division. Demonstrators demanding accountability are not  thugs, as President Trump has called them. No one should threaten  state-sanctioned violence against protesters, as this President and  some of his allies have. I strongly oppose any efforts to invoke the  Insurrection Act to unleash our military against these domestic  demonstrations, as President Trump has absurdly threatened. 

  Our military is one of our Nation's most sacred institutions. It  serves to safeguard our constitutional rights against enemies abroad.  They should never be ordered to American streets as the battlefield,  which would only incite further chaos and deprive Americans of their  right to peacefully assemble. That is not the America we know and love.  It is not the America I know and love. 

  Unfortunately, President Trump has proven that he is incapable or  perhaps he is uninterested in healing and uniting our Nation. At every  turn his instinct is to divide and escalate. During every crisis he  manages to manufacture another of his own making. When Americans are in  desperate need of a consoler in chief, a role that I have seen every  past President play during my years in the Senate--every one of  those Presidents, Republican and Democrat alike--President Trump,  instead of being consoler in chief, shows that he knows only how to be  instigator in chief. He has revealed himself really to be a President  of his country in name only. I never imagined I would say that of any  American President of either party, certainly not of all the  predecessors I have had the honor to know. 

  So we must instead look to ourselves and each other. How do we heal  our country? At the local, State, and national levels, we must carry on  the cause of criminal justice and police reform. We must push for  systematic law enforcement reform. We must elect leaders who will  prioritize racial justice and work tirelessly to achieve some measure  of that. We must work to build bridges in communities so that we better  empathize with the struggles faced by those who have been marginalized  for decades on end. 

  On Monday, Terrence Floyd, George's brother, stood on the spot where  his brother died. He made an emotional appeal to the hundreds of people  watching and to the Nation. He pled for the protests to remain  peaceful. He pled for those who believe they are marginalized and  disenfranchised not to give up hope, that their voice matters, and he  pled for justice. 

  His brother died because he needed a breath. His family now asks to  take a breath for justice, a breath for peace, a breath for our  country, and a breath for George. We should honor his memory by heeding  their anguished advice. 

  There is so much to do. Congress must get to work. During my years in  the Senate, I have seen America in crisis. But every time, without  exception, I have seen America emerge a more just and stronger nation.  The crises America faces today feel overwhelming, historic--some would  say existential. But if we stay true to the values that define our  Republic--equality, justice, the rule of law--I am hopeful we will make  it through as a slightly more perfect union. 

  I weep for our country; I pray for our country; and I look for better  days. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT