Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I entered the Senate in the wake of  Watergate in 1975, a time when the American people's faith in our  institutions was profoundly shaken. The very first vote I cast was in  favor of creating the Select Committee to Study Government Operations  with Respect to Intelligence Activities and the Rights of Americans-- that is, the Church Committee. Through that Committee's work, the  American public soon learned of years of abuses that had occurred at  the hands of the executive branch's intelligence agencies. In response,  the Senate passed sweeping reforms to rein in this overreach. In many  ways, this represented the best of the Senate: we came together across  party lines to thoroughly investigate, and ultimately curb, gross  executive branch abuses. 

  The Senate has never been perfect. And much has changed in the 45  years I have served in this body. Yet today we face a similar test:  whether the Senate, in the face of egregious misconduct directed by the  President himself, will rise again to serve as the check on executive  abuses our Founders intended us to be. 

  But today, and throughout this ``trial,'' we are failing this test  and witnessing the very worst of the modern Senate. After being  confronted with overwhelming evidence of a brazen abuse of executive  power, and an equally brazen attempt to keep that scheme hidden from  Congress and the American people, the Senate is poised to look the  other way. To simply move on. To pretend the Senate has no  responsibility to reveal the President's misconduct and, God forbid,  hold him to account. 

  Indeed we are being told the Senate has no constitutional role to  play, and only the American people should judge the President's  misconduct in the next election. This is despite the Senate's  constitutionally-mandated role, and despite the fact that the  President's scheme was aimed at cheating in that very election. And now  the Senate is cementing a cover-up of the President's misconduct, to  keep its extent hidden from the American people. How, then, will the  American people be equipped to judge the President's actions? How far  the Senate has fallen. 

  In some ways, President Nixon's misconduct--directing a break-in of  the Democratic National Committee headquarters to benefit himself  politically--seems quaint compared to what we face today. As charged in  Article I, President Trump secretly directed a sweeping, illegal scheme  to withhold $400 million in military aid from an ally at war in order  to extort that ally into announcing investigations of his political  opponent to boost his re-election. Then, instead of hiding select  incriminating records, as President Nixon did, President Trump  attempted to hide every single record from the American people. As  reflected in Article II, President Trump has the distinction of being  the only president in our nation's history to direct all executive  branch officials not to cooperate with a congressional investigation. 

  I want to be clear: I did not relish the prospect of an impeachment  trial. I have stark disagreements with this President on issues of  policy and the law, on morality and honesty. But it is for the American  people to judge a president on those matters. Today is not about  differences over policy. It is about the integrity of our elections,  and it is about the Constitution. 

  The Constitution cannot not protect itself. During this trial, the  words of Washington, Madison, Jefferson, Hamilton, and Lincoln have  frequently been invoked on behalf of our Constitution. Now it is our  turn to record our names in defense of our democracy. 

  In Federalist No. 65, Alexander Hamilton described impeachment as the  remedy for ``the abuse or violation of some public trust.'' Although  that definition has guided the nation for 230 years, President Trump's  counsels would have us rely on a very different definition. 

  The central arguments presented by the President's defense team were  stunning. The President argues that we cannot convict him because abuse  of power is not impeachable. He can abuse his power to benefit his re- election, and engage in improper quid pro quos, so long he believes his  re-election is in the national interest. King Louis XIV of France--who  famously declared ``I am the State''--might approve of that reasoning,  but the Senate should condemn it. The President and his attorneys even  argue that a president may welcome and even request foreign governments  to ``dig up dirt'' on their opponents with impunity. Yet not only are  such requests illegal, they violate the very premise of our democracy-- that American elections are decided only by Americans. 

  The Senate should flatly reject the President's brazen and dangerous  arguments. But an acquittal today will do the opposite. If you believe  that the President's outlandish arguments are irrelevant after today,  and will have no lasting impact on our democracy, remember this: The  President's counsel's claim that abuse of power is not impeachable is  largely--and mistakenly--based on the argument of another counsel,  Justice Benjamin Curtis, defending another president from impeachment,  President Johnson. That was 150 years ago. 

  What we do today will set a weighty precedent. An acquittal today-- despite the overwhelming evidence of guilt, and following a sham of a  trial--may fundamentally, and perhaps irreparably, distort our system  of checks and balances for another 150 years. 

  And what a sham trial it was. The fact that this body would not call  a uniquely critical witness who has declared his willingness to  testify, John Bolton, is beyond outrageous. And why? To punish the  House for not taking years to first litigate a subpoena and then  litigate every line of testimony? Or is it because testimony detailing  this corrupt scheme, no matter how damning, would not alter the  Majority Leader's pre-ordained acquittal? 

  The Senate had a constitutional obligation to try this impeachment  impartially. Yet the Senate willfully blinded itself to evidence that  will soon be revealed. Senate Republicans even defeated a motion merely  to consider and debate whether to seek critical documents and key  witnesses. The notion that the Senate could retain the title of the  ``world's greatest deliberative body'' following this charade rings  hollow. 

  It is often said that history is watching. I expect that's true. But  in this moment we are not merely witnesses to history--we are writing  it. It is ours to shape. And let me briefly describe the dark chapters  we are inscribing in the story of our republic today. 

  In his farewell address, George Washington warned us that ``foreign  influence is one of the most baneful foes of republican government.''  Yet, as a candidate, President Trump famously requested that Russia  hack his political  opponent's emails. Hours later, Russia did. The President then  weaponized Russia's criminal influence campaign, which resulted in an  investigation that uncovered a morass of inappropriate contacts with  Russians, lies to cover them up, multiple instances of the President's  obstruction of justice, and 37 other indictments and convictions. Yet,  after the saga concluded, the President felt liberated. Literally the  day after Special Counsel Robert Mueller testified, the President asked  the Ukrainian president ``for a favor.'' He has since publicly repeated  his request for Ukraine to intervene in our election, and made the same  request to China, on national television. 

  All of us must ask: If we acquit President Trump today, what will he  do tomorrow? None of us knows. But two things I am confident of:  President Trump's willingness to abuse his office, and his eagerness to  exploit foreign interference in our elections, will only grow. And,  crucially, Congress's capacity to do anything about it will be  crippled. 

  While the President's lawyers stood on the Senate floor and  admonished the House Managers for failing to litigate each subpoena in  court to exhaustion, he had other lawyers in court making the mutually  exclusive argument that Article III courts have no jurisdiction to  settle disputes between our two branches. Such duplicity would put the  two-faced Roman God Janus to shame. Meanwhile, the President's  Department of Justice claims not only that President Trump cannot be  indicted while in office, he cannot even be investigated. 

  But don't worry, the President's lawyers promise us, the President is  still not above the law because Congress can hold him in check through  our confirmation power and power of the purse. Neither would come close  to checking a lawless executive. It is well known that the President  has effectively stopped nominating senior officials in his  administration. He has now set a modern record for acting cabinet  secretaries. The President has said that he prefers having acting  officials, who bypass Senate scrutiny, because they are easier to  control. 

  More crucially, with this vote today, we inflict grave damage on our  power of the purse. I am the Vice Chairman of Appropriations, a  Committee on which I have served for 40 years. Members of this  Committee not only write the spending bills, they are the guardians of  this body's power of the purse, granted exclusively to Congress by the  Founders to counter ``all the overgrown prerogatives of the other  branches.'' The Framers, having broken free from the grip of a  monarchy, feared an unchecked executive who would use public dollars  like a king: as a personal slush fund. Yet this is precisely what  President Trump has done. 

  If we fail to hold President Trump accountable for illegally freezing  congressionally appropriated military aid to extract a personal favor,  what would stop him from freezing disaster aid to states hit by  hurricanes and flooding until governors or home state senators agree to  endorse him? What would stop any future president from holding any part  of the $4.7 trillion budget hostage to their personal whims? The answer  is nothing. We will have relinquished the very check that the Founders  entrusted to us to ensure a president could never behave like a king. 

  The President's defense team also argued that impeachment is  inappropriate unless it is fully bipartisan. Decades ago, I questioned  whether an impeachment would be accepted if not bipartisan. But this  argument has revealed itself to be painfully flawed. In 1974,  Republicans ultimately convinced President Nixon to resign; in 1999,  Democrats condemned President Clinton's private misconduct and  supported a formal censure. In contrast, with one important exception,  President Trump's supporters have thus far shown no limits in their  tolerance of overwhelming misconduct; they even chased out of their  party a Congressman who stood up to the President. Indeed, a  prerequisite for membership in the Republican Party today appears to be  the belief that he can do no wrong. Under this standard, claiming that  President Trump's impeachment would only be valid if it were supported  by his most unflinching enablers renders the impeachment clause null  and void. 

  That said, I do understand the immense pressure my Republican friends  are under to support this President. I know well how much easier it is  for me to express my disgust and disappointment that the President has  proven himself so unfit for his office. That is one reason why I feel  it is important to make a commitment right now. If any president,  Republican or Democrat, uses the power of his or her office to extort a  foreign nation to interfere in our elections to do the president's  domestic political bidding, I will support their impeachment and  removal. It is wrong, no matter the party. And we all should say so. 

  Before I close, I want to thank the brave individuals who shared  their testimony with both the House of Representatives and American  people. Each of these witnesses served this President in his  administration. And they have served their country. They witnessed  misconduct originating in the highest office in world, and they spoke  up. They did not hide behind the President's baseless order not to  cooperate. Most knew that by stepping forward they would be attacked by  the President and some of his vindictive defenders. Yet they came  forward anyway. We owe them our enduring appreciation. They give me  hope for tomorrow. 

  Yet today is a dark day for our democracy. And what frightens me most  is this: We are currently on a dangerous road, and no one has any idea  where this road will take us. Not one of us here knows. But we all know  our democracy has been indelibly altered. 

  The notion that the President has learned his lesson is farcical. The  President's lead counsel opened and closed this trial by claiming the  President did nothing wrong. The President himself describes his  actions as ``perfect.'' On 75 separate occasions, including yesterday,  he's claimed he's done nothing wrong. Lord help us if the Senate  agrees. The only lesson the President has learned from this trial is  how easily he can get away with egregious, illegal misconduct. 

  If the Senate does not recognize the gravity of President Trump's  ``violation of the public trust,'' and hold him accountable, we will  have seen but a preview of what is to come. Foreign interference in our  elections. Total noncompliance with lawful congressional oversight.  Disregard of our constitutional power of the purse. Open, flagrant  corruption. I fear there is no bottom. 

  This is the tragic result of the Senate failing its constitutional  duty to hold a real trial. We will leave President Trump ``sacred and  inviolable'' and with ``no constitutional tribunal to which he is  amenable; no punishment to which he can be subjected without involving  the crisis of a national revolution.'' As Hamilton warned over two  centuries ago, that is not a president; that is a king. I, for one,  will not merely ``get over it.'' 

  I have listened very carefully to both sides over the past two weeks.  The record has established, leaving no doubt in my view, that President  Trump directed the most impeachable, corrupt scheme by any president in  this country's history. To protect our constitutional republic, and to  safeguard our government's system of checks and balances, my oath to  our Constitution compels me to hold the President of the United States  accountable. 

  I will vote to convict and remove President Donald J. Trump from  office. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, the question before us is incredibly  serious, but it is also more than a little absurd. We are sitting as a  court, exercising the sole power to try impeachments, entrusted to us  by the Framers. The President of the United States has been charged  with high crimes--a constitutional charge of abuse of power that  includes in its text each of the elements of criminal bribery. The  President's lawyers have complained all week about the absence of sworn  testimony from officials with first-hand knowledge of the President's  actions and intent. They claim not to know when the President froze the  aid. They falsely claim there is no evidence the President withheld the  aid in exchange for his political errand--announcing an investigation  into his political rival. And yet whenever the President's counsels  have pled ignorance or claimed a lack of evidence, they ask not that we  pursue the truth; they ask instead that we look away. 

  The Senate simply cannot look away. In the 220 years this body has  served as a constitutional court of impeachment, we have never refused  to look at critical evidence sitting in front of us. We have never  raced to a pre-ordained verdict while deliberately avoiding the truth  or evaluating plainly critical evidence. 

  And when I say ``sitting in front of us,'' I mean that literally.  Just this morning, we learned that Pat Cipollone, lead counsel for the  President, along with Rudy Giuliani and Mick Mulvaney, was part of a  meeting where President Trump directed John Bolton to ``ensure  [President] Zelensky would meet with Mr. Giuliani.'' A meeting with the  President's personal lawyer is not subject to executive privilege; and  a meeting with Bolton and Mulvaney is not subject to attorney-client  privilege. And this afternoon we received a proffer from Lev Parnas's  attorney, claiming that Pamas could provide us with testimony  implicating several cabinet officials and members of Congress in the  President's scheme. I cannot say whether that is credible, but  shouldn't he at least be heard and cross-examined? The Senate cannot  turn a blind eye to such directly relevant evidence. 

  This slipshod process reminds me of another trial. That was the trial  of Alice in Wonderland. In that trial, the accusation was read, and the  King immediately said to the jury, ``Consider your verdict.'' But even  in that case it was acknowledged that ``There's a great deal to come  before that,'' and the first witness was called. With apologies to  Lewis Carroll, surely the United States Senate can at least match the  rigorous criminal procedure of Wonderland? 

  The oath that each of us swore just two weeks ago requires that we do  ``impartial justice.'' Reasonable people can disagree about what that  means, but every single time this body has sat as a court--every single  time--it has heard from witnesses and weighed sworn testimony. We have  never been denied the opportunity to hear from critical witnesses with  firsthand information. During the Johnson trial, this court heard live  testimony from 41 witnesses, including private counsel for the  President and a cabinet secretary. During the Clinton trial, three  witnesses were deposed and we considered the grand jury testimony of  the President's chief of staff, deputy chief of staff, and White House  Counsel--plus the grand jury testimony of the President himself.  ``Impartial justice'' cannot mean burying our collective heads in the  sand, and preventing relevant, probative testimony from being taken. 

  Briefly, I also want to address the arguments made against calling  witnesses. The President has said that ``Witnesses are up to the House,  not up to the Senate.'' But the Senate has never been, and should not  be now, limited to the House record. The Senate's constitutional  obligation to try impeachments stands independent of the House's  obligation. The Constitution does not allow the House's action or  inaction to limit the evidence and testimony the Senate can and must  consider. The last time we sat as a court we heard from 26 witnesses in  total, including 17 who had not testified before the House. Seventeen. 

  Some have also said that calling witnesses like John Bolton would  leave us tangled up in an endless court battle over executive  privilege. Not so. The Senate alone has the ``sole Power to try all  Impeachments,'' and the Chief Justice reminded us just a few years ago  in Zivotofsky v. Clinton that Article III courts cannot hear cases  ``where there `is a textually demonstrable constitutional commitment of  the issue to a coordinate political department.' '' And in Walter Nixon  v. United States, the Supreme Court expressly ruled out ``[j]udicial  involvement in impeachment proceedings, even if only for purposes of  judicial review.'' 

  Moreover, and more simply, executive privilege cannot prevent  testimony from a private citizen like Bolton who is willing to testify.  And, in any event, the President has almost certainly waived any claim  to privilege by endlessly tweeting and talking to the media about his  conversations with Bolton. The Senate is not helpless. We are the only  court with jurisdiction. We can and should resolve these questions. 

  Let us conduct this trial with the seriousness it deserves-- consistent with Senate precedent, the overwhelming expectations of the  American people, and how every other trial across the country is  conducted every single day. 

  As Senators, we are here to debate and vote on difficult questions. I  understand this may be a difficult question politically--but it is  nowhere close to a difficult question under the law or common sense. I  do not believe for one second that any of us sought public office to  become an accomplice to what can only be described as a cover-up. As  the Chief Justice has reminded us, we have the privilege of serving in  the world's greatest deliberative body. So let's actually deliberate. 

  But if we adopt the rule--rejected even in Wonderland--of verdict  first, witnesses later, be assured those witnesses will eventually  follow. Whether through FOIA, journalism, or book releases, the  American people will learn the truth, likely sooner rather than later.  Maybe even over the upcoming weekend. What will they think of a Senate  that went to such extraordinary lengths--ignoring 220 years of  precedent, any notions of fairness or respect for facts, and indeed  ignoring our duties to the Constitution itself--to keep the truth  buried? 

  A vote to preclude witnesses will embolden this President to further  demean the Congress, this Senate, and the balance of power so carefully  established by the Framers in the Constitution. It will ratify the  President's shell game of telling the House it should sue to enforce  its subpoenas, and then telling courts that the House has no standing  to do so. Just today, after a week  of his counsel arguing that the President cannot be impeached for  failing to respond to House subpoenas, the Justice Department argued in  court that the House can use its impeachment power to enforce its  subpoenas. It is up to all 100 of us to put a stop to this nonsense. 

  I have served in this body for 45 years. It is not often we face  votes like this--votes that will leave a significant mark on history,  and will shape our constitutional ability to serve as a check against  presidents for generations to come. I pray the Senate is worthy of this  responsibility, and of this moment. I fear the repercussions if it is  not. 

  I will vote to hear from witnesses. With deep respect, I ask my  fellow senators to do the same. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT