Imprisonment of Loujain Al-Hathloul


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I have spoken repeatedly about the unlawful  imprisonment and abuse of human rights activists by the Saudi  Government, which continue despite promises of reform by Crown Prince  Mohammed bin Salman. In fact, the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, the  botched coverup and sham investigation, and the ongoing, systematic  repression of Saudi activists have only served to confirm what we  already knew, which is that the Crown Prince is no reformer but,  instead, a ruthless autocrat intimidated by non-violent dissent from  his own people. 

  One such activist being unlawfully detained by the Saudi royal  family--which for all intents and purposes is the government--is  Loujain al-Hathloul, a prominent and outspoken women's rights defender  known for her activism against the women's driving ban and the male  guardianship system. In 2014, Ms. al-Hathloul, who had a driver's  license from the United Arab Emirates, UAE, was detained for 73 days  after attempting to drive into Saudi Arabia from the UAE. 

  She was arrested again in May 2018 along with several other women's  rights activists, weeks before the Saudi Government lifted the ban on  female drivers. She was detained and forcibly deported via private  Saudi jet from the UAE and remains in a Saudi prison today. According  to Ms. al-Hathloul's family and several human rights organizations, she  has been tortured, sexually harassed, and threatened with rape and  murder by Saudi officials. 

  For the first 10 months of her detention, Ms. al-Hathloul was held  without charges or trial and for the first 3 months, without access to  her family or lawyer. In her first trial session on March 13, 2019, she  was charged with promoting women's rights; calling for an end to the  male guardianship system; and contacting international organizations,  foreign media, and other activists. It is hard to believe that in the  year 2020, advocacy that has been protected under international law for  nearly half a century is grounds for imprisonment and prosecution in  Saudi Arabia, a country whose leaders enjoy the best of what oil  revenues can buy while subjecting their critics to treatment  reminiscent of the 1800s. 

  Imprisoned, tortured, and charged with multiple ``crimes,'' Ms. al- Hathloul's last court appearance was on April 3, 2019, more than 250  days ago. She remains in prison without any information regarding when  her next court session will take place. The right of due process simply  does not exist in Saudi Arabia. 

  This is typical of how Saudi Arabia treats those who dare to exercise  their rights to free expression, association, and assembly. We should  all be outraged, and in fact Republicans and Democrats in Congress as  well as dozens of foreign governments have called for Ms. al-Hathloul's  release and the release of others facing politically motivated charges  in Saudi Arabia. Until there are consequences for these violations of  human rights and misuse of the judicial process, nothing will change. 

  Fortunately, our hands are not tied. The United States can do more  than simply call for Ms. al-Hathloul's release. Section 7031(c) of  division G of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020, which  applies to all foreign countries, states that ``[o]fficials of foreign  governments and their immediate family members about whom the Secretary  of State has credible information have been involved, directly or  indirectly, in . . . a gross violation of human rights shall be  ineligible for entry into the United States.'' 

  Secretary of State Pompeo unquestionably has such information. Ms.  al-Hathloul's prolonged, arbitrary detention and abuse in custody are  gross violations of human rights. Secretary Pompeo should apply section  7031(c) and immediately impose visa restrictions on all Saudi  Government officials involved, directly or indirectly, in her detention  and abuse. That is our law. 

  It is as ironic as it is unconscionable that the Crown Prince has  been praised for ending the ban on a woman's ability to drive a car in  Saudi Arabia, at the same time that his government is unjustly and  cruelly imprisoning a courageous woman for advocating for that  very right. The Trump administration should apply the law as required  in this case.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT