Leahy, Carper, And Others Introduce The Clean Economy Act Of 2020


Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) on Tuesday joined Senator Tom Carper (D-Del.) and other senators in introducing the Clean Economy Act of 2020, to empower the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to set a national goal of net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by no later than 2050.  The bill would also promote American competitiveness and healthier communities, while fostering a fair and growing economy.

The Clean Economy Act also requires the EPA to set interim national greenhouse gas targets for 2025, 2030, and 2040.  This net-zero plan prioritizes public health, lower costs, and economic growth.  To do this, the Clean Economy Act requires other federal agencies to implement policies that increase the ability of the United States to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while staying globally competitive though investments in innovation, worker training, and strong labor standards.  The EPA net-zero by 2050 plan prioritizes infrastructure investments that are more resilient to a changing climate.  It also builds on existing state, local and private sector climate programs.  The bill was drawn to address the cumulative environmental effects in economically distressed communities, communities of color, and indigenous communities.

Leahy, the Vice Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which writes and negotiates the EPA's annual budget bills, said:  "Climate change is one of the defining challenges of the 21st Century and its impact on the American people, our economy, and our communities will be profound.  Future generations will surely judge us by how we choose to meet this challenge.  The Clean Economy Act recognizes the reality that climate action is both a necessity and an economic opportunity."

Other cosponsors of the bill are Senators Baldwin (D-Wis.), Bennet (D-Colo.), Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Booker (D-N.J.), Cantwell (D-Wash.), Cardin (D-Md.), Casey (D-Pa.), Coons (D-Del.), Cortez Masto (D-Nev.), Duckworth (D-Ill), Durbin (D-Ill), Feinstein (D-Calif.), Hassan (D-N.H.), Heirnich (D-N.M.), Hirono (D-HI), Kaine (D-Va) , King (I-ME), Klobuchar (D-Minn), Menendez (D-N.J), Murphy (D-Conn.), Peters (D-Mich.), Schatz (D-HI), Shaheen (D-N.H.), Smith (D-Minn.), Stabenow (D-Mich.), Udall (D-N.M.), Van Hollen (D-Md.), and Wyden (D-Ore.).

The EPA net-zero by 2050 plan prioritizes infrastructure investments that are more resilient to a changing climate.  Additionally, the EPA plans on building up existing State, local, and private sector climate programs. While doing so, this act also addresses the cumulative environmental effects in economically distressed communities, communities of color, and indigenous communities.