Letter to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of the Dept. of Agriculture - Leahy And Merkley Call On USDA To Speed Food And Farm Assistance Out The Door


Dear Secretary Perdue:

We write with deep concerns about the slow response from the department regardingsupplemental funding provided to address the coronavirus pandemic. Congress has appropriated$36 billion to the Department of Agriculture for many important programs that the Americanpeople rely on. From nutrition assistance to direct support to agricultural producers, this fundingis vital to supporting vulnerable citizens and rural America. However, as of May 8th, only $7billion, less than 20 percent, of the money provided has been obligated. This is unacceptable.

Particularly troubling is the delay in getting nutrition assistance out the door to address growingfood insecurity across the country. Of the $850 million we appropriated for The EmergencyFood Assistance Program to provide critical resources to our nation's foodbanks, only $117million has been spent. Yet lines at foodbanks are growing and unemployment is surging. Thismoney should be getting out to the people who need it, not stuck in Washington caught up in redtape. The Committee has also provided $100 million for the Food Distribution Program onIndian Reservations and that money is still unspent. Child Nutrition Programs provide muchneeded nutrition for children, especially now when most schools are closed. Yet $1 billion isstill stuck at the department. Puerto Rico and the other U.S. territories are still waiting for thebulk of the funding we appropriated.

The Department requested some of the funding provided in these emergency spending billsbecause of the urgent needs you identified. And this Committee supported those requests. Forexample, you requested $4 million for the Foreign Agricultural Service to help bring staff backto the United States from overseas posts. None of those funds have been spent. You requested$3 million for the Farm Service Agency to assist the agency with increased farm loan demands.None of those funds have been spent. While these amounts are small, the fact that you asked forthe funding, we provided it, and it still has not been obligated raises questions about theDepartment's ability to carry out its duties.

While we understand some programs are not set up to respond quickly to an emergency and theytake time to process, these are extraordinary times and we need to do better than the status quo.

We stand ready to assist the department in any way we can to respond to this pandemic.

Sincerely