Letter to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of the Dept. of Agriculture - Vermont Delegation Sends Letter Urging USDA Secretary Perdue To Do More For Dairy Farmers


Dear Secretary Perdue:

We write to you today to urge further and immediate action to support the dairy industry that issuffering as a result of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Dairy farms arethe backbone of Vermont's rural economy and offer critical nutrition and high-quality productsto individuals across the country. Our dairy farmers face unprecedented challenges and havereceived little of the support that Congress has provided. While we appreciate the recent Farmersto Families Food Box contracts awarded for Vermont, we urge you to act immediately to use allavailable programs to support the struggling dairy industry, including the Coronavirus FoodAssistance Program (CFAP) to provide direct relief to farmers in need.

Since the CARES Act was signed into law on March 27, Vermont's dairy farmers have yet toreceive any of the $23.5 billion authorized in the bill for assistance to farmers. As you implementthe CFAP payments to producers, dairy farmers must be compensated for the months they willbe impacted the most. Starting in April and continuing through this summer, they facedisastrously low milk prices with no certainty as to when product demand will recover. Initialreports suggested that the CFAP would compensate farmers at a very low rate for the monthswhen prices are projected to be lowest. We urge you to correct this.

We respectfully request that you use the many tools at your disposal to alleviate the pain beingfelt by this industry, including: implementing a program to manage oversupply, compensatingproducers for milk that has been dumped, reopening the Dairy Margin Coverage Program for2020 enrollment, and convening an emergency hearing to establish a temporary price floor forClass I fluid milk to stop the cratering of prices. These actions would make a real difference tofarmers immediately and provide them with desperately needed cash.

Our dairy farmers, who provide Americans with essential nutrition every day, are in crisis andwe need you to help. We urge you take immediate action to ensure our dairy farmers and ruralcommunities survive this unprecedented time.

Sincerely,