Protests


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, on Monday I watched the shameful scene a  block from the White House as the President of the United States  ordered U.S. Park Police, backed by the D.C. National Guard and  following threats throughout the day, to use the U.S. military against  peaceful American protesters so he could have his photograph taken in  front of St. John's Church, holding a Bible. It was an appalling,  almost surreal, abuse of power that showed a flagrant disregard not  only for our Constitution but for those who have devoted their lives to  defend it. 

  Several of those patriots have spoken out forcefully and eloquently  to reject the President's grotesque display of force and the way he has  abused the Office of the Presidency, day after day, year after year, to  stoke divisions in this country. I am grateful to them for doing so,  and I want to highlight in particular two of those voices, former  Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen, and former  Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis. In pieces, one published in the  Atlantic and one released as a statement, both laid out an alternate  vision for our country, a vision that so many Americans who were  similarly outraged share and that I also share. 

   John's Church.       I have to date been reticent to speak out on issues       surrounding President Trump's leadership, but we are at an       inflection point, and the events of the past few weeks have       made it impossible to remain silent. 

       Whatever Trump's goal in conducting his visit, he laid bare       his disdain for the rights of peaceful protest in this       country, gave succor to the leaders of other countries who       take comfort in our domestic strife, and risked further       politicizing the men and women of our armed forces. 

       There was little good in the stunt. 

       While no one should ever condone the violence, vandalism,       and looting that has exploded across our city streets,       neither should anyone lose sight of the larger and deeper       concerns about institutional racism that have ignited this       rage. 

       As a white man, I cannot claim perfect understanding of the       fear and anger that African Americans feel today. But as       someone who has been around for a while, I know enough--and       I've seen enough--to understand that those feelings are real       and that they are all too painfully founded. 

       We must, as citizens, address head-on the issue of police       brutality and sustained injustices against the African       American community. We must, as citizens, support and defend       the right--indeed, the solemn obligation--to peacefully       assemble and to be heard. These are not mutually exclusive       pursuits.  

       And neither of these pursuits will be made easier or safer       by an overly aggressive use of our military, active duty or       National Guard. The United States has a long and, to be fair,       sometimes troubled history of using the armed forces to       enforce domestic laws. The issue for us today is not whether       this authority exists, but whether it will be wisely       administered. 

       I remain confident in the professionalism of our men and       women in uniform. They will serve with skill and with       compassion. They will obey lawful orders. But I am less       confident in the soundness of the orders they will be given       by this commander in chief, and I am not convinced that the       conditions on our streets, as bad as they are, have risen to       the level that justifies a heavy reliance on military troops.       Certainly, we have not crossed the threshold that would make       it appropriate to invoke the provisions of the Insurrection       Act. 

       Furthermore, I am deeply worried that as they execute their       orders, the members of our military will be co-opted for       political purposes. 

       Even in the midst of the carnage we are witnessing, we must       endeavor to see American cities and towns as our homes and       our neighborhoods. They are not ``battle spaces'' to be       dominated, and must never become so. 

       We must ensure that African Americans--indeed, all       Americans--are given the same rights under the Constitution,       the same justice under the law, and the same consideration we       give to members of our own family. Our fellow citizens are       not the enemy, and must never become so. 

       Too many foreign and domestic policy choices have become       militarized; too many military missions have become       politicized. 

       This is not the time for stunts. This is the time for       leadership.                                   ____                          In Union There Is Strength                             (By James Mattis)  

       I have watched this week's unfolding events, angry and       appalled. The words ``Equal Justice Under Law'' are carved in       the pediment of the United States Supreme Court. This is       precisely what protesters are rightly demanding. It is a       wholesome and unifying demand--one that all of us should be       able to get behind. We must not be distracted by a small       number of lawbreakers. The protests are defined by tens of       thousands of people of conscience who are insisting that we       live up to our values--our values as people and our values as       a nation. 

       When I joined the military, some 50 years ago, I swore an       oath to support and defend the Constitution. Never did I       dream that troops taking that same oath would be ordered       under any circumstance to violate the Constitutional rights       of their fellow citizens--much less to provide a bizarre       photo op for the elected commander-in-chief, with military       leadership standing alongside. 

       We must reject any thinking of our cities as a       ``battlespace'' that our uniformed military is called upon to       ``dominate.'' At home, we should use our military only when       requested to do so, on very rare occasions, by state       governors. Militarizing our response, as we witnessed in       Washington, D.C., sets up a conflict--a false conflict--      between the military and civilian society. It erodes the       moral ground that ensures a trusted bond between men and       women in uniform and the society they are sworn to protect,       and of which they themselves are a part. Keeping public order       rests with civilian state and local leaders who best       understand their communities and are answerable to them. 

       James Madison wrote in Federalist 14 that ``America united       with a handful of troops, or without a single soldier,       exhibits a more forbidding posture to foreign ambition than       America disunited, with a hundred thousand veterans ready for       combat.'' We do not need to militarize our response to       protests. We need to unite around a common purpose. And it       starts by guaranteeing that all of us are equal before the       law. 

       Instructions given by the military departments to our       troops before the Normandy invasion reminded soldiers that       ``The Nazi slogan for destroying us . . . was `Divide and       Conquer.' Our American answer is `In Union there is       Strength.' '' We must summon that unity to surmount this       crisis--confident that we are better than our politics. 

       Donald Trump is the first president in my lifetime who does       not try to unite the American people--does not even pretend       to try. Instead he tries to divide us. We are witnessing the       consequences of three years of this deliberate effort. We are       witnessing the consequences of three years without mature       leadership. We can unite without him, drawing on the       strengths inherent in our civil society. This will not be       easy, as the past few days have shown, but we owe it to our       fellow citizens; to past generations that bled to defend our       promise; and to our children. 

       We can come through this trying time stronger, and with a       renewed sense of purpose and respect for one another. The       pandemic has shown us that it is not only our troops who are       willing to offer the ultimate sacrifice for the safety of the       community. Americans in hospitals, grocery stores, post       offices, and elsewhere have put their lives on the line in       order to serve their fellow citizens and their country. We       know that we are better than the abuse of executive authority       that we witnessed in Lafayette Park. We must reject and hold       accountable those in office who would make a mockery of our       Constitution. At the same time, we must remember Lincoln's       ``better angels,'' and listen to them, as we work to unite. 

       Only by adopting a new path--which means, in truth,       returning to the original path of our founding ideals--will       we again be a country admired and respected at home and       abroad.  

  (At the request of Mr. Durbin, the following statement was ordered to  be printed in the Record.) 

 Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I was absent when the Senate voted  on vote number 112 to invoke cloture on Executive Calendar #697,  Michael Pack, of Maryland, to be Chief Executive Officer of the  Broadcasting Board of Governors. On vote number 112, had I been  present, I would have voted no on the motion to invoke cloture on Mr.  Pack.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT