S.J. Res. 68


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, earlier today, we voted on an amendment to  S.J. Res. 68 that was offered by the chairman of the Foreign Relations  Committee, Senator Risch. That amendment consisted of one sentence, as  follows: ``The President has a constitutional responsibility to take  actions to defend the United States, its territories, possessions,  citizens, servicemembers and diplomats from attack.'' 

  On its face, the Risch amendment seems reasonable. The President does  have a responsibility to defend the country. But, as is so often the  case, the devil is in the details, or the absence of details, and when  it involves engaging U.S. Armed Forces in hostilities, we should pay  particularly close attention. I was among those who opposed the  amendment and I want to explain why. 

  First, it is important to note that the underlying resolution already  states that ``[nothing] in this section shall be construed to prevent  the United States from defending itself from imminent attack.'' So  there is no question about the President's authority to defend the  country. But the central purpose of the resolution is to give meaning  to the Congress's constitutional authority--the Congress's sole power-- to declare war. For far too long this body has surrendered that duty to  the executive branch. 

  In 2002, when the Senate considered whether or not to authorize  President George W. Bush to invade Iraq, many in this body argued that  providing the President with that authority was needed to convince  Saddam Hussein to back down. I, instead, saw it as Congress abdicating  its constitutional duty by providing the President with open-ended  authority to use military force against Iraq. For that reason, among  others, I voted no. 

  In fact, my worst fears were realized. Not only was the justification  for that war based on lies, but thousands of Americans died, trillions  of dollars were wasted that could have been used to fix what's broken  in this country, and the American people are no safer. Today that  authority is being used in ways that no one envisioned or intended to  justify an attack against another country, Iran, nearly two decades  later. 

  We should learn from that costly mistake. The obvious implication of  the Risch amendment is that any President is authorized, and has an  affirmative responsibility, to use military force at anytime, anywhere,  indefinitely, to prevent an unspecified attack that might occur  sometime in the future. There is no requirement that it be  ``imminent''. There is no requirement that such an attack be anything  other than speculative or imagined. 

  Given the way this and past administrations have expansively  interpreted past authorizations for the use of force, the Risch  amendment could be interpreted to further erode Congress's ability to  prevent a President from unilaterally sending U.S. forces into  hostilities without prior consultation with, or further authorization  from, the Congress. Such an endorsement--even if unintended--of  unchecked Executive power undermines the purpose of the underlying  joint resolution, and it makes a mockery of the Congress's sole power  to declare war. That is not something any of us should condone.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT