Support for American Victims of Terrorism


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, this past December, H.R. 1865, the Further  Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020, was enacted into law as Public  Law 116-94. I want to take a moment to offer some clarity regarding  section 903 of division J of the Act, which is a modified version of  the Promoting Security and Justice for Victims of Terrorism Act of  2019. 

  I commend the Republican and Democratic Senators who have dedicated  their time to pursuing justice for American victims of terrorism. We  all want these victims to have their day in court and to be  appropriately compensated. It is also important that we do so in a  manner that does not do more harm than good. That is the balance that  was sought in section 903 on a bipartisan basis. 

  One component of section 903 is a provision that enables the  Palestinian Authority and the Palestinian Liberation Organization, PA  and PLO, to conduct certain activities in the United States  ``exclusively for the purpose of conducting official business'' and  activities ``ancillary'' to those listed in the provision without  consenting to personal jurisdiction in civil cases. The provision was  included because Senators of both parties understand that it is in our  national interest to permit certain activities related to the official  representation of the PA and PLO. Having been part of the negotiation  that resulted in this language, I believe it is important that we have  a clear understanding of the types of activities that are considered  ``ancillary'' to the conduct of official business. 

  While the official business of any foreign mission necessarily  includes meetings with Members of Congress and their staff,  representatives of the executive branch, and other public officials,  ancillary activities are those which may not be essential for the  minimal functioning of the mission but which support the mission's  primary operations. By way of example, I am confident that every Member  of this body would, as I do, consider a public statement, the issuance  of a press release, or a meeting or public appearance--while not  essential--to be ancillary to his or her primary functions as a U.S.  Senator and would reject any attempt to define such activities  otherwise. 

  That is also why, with regard to the PA and PLO, while we may or may  not agree with the statements of its representatives, the law  contemplates that its representatives may meet with advocates regarding  relevant issues, make public statements, and otherwise engage in public  advocacy and civil society activities that are ancillary to the conduct  of official business without consenting to personal jurisdiction. Such  jurisdiction is provided for elsewhere in section 903. 

  The message in this bill is clear: Congress is committed to pursuing  justice for American victims of terrorism while ensuring appropriate  standards regarding the ability of foreign missions to conduct official  business in the United States. This is a solution that protects U.S.  national interests, and I thank the Senators on both sides of the aisle  who have worked together to find a way forward on this measure.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT