The Coronavirus Outbreak and Pandemic Preparedness


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, since first emerging in Wuhan, China, on  December 31, the outbreak of a new coronavirus, COVID-19, ``novel  coronavirus'', has spread to 25 countries, infected more than 44,000  people, caused at least 1,100 deaths, forced entire cities into  lockdown, triggered hundreds of international flight cancelations,  restricted hundreds of Americans to U.S. military bases in Federal  Government quarantine, and caused significant economic harm to  countries and businesses around the globe, all this in only 6 weeks,  with no end in sight. 

  The virus has infected and killed more people and has done so faster  than the SARS outbreak in China in the early 2000s, which infected  8,098 people and caused 774 deaths worldwide. The World Health  Organization--WHO--has formally declared a public health emergency of  international concern--the sixth such declaration since 2009--and the  outbreak will get worse, possibly far worse, before it gets better. 

  While the novel coronavirus outbreak is alarming and is creating fear  around the world, it should not be surprising. 

  Scientists, epidemiologists, and other global health experts have for  years warned that infectious disease outbreaks will continue to occur  more frequently and cause greater harm, and that most emerging viruses  will spread from animals to humans. Such zoonotic viruses are  increasingly common as human activity, including population growth and  expanding human encroachment into wildlife habitat, increases contact  between animals and humans, which is what happened in Wuhan. 

  The coronavirus strain threatening us today is believed to have  emerged from a bat, and potentially passed through another animal  before infecting humans in a live-animal market. Such animal markets,  which in China and many other countries include bats, rats, birds,  porcupines, and other animals infected with viruses, are sources of  protein for hungry humans, but also serve as breeding grounds for  zoonotic diseases. 

  Scientists estimate that there are more than 1.6 million unknown  viral disease species in mammalian and avian populations, of which an  estimated 600,000 to 850,000 have the potential to infect humans. As we  saw during SARS, Ebola, and MERS and are now seeing once again,  infectious disease outbreaks threaten not only human health but also  cause economic harm and social upheaval. 

  We should all be asking whether we, the United States and the  international community, are doing enough to combat and prepare for  this known and escalating threat. It seems obvious that we are not. 

  In fact, while the President and Secretary of State have repeatedly  said that protecting the health and safety of American citizens is  their highest priority, that is not borne out by the facts. The  American people should be aware that the Trump administration has  consistently proposed cuts in funding for the very programs designed to  help prevent outbreaks and contain the spread of infectious diseases  like the novel coronavirus. Even in the President's fiscal year 2021  budget request sent to Congress this week, in the midst of a deadly  infectious disease outbreak that will almost certainly become a global  pandemic, the administration has proposed to pay less than half of what  the U.S. owes WHO, in addition to requesting a 10 percent cut to U.S.  Agency for International Development--USAID--pandemic preparedness  programs. It is a reckless game of Russian roulette with a global  threat we absolutely must prepare for. Yesterday, it was SARS, then it  was Ebola; today, it is Ebola again and a coronavirus. Tomorrow, it may  be something that is even deadlier and spreads even faster. Fortunately  for the American people, Congress has rejected those cuts in the past  and increased funding for most global health programs, and I am  confident we will do the same this year, but far more needs to be done. 

  Funding for pandemic preparedness at the Centers for Disease Control  and Prevention, USAID, National Institutes of Health, Department of  Health and Human Services, and other Federal agencies that play an  indispensable role in preparing for and responding to outbreaks should  be significantly increased, not forced to cut programs and personnel as  the administration has proposed. It makes no sense to be shortchanging  the agencies and programs we all depend on to protect public health,  keep our ports of entry open, and keep our commerce flowing. 

  Pandemic response is critical, but often, by then, it is too late. We  can and must do more to proactively reduce pandemic risk. One approach  I have urged is for a global viral discovery effort. Such a concept was  proven successful through USAID's PREDICT program, which used the  collection and analysis of wildlife samples in areas of the world most  at risk for zoonotic disease to identify new emerging viruses with  pandemic potential. PREDICT was able to discover hundreds of disease  pathogens at their source, rather than waiting for human infection. 

  In China, the PREDICT program sampled more than 10,000 bats and  identified more than 500 new coronaviruses, including a strain that is  a 96 percent match to the 2019 novel coronavirus strain. The known  existence of and readily available data on such a close relative is one  reason China was able to quickly sequence the novel strain and identify  the animal source of the outbreak. 

  As the 10-year PREDICT program comes to an end this year, USAID is  working to design the next phase of programming to build on the  successful analytical and modeling work demonstrated through PREDICT.  Others in the international community should use the lessons learned  and techniques proven through PREDICT to inform their own efforts. 

  Investing in biomedical research focused on infectious disease is  another crucial, proactive step to reducing pandemic risk. The NIH's  National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases--NIAID--has a  unique mandate to conduct and support basic and applied research on  established infectious diseases and also to quickly launch a research  response to newly emerging and reemerging infectious threats. With  NIAID support, scientists design and develop new diagnostics,  treatments, and preventive strategies, including vaccines, which can be  deployed to protect and treat people worldwide. 

  Yet, in the midst of the novel coronavirus emergency, the President's  budget would cut $3.1 billion from NIH and assumes the reduction is  spread across-the-board to all 27 Institutes and Centers, including  NIAID. Slashing infectious disease research programs threatens our  ability to develop better therapeutics and vaccines for high priority  pathogens, as well as the rapid development of medical countermeasures  against emerging infectious diseases, like the coronavirus, when they  arise. 

  The President's budget features similar dangerous cuts to CDC  programs that have been pivotal in combating the novel coronavirus  response, proposing a $693 million overall decrease from fiscal year  2020. Although the administration touts its $175 million proposal for  Global Health Security in fiscal year 2021, it simultaneously cuts  almost $100 million from other crucial global health investments,  including in global HIV/AIDS, global polio eradication, global  immunization, and the global public health capacity and development  programs. This is short-sighted and dangerous. 

  The President's budget proposes only $50 million, a $35 million  decrease compared to fiscal year 2020, for CDC's Infectious Disease  Rapid Response Reserve Fund--IDRRRF--which has served as the primary  source of funding for responding to the novel coronavirus outbreak.  This risks potentially undermining the agency's ability to access  funding to initiate an early and rapid response to emerging pandemic  threats like novel coronavirus when the U.S. is faced with a public  health emergency. The administration also proposes an $85 million cut  to the CDC's Center on Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Disease and a  $25 million cut to the Public Health Preparedness and Response Program. 

  Slashing these programs weakens CDC's ability to provide rapid  scientific support during outbreaks of infectious disease, maintain  support for global health programs that build core public health  capabilities and bolster frontline preparedness internationally, and  ensure that State and local health departments are ready to handle many  different types of emergencies that threaten the health and resilience  of families, communities, and the Nation, Thus, while the White House  named its fiscal year 2021 budget A Budget for America's Future, it is  anything but that. There is no better example of where this  Administration's rhetoric clashes with reality than the drastic cuts  they propose to the very programs that protect the American people from  deadly communicative diseases. 

  I continue to urge USAID, other Federal agencies, the White House,  and Members of Congress to support a more  proactive approach to reducing pandemic risk. Today, we are struggling  to control outbreaks of Ebola and the novel coronavirus, and while we  don't know which viruses will next attack us, we do know it is not a  matter of it: but when, and we must do everything we can to prepare.  The more information we have about potential zoonotic viruses, the  better able we will be to respond. The stakes are immense. Thousands,  tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, even millions of lives could  be lost, and the amount of funding necessary to control it would be  incalculable.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT