The Philippines


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President I want to take a few moments to discuss an  issue that has garnered some attention in recent months, which is our  relations with the Government of the Philippines, including President  Duterte's counter-drug strategy and his government's treatment of those  who have openly criticized that strategy. 

  It is important to first recount the long history of friendship and  strategic cooperation between the United States and the Philippines.  Family and cultural ties that extend back many generations bind us  together, as do our shared goals in East Asia and the Pacific. Our  Armed Forces regularly engage in joint exercises to enhance regional  security. Despite our differences, relations between our two countries  are strong and based on mutual respect. 

  We should also extend our deepest sympathies to those harmed by the  recent eruption of the Taal volcano in Luzon. It has displaced tens of  thousands of families and destroyed the livelihoods of many. The U.S.  Agency for International Development and international organizations  that receive U.S. funding like the World Food Programme are responding  with humanitarian aid to those in need, which I and others in Congress  strongly support. 

  One of the manifestations of our longstanding, close relations with  the Philippines is the assistance we provide annually to promote a wide  range of interests there, from humanitarian and economic assistance to  military assistance, which in fiscal year 2019 totaled more than $150  million. However, as is the case for other recipients of U.S.  assistance, those funds are not an entitlement and they are not a blank  check. For example, in the Philippines they may not be used to support  police counter-drug operations. We condemn the thousands of  extrajudicial executions of suspected drug users and drug-traffickers  by police and their collaborators. Such a strategy is not consistent  with due process and the rule of law, nor an effective way to combat  the trafficking and abuse of illegal drugs that every country,  including the United States, is struggling with. We do support  treatment programs for Filipinos suffering from drug addiction. 

  We also stand strongly in support of freedom of expression, whether  in the Philippines or anywhere else, including in our own country, and  that, as well as President Duterte's counter-drug strategy, is what  underlies our current  disagreement with his government that is illustrated, most recently, by  the passage without opposition of S. Res. 142, which condemns the  imprisonment of Senator Leila De Lima and calls for her immediate  release. It also calls on the Government of the Philippines to  guarantee freedom of the press and to drop charges against Maria Ressa  and the online news network Rappler. 

  As said by Senator Durbin who, like I, cosponsored that resolution,  ``[i]n the end, [De Lima's] freedom and the end of government  harassment against journalists like Maria Ressa will be important tests  of whether cherished democratic norms we share with our long-standing  Filipino allies will be respected by President Duterte.'' 

  The response of the Duterte government was regrettable, albeit not  uncharacteristic. Like Senator Durbin, I have become accustomed to  being on the receiving end of baseless personal attacks by President  Duterte's spokesman, as if those attacks might intimidate us or boost  domestic support for his government. Rather than respond substantively  to legitimate concerns about extrajudicial killings, impunity, and  freedom of expression that I, Senator Durbin, Senator Markey, our  Democratic and Republican colleagues, the U.S. State Department, the  United Nations, and respected human rights organizations have raised  over the years, we are told that S. Res. 142 is based on ``bogus  narratives . . . promoted by Duterte's usual antagonists.'' We are  accused of being ``prejudiced'' and ``misguided,'' our support for  Senator De Lima ``a direct and shameless affront to the Republic of the  Philippines, which has long ceased to be a colony of the United  States.'' Our actions are called ``brazen and intrusive to the dignity  of an independent, democratic and sovereign state'' which would ``not  be bullied by any foreign country or by its officials, especially by  misinformed and gullible politicians who grandstand at our expense.''  Going a step further, the Duterte government inexplicably threatened to  deny visas to Americans who seek to visit the Philippines and who have  nothing to do with these concerns. 

  Such vitriolic hyperbole is barely deserving of a response, but  suffice it to say that none of us remotely regards the Philippines as a  colony of the United States, nor are our concerns about the treatment  of Senator De Lima and Maria Ressa an intrusion of the Philippines'  sovereignty, which we respect. S. Res. 142 is based on consistent  reporting by the Trump administration's State Department, the United  Nations, and other credible observers, including in the Philippines,  who share the conviction that defending freedom of expression has  nothing to do with sovereignty. To the contrary, it is everyone's  responsibility, wherever it is denied. If there is any ``intrusion of  dignity'' or ``shameless affront'' in this instance, it is the  harassment, threats, false charges, and imprisonment of those who have  dared to criticize the Duterte government's lawless counter-drug  strategy. 

  None of us here, nor in the Philippines, has an interest in  prolonging this dispute. To the contrary, we want to enhance our  cooperation in a multitude of areas of common interest--from maritime  security to human trafficking to climate change. What 100 U.S.  Senators--Republicans and Democrats--have urged is succinctly spelled  out in the resolution. Rather than deny visas to Americans, many of  whom have family in the Philippines, and rather than resort to ad  hominem attacks, there is, as Senator Durbin has said, ``an easy and  honorable way forward.'' As I have said for months, we are not aware of  any credible evidence that Senator De Lima, who has been detained for  nearly 3 years, is guilty of the crimes she has been accused of. If  such evidence exists, it should be promptly produced in a public trial,  and she should be provided the opportunity to refute it. Otherwise she  should be released. As a former prosecutor, I know that is the minimum  to which anyone accused of a crime is entitled. 

  And respected, courageous investigative journalists like Maria Ressa  should be able to publish without fear of retaliation. There is no  surer way to destroy the underpinnings of democracy than by using  threats and unlawful arrest to silence the press.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT