Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I must admit that when I look around this  body, it looks a little bit different than when I first came here, and  I will be glad when we get back to normal. In the meantime, I want to  say that I entered the Senate in the wake of Watergate in 1975. It was  a time when the American people's faith in their institutions,  including their intelligence agencies, was profoundly shaken. 

  I remember standing on this floor, and the very first vote I cast was  in favor of creating the Select Committee to Study Government  Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities and the Rights of  Americans. That was called the Church Committee. It was the forerunner  of our Intelligence Committee. 

  Through the Committee's work, the American people soon learned of  years of surveillance and other abuses that had occurred at the hands  of the U.S. intelligence agencies. In response, the Senate came  together, Republicans and Democrats together, to pass sweeping reforms  to rein in this overreach. 

  So much has improved over the 45 years with respect to the  intelligence agencies' compliance with the law. I must admit that  seeing the changes over the years gives me a great deal of confidence  that we can continue to develop. But we do know that there are some  inexcusable problems that remain. We have seen time and again  that the system we created with the government lawyers seeking approval  for surveillance in a secret surveillance court falls short of  protecting Americans' due process rights. 

  I know a lot of our intelligence professionals. I have no doubt that  our intelligence professionals work very hard. They are dedicated to  protecting Americans, and they strive to follow the rules. I don't  doubt that at all, but I can't escape the conclusion that the rules are  simply not good enough. A process that operates in total secrecy, with  no checks on the government's allegations or portrayal of the facts at  issue, is bound to fall short. When it comes to justice--justice which  is a bedrock of our democracy--well, to say it falls short is not good  enough. 

  Last fall, the Justice Department inspector general issued a report  that detailed 17 errors or omissions in the FBI's FISA applications to  surveil former Presidential campaign adviser Carter Page. While the  inspector general did not find that the mistakes were politically  motivated, those of us who were at those hearings know that the errors  were nonetheless serious, and we have since learned that they were not  isolated incidents. 

  In March, just 2 weeks after the House passed the very legislation we  are considering today, the inspector general released an even more  damning report. He sampled just 29 applications for FISA surveillance.  In those 29, he found deficiencies in 25 of the 29, with an average of  20 issues on each application. Errors included a failure to disclose  all exculpatory evidence. That is simply unacceptable. It strongly  indicates that something is wrong and needs to be fixed within the FISA  process. 

  I joined with Senator Lee of Utah. We have been working together to  do just that--to define what the fixes might be. The heart of our  proposal is to improve the amici program we created with the assistance  of Members such as Senator Blumenthal with the USA FREEDOM Act of 2015.  We created a process by which the FISA Court could appoint amici to  provide an independent perspective on certain complex issues before the  court. Amici do not act as defense attorneys, representing the target  of the surveillance. They serve the court. But we gave the court narrow  grounds to require the appointment of amici--novel or significant  interpretation of law. 

  While amici have since served the court well, they have only been  appointed 16 times over the last 5 years. We have to do more to  encourage the appointment of amici in cases that involve serious  constitutional issues. 

  My amendment with Senator Lee would create a presumption of amici  participation in cases involving significant First Amendment issues,  not just ``exceptional concerns'' as in the House bill. Importantly, we  also create a presumption of amici participation when the FBI considers  the case to be a ``sensitive investigative matter'' which the FBI would  call an investigation involving the domestic media, a domestic  religious organization, or a public official. I think all of us should  agree that in those instances we ought to have somebody independently  looking at them. 

  Most critically, though, we would leave the decision to appoint amici  entirely up to the FISA judge. Even if it would fall into all of these  categories they could still say no. As a result, the argument that the  expanded amici participation would duly burden the court doesn't even  withstand the slightest scrutiny. If the judge believes amici would not  be appropriate because the case is too time sensitive or too simple  or too routine or for any other reason--any other reason--they have the  discretion to not appoint amici at all. Under our amendment, throughout  the FISA process, the judge maintains complete control. It is not a  burden on the court. What it is doing is empowering the court. It is up  to them.  

  In reality, the number of cases that would have amici participation  under our amendment would remain manageable. The cases likely to raise  significant civil liberties issues would almost certainly be a small  subset of applications related to U.S. persons, as foreigners abroad do  not have constitutional rights like Americans. The total number of such  U.S. person cases last year was just over 200. 

  Perhaps this is why the courts themselves would not anticipate that  our amendment would create a significant financial burden. The  Administrative Office of the Courts estimated costs to be about  $225,000 a year, which they can pay for out of their discretionary  budget. There is plenty of money in there. In fact, the CBO scored the  amendment as zero. 

  But the benefits go far beyond zero. Responding to the latest  inspector general report, which found serious issues in 25 of the 29  FISA applications they reviewed, we would require that the government  turn over all material exculpatory information to the court and make it  available to amici, too, if one is appointed. That is a basic due  process protection available in every public courtroom in America. It  certainly was when I was a prosecutor. The FISA Court should be no  exception. 

  So, I think, with this any Senator should look at what Senator Lee  and I have done. We have an opportunity to reform our flawed  surveillance authorities. These opportunities don't come by often. We  shouldn't squander it, especially when the Justice Department's own  inspector general has been alerting us of the widespread problems  within the FISA process. 

  After the Church Committee found abuses within our intelligence  agencies, something I first learned of when I got elected to the  Senate, I saw the Senate come together, Republicans and Democrats, to  respond decisively. While much has improved since then, they now are  confronted with serious but solvable problems within the FISA process.  I hope I have given the Senate and both parties something for them to  come together. 

  I want to thank Senator Lee for his partnership on this issue and  also for his steadfast devotion to protecting the rights of all  Americans. I am proud to stand with Senator Lee today. I urge all of  our fellow Senators to stand with us, because if you stand with us you  are standing up for the Constitution. Support this amendment, stand  with the American people, and stand with our Constitution. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT