Veteran Treatment Court Coordination Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today, the Senate considers the ``new  NAFTA'', a bill now reviewed by seven Senate committees on which more  than 85 Senators serve. Surely the vote count is clear: This  implementing legislation will be adopted today and sent to the  President. In Vermont, that will mean important wins for our State's  economy and, in particular, our dairy farmers. I will support this  bill. 

  Vermont is a border State, and the commercial and cultural exchanges  with Canada are woven into the fabric of the State. Vermont's largest  export destination is Canada. In 2018, Vermont exported $1.3 billion-- billion--in goods to Canada. That is 43 percent of Vermont's exports.  Trade with our neighbors to the north is essential to Vermont, just as  trade throughout North America is important to our national economy. 

  This agreement is far from perfect, but reflects a compromise that  results when parties come together with a desire to make progress. It  makes important updates to the more than 25-year-old North American  Free Trade Agreement to reflect the advances in digital trade and  intellectual property. The agreement will protect our ability  domestically to increase the availability of affordable drugs.  Importantly, to Vermont and the struggling dairy industry across the  country, the agreement will increase U.S. access to markets in Canada  and Mexico for our high-quality dairy products. 

  The new NAFTA also includes funding to promote clean water  infrastructure on the U.S.-Mexico border, and to improve environmental  infrastructure on both sides of the southern border. It also includes  funding to support reforms to the labor justice system in Mexico, to  reduce the use of child labor and forced labor, to reduce human  trafficking, and for international labor activities. These are  important aspects of the deal that we should all strongly support. 

  This agreement is a compromise. For all its gains, it lacks important  accountability measures to address the escalating threat of climate  change. No one surprised that an administration that announced from the  start its intention to remove the United States from the landmark Paris  agreement would not agree to binding limits on pollution. It should not  surprise us that the Trump administration would not agree to any system  to enforce environmental regulations. It is the greatest flaw of this  agreement and a startling missed opportunity. We can no longer deny  that climate change is real. The United States has a real opportunity  to be a world leader in developing the green jobs and green economies  that must drive our future. So while I am grateful that House Democrats  were able to secure some concessions from the administration that will  ensure that at least consider environmental impacts in terms of trade,  the new NAFTA, unfortunately, misses that chance. 

  I have heard from Vermont businesses concerned about our trade  future, particularly with our neighbors to the north.  It is  because our trading relationships throughout North America are so  vitally important to our national economy, and to local economies like  those in Vermont, that I will support this agreement. 

        Hon. Patrick Leahy,      Senator, U.S. Senate.      Washington, DC. 

       Dear Senator Leahy: We, the undersigned, urge you to vote       in support of S. 3052, the ``United States-Mexico-Canada       Agreement (USMCA) Implementation Act.'' Passage of this bill       would provide much needed updates to the North American Free       Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which took effect over a quarter of       a century ago. 

       As you are aware, Vermont depends heavily on trade with our       North American neighbors, particularly Canada. USMCA provides       a path forward that strengthens these trade relationships and       protects the interests of Vermont workers and industry. The       proposed agreement promotes job stability and growth, while       also providing tariff-free access to sell U.S. products in       Canada and Mexico. A fully implemented USMCA also prevents       the steep increases in consumer goods prices that would       result from inaction. Further, USMCA grows digital trade,       including by guaranteeing freedom to move data across       borders, while protecting intellectual property. 

       Passage of USMCA relieves much of the uncertainty our       business community has faced in relation to trade over the       last several years. Businesses across Vermont have made clear       that the unpredictable imposition of tariffs and the threat       of tariffs have added significant, often unsustainable costs       to doing business. These added costs have harmed industry and       limited growth by discouraging the long-term investments that       would have otherwise occurred had it not been for       unprecedented levels of volatility in our trade dependent       markets. 

       Implementation of USMCA would greatly benefit Vermont       businesses and their employees by providing the mechanisms       necessary for Vermont to continue a prosperous and       competitive relationship with our top trade partner. Please       promptly approve USMCA.            Sincerely,      Vermont Chamber of Commerce.      Burton Snowboards.      Cabot Creamery Cooperative.      Agri-Mark Incorporated.      MBF Bioscience.      Liquid Measurement Systems.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT