Consumer Safety Technology Act


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1770) to direct the Consumer Product Safety Commission to  establish a pilot program to explore the use of artificial intelligence  in support of the mission of the Commission and to direct the Secretary  of Commerce and the Federal Trade Commission to study and report on the  use of blockchain technology and tokens, respectively.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1770

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

(a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Consumer       Safety Technology Act''.

(b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act       is as follows:  Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. Sec. 2. Definitions.

TITLE I--ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY  Sec. 101. Short title. Sec. 102. Pilot program for use of artificial intelligence by Consumer                Product Safety Commission.                 TITLE II--BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION  Sec. 201. Short title. Sec. 202. Study on blockchain technology and its use in consumer                protection.                         TITLE III--TOKEN TAXONOMY  Sec. 301. Short title. Sec. 302. Findings. Sec. 303. Report on unfair or deceptive acts or practices in                transactions relating to tokens.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act--

(1) the term ``consumer product'' has the meaning given       such term in section 3(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act       (15 U.S.C. 2052(a));

(2) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Commerce;       and

(3) the term ``token'' means a transferrable, digital       representation of information recorded on a blockchain or       other distributed ledger technology.

TITLE I--ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY       SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

This title may be cited as the ``AI for Consumer Product       Safety Act''.       SEC. 102. PILOT PROGRAM FOR USE OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE BY                     CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION.

(a) Establishment.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Consumer Product Safety       Commission shall establish a pilot program to explore the use       of artificial intelligence by the Commission in support of       the consumer product safety mission of the Commission, as       described in section 2(b) of the Consumer Product Safety Act       (15 U.S.C. 2051(b)).

(b) Requirements.--In conducting the pilot program       established under subsection (a), the Commission shall do the       following:

(1) Use artificial intelligence for at least 1 of the       following purposes:

(A) Tracking trends with respect to injuries involving       consumer products.

(B) Identifying consumer product hazards.

(C) Monitoring the retail marketplace (including internet       websites) for the sale of recalled consumer products       (including both new and used products).

(D) Identifying consumer products required by section 17(a)       of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2066(a)) to be       refused admission into the customs territory of the United       States.

(2) Consistent with section 6 of the Consumer Product       Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2055), consult with the following:

(A) Technologists, data scientists, and experts in       artificial intelligence and machine learning.

(B) Cybersecurity experts.

(C) Members of the retail industry.

(D) Consumer product manufacturers.

(E) Consumer product safety organizations.

(F) Any other person the Commission considers appropriate.

(c) Report to Congress.--Not later than 1 year after the       conclusion of the pilot program established under subsection       (a), the Consumer Product Safety Commission shall submit to       the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate, and make publicly available on       the website of the Commission, a report on the findings and       data derived from such program, including the extent to which       the use of artificial intelligence improved the ability of       the Commission to advance the consumer product safety mission       of the Commission.                 TITLE II--BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION       SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

This title may be cited as the ``Blockchain Innovation       Act''.       SEC. 202. STUDY ON BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY AND ITS USE IN                     CONSUMER PROTECTION.

(a) In General.--

(1) Study required.--Not later than 1 year after the date       of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, in       consultation with the Federal Trade Commission and any other       Federal agency the Secretary determines appropriate, shall       complete a study on the possible uses of blockchain       technology for consumer protection purposes, including       preventing or mitigating fraud and other unfair or deceptive       acts or practices.

(2) Requirements for study.--In conducting the study       required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall examine--

(A) existing and emerging uses of blockchain technology       that could help protect consumers, including by preventing or       mitigating fraud and other unfair or deceptive acts or       practices within the meaning of section 5 of the Federal       Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45);

(B) trends in the commercial use of and investment in       blockchain technology to prevent or mitigate fraud and other       unfair or deceptive acts or practices as described in       subparagraph (A);

(C) best practices in facilitating public-private       partnerships in blockchain technology to prevent or mitigate       fraud and other unfair or deceptive acts or practices as       described in subparagraph (A);

(D) potential benefits and risks related to the use of       blockchain technology to prevent or mitigate fraud and other       unfair or deceptive acts or practices as described in       subparagraph (A);

(E) possible modifications to Federal regulations that       could encourage the use of blockchain technology to prevent       or mitigate fraud and other unfair or deceptive acts or       practices as described in subparagraph (A); and

(F) any other relevant observations or recommendations       related to the use of blockchain technology for consumer       protection purposes, including preventing or mitigating fraud       and other unfair or deceptive acts or practices as described       in subparagraph (A).

(3) Public comment.--In conducting the study required by       paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide opportunity for       public comment and advice relevant to conducting the study.

(b) Report to Congress.--Not later than 6 months after the       completion of the study required by subsection (a)(1), the       Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and       Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and make       publicly available on the website of the Department of       Commerce, a report that contains the results of such study.                         TITLE III--TOKEN TAXONOMY       SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

This title may be cited as the ``Digital Taxonomy Act''.       SEC. 302. FINDINGS.

Congress finds that--

(1) it is important that the United States remains a leader       in innovation;

(2) tokens and blockchain technology are driving innovation       and providing consumers with increased choice and       convenience;

(3) the use of tokens and blockchain technology is likely       to increase in the future;

(4) the Federal Trade Commission is responsible for       protecting consumers from unfair or deceptive acts or       practices, including relating to tokens;

(5) the Commission has previously taken action against       unscrupulous companies and individuals that committed unfair       or deceptive acts or practices involving tokens; and

(6) to bolster the Commission's ability to enforce against       unfair or deceptive acts or practices involving tokens, the       Commission should ensure staff have appropriate training and       resources to identify and pursue such cases.       SEC. 303. REPORT ON UNFAIR OR DECEPTIVE ACTS OR PRACTICES IN                     TRANSACTIONS RELATING TO TOKENS.

Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of       this Act, the Federal Trade Commission shall submit to the       Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate, and make publicly available on       the website of the Commission, a report on--

(1) any actions taken by the Commission relating to unfair       or deceptive acts or practices in transactions relating to       tokens;

(2) any other efforts of the Commission to prevent unfair       or deceptive acts or practices relating to tokens; and

(3) any recommendations by the Commission for legislation       that would improve the ability of the Commission and other       relevant Federal agencies to further protect consumers from       unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the token       marketplace.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1770, the Consumer  Safety Technology Act, led by the gentlewoman from Indiana's Ninth  District, the gentleman from Florida's Ninth District, and the  gentlewoman from Massachusetts.

This legislation will require the Consumer Product Safety Commission  to establish a pilot program to explore the use of artificial  intelligence in support of its product safety efforts. It would also  direct the Secretary of Commerce and the Federal Trade Commission to  study and report on the consumer protection applications of blockchain  technology.

Technology such as AI and blockchain are revolutionizing the private  sector with improvements in efficiency, security, and transparency. We  need to make sure the Federal Government is reaping the same benefits  and using technology to its advantage.

This bill would not only make these agencies more effective, but it  would protect consumers in the process.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join with me in voting in favor  of H.R.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, as has been pointed out, the technologies are  changing so rapidly, especially when looking at AI and blockchain and  how they are revolutionizing the private sector because of the  efficient security and transparency and what we need to be doing on the  Federal Government side at the same time.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation with an  ``aye'' vote, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.