Hydropower Licensing Transparency Act


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 3657) to amend the Federal Power Act to require the Federal  Energy Regulatory Commission to annually submit to Congress a report on  the status of ongoing hydropower relicensing applications, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3657

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Hydropower Licensing       Transparency Act''.       SEC. 2. ANNUAL LICENSING STATUS REPORT.

The Federal Power Act is amended by inserting after section       36 (16 U.S.C. 823g) the following:       ``SEC. 37. ANNUAL LICENSING STATUS REPORT.

``(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date       of enactment of this section, and annually thereafter, the       Commission shall submit to Congress a report on the status       of--

``(1) the licensing process for each new license, and for       each subsequent license for which sections 14 and 15 have       been waived, for which the existing licensee has notified the       Commission under section 15(b)(1) at least 3 years prior to       submission of the report that such existing licensee intends       to file an application for such new license or subsequent       license, but such new license or subsequent license has not       yet been issued under section 15; and

``(2) the licensing process for each original license under       section 4(e) for which a citizen, association, corporation,       State, Indian Tribe, or municipality has notified the       Commission, pursuant to applicable regulations, at least 3       years prior to submission of the report that such citizen,       association, corporation, State, Indian Tribe, or       municipality intends to file an application for such original       license, but such original license has not yet been issued       under section 4(e).

``(b) Inclusions.--Each report submitted under subsection       (a) shall include, with respect to the licensing process for       each new license and       subsequent license described in such subsection and the       licensing process for each original license described in such       subsection--

``(1) the date the notice of intent described in such       subsection was provided to the Commission;

``(2) any docket number assigned with respect to such       licensing process;

``(3) whether any application for such new license, such       subsequent license, or such original license has been filed;

``(4) information regarding the status of any such       application, including the date the Commission anticipates it       will issue such original license, such subsequent license, or       such new license;

``(5) the date of any upcoming proceeding or other meeting       related to such original license, such subsequent license, or       such new license; and

``(6) a description of any ongoing or completed actions       required of the existing licensee, citizen, association,       corporation, State, Indian Tribe, municipality, the       Commission, the fish and wildlife agencies referred to in       section 15(b), and any other agencies.

``(c) Disaggregation of Information by License Type.--The       information included in each report submitted under       subsection (a) shall be disaggregated by whether the       information relates to a new license, or a subsequent       license, issued under section 15 or an original license       issued under section 4(e).''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3657, the Hydropower  Licensing Transparency Act, led by the gentleman from Idaho's First  District and the gentlewoman from Washington's Eighth District.

Hydropower is critical to our Nation's energy mix, supplying power to  approximately 30 million homes and businesses and accounting for 40  percent of the Nation's black start capacity.

However, the average age of a hydropower facility in the United  States is 60 years. Therefore, hundreds of projects will be up for  relicensing between now and 2035.

Hydropower developers must go through an extensive permitting process  in order to license and relicense projects. While important, this  process can significantly increase the cost and timeline of relicensing  these important energy sources. In fact, the average permitting length  of an original license process spans from 5 to 7 years, and the average  relicensing process takes between 7 and 10 years.

To increase transparency surrounding the status of hydropower  licensing and relicensing applications, H.R. 3657 would require an  annual report from FERC to Congress detailing the status of projects  that have filed a notice of intent for original or new licenses. This  will better inform Congress on the status of applications and highlight  obstacles to the efficient permitting and deployment of hydropower  projects.

It is imperative that projects are relicensed in a timely manner to  ensure clean and reliable hydropower dams remain online for years to  come.

I thank the gentlewoman from Washington's Eighth District and the  gentleman from Idaho's First Congressional District for their  leadership on this very important legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3657, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers on the bill. I am  prepared to close if the gentleman is, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, all the reports that we have across this  country state that we have been producing more power, not less, and  hydropower plays an important role in our structure of energy in this  country.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage a ``yes'' vote on this legislation, and I  yield back the balance of my time.