National Telecommunications and Information Administration Reauthorization Act of 2025


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend, the gentleman from  Florida (Mr. Bilirakis), for yielding. I really support and thank the  gentleman for the work that he has done on this legislation to get it  to where we are today.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2482, the National  Telecommunications and Information Administration Reauthorization Act  of 2025, which I am pleased to lead with the ranking member of the  Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, my good friend, the  gentlewoman from the Seventh District of California (Ms. Matsui).

The NTIA is an agency within the Department of Commerce tasked with  advising the President on matters related to telecommunications policy.  It is responsible for a variety of activities, which include Federal  spectrum management, administration of broadband grants, internet  governance, representing the United States in international  telecommunication forums, and developing cybersecurity policy.

As the chairman has mentioned, Congress has not reauthorized NTIA  since 1992, before many of these responsibilities existed or were  relevant. This legislation ensures that NTIA has the right structure  and resources to fulfill its 21st century mission as directed by  Congress.

Today's NTIA plays a key role in our effort to maintain global  leadership in wireless communications. NTIA has important statutory  obligations to manage Federal spectrum, which is especially important  as Federal and non-Federal use of spectrum has intensified with the  explosion of mobile phones and new connected technologies.

We must make sure NTIA's leadership reflects the important role it  plays today, both domestically and internationally.

This legislation elevates the NTIA Administrator from an Assistant  Secretary of Commerce to an Under Secretary of Commerce. This elevation  will help NTIA best represent the United States as it coordinates with  other agencies and works with other countries.

Finally, this legislation will codify two key offices within the  NTIA, the Office of Spectrum Management and the Office of International  Affairs.

NTIA's role has drastically changed since it was last reauthorized,  and I appreciate the work from the agency and my colleagues to update  its authorizing statute.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 2482, and I yield  back the balance of my time.