Open Ran Outreach Act


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 2037) to provide outreach and technical assistance to small  providers regarding Open RAN networks, and for other purposes, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2037

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Open RAN Outreach Act''.       SEC. 2. OUTREACH AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL PROVIDERS                     REGARDING OPEN RAN NETWORKS.

(a) In General.--The Assistant Secretary shall conduct       outreach and provide technical assistance to small       communications network providers--

(1) to raise awareness regarding the uses, benefits, and       challenges of Open RAN networks and other open network       architectures; and

(2) regarding participation in the Wireless Supply Chain       Innovation Grant Program established under section 9202(a)(1)       of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense       Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283).

(b) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary''       means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications       and Information, acting through the head of the Office of       Internet Connectivity and Growth.

(2) Open network architecture.--The term ``open network       architecture'' means Open RAN networks and other network       elements that follow a set of published open standards for       multi-vendor network equipment interoperability, including       open core and open transport.

(3) Open ran network.--The term ``Open RAN network'' means       a wireless network that follows the Open Radio Access Network       architecture and published open standards for multi-vendor       network equipment interoperability.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2037, the Open RAN Outreach  Act, led by the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Hudson), who is the  chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology of the  Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.  Carter), who represents the Second District.

This legislation helps pave the way for greater U.S. competition with  China by promoting technology that encourages vendor diversity.  Specifically, this legislation requires NTIA to provide support to all  of our small and rural communications providers that want to deploy  Open RAN technology. Promoting a more competitive market of trusted  vendors to provide 5G equipment remains an important strategic  component to protect U.S. networks.

As an open network infrastructure, Open RAN technology can help  diversify communications technology by allowing multiple components  from multiple manufacturers. This bill will give small and rural  providers important information and support to deploy Open RAN  technologies if providers would like to implement this technology in  their networks.

This legislation has a strong history of bipartisan support in the  Committee on Energy and Commerce and passed the full committee in April  by voice vote.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 2037, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am prepared  to close at this time.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I also urge Members of the House to support  this legislation.