Precision Agriculture Satellite Connectivity Act


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1618) to require the Federal Communications Commission to review  certain rules of the Commission and develop recommendations for rule  changes to promote precision agriculture, and for other purposes, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1618

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Precision Agriculture       Satellite Connectivity Act''.       SEC. 2. PRECISION AGRICULTURE SATELLITE CONNECTIVITY.

(a) Review.--The Commission shall--

(1) review the rules of the Commission relating to fixed       satellite service, mobile satellite service, and earth       exploration satellite service to determine if there are rule       changes that the Commission could implement under existing       authority to promote precision agriculture; and

(2) if the Commission determines under paragraph (1) that       there are rule changes that the Commission could implement,       develop recommendations for how to implement the changes.

(b) Report.--Not later than 15 months after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the       Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate a report on the results of the       review conducted under subsection (a), including any       recommendations developed under paragraph (2) of such       subsection.

(c) Commission Defined.--In this section, the term       ``Commission'' means the Federal Communications Commission.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my legislation, H.R. 1618, the  Precision Agriculture Satellite Connectivity Act, that I was pleased to  introduce with the gentlewoman from Illinois' Second Congressional  District (Ms. Kelly).

For years, large parts of my district and rural areas across America  have lacked access to fast broadband connections.

Reliable internet access is more than just being able to stream your  favorite TV shows and movies. It is the critical connecting link for  all of us. Whether it is helping our seniors access telehealth services  or allowing students to complete homework assignments or enabling small  businesses to reach global markets, our people, country, and economy  run on a reliable internet connection.

Farmers in rural Ohio also know that reliable broadband connections  are essential to their operations. After all, it helps deploy  technologies that increase productivity, produce higher yields, and  minimize operating costs.

Today's smart agriculture technology, from autonomous tractors to  distributed soil sensors, rely on internet connections to share data.

In fact, farmers use information in real time to make smarter  decisions on how to optimize inputs and whether and when to plant or  harvest. When terrestrial or cellular networks are not available,  satellite broadband steps in to make these technologies work.

However, it is not just advanced satellite broadband capabilities  that improve precision agriculture. Earth-imaging satellites also  provide important information which helps farmers and ranchers identify  visual trends that may require immediate attention.

In order to ensure our regulations maximize these opportunities, our  bill would require the FCC to look at its current satellite rules to  determine if rural changes can be made to promote precision  agriculture.

I am committed to ensuring our farmers have the tools at their  disposal to help increase productivity while minimizing costs. This  legislation is a good step forward in that mission.

I thank the chairman of the full committee for bringing this  legislation to the floor and working with us.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, because I  know across my district--I have one of the largest farm income- producing districts in the State of Ohio--our farmers rely on this  technology. It is very important that the FCC looks at what they can do  to help promote agriculture across this country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of the legislation, and I yield back the  balance of my time.