Promoting United States Wireless Leadership Act of 2025


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1765) to direct the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for  Communications and Information to take certain actions to enhance the  representation of the United States and promote United States  leadership in communications standards-setting bodies, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1765

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Promoting United States       Wireless Leadership Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. REPRESENTATION AND LEADERSHIP OF UNITED STATES IN                     COMMUNICATIONS STANDARDS-SETTING BODIES.

(a) In General.--In order to enhance the representation of       the United States and promote United States leadership in       standards-setting bodies that set standards for 5G networks       and for future generations of wireless communications       networks, the Assistant Secretary shall, in consultation with       the National Institute of Standards and Technology and the       Department of State--

(1) equitably encourage participation by companies and a       wide variety of relevant stakeholders, but not including any       company or relevant stakeholder that the Assistant Secretary       has determined to be not trusted, (to the extent such       standards-setting bodies allow such stakeholders to       participate) in such standards-setting bodies; and

(2) equitably offer technical expertise to companies and a       wide variety of relevant stakeholders, but not including any       company or relevant stakeholder that the Assistant Secretary       has determined to be not trusted, (to the extent such       standards-setting bodies allow such stakeholders to       participate) to facilitate such participation.

(b) Standards-Setting Bodies.--The standards-setting bodies       referred to in subsection (a) include--

(1) the International Organization for Standardization;

(2) the voluntary standards-setting bodies that develop       protocols for wireless devices and other equipment, such as       the 3GPP and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics       Engineers; and

(3) any standards-setting body accredited by the American       National Standards Institute or Alliance for       Telecommunications Industry Solutions.

(c) Briefing.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall brief       the Committees on Energy and Commerce and Foreign Affairs of       the House of Representatives and the Committees on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation and Foreign Relations of the       Senate on a strategy to carry out subsection (a).

(d) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) 3GPP.--The term ``3GPP'' means the 3rd Generation       Partnership Project.

(2) 5G network.--The term ``5G network'' means a fifth-      generation mobile network as described by 3GPP Release 15 or       higher.

(3) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary''       means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications       and Information.

(4) Cloud computing.--The term ``cloud computing'' has the       meaning given the term in Special Publication 800-145 of the       National Institute of Standards and Technology, entitled       ``The NIST Definition of Cloud Computing'', published in       September 2011, or any successor publication.

(5) Communications network.--The term ``communications       network'' means any of the following:

(A) A system enabling the transmission, between or among       points specified by the user, of information of the user's       choosing.

(B) Cloud computing resources.

(C) A network or system used to access cloud computing       resources.

(6) Not trusted.--The term ``not trusted'' means, with       respect to a company or stakeholder, that the company or       stakeholder is determined by the Assistant Secretary to pose       a threat to the national security of the United States. In       making such a determination, the Assistant Secretary shall       rely solely on one or more of the following determinations:

(A) A specific determination made by any executive branch       interagency body with appropriate national security       expertise, including the Federal Acquisition Security Council       established under section 1322(a) of title 41, United States       Code.

(B) A specific determination made by the Department of       Commerce pursuant to Executive Order No. 13873 (84 Fed. Reg.       22689; relating to securing the information and       communications technology and services supply chain).

(C) Whether a company or stakeholder produces or provides       covered telecommunications equipment or services, as defined       in section 889(f)(3) of the John S. McCain National Defense       Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232;       132 Stat. 1918).

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1765, the Promoting United  States Wireless Leadership Act, sponsored by the gentleman from New  Jersey's Seventh District, the gentlewoman from Michigan's Sixth  District, and the gentlewoman from New York's Ninth District.

For decades, the United States has led the development of next- generation wireless technology. To maintain our technological  leadership and defend against our foreign adversaries, we must continue  our leadership in standards development, including our participation in  global, industry-led standards bodies.

Without participation by U.S. agencies and companies, we allow our  adversaries to pursue their own economic and national security  interests unchecked and the opportunity to lead in the development of  standards for the next generation of wireless technology.

Already, we are hearing about the Chinese Communist Party's efforts  to dominate the upcoming 2027 World Radiocommunication Conference.

I again thank the Representatives from New Jersey's Seventh District,  Michigan's Sixth District, Michigan's Fifth District, and New York's  Ninth District for their leadership on this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1765, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am prepared  to close.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I also encourage a ``yes'' vote on the bill,  and I yield back the balance of my time.