Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Gas-Fired Instantaneous Water Heaters''


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 161, I call up  the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 20) providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Department of Energy relating to ``Energy Conservation  Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Gas-fired  Instantaneous Water Heaters'', and ask for its immediate consideration  in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. LATTA.  Res. 20.

Mr. Speaker, on December 26, while American families were enjoying  the holidays, the Biden administration's Department of Energy issued a  final rule once again, setting cost prohibitive energy conservation  standards for gas-fired instantaneous water heaters.

Today, the House will consider the gentleman from Alabama's Sixth  District's legislation, H.J. Res. 20, to overturn this egregious  standard.

Under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, EPCA, in order to  promulgate new or amended energy efficiency standards, the DOE must  find that the standard be cost-effective, technologically feasible, and  result in a significant conservation of energy. This amended standard  does not meet those criteria and should be repealed.

In this final rule, the DOE fails to adequately estimate the cost  difference between condensing and noncondensing water heaters. This  difference will result in a significant cost increase for consumers,  especially low-income households and seniors, by removing more  affordable options from the market.

In fact, the DOE itself estimated that the amended standard would  increase the cost of new water heater models by $231. However, the DOE  failed to adequately estimate the cost difference between condensing  and noncondensing models in this assessment.

On top of expensive installation costs, industry stakeholders  estimate the actual cost increase for American consumers will range  between $450 to $665 per unit. This staggering increase is not cost- effective, as stipulated by EPCA, and is unattainable for many  families.

The Biden-Harris administration consistently ignored this stipulation  in a number of rulemakings, and the gas heater rule is no different.

This amended standard will ban approximately 40 percent of the  tankless gas water heaters currently available, forcing consumers to  purchase significantly more expensive or less efficient models.

Not only do bans on gas appliances infringe on consumer choice, but  it also increases strains on our Nation's grid, which cannot sustain  such massive and rapid amounts of forced electrification without new,  baseload generation coming online.

President Trump, understanding the serious concerns unjustified  energy efficiency standards pose for consumers, issued an executive  order on day one to unleash American energy. This EO stated that it is  the policy of the United States to safeguard the American people's  freedom to choose from a variety of goods and appliances.

Additionally, this administration has paused implementation of this  final rule and issued a Statement of Administration Policy supporting  H.J. Res. 20. Congress should pass H.J. Res. 20 to right the wrongs of  the previous administration, execute President Trump's agenda, and  protect our consumers.

I thank the gentleman from Alabama's Sixth District for his  leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes,'' and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. LATTA. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from the  Third District of Georgia (Mr. Jack).

Mr. LATTA. Madam Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. LATTA. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, we have heard from various speakers today, but I think  it is really important to point out that, once again, because of the  Biden-Harris administration's gas heater rule, we are going to ban  approximately 40 percent of the tankless gas water heaters currently  available, forcing consumers to have to pay more and get less efficient  models.

This doesn't make sense. Not only does this rule go on to ban these  gas appliances and infringe on consumer choice, but it also increases  strains on the Nation's grid, which cannot sustain  such massive and rapid amounts of forced electrification without new  baseload generation coming online.

When we talk about this loss of consumer choice, the DOE  underestimated the cost by $231 because when you look at the actual  costs out there, industry stakeholders are estimating it is going to  bring the cost up between $450 to $665 per unit.

I think it is also important to note that, in the last Congress, in  the Energy and Commerce Committee's Energy Subcommittee, I asked  everybody who came before us the same question when we had these  testimonies: Do we have to have more energy in this country or less?  Everybody said the exact same thing. We have to produce more energy in  this country, but we also have to make sure we are producing the energy  to make that energy in this country.

Republicans have led that way starting back in 2008 with our all-of- the-above energy policy, which said we weren't going to pick winners  and losers. We were going to let the consumer decide and let the market  decide, and that is important.

If we are going to make sure we become energy independent in this  country, we have to start thinking about those things. It is important.

Madam Speaker, I urge the passage of H.J. Res. 20, and I yield back  the balance of my time.

Mr. LATTA. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 221,  nays 198, answered ``present'' 2, not voting 12, as follows:                               [Roll No. 53]                                 YEAS--221       Aderholt      Allen      Amodei (NV)      Arrington      Babin      Bacon      Baird      Balderson      Barr      Barrett      Baumgartner      Bean (FL)      Begich      Bentz      Bergman      Bice      Biggs (AZ)      Biggs (SC)      Bilirakis      Boebert      Bost      Brecheen      Bresnahan      Buchanan      Burchett      Burlison      Bynum      Calvert      Cammack      Carey      Carter (GA)      Carter (TX)      Ciscomani      Cline      Cloud      Clyde      Cole      Collins      Comer      Crane      Crank      Crawford      Crenshaw      Cuellar      Davidson      Davis (NC)      De La Cruz      DesJarlais      Diaz-Balart      Downing      Dunn (FL)      Edwards      Ellzey      Emmer      Estes      Evans (CO)      Ezell      Fallon      Fedorchak      Feenstra      Finstad      Fischbach      Fitzgerald      Fitzpatrick      Fleischmann      Flood      Fong      Foxx      Franklin, Scott      Fulcher      Garbarino      Gill (TX)      Gillen      Gimenez      Golden (ME)      Goldman (TX)      Gonzales, Tony      Gonzalez, V.      Gooden      Gosar      Graves      Gray      Green (TN)      Greene (GA)      Griffith      Grothman      Guest      Guthrie      Hageman      Hamadeh (AZ)      Haridopolos      Harrigan      Harris (MD)      Harris (NC)      Harshbarger      Hern (OK)      Higgins (LA)      Hill (AR)      Hinson      Houchin      Hudson      Huizenga      Hurd (CO)      Issa      Jack      Jackson (TX)      James      Johnson (LA)      Johnson (SD)      Jordan      Joyce (OH)      Joyce (PA)      Kean      Kelly (MS)      Kelly (PA)      Kennedy (UT)      Kiggans (VA)      Kiley (CA)      Kim      Knott      Kustoff      LaHood      LaLota      LaMalfa      Langworthy      Latta      Lawler      Lee (FL)      Letlow      Loudermilk      Lucas      Luna      Luttrell      Mace      Mackenzie      Malliotakis      Maloy      Mann      Massie      Mast      McCaul      McClain      McClintock      McCormick      McDowell      McGuire      Messmer      Meuser      Miller (IL)      Miller (OH)      Miller (WV)      Miller-Meeks      Mills      Moolenaar      Moore (AL)      Moore (NC)      Moore (UT)      Moore (WV)      Moran      Moskowitz      Murphy      Newhouse      Norman      Nunn (IA)      Obernolte      Ogles      Onder      Owens      Palmer      Perez      Perry      Pfluger      Reschenthaler      Rogers (AL)      Rogers (KY)      Rose      Rouzer      Roy      Rulli      Rutherford      Salazar      Scalise      Schmidt      Schweikert      Self      Sessions      Shreve      Simpson      Smith (MO)      Smith (NE)      Smith (NJ)      Smucker      Spartz      Stauber      Steil      Steube      Strong      Stutzman      Suozzi      Taylor      Tenney      Thompson (PA)      Tiffany      Timmons      Turner (OH)      Valadao      Van Drew      Van Duyne      Vindman      Wagner      Walberg      Weber (TX)      Webster (FL)      Westerman      Wied      Williams (TX)      Wilson (SC)      Wittman      Womack      Yakym      Zinke                                 NAYS--198       Adams      Aguilar      Amo      Ansari      Auchincloss      Balint      Barragan      Beatty      Bell      Bera      Beyer      Bishop      Bonamici      Boyle (PA)      Brown      Brownley      Budzinski      Carbajal      Carson      Carter (LA)      Casar      Case      Casten      Castor (FL)      Castro (TX)      Cherfilus-McCormick      Chu      Cisneros      Clark (MA)      Clarke (NY)      Cleaver      Clyburn      Cohen      Conaway      Connolly      Correa      Costa      Courtney      Craig      Crockett      Crow      Davids (KS)      Davis (IL)      Dean (PA)      DeGette      DeLauro      DelBene      Deluzio      DeSaulnier      Dexter      Dingell      Doggett      Elfreth      Escobar      Espaillat      Evans (PA)      Fields      Figures      Fletcher      Foster      Foushee      Friedman      Frost      Garamendi      Garcia (CA)      Garcia (IL)      Garcia (TX)      Goldman (NY)      Gomez      Goodlander      Green, Al (TX)      Harder (CA)      Hayes      Himes      Horsford      Houlahan      Hoyer      Hoyle (OR)      Huffman      Ivey      Jackson (IL)      Jacobs      Jayapal      Jeffries      Johnson (GA)      Johnson (TX)      Kamlager-Dove      Kaptur      Keating      Kelly (IL)      Kennedy (NY)      Khanna      Krishnamoorthi      Landsman      Larsen (WA)      Larson (CT)      Latimer      Lee (NV)      Lee (PA)      Leger Fernandez      Levin      Liccardo      Lieu      Lofgren      Lynch      Magaziner      Mannion      Matsui      McBath      McBride      McClain Delaney      McClellan      McCollum      McDonald Rivet      McGarvey      McGovern      McIver      Meeks      Menendez      Meng      Mfume      Min      Moore (WI)      Morelle      Morrison      Moulton      Mrvan      Nadler      Neal      Neguse      Norcross      Ocasio-Cortez      Olszewski      Pallone      Panetta      Pappas      Pelosi      Peters      Pingree      Pocan      Pou      Pressley      Quigley      Ramirez      Randall      Raskin      Riley (NY)      Rivas      Ross      Ruiz      Ryan      Salinas      Sanchez      Scanlon      Schakowsky      Schneider      Scholten      Schrier      Scott (VA)      Scott, David      Sewell      Sherman      Sherrill      Simon      Smith (WA)      Sorensen      Soto      Stansbury      Stanton      Stevens      Strickland      Subramanyam      Swalwell      Sykes      Takano      Thanedar      Thompson (CA)      Thompson (MS)      Titus      Tlaib      Tokuda      Tonko      Torres (CA)      Torres (NY)      Trahan      Tran      Turner (TX)      Underwood      Vargas      Vasquez      Veasey      Velazquez      Wasserman Schultz      Waters      Watson Coleman      Whitesides      Williams (GA)      Wilson (FL)                          ANSWERED ``PRESENT''--2       Fry      Van Orden                                       NOT VOTING--12       Alford      Donalds      Frankel, Lois      Gottheimer      Grijalva      Hunt      Mullin      Nehls      Omar      Pettersen      Scott, Austin      Stefanik

Mr. LANDSMAN changed his vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''

Mr. DAVIS of North Carolina, Mses. BYNUM, and GILLEN changed their  vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.''

Mr. CLEAVER changed his vote from ``present'' to ``nay.''

Mr. VAN ORDEN changed his vote from ``nay'' to ``present.''

So the joint resolution was passed.

The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

Stated for:

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I'm not recorded because  I was unavoidably detained. Had I been present, I would have voted YEA  on Roll Call No. 53.

Stated against: