Researching Efficient Federal Improvements for Necessary Energy Refining Act


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, the chairman of the full  committee of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my bill, H.R. 3109, the REFINER  Act. This legislation will direct the National Petroleum Council to  report to Congress and the Department of Energy on petrochemical  refiners in the United States.

This legislation is essential to ensuring that the U.S. can reliably  produce enough refined products domestically. The Energy Information  Administration projects global demand for liquid fuels to increase by  about 20 million barrels per day by 2050. Alarmingly, over the last  several years, North America has lost an estimated 1 million barrels of  fuel per day due to low refining capacity.

The last report from the National Petroleum Council on refining was  completed over 20 years ago.

The report must include information concerning the contribution of  refineries to U.S. energy security; capacity projections of U.S.  petrochemical refineries; opportunities for expanding capacities and  risks to those refineries; an assessment of any State or Federal  executive actions, regulations, or policies that have caused or  contributed to  a decline in U.S. petrochemical refinery capacity; and recommendations  for how to increase refinery capacity.

American refineries have played a crucial role in providing secure,  affordable, and high-value petroleum products to global customers.  Importantly, this legislation would help identify States that have  caused or contributed to a decline in U.S. petrochemical refinery  capacity.

Hostile regulatory environments, like in California, have led to the  shuttering of several refineries. California used to be home to over 40  refineries in the 1980s. This number has now decreased to 14 as of last  year, with two additional refineries slated to close in early 2026.

These anticipated closures will disrupt fuel supplies and increase  energy prices for consumers, businesses, and farmers.

An analysis by the University of Southern California anticipates  retail gas prices in the State could increase by as much as 75 percent  under certain conditions. The bottom line: Fewer refineries result in  supply disruptions and higher fuel prices for Americans.

The REFINER Act seeks to produce a detailed roadmap to strengthen and  expand refinery capacity to increase American energy security and  economic growth.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the legislation, and I  thank the chairman for yielding.