Understanding Cybersecurity of Mobile Networks Act


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1709) to direct the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for  Communications and Information to submit to Congress a report examining  the cybersecurity of mobile service networks, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1709

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Understanding Cybersecurity       of Mobile Networks Act''.       SEC. 2. REPORT ON CYBERSECURITY OF MOBILE SERVICE NETWORKS.

(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary, in       consultation with the Department of Homeland Security, shall       submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate a report examining the       cybersecurity of mobile service networks and the       vulnerability of such networks and mobile devices to       cyberattacks and surveillance conducted by adversaries.

(b) Matters To Be Included.--The report required by       subsection (a) shall include the following:

(1) An assessment of the degree to which providers of       mobile service have addressed, are addressing, or have not       addressed cybersecurity vulnerabilities (including       vulnerabilities the exploitation of which could lead to       surveillance conducted by adversaries) identified by academic       and independent researchers, multistakeholder standards and       technical organizations, industry experts, and Federal       agencies, including in relevant reports of--

(A) the National Telecommunications and Information       Administration;

(B) the National Institute of Standards and Technology; and

(C) the Department of Homeland Security, including--

(i) the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency;       and

(ii) the Science and Technology Directorate.

(2) A discussion of--

(A) the degree to which customers (including consumers,       companies, and government agencies) consider cybersecurity as       a factor when considering the purchase of mobile service and       mobile devices; and

(B) the commercial availability of tools, frameworks, best       practices, and other resources for enabling such customers to       evaluate cybersecurity risk and price tradeoffs.

(3) A discussion of the degree to which providers of mobile       service have implemented cybersecurity best practices and       risk assessment frameworks.

(4) An estimate and discussion of the prevalence and       efficacy of encryption and authentication algorithms and       techniques used in each of the following:

(A) Mobile service.

(B) Mobile communications equipment or services.

(C) Commonly used mobile phones and other mobile devices.

(D) Commonly used mobile operating systems and       communications software and applications.

(5) A discussion of the barriers for providers of mobile       service to adopt more efficacious encryption and       authentication algorithms and techniques and to prohibit the       use of older encryption and authentication algorithms and       techniques with established vulnerabilities in mobile       service, mobile communications equipment or services, and       mobile phones and other mobile devices.

(6) An estimate and discussion of the prevalence, usage,       and availability of technologies that authenticate legitimate       mobile service and mobile communications equipment or       services to which mobile phones and other mobile devices are       connected.

(7) An estimate and discussion of the prevalence, costs,       commercial availability, and usage by adversaries in the       United States of cell site simulators (often known as       international mobile subscriber identity catchers) and other       mobile service surveillance and interception technologies.

(c) Consultation.--In preparing the report required by       subsection (a), the Assistant Secretary shall, to the degree       practicable, consult with--

(1) the Federal Communications Commission;

(2) the National Institute of Standards and Technology;

(3) the intelligence community;

(4) the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of       the Department of Homeland Security;

(5) the Science and Technology Directorate of the       Department of Homeland Security;

(6) academic and independent researchers with expertise in       privacy, encryption, cybersecurity, and network threats;

(7) participants in multistakeholder standards and       technical organizations (including the 3rd Generation       Partnership Project and the Internet Engineering Task Force);

(8) international stakeholders, in coordination with the       Department of State as appropriate;

(9) providers of mobile service, including small providers       (or the representatives of such providers) and rural       providers (or the representatives of such providers);

(10) manufacturers, operators, and providers of mobile       communications equipment or services and mobile phones and       other mobile devices;

(11) developers of mobile operating systems and       communications software and applications; and

(12) other experts that the Assistant Secretary considers       appropriate.

(d) Scope of Report.--The Assistant Secretary shall--

(1) limit the report required by subsection (a) to mobile       service networks;

(2) exclude consideration of 5G protocols and networks in       the report required by subsection (a);

(3) limit the assessment required by subsection (b)(1) to       vulnerabilities that have been shown to be--

(A) exploited in non-laboratory settings; or

(B) feasibly and practicably exploitable in real-world       conditions; and

(4) consider in the report required by subsection (a)       vulnerabilities that have been effectively mitigated by       manufacturers of mobile phones and other mobile devices.

(e) Form of Report.--

(1) Classified information.--The report required by       subsection (a) shall be produced in unclassified form but may       contain a classified annex.

(2) Potentially exploitable unclassified information.--The       Assistant Secretary shall redact potentially exploitable       unclassified information from the report required by       subsection (a) but shall provide an unredacted form of the       report to the committees described in such subsection.

(f) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Adversary.--The term ``adversary'' includes--

(A) any unauthorized hacker or other intruder into a mobile       service network; and

(B) any foreign government or foreign nongovernment person       engaged in a long-term pattern or serious instances of       conduct significantly adverse to the national security of the       United States or security and safety of United States       persons.

(2) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary''       means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications       and Information.

(3) Entity.--The term ``entity'' means a partnership,       association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group,       subgroup, or other organization.

(4) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence       community'' has the meaning given that term in section 3 of       the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).

(5) Mobile communications equipment or service.--The term       ``mobile communications equipment or service'' means any       equipment or service that is essential to the provision of       mobile service.

(6) Mobile service.--The term ``mobile service'' means, to       the extent provided to United States customers, either or       both of the following services:

(A) Commercial mobile service (as defined in section 332(d)       of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 332(d))).

(B) Commercial mobile data service (as defined in section       6001 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of       2012 (47 U.S.C. 1401)).

(7) Person.--The term ``person'' means an individual or       entity.

(8) United states person.--The term ``United States       person'' means--

(A) an individual who is a United States citizen or an       alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence to the United       States;

(B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States       or any jurisdiction within the United States, including a       foreign branch of such an entity; or

(C) any person in the United States.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1709, the Understanding  Cybersecurity of Mobile Networks Act, led by the gentlewoman from  Florida's Third District and the gentleman from Ohio's First District.

In recent years, we have seen a rise in large-scale cybersecurity  attacks that put Americans at risk. Attacks like the Salt Typhoon have  directly impacted the communications of public officials, including  President Trump and Vice President Vance.

While mobile service providers take numerous steps to address  vulnerabilities in the networks, threats to our mobile networks  continue to exist. To sufficiently address threats across networks,  Congress needs a sophisticated and comprehensive assessment of what  vulnerabilities persist, what issues have been resolved, and where  mobile cybersecurity policymaking should be focused.

The Understanding Cybersecurity of Mobile Networks Act requires the  National Telecommunications and Information Administration, NTIA, to  submit to Congress a comprehensive report examining the cybersecurity  at existing wireless networks and vulnerabilities to cyberattacks and  surveillance by adversaries. This bipartisan bill will ensure  communications networks are safe and protect the privacy and security  of the American people.

This bipartisan legislation passed by a vote of 393-22 in the last  Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1709, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, cybersecurity is something we have talked  about not only in the Energy and Commerce Committee for many years, but  it is also absolutely essential that our wireless networks are not  vulnerable to attacks, especially by our adversaries across the globe.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support and ask for passage of the legislation.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.