Unlocking Our Domestic Lng Potential Act of 2025


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Kentucky, the  chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1949, the Unlocking our  Domestic LNG Potential Act, introduced by my friend and colleague from  the 11th District of Texas.

This legislation will streamline regulatory approvals of LNG export  facilities to meet the movement of global energy demands.

This legislation removes unnecessary and burdensome reviews at the  Department of Energy for exporting U.S. LNG while maintaining the  required site and environmental reviews at FERC. Increasing  opportunities for exports increases overall U.S. production, putting  downward pressures on prices for everyone.

The U.S. LNG industry contributed $44 billion to the economy and  supported 220,000 good-paying jobs while providing $11 billion in taxes  and royalty payments.

In response to Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine in 2022,  American energy producers immediately supplied Europe and our allies  with LNG. The U.S. was the number one supplier of LNG to Europe in  2023. Unfortunately, in 2024, the Biden administration took politically  motivated actions to place an indefinite ban on LNG export permits to  appease the climate lobby. This legislation ensures that future  administrations cannot unilaterally prohibit exports of LNG for  political purposes.

Nothing in this legislation limits the authority of the President to  impose sanctions on foreign governments and does not affect the  existing FERC authorities for reviewing facilities for environmental or  safety purposes.

H.R. 1949 brings commonsense reforms to treat LNG just like other  commodities such as crude oil. In the 114th Congress, I was proud to  support legislation from the Energy and Commerce Committee that lifted  the crude oil export ban which elevated the United States as the  premier global oil producing nation.

This bill will similarly allow our vast natural resources to advance  our national security interests.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  thank my friend, the chairman of the committee, for bringing forth this  bill.