Anniversary of January 6


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, 5 years ago, Donald Trump incited a  vicious MAGA mob to storm the U.S. Capitol with one goal: to overturn  the results of the 2020 Presidential election.

Fortunately, Trump and his gang of violent extremists failed in their  mission to undermine our democracy that day, but make no mistake,  Donald Trump continues to bear direct responsibility for this  disgraceful attack, an attack that forever scarred our political system  and scarred our Nation.

We cannot, and we must not forget, what happened on January 6, 2021.  That morning, my colleagues and I started the day in this Chamber,  ready to fulfill our constitutional duty to ratify the electoral  college votes that would elect Joe Biden as the 46th President of the  United States, a peaceful duty undertaken by Congress after every  Presidential election since 1789.

But by the afternoon, the peaceful transition of power was obstructed  by armed rioters sent to us by Donald Trump. Trump's vicious mob forced  its way into the Capitol Building armed with firearms, bear spray, and  baseball bats. The rioters beat U.S. Capitol Police officers with  flagpoles bearing the American flag itself.

They blinded officers with chemical sprays. They smashed windows and  caused millions of dollars in damage to our temple of democracy. They  hunted for lawmakers in the Halls of this building. They called for the  hanging of Vice President Mike Pence. For several hours, American  democracy hung by a thread.

Those people came into this Chamber. They desecrated this Chamber.  They went through the desks of the Members of the Senate here. They  hung from the walls of this Chamber. They did the same thing to the  House of Representatives. They were looking for House and Senate  Members that they could capture.

And our Parliamentarians, they actually took the electoral college  votes out of the well of the Senate and whisked them off to safety, and  we thank the Parliamentarians for their courage that day.

The insurrection, however, resulted in the deaths of several of our  officers here and injuries to more than 140 members of law enforcement,  who were here trying to protect the Members, trying to protect the  building, trying to protect the electoral college votes.

Just this morning, I spoke to a Capitol Police officer who stood  shoulder to shoulder with Officer Brian Sicknick on January 6. He was  with Officer Sicknick who collapsed in the Capitol after being  assaulted by insurrectionists and, tragically, passed away the next  day, trying to protect this institution, trying to protect democracy.

And to this day, the brave officers who defended Congress bear the  scars, physical and mental, of that dark day. And thanks to these brave  officers, the rioters were ultimately pushed out and lawmakers returned  that night, as I could sit at this desk after 9 p.m. that night to  return so that we could, in fact, ensure that Joe Biden was certified  as the President of the United States, as the winner of the 2020  election. And democracy, though bent and battered and bruised, was not  broken. That is what we are remembering here this evening.

But today, we confront something that perhaps is even more sinister  than the heinous violence that occurred that day. Today, we face the  systemic attempt by supposed leaders, by Trump and rightwing MAGA  Republicans, to erase and rewrite the truth of January 6, whitewashing  the violence of the riot and calling it a ``day of love.''

I invite everyone in this Chamber and across the country to watch the  footage of that day, to ask the colleagues and families of those law  enforcement officers who were hurt and killed that day if they see  January 6, 2021, as a ``day of love.''

On his first day back in office, Trump pardoned the January 6  criminals en masse. He gave amnesty to the insurrectionists, rightfully  charged with and legitimately convicted of assaulting law enforcement  with dangerous weapons in this building as they protected democracy.

And as one of the first official acts of President Trump, as he came  back into power in January of 2025, President Trump chose not to lower  costs for the American people or to end Putin's war in Ukraine in 1  day, as he promised, and instead on his first day in office, Donald  Trump chose to betray the brave law enforcement officers who protect us  day in and day out. He chose to erase the crimes committed that day for  his personal political benefit.

He chose to send the chilling message that political violence in his  name would not only be condoned, it would be rewarded. Trump and his  rightwing MAGA supporters hailed those who carried Confederate flags  and symbols of White supremacy as patriots. That is gaslighting on  steroids. The true patriots are our brave Capitol Police officers who  fought on the frontline and held the line for as long as they possibly  could. The true patriots are the Americans that stand up for democracy  and speak out against authoritarianism. The true patriots are Americans  who refused to bend the knee to wannabe Kings.

Trump will continue to lie about what happened here on January 6,  2021, but the video, the texts, the personal messages from that day do  not. We all saw what happened that day. We all heard what happened that  day. We cannot and we must never forget what happened that day.

January 6 was not an isolated incident. It was the first page in  Trump's authoritarian playbook. It marked the start of Trump's  sustained attack on our democracy, on the legitimacy of our elections,  on our government institutions. In just the last year, Trump has  unlawfully imprisoned international students for their speech. He has  exacted revenge on his political rivals. He has deployed troops in our  cities to do his bidding. He has ignored court orders. He has engaged  in unauthorized and illegal acts of war. And now, Trump and MAGA  Republicans have set their sights on the 2026 election.

They are rigging the system in their favor by peddling lies and  misinformation, by enacting partisan gerrymandering schemes and by  restricting access to the ballot for millions of Americans. Five years  later, Donald Trump remains laser focused on sabotaging our free and  fair elections in the United States of America. This President has no  regard or respect for the Constitution. This President has no regard or  respect for the rule of law. This President has no regard or respect  for our most sacred values as a nation. He is testing our democracy day  in and day out.

And in the face of this historic test, every American must denounce  the actions of those who chose to subvert our Constitution on January  6. Every American must condemn those who continue to side with  lawlessness and authoritarianism over the basic principles of American  democracy, equality, freedom, and the peaceful transfer of power.

Every American must stand up and say no to this wannabe King. On the  250th anniversary of our country's founding, a founding that began in  Massachusetts, on Lexington Green and in Concord with ``the shot heard  round the world,'' we are once again saying we will stand up for  democracy. Our future demands it. We ourselves must summon the courage  to fight to protect a democracy that began 250 years ago. We must show  the same courage to take on a king, a dictator, a despot in the same  way that those minutemen and women 250 years ago displayed their  courage.

Those great patriots, they did create a Constitution under which we  live here, but that is now under assault. So it is up to us to stand  up--and by the way, to redeem the courage of all of those police  officers, all those law enforcement officers who gave their lives and  their own personal health in order to protect this institution. That is  what we remember today, and we must never forget it.