Authorizing the En Bloc Consideration in Executive Session of Certain Nominations on the Executive Calendar


Mr. MARKEY. Madam President, the First Amendment is the beating heart  of our democracy. It protects the right of Americans to speak freely,  to criticize their leaders, and to entertain and inform without fear of  government reprisal. The Framers did not write an exception for late- night comedians or for political satire. They did not carve out an  exemption for monologues that offend those in power. The principle is  clear: In America, the government does not get to decide which jokes  are permissible and which criticisms are punished.

Yet, yesterday, we saw a shocking breach of this constitutional  order. Brendan Carr, the Chairman of the Federal Communications  Commission, went on a partisan podcast and threatened ABC, the American  Broadcasting Company, and its parent company, Disney, over a joke told  by comedian Jimmy Kimmel. Carr called Kimmel's comments the ``sickest  conduct possible'' and suggested revoking the broadcast licenses of ABC  affiliates.

He then delivered a line toward ABC and Disney. It sounded like  something out of ``The Godfather.'' He said:

We can do this the easy way or [we can do it] the hard way.

Let me say that line again:

We can do this the easy way or [we can do it] the hard way.

That is not oversight; that is intimidation. That is not regulation;  that is retaliation. That is ``The Godfather'' giving Disney an offer  they can't refuse from the Chairman of the Federal Communications  Commission. That is the language that mobsters use to shake people  down, and it came from the mouth of the FCC Chairman of the Federal  Government, with vast legal authority to punish Disney and ABC and  their affiliates.

The chilling effect was immediate. Within hours, Disney and ABC  indefinitely suspended Jimmy Kimmel from the air. A comedian was  silenced because a government regulator, the Chairman of the Federal  Communications Commission, flexed his authority.

This is not an isolated slip of the tongue; it is part of a broader  pattern by the Federal Communications Commission under Brendan Carr's  leadership. Over and over again, he has used his office to attack and  undermine journalists and broadcasters and news organizations that dare  to speak in ways which he personally dislikes. He has threatened media  companies with investigations for their editorial choices. He has  amplified partisan attacks on reporters who cover him critically. He  has turned the FCC into the ``Federal Censorship Commission,'' with his  being the censor in chief.

These are not the actions of an independent regulator; they are the  actions of a partisan censor. And make no mistake, if left unchecked,  this campaign will not stop with ABC or with Disney. Every newsroom,  every broadcaster, every local affiliate will hear the message loud and  clear: Criticize the people in power, and you risk your license, your  livelihood, your very ability to operate.

That conversation is taking place in newsrooms all across our country  today. Look what happened to Disney. Look what happened to ABC. Be  afraid. Don't think that the First Amendment protects you anymore.  Don't think that you have a right to speak what your opinion is.

The FCC was created to ensure that the public airwaves--our shared  national resource--are used in the public interest. It was not created  to dictate what late-night hosts may joke about. It was not created to  punish networks for broadcasting opinions that government officials  dislike. It was not created to be the speech police for the United  States of America.

The Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, sitting in his  office, watching TV, saying ``I don't like that. I am taking away their  license,'' is not what the Federal Communications Commission was  established to do in our country. Yet Chairman Brendan Carr has  pretended otherwise. He has distorted the FCC's mandate to serve his  own partisan ends. Instead of acting in the public interest,  he is trying to force broadcasters to act in Donald Trump's interest.  If you say something that Donald Trump doesn't like, we will take away  your license. We won't allow you to be a broadcaster anymore. We will  fine you.

He should know better. It was not too long ago, before he was  Chairman, when Brendan Carr was singing a completely different tune. He  actually condemned perceived attempts by ``government officials to  silence political speech that they don't like.'' That is the old  Brendan Carr. He defended talk show hosts, saying:

From internet memes to late-night comedians, from cartoons       to the plays and poems as old as organized government itself,       Political Satire circumvents traditional gatekeepers and       helps hold those in power accountable. Not surprising that       it's long been targeted for censorship.

Did I say that? No. Brendan Carr said that--Brendan Carr. But this is  a different guy now. He just got a job in the Trump administration, so  he is bending the knee to Donald Trump on all of these issues, because,  then, he rightfully defended the First Amendment. He said:

Free speech is not a threat to democracy--censorship is [a       threat to democracy].

Chairman Carr has betrayed those principles, and he should resign. He  is not fit to be the Chair of the Federal Communications Commission. He  is using it now to intimidate people whom he considers to be political  enemies of Donald Trump. That is not his job.

But that is not enough. The Senate must speak with one voice in  rejecting his unconstitutional actions.

The resolution I bring before this Chamber today condemns Brendan  Carr for weaponizing government power against Disney and ABC. It  affirms that the Federal Communications Commission does not and must  not have the authority to punish broadcasters for the content of their  programming. It declares that no American--whether a comedian, a  journalist, an ordinary citizen--should ever have to fear government  retaliation for speaking their mind. And it doesn't make any difference  whether you are a Democrat or Republican, whether a Democrat doesn't  like what a Republican said, whether a Republican doesn't like what a  Democrat said.

We have to stand for the Constitution, not for censorship, to stand  for freedom and not intimidation, to stand for a free press, not a  government-controlled press.

Chairman Carr has shown himself unwilling and unable to uphold the  responsibilities of his office, but the Senate can still uphold our  responsibilities to the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution--the  First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, the one they put up first  because they knew that free speech and freedom of the press was what  ultimately would protect the democracy against dictators and Kings and  those who would subvert our Constitution to their own individual whims.

By passing this resolution, we can make clear that the First  Amendment is not negotiable; it is not partisan; it is not subject to  the whims of a single regulator.

From my perspective, again, the First Amendment is the beating heart  of our democracy. It protects the right of Americans to speak freely,  to criticize their leaders of both parties, and to entertain and inform  without fear of government reprisal.

Res. 407, submitted earlier today; and, further,  that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and the  motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with  no intervening action or debate.