H.J. Res. 131


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I also rise today to oppose the effort to  open up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to permanent, irreversible  damage from the Big Oil industry.

This effort to overthrow the Biden administration's Record of  Decision for the management of the Arctic Refuge through the  Congressional Review Act process will sow chaos, create legal  uncertainty, and put the refuge into limbo. But we do have some  certainty. Republicans know this will put our last most wild place at  risk. It will put the rare caribou, polar bears, and wildlife that call  the refuge home at risk. The Gwich'in people have said over and over  that it puts their way of life at risk.

But this vote would also put business and legal certainty at risk-- years of confusion, lawsuits, and paralysis all from this unnecessary  resolution. And for what? This fossil fuel fiasco has been rejected  time and time again by insurers, major banks, and oil and gas  companies. They have said they won't finance development in the refuge.  They are even paid to get out of leases. Two failed lease sales, one of  which was held under President Trump, should have been the end of this  political theater, but they persist. And even before drilling, any  fossil fuel exploration in the refuge will leave scars that will last  for generations.

Instead of tackling our affordability crisis, instead of fighting the  climate crisis, instead of protecting healthcare programs or fighting  for the needs of special education students, this is what Republicans  want to work on--an attempted favor for Big Oil executives.

This CRA resolution would jeopardize the Arctic Refuge--the greatest  intact wildlife refuge in our Nation. It would jeopardize our chance at  a livable future, and it would jeopardize the Gwich'in people's way of  life.

Our public lands belong in public hands. Yesterday, the President of  the United States, with the auto industry of our country standing  behind him, signed a new resolution saying that we are not going to try  to increase fuel economy standards in our Nation. Do you know what the  consequence of that is? They want to just put a big gas station up in  the Arctic Refuge, and we will just start drilling for more oil because  we don't want to make our vehicles more efficient. We are going to cede  the future of all-electric vehicles  to the Chinese and just pull out of the race rather than compete with  them. At the same time, they are saying we will drill; that we will  drill for oil in the most precious part of our national public lands.  It is an absolute disgrace.

We are a technological giant. To give up on our ability to be able to  make these vehicles more efficient is a death sentence for the most  precious and vulnerable areas in our Nation. It is completely and  totally irresponsible, immoral, and it is going to wind up with scarred  oilfields all across these refuges that, unfortunately, were completely  and totally avoidable.

Yesterday, President Trump signed, in many ways, the death warrant  for all of these precious areas in our country because he pulled out of  the race to increase the fuel economy standards--where we put the oil  in the vehicles that we drive.