Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Relating to ``Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Fuel System Integrity of Hydrogen Vehicles; Compressed Hydrogen Storage System Integrity; Incorporation By Reference''


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, while we are waiting for the next  opportunity to move on the legislation to liberate small businesses  from the tariffs of the Trump administration, I would just like to  speak for a few minutes about the attempts by the Republican leadership  to truncate the process by which California is able to have a waiver to  increase the efficiency of the vehicles which are driven in California,  but the same thing would be true across the rest of the Nation.

All I want to say is that, right now, China is investing $1 trillion  this year in clean energy, low-carbon technologies--$1 trillion in 1  year. Japan has just announced they are investing $1 trillion in clean  energy, low-carbon technologies.

So what we are debating here is going to absolutely allow for these  other countries to catch up to us, and we will ultimately fall further  and further behind, especially in the efficiency of the vehicles which  we drive in this country. We might as well put a bow on an entire  industry over the long term and just hand it over to countries around  the world that are focusing on these technologies.

That is why this is a big mistake. We should not be allowing for a  procedural trick to be played here that is unprecedented in the history  of the Senate, to then have the underlying issue be really not debated  the way it should in terms of the consequences for our Nation and for  the planet in terms of the greenhouse gases, additionally, that are  going to go up that will endanger our planet.

So I just wanted to make that comment. I will come back later in  order to speak on it.

Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, today, I rise to advocate to my colleagues  in the Senate for my Small Business Liberation Act, and I do so with  Leader Schumer and Senator Hirono, who have each already spoken on this  very important issue.

Here is what the bill would do: The bill would give relief from  President Trump's disastrous, destructive, small business-killing  tariffs that have been turning Main Street into ``Pain Street'' all  over our country for the last 7 weeks.

I would also provide with my bill certainty to the constant whiplash  and chaos that is President Trump's tariff policies by exempting small  businesses from the baseline 10-percent tariffs and the tariffs that  have been on a 90-day pause since April 9.

So let me just explain what I am talking about. On April 2, President  Trump imposed a 10-percent tariff on pretty much the whole world. In  other words, a 10-percent tax on anything coming into the country--10  percent.

He also imposed an additional--called reciprocal tariff--on April 2  as well. And those tariffs, for example, were an additional 20 percent  on the EU or an additional--we will just say--32 percent on Fiji, for  whatever reason.

So that was an incredible additional tax on top of the 10-percent  tax, which he imposed on the same day.

So on April 9, the President said: Well, we will wait--we will wait  90 days on those additional tariffs; on the EU for 20 percent; the 32  percent for Fiji; the 24 percent additional for Japan--we will put that  aside, but we are going to keep the 10 percent on.

Now, for a big company, maybe they can figure that out. They can ride  that out, the 10 percent. However, if you are a small business in our  country, and all of a sudden, there is a new 10-percent tax you have to  pay on all of those goods which you are bringing into our country, and  then there is a sword of Damocles sitting out there, as well, that  there could be, in July--which is only 6 weeks away--an additional 20  percent if those products come in from Europe. You are going to have a  chilling effect that is placed on your business decisions, without  question.

They don't have the leeway to be able to make the kind of riskier  decisions that, perhaps, a bigger business could to just ride through  all of these tariffs. So all across every Main Street in our country,  these small businesses are getting paralyzed by the Trump actions.

Again, we are going to start with this: There is a 10-percent  tariff--tax--already in place right now, since April 2, on every good  coming into our country. So this is a very dangerous place to put the  small businesses of our country.

Even as the vast majority of small businesses are seeing massive  tariff-induced cost hikes, this administration is offering exemptions-- exemptions--for billion-dollar corporations.

If you can get a dinner invitation to Mar-a-Lago, like the heads of  Apple and Google, you can secure an exemption for your industry.

Now, in almost every instance, that is preceded by a big, big  multimillion-dollar contribution to some entity that the Trump  administration would like you to give that money to.

And then Apple is out; Google is out. They are not any longer  affected by the tariffs. But no one on Main Street can afford to go to  Mar-a-Lago to give the President $1 million. That probably exceeds the  total worth of their business.

So that is the problem with where we are. And, by the way, it is also  why the national chamber of commerce says that small businesses should  get an exemption. It is not me. It is the national chamber of commerce  that says that they should get an exemption.

And 97 percent of all companies that do business on an international  basis are small businesses, and they constitute 30 percent of all  trade. The national chamber of commerce is saying they should all be  exempted. That is what my bill does. It says: Exempt those 97 percent  of all businesses that constitute 30 percent of the trade from these  tariffs--from the 10-percent tariff; from the upcoming, 6 weeks from  now, upward of 20 percent, 30 percent, 40 percent more tariffs that are  being imposed on countries around the world, while we are waiting for  the President to negotiate bilateral agreements with each one of these  entities.

Well, so far, after a month and a half, he is up to one agreement  with the United Kingdom. That is it. He has got dozens and dozens to go  and no time on the clock, and that is what small businesses are looking  at. They are looking up at the clock. They are saying: How long can I  last? I survive week to week. I survive month to month. I can't afford  to be paying these tariffs or wondering if there is a new tariff which  is coming in.

And all across our country, these numbers are unbelievable. In  Massachusetts, we have 7 million people. We have 700,000 small  businesses. Well, the same thing is true for the country. There are  about 330 million Americans, and there are 33 million small businesses.  There is a small business in America for every 10 people, and that  person right now is looking up with fear that their future has a cloud  over it.

And those small businesses, they account for two out of every three  jobs added to our economy in the last 25 years. They are our engine of  growth.

So I have heard from small businesses all across Massachusetts, all  across our country, about how they are forcing those businesses to lay  off employees, scale back benefits, or even shut their doors in some  cases.

I spoke with Brandale Randolph, founder of the 1854 Cycling Company,  an electric bike manufacturer based in Massachusetts, and here is what  Brandale told me. He shared the story that his company finally-- finally--after years of work, recovered from the $45 million which they  lost during COVID, only to now be forced to decide whether or not they  can weather this new tariff disaster hanging over their head.

So they moved from COVID to tariffs--none of this having been in any  way instigated by the small businesses of our country. They don't have  anything to do with it. It just keeps coming into their lives. And the  messages from 1854 and other small businesses across the country are  clear: These tariffs are going to threaten to put them out of business.

Small businesses are not Democrat. They are not Republican. This  should not be a partisan issue, and I am disappointed that President  Trump continues to ignore the outrage and the opposition to his  irrational and ill-advised tariff policy.

It is time for the Senate to stand up and exempt small businesses in  our country. There is a trade war going on. We should allow small  businesses not to be drafted into this war because they are the ones  that will be the casualty.

1593, and the  Senate proceed to its immediate consideration; that the bill be  considered read a third time and passed; and that the motion to  reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no  intervening action or debate.

Mr. MARKEY. Well, a small business is defined in the Small Business  Administration definitions, and those would be the ones which we would  exempt. And it can be different, depending upon the industry or its  status, but, in general, what we are using is the definition used by  the Small Business Administration.

Mr. MARKEY. First of all, I want to say that I appreciate the  comments of the Senator from Ohio.

But here is the bottom line: This isn't just about China. The  President hasn't targeted just China. He hasn't explained his ``just  China'' strategy. He has imposed these tariffs all across the world-- all across the world, every country.

And yes, the legislation that we have, it doesn't touch the steel  tariffs that are imposed. We don't touch those. They can stay in place.  We don't touch them.

But here is the bottom line: You can't make silk for U.S. ties in the  United States. You can't grow coffee in the United States. I could go  on and on and on and on, about product after product that is sold in  Main Street in America. Putting a 20-percent tariff on and, on top of  that, an additional 20  percent, 30 percent, 40 percent, it is not going to do anything for the  person on Main Street with the small business. It is just going to make  it almost impossible for them to import those goods that they need to  sell in their stores on every Main Street in America. That is what they  are saying to us. And this 10-percent tariff is still going to stay on.

We are only 6 weeks from having the sword of Damocles of 20 percent  more for the EU and countries from all around the world--Japan, Israel,  you name it, India--it is just dozens and dozens of countries that  aren't China. But there is no plan. The President is making it up as he  goes along, and the people who are going to suffer are going to be the  small business people.

If you import toys, and there are maybe 20 different countries from  which you import your toys to put on the shelves of your stores on Main  Street everywhere, and parents can go in to buy the presents for their  child--I just think it is unrealistic. The President is saying: Well,  maybe the kids can get by with 3 dolls instead of 30.

Well, that is not how it is going to work. The store is going out of  business. The store has a certain predictable business model in terms  of how much revenue they are going to have per year, based upon what  they can import.

If the President had a plan, I would like to hear it. But I don't. I  don't want to hear him talk about how he is ultimately going to get a  deal with dozens of countries in 6 weeks. There is no likelihood of  that happening. But a small business person can't take that risk.

So that is why, again, this short-term pain that the President keeps  talking about for long-term gains, well, honestly, in the short run,  these businesses are going--they are going under, the small businesses.  And there may be some posthumous indication of the President's theory  about these tariffs, 2 years, 3 years, 5 years from now. That won't  really do these small businesses any good.

So let the big businesses fight it out, and don't allow the Googles  and the Apples to buy their way out of it.

You know, in the Civil War, there was an old saying: It was ``a rich  man's war but a poor man's fight''--meaning the rich man could buy his  way out of the draft. Rich man's war; poor man's fight.

So big business war, but it is going to be fought by small businesses  on Main Street, who are going to be the victims. Those are always the  casualties. And they have been drafted into this battle of big  businesses.

So, again, I appreciate the comments of the gentleman from Ohio. I  think he is wrong. I think we should exempt small businesses and let  them know that they are not going to be driven out of business by this  still-unplanned guided missile heading right toward every Main Street  in our country that is going to be destructive of the hard-earned  success those small businesses have had.

Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, today, I am here to defend clean air  regulations that tackle the climate crisis, protect public health, and  save drivers money at the pump.

For more than 50 years, California has had the legal authority under  the Clean Air Act to adopt stricter emissions standards than the  Federal baseline. For 50 years, both Democrat and Republican  administrations have granted these Clean Air Act waivers that are  essential for reducing toxic air pollution, protecting public health,  and cutting greenhouse gas emissions that dangerously warm our planet.  No Congress has ever dared to revoke these waivers--until now.

My Republican colleagues say this is about protecting consumer  choice. Well, let me ask: Who is really choosing this? Not the parents.  Not the residents near busy highways. Not the doctors and nurses. Not  even the drivers.

It is the polluters. This dependence on fossil fuels allows Big Oil  CEOs to turn drivers upside down at the pump and shake money out of  their pockets.

The Republicans say ``all of the above.'' No. No. It is ``oil above  all.'' We put 70 percent of the oil we consume into gasoline tanks. And  with cleaner, smarter, more efficient technologies, we can reduce and  reduce and reduce the amount of oil that we put into the vehicles which  we drive. This terrifies the oil industry.

America is a technological giant. We have a capacity to invent new  technologies. By the way, the Chinese are just on the HOV lane of new  technologies for the vehicles which they are driving. They have  invented a technology that allows for the charging of a battery in 5  minutes in a vehicle that people are driving.

That should be us. We should be the ones leading.

That is not what the Republicans are doing. Donald Trump is saying he  wants to repeal the tax breaks for electric vehicles in our Nation,  just take those tax breaks off the books. He wants to repeal the laws  which incentivize the development of even better batteries in our  country--batteries that, with one charge, will go further and further  and further. Maybe we could compete with the Chinese. But Trump wants  to take them off the books, and the Republicans are going along with  that.

Maybe we could put more charging stations across the country to make  it easier for people to drive all-electric vehicles. No. Trump is  saying we want to take away all those tax breaks too. Let's just make  it easy for the Chinese to take over the electric vehicle industry of  the 21st century. Let's just hand it over to them on a silver platter.

We are only 5 percent of the world's population. The other 95 percent  is going electric.

The other 95 percent is moving to the future. That is not going to be  the United States. The Republicans are working here tonight in order to  absolutely short-circuit this future that was ours.

You know, honestly, gas-guzzling cars aren't just bad for drivers,  they are bad for every one of us. According to the American Lung  Association, more than 131 million people live in counties with  unhealthy levels of ozone and particulate pollution.

And what is the largest source of that pollution? It is vehicles. It  is the cars and the trucks which we drive in our country. That is what  sends up the pollution. That is what gets into the lungs of Americans.

And now my Republican colleagues are trying to rip away the  safeguards that help to protect public health and to save our country  money. By triggering the Congressional Review Act to repeal  California's waivers, it would allow for 1.6 billion metric tons of  carbon emissions; more than 1.5 million metric tons of nitrogen oxide,  all going up into the air; 17,000 metric tons of fine particulate  matter, the type of pollution that penetrates deep into your lungs, the  lungs of your children, the lungs of your loved ones, and enters the  bloodstream to wreak havoc on the body in the form of asthma,  respiratory problems, cardiovascular diseases, and more--much, much,  more--all spewed into the air.

And that is what they want. That is what they want.

After the Surgeon General in 1964 issued a warning about smoking,  America went from 50 percent of the country smoking down to 18 percent.  People started to wise up. They said: We don't want that stuff in our  lungs, and we are going to tell our kids not to smoke because it is  dangerous.

Your lungs--your lungs--are vulnerable if there is an inhalation of  dangerous substances.

So what does it look like in real life? Well, it means more kids are  going to suffer from asthma. It means grandma and grandpa dying  earlier. It means more death and destruction from extreme weather  events, such as the Los Angeles wildfires and Hurricanes Helene and  Milton. By the way, those three events caused $500 billion worth of  damage--those three events, all related to climate change, all related  to the warming of the atmosphere.

Just assume that the ceiling here on the Senate floor is capturing  all of the heat all day long, and there is no air-conditioning down  below. That is the greenhouse effect. It just gets warmer and warmer  and warmer, which is why, by the way, the Senate used to adjourn in the  beginning of May because it just got too hot in rooms like this before  air-conditioning.

Well, there is no air-conditioning for the planet. You have to engage  in a preventive strategy, lower the temperature right from the  beginning, lower the thermostat right from the beginning.

Ultimately, it is just going to raise costs on everyday families. By  blocking the California waivers, consumers would spend more than $89  billion in additional fuel costs through the year  2040. It is much less expensive to be charging a battery than to be  putting that pump into the side of your car and watching that dollar  sign just skyrocket as you are watching your hard-earned money go to  Big Oil all across our Nation.

That is more money at Big Oil's gas pump and less money at your  kitchen table. This comes at a time when Trump is waging war on clean  cars, repeals to clean vehicle tax credits, attempts to flip a U-turn  on fuel economy and EPA vehicle emissions standards.

In 2007, I worked on a bipartisan basis as the chairman of the  committee over in the House to enact a provision in the energy law that  increased our Nation's fuel economy standards for the first time in 32  years. We were actually going backward by 2007, and the rest of the  world was zooming right past us.

It is one of the laws I passed which I am most proud of, and that is  what led to the rulemaking that promulgated the higher fuel economy  standards for our Nation. I am very proud of that law and the work I  played over in the House authoring it.

And the industry, they were able to do it. They were still stuck at  27 miles a gallon. That was the law from 1975. It was 2007, 32 years  later. They still couldn't figure out how to improve the efficiency of  the vehicles which we drive.

Meanwhile, the Chinese and others, they were getting on the speedway.  They were getting ready to catch up to us. And starting in 2009, the  Obama administration's Environmental Protection Agency and Department  of Transportation built upon that law to negotiate a historic agreement  with the State regulators, with the automakers, with labor unions, and  the environmental community.

But now--now--Trump, Republicans, at the behest of the oil industry,  are trying to do a U-turn on these standards and the benefits that they  give to our consumers, to our families, to our planet.

It is not enough for Republicans to promote chaos and conflict in our  economy for the sake of billionaires. They now want to create chaos and  conflict as well.

By intentionally modifying the Senate rules that protect this  institution at a moment when Donald Trump is actively undermining the  checks and balances enshrined in our Constitution, that is a serious  threat, not just to the Senate but to our country. It is a threat to  the rule of law. It is a threat to our health, to our communities, and  access to clean air. It is a threat to our planet.

With this action, my Republican colleagues are opening the door for  future votes on the countless unlawful and unethical actions waiting to  be carried out by the Trump administration. There will be no putting  the genie back into the bottle.

It is going to unleash the President who says he is a stable genius  to continue to perpetrate more of his unconscionable actions on the  people of our country.

So let's not trigger this nuclear option. Let's not unleash a  mushroom cloud of pollution on our communities. Let's not allow  polluters to rewrite Senate precedent. Let's not steal the right of  States to set high standards that result in children breathing cleaner  air, not having their vulnerable lungs be sucking in these  particulates, sucking in this unhealthy air that vehicles emit.

We have another direction in which we can head. We have a better  vision for us. By the way, this is not rocket science. We are not  asking anyone to go to Mars. We are just asking people to improve  automotive technology. This is car mechanics. It is not a mission to  the Moon.

So while I hear Trump bragging about his buddy Elon and a mission to  Mars and all these satellites out in outer space and how he wants to  have a Golden Dome over our Nation that is going to protect us from  incoming Soviet missiles at 2 a.m. in the morning, and here is vision  of a Golden Dome that is going to protect us.

Then, when you turn to him and say: Hey, can we improve the  efficiency of the cars which we drive, Trump and his oil buddies said:  What are you crazy? That is auto mechanics. That is too difficult for  us to figure out.

Well, it is not too difficult for the Chinese. They are coming. They  are coming. And country by country, it is going to say: ``Made in  China.'' ``Made in China.''

Unfortunately, for too many of our domestic auto companies, they are  using this as the excuse to just walk away. And maybe for the short  run, it will be OK, but in the long run, that is not a business plan.

Maybe it makes it to their retirement as executives of the companies,  maybe they make it a few more years, but the country--the country--is  going to suffer.

You know, when you look at Fortune magazine or Forbes magazine and  there is a picture of one or another businessperson on the cover, that  is great. That is great for that individual. But when you look at the  international magazines, you know what is on the cover, just a picture  of China.

It is a country with a plan. It is a country with a vision. It is a  country that is just speeding past us in terms of their capacity to  deploy new technologies. That is what we are confronted with right  now--a plan from our arch rival economically that we are going to  ignore on behalf of the oil industry in our Nation.

They will reap the short-term profits for sure, but our country and  the children in our country will reap whirlwinds economically as each  year goes by because we are going to be left in China's technological  dust.

So that is what we are voting on, and they are going to use a  perversion of Senate rules to attempt to accomplish it at the behest of  the oil industry, but the price--the price--not only for this  institution and its rules but also the well-being of our economy, the  health of our planet is going to be way too high to pay.

You can't preach temperance from a barstool. You can't tell the rest  of the world they have to reduce greenhouse gases if the Senate  continues to pass laws which allow for all of this dangerous pollution  to go up in historically high quantities.

That is absolutely the wrong path for the next several generations of  American children. You are endangering their lungs right now, and you  are going to endanger their ability to have a job in the future.

We are going to wind up with China dominating the auto industry and  the planet. That is what we are voting on tonight: Who is going to win  in the long term?

By the way, the Republicans have a comprehensive plan to hand this  entire industry over to the Chinese. They are going to do away with all  the tax breaks for electric vehicles, do away with all the tax breaks  for chargers. They are going to do away with all the tax breaks for  battery storage technologies to be developed.

This is systematic. This is a plan that our country has to pull us  out of the competition with the largest industry in the world, this  automotive industry, tied to the oil industry--just an absolutely  reckless, historic mistake.

And by the way, they are doing the same thing over in biotech. They  want to cut NIH funding by 40 percent. That is finding the cure for  Alzheimer's and cancer and diabetes and Parkinson's and every other  disease.

You are saying to all the young, brilliant people in the country who  are going to dedicate their lives to finding the cures for those  diseases: Don't go there. There is no guarantee you are going to have a  job next year or the year after or the year after. Again, another  industry we are going to put a bow on it and hand it over to Beijing:  Hope you enjoy this great present we are handing you--the technological  leadership of the United States in biotech, in automotive technology,  in battery technology, just handing it over.

So this is a pretty sad day in the history of the Senate, that there  will be a compromise of our procedures--our rules--that have been  sacred on behalf of the oil industry in our Nation. It is not the  first. There is an ongoing systematic plot that Donald Trump came up to  the Hill to say: Get my ``big, beautiful bill'' passed.

Well, he might see it as a ``big, beautiful bill,'' but this thing is  one big economic disaster for our Nation.

And I will say it again. It is all to get the tax breaks for the  billionaires, all of the tax breaks for the wealthiest people in our  society.

So, please, Senate, please say no. Please allow us to retain our  procedural prerogatives. And please, on this  larger issue of the planet and the leadership which the United States  should be playing, please say no to these industries.

They are going to look back at this moment--children alive today--and  they are going to just wonder, What were they thinking that every car  is coming in from China into every country in the world, and eventually  our barriers will come down, too, because we won't be able to compete.

It is just a sad commentary on the Senate today that they will  acquiesce to such a pathetic concession made to the oil industry in our  Nation. But it is the perfect example of the outsized influence that is  now playing in our society.

When Trump promised them last April if they gave him a billion  dollars, he would do away with all the clean energy technologies in our  country, he is paying them off right now. There is no transition plan.  There is no promise that maybe we will help the oil industry so they  catch up to the Chinese Government.

Mr. President, no. They are going to cede the field, and ultimately  it will be the next generations that pay the price.