Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, this year, 2026, is the 50th anniversary  of the Hyde amendment. Now, that may not mean a lot to a lot of people,  but 50 years ago, the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House and the President  of the United States came to a compromise agreement over the issue of  abortion. It was a long, drawn-out process. At the end of that long,  drawn-out debate, they came to a compromise agreement that Americans  would not have to pay for elective abortions. It didn't outlaw abortion  in America, but it said: We have disagreements on abortion as  Americans, but at a minimum, we should agree American tax dollars  should not pay for the taking of human life; that healthcare is about  protecting life, not taking life; that in a controversial issue like  abortion, at least we should all agree we don't use tax dollars to pay  for abortion. That was 50 years ago this year.

It is amazing to think about how many things have changed in American  attitudes in 50 years. But what hasn't changed is we still haven't come  to an  agreement about abortion. We still haven't been able to resolve that  issue.

Now, science has resolved that issue, but we in American values and  culture have not. Science would say that a child's life begins at  conception, that that is the moment the DNA is different than the mom's  DNA. Every single cell in the mom's body has the same DNA except for  those cells. Those cells are different. They have a unique DNA in the  world because that is a different person that is there. The cells are  dividing and growing. There is no difference between a child in the  womb and a child outside the womb other than time. That is a separate  child.

Science has settled that issue, but, culturally, we haven't been able  to settle this issue: Are some children valuable and are some children  disposable? Our culture still believes there are some children that are  disposable. I don't. I think every child is valuable. Whether you are a  child born in a wealthy household or in poverty, that child has  opportunity in America if they are allowed to live.

It is this ongoing dialogue that we have as a country: Do we value  the most vulnerable in our society? It is a conversation that has been  going on now five decades, and next week, there will be tens of  thousands--probably, actually, hundreds of thousands--of students and  adults that will all come to Washington, DC. I am sure, as it always is  on that January day, it will be cold outside. And they will walk down  the Mall and gather for a rally that is simply called the March for  Life. They will talk about the beauty of life. They will talk about the  value of every child. There will be testimonies of people that their  family has personally experienced abortion. There will be testimonies  of folks that they directly have experienced the pain of abortion.  There will be folks who will stand up as physicians and talk about the  medical issues. But, ultimately, there will be conversations about  every single child being valuable and beautiful.

There will be people in the crowd that were born in poverty, people  in the crowd that were born in wealth--just like every other child in  America that is in the womb--except those folks that will be at the  rally will be celebrating the fact that they were born, No. 1, and that  they had an opportunity to be able to speak out for the next generation  of people that so much desires to be born and to have the same  opportunities all of us in this room have: to grow, to learn, to love.  That is all that child wants, and they had the opportunity to be able  to have that.

As I mentioned, 50 years ago, the Hyde amendment was put in place.  Every single part of our healthcare operation with Federal dollars is  all covered by the Hyde amendment. Whether it be Department of Defense  healthcare, whether it be Veterans' Administration, whether it be  Indian healthcare services, whether it be CHIPS services for children,  all of those are covered by Hyde protections with this basic compromise  agreement that we will not fund abortions with American taxpayer  dollars--well, except for one area, and that is actually ObamaCare.

When the Affordable Care Act was passed, there was an attempt to be  able to have the Hyde amendment actually included in that. That was  actually put in in the House of Representatives when they sent it over  to the Senate to say: No, let's include the Hyde amendment in this like  we do every other part of our healthcare agreement.

When it came to this body, though, my Democratic colleagues stripped  that out, and they included in a different section saying: No, we are  actually going to create a workaround around the Hyde amendment so that  we can quietly fund elective abortion, for the first time, with Federal  tax dollars. That workaround still exists today.

The original agreement and the conversation was that every State  would allow some options that would have elective abortions for your  healthcare coverage and some options that you could choose without  that--except now that there are 12, maybe 13 States working that don't  allow any option of the Affordable Care Act, of ObamaCare, to be in  their State that doesn't also require abortion coverage. So even people  that are morally opposed to abortion and the taking of human life don't  have an option to buy coverage in their State for healthcare without  having abortion coverage built into it.

Now, the issue became, well, there will be some kind of set-aside  dollars that will be separate, that you will have a separate premium  that you will have to pay, and that separate premium will pay for the  abortion coverage--except the insurance companies can't actually show  where that separate premium is. In fact, after the law passed that  required a separate payment for abortion coverage there so there would  be a type of Hyde, is what they called it, the Obama administration  immediately came out and said: Actually, the word ``separate'' actually  means ``together''--I am not making this up--and so you now have your  premiums together, but it is defined as being separate.

Only in government can you define ``separate'' as meaning  ``together.''

So we still have this one form of healthcare in America that violates  this 50-year-old compromise: We don't use taxpayer dollars and compel  Americans who actually value children to pay for the taking of the life  of a child.

We are still working on that. Ironically enough, there is still an  ongoing debate on the Affordable Care Act--on ObamaCare--still raging  in this body, even this week, and much of it circles around ``Is this  going to be about healthcare or is this going to be about the taking of  human life?''

I have no issue if we are working on a healthcare policy. I have a  big issue if we are working on taking the life of an innocent child.

There is also an ongoing debate that is happening right now over  chemical abortions--``mifepristone'' if you want to use the medical  term, and there are several generics that are out there as well. This  is an abortion drug that is literally now mailed to you without seeing  a physician. Now, that didn't used to be so. It is a prescription drug;  it is not an over-the-counter drug. It is a prescription drug for a  reason--because it has very, very serious side effects.

But this prescription drug--during the COVID time period, the Biden  administration said: You know, there is a COVID crisis. People can't  get in to see their doctor right now, so we will allow them to call in,  and there will be this medicine mailed to them.

So for the first time, suddenly mifepristone, which actually causes  an abortion for a woman--that drug is now being mailed without ever  seeing a doctor.

Now, some folks have alleged ``Oh, that is no big deal. It is used  all the time, so it must be completely safe.'' In fact, my favorite  term that I hear--I hear it even from some folks in this body--is that  mifepristone is as safe as Tylenol. I have heard that so many times: It  is as safe as Tylenol. It is as safe as Tylenol. It is as safe as  Tylenol.

Let me start with some basics. When you take Tylenol, it doesn't take  a child's life. Mifepristone, by design on the label, takes the life of  a child. So let's just start there.

The second issue, though, is also interesting. If you follow the  label instructions for mifepristone and take it exactly as it is  labeled and if you take a Tylenol and take that exactly as it is  labeled--if you take mifepristone, though, you are 8,000 times more  likely to end up in the hospital than taking a Tylenol.

Let me run that past you again. For all the folks that say it is as  safe as Tylenol, mifepristone, according to the stats that we have that  are public--you are 8,000 times more likely to end up in the hospital  taking mifepristone than you are taking a Tylenol.

Stop saying it is as safe as Tylenol. The facts do not bear that out.  It is not.

Mifepristone also has a strong likelihood of and a side effect of  causing infertility among women. If the baby has a different blood type  than the mom and if the combination is not correct, the mom then  suffers from infertility the rest of her life. Now, if you go see a  doctor, they can tell you that, but if you just get it in the mail, you  have no idea.

How about this issue: If you have an ectopic pregnancy, which you  don't know unless you have an ultrasound, taking mifepristone can not  only kill the baby but could also kill the mom.

This is a big issue. The Biden administration became flippant about  this chemical abortion drug because the  Biden administration was focused on having more abortions in America.  They weren't just pro-choice; they were pro-abortion, trying to  increase the number of abortions in America, but to do that, they did  not take into account the health and life of the mom because they were  so eager to increase the number of abortions.

Even in my State--in my State, we made a decision based on the Dobbs  decision from the Supreme Court that now each State can make their own  decisions about what they are going to do about this issue of life.  After decades under Roe v. Wade, the Court has now said that this is up  to every State.

So in my State, we would say this is a settled issue, except for  doctors out of State now were mailing abortion pills to women my State,  intentionally going around our State laws--intentionally.

This morning, the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee,  chaired by my friend Dr. Bill Cassidy, held a hearing talking about  mifepristone.

One of the witnesses that was there was the attorney general from  Louisiana talking about the number of women who have experienced  coercive abortions, where a parent or a boyfriend or some other loved  one compelled them to be able to take these chemical abortion drugs  against their will--compelled them to do that--or slipped it into their  food or into a drink to be able to sneak it into their system,  literally taking the life of that child.

Do you know how they could do that? Because you don't have to see a  doctor to get access to these drugs. They can just be mailed to you as  if they are a Tylenol when they are not.

We have to have an ongoing conversation here. Decades into this  dialogue about the value of children, we are still talking about this  issue. Are children valuable? Let's keep talking about it because at  some point, as a country, we have to resolve this most simple,  scientific, ethical decision: Are some children valuable and some  children disposable or is each child valuable?

I am going to stand with the marchers that are coming in next week to  joyfully celebrate the beauty of every child.

Yesterday, I was emailed the photo of a longtime friend of mine who  just had her first child. It has been a long process for her and her  husband. I got a beautiful picture of baby Benjamin yesterday, and he  is adorable. I know you are not supposed to say that about a boy, but  he is adorable, and we are excited to see him.

Last year, there were a million abortions that were done in America-- a million. We will never see their faces. Those children either were  thrown away in the trash or ended up in a toilet after a chemical  abortion. What is the difference between those two children? Not a  thing. Not a thing.

All children are valuable, all of them, and I pray for the day when  all of them have an opportunity to live, to experience this glorious  Nation that we get to experience the freedom of every day.

Thanks to the marchers who will speak out next week for life and for  all those around the country that continue to look at the science and  continue to look at the face of a child and say: You are beautiful.