Congressional Review Act


Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, a second issue. This body for the last  week has had a conversation about CRAs, and most Americans would just  flip the dial and go ``I don't even know what that is.''

Well, a Congressional Review Act is a CRA. It has actually only  existed in the last several decades as Congress found a reason to do  oversight of the executive branch, especially when the executive branch  writes what is called a midnight regulation. Now, that doesn't mean  they wrote it at midnight; that means they wrote it and put it in place  at the very end of a Presidency.

A Congressional Review Act says that if there is a piece of  regulation that is put in place, a rule that is done by an Agency and  it is put in place--especially when there is a change in Congress and  the White House--that the next Congress and the next White House can  look at it and say: Yeah, that is out of bounds. That is too big. That  needs to be stopped.

It was actually first used under President Bill Clinton. He put in  what is called an ergonomics rule that literally changed the rules for  every keyboard on every desk in America that would be produced. It was  a giant rule they did at the very end. The next Congress came in and  said: That would cost hundreds of millions of dollars. By the way, why  should we in the Federal Government care what everyone's desk is like?  Let people choose on that.

That simple statement, that simple first time that it was actually  used, started a process now of saying: If an administration at the last  minute puts in a rule that Congress then comes in and says ``You  overreached your bounds,'' we can check it.

Now, how do you determine whether it is a rule or not? What is a  rule? What is not a rule? Because a lot of times, Agencies put out  guidance or they put out orders. They put out all kinds of things. The  Congressional Review Act is very specific. It says that you can only  take action on this when it is actually a rule.

Well, there are two different ways that is determined, actually. One  is, how much is it going to cost the entire economy? If it is over $100  million that it is going to cost the economy, it is a rule. It is going  to have a massive effect across the entire economy.

The second way is pretty straightforward. The Government  Accountability Office--you will hear it often referred to as GAO--in  2018, they came out and wrote their legal decision and said: It can  even be a big thing that costs $100 million across the government. I am  going to quote GAO in this, in their decision that the CRA--the  Congressional Review Act--gives Agencies the primary responsibility for  determining which Agency actions meet the CRA's definition of ``rule.''  In other words, Agencies get the first option to say: Is this a rule or  is this not a rule? If an Agency says it is a rule, it is a rule. That  is what GAO said.

They came back a couple years later and rewrote an updated document.  GAO came out again and said in their legal opinion: When an Agency  submits a document to our office--that is, GAO--under the CRA, we  consider that to be the Agency's determination that the document is a  rule under the Congressional Review Act.

Now, again, everyone is glazing over on this because it just seems  like legalese. Why are we even talking about this? Well, because it has  been in the news this week because something unique happened.

In 2022, the State of California put in a request to the Biden  administration and said: We want to do a rule that is different in our  State for electric vehicles than the rest of the country.

Now, you may say: Well, they can't do that.

Well, actually, interestingly enough, California can. California is  the only State in America--because they had environmental rules even  before the Clean Air Act was done. So California got a waiver,  basically, to say: If your rules are at least as strong as the Clean  Air Act, you can have your own rules, but you have to ask permission.

So that is part of law that was originally written on the Clean Air  Act.

So California approached the Biden administration in 2022 and said:  We would like to have an even stronger rule on emissions and on  vehicles. We want to have a rule that says that by 2026, 35 percent of  all vehicles have to be zero emission--that is, electric vehicles--by  2026.

Now, they asked for this in 2022. So they said: Within 4 years, we  want 35 percent of all the vehicles sold in California to be zero  emission, and by 2035, we want 100 percent of all vehicles to be  electric vehicles, to be zero-emission vehicles.

Now, they asked for that in 2022, as I mentioned before. The Biden  administration took a look at it, and in 2023, the Biden administration  sat down with the GAO, the Government Accountability Office, and they  started working on the text for this. The specific question was: How  can we make sure that this is not a rule; that this is an order? And  for months, they worked to be able to shape the language to be able to  make sure it was an order, not a rule. And then the Biden  administration sat on it and did nothing with it. In the meantime, 11  other States said: If California does that for electric vehicles, we  are going to do that as well.

Here is the other thing about the law I didn't mention. The way the  Clean Air Act gave permission to California to be able to do their own  rules, the Clean Air Act is also written to say: If other States want  to adopt the California rule because it is at least as strong as the  national, other States could do it. So in the next few months, from  2022 and 2023, 11 other States adopt this rule. Suddenly, this is not a  single-State issue; this is a national issue. In fact, it would now  affect 40 percent of all the vehicles sold in America. This just  shifted. This is not about one State anymore. This is almost half the  vehicles sold in America now are going to have a new set of rules.

The Biden administration sat on that request. They didn't move on it.  They have gotten their opinion worked out with GAO in 2023, but they  didn't move on it, quite frankly, because the American people hate  mandates. We don't  like them at all. We like choice. We like to make our own decisions. I  would dare say, everybody in this room uses a different kind of ink pen  because we all like our choices and options. We drive different cars.  We wear different colors of ties and different shoes because we like  our options.

The Biden administration knew most American people would hate this  rule because it suddenly created a nationwide mandate for what kind of  car you could buy, and it had to be electric. So they sat on it.

After the election was over, in late December of 2024 and into  January of 2025, the Biden administration dropped their order and gave  California permission now to be able to do zero-emission vehicles by  2026. Next year, 35 percent of vehicles that have to be sold across 12  different States were going to have to be zero emissions, which would  dramatically change car sales in America.

They did it after the election. That is the very definition of a  midnight regulation. That is the very definition of a rule. It meets  both criteria. It is well over $100 million of impact onto our Nation,  and it affects multiple States.

So when the Trump administration came into office, the Environmental  Protection Agency immediately reupped this, and they laid it down and  said: That is definitely a rule. That is a rule. The Agency declared  it. Now, it definitely has both definitions: The Agency declared it is  a rule, and it is over $100 million of impact.

But then a letter went to GAO. Remember I said in 2023, they had  worked with the Biden administration? Someone in this body wrote a  letter to GAO and said: That thing you worked out with the Biden  administration, do you still have that in the file? And GAO sent a  letter back and said: We declared this, in 2023, just an order because  it only affected one State, just California.

Here is the problem. GAO, as I mentioned in the beginning, in their  very own legal opinion, said: If an Agency says it is a rule, it is a  rule. And GAO doesn't even get involved. Literally, GAO broke its own  legal opinion to now declare it is an order.

Why would they do that? Well, they would do that to prevent this  Congress from speaking to that rule. It would no longer be under the  Congressional Review Act.

I told you this was technical. But this was a fascinating little plot  that went from 2022 all the way to the present to try to figure out how  to get an electric vehicle mandate in America without ever having a  vote in Congress. It was slick. It was well-shaped--except it was  dependent on one thing: GAO breaking its own legal opinion.

I happened to call the leadership of GAO just last week and said: As  far as you know, has GAO ever--ever--declared something not a rule when  the Agency said it was a rule? And after a moment of silence, he  responded: As far as I know, GAO has always deferred to the Agencies,  until now.

They literally broke their own policy. They literally violated their  own legal counsel. So now, we are in a quandary. GAO has broken their  own legal counsel. We have an issue that will have well over $100  million worth of effect onto the country. It is now a near nationwide  mandate on electric vehicle sales across the country without ever  having a vote in Congress.

And our Democratic colleague says you can't change it because we  worked a way to be able to fix it so you couldn't. That is not true.  This body worked extensively with the Parliamentarian's office. This  body worked extensively across the aisle to be able to have  conversation, talking with members of the Democratic caucus to say: Do  you really want to have, in your State, a mandate sitting there?

We don't.

Not only that, what will this do to our economy across the country?  This was not about challenging the essence of the Senate; this was not  about breaking the filibuster rule; this was not about going nuclear.  This is about confronting an entity that broke its own rules  intentionally to prevent this body from acting. This was a decision  made to say: Get an Agency to impose on America a mandate that Congress  never spoke to--never.

Where does Congress get to speak to this?

I would say to you as a Member of the U.S. Senate, the U.S. Congress  is the lawmaking body for the country. The U.S. Constitution begins  with ``All legislative power shall reside in a Congress,'' not an  Agency that wants to have electric vehicle mandates for every American.  That is not how it works.

So we worked to make sure that we were clarifying one simple thing-- in the Congressional Review Act, in this time as it has been every time  it has been done and for every time in the future, this one simple  question: When an Agency says it is a rule, is it a rule? It has been  every other time until this time.

We clarified that one question. It didn't change the dates of the  Congressional Review Act. It didn't change the process. It answered one  question that, apparently, was in dispute that was never in dispute  before but now appeared to be in dispute: When an Agency says it is a  rule, is it a rule?

And we clarified what it has always been. The answer is, yes, it is a  rule. And then we acted on that.

This body said, no, we will not have a nationwide mandate for  electric vehicles across the country.

By the way, I don't have any opposition to electric vehicles. If  somebody wants to buy an electric vehicle, they should be able to buy  them. I think a lot of them look like great vehicles. Buy if you choose  to.

But we are Americans. This body should not mandate that everyone has  to be able to buy one. This body should make the path that if people  choose to buy one, they can. That is setting the rules of the road  saying: Here is the definition of a safe vehicle. Pick any one of those  safe vehicles you want to be able to have.

We just set the rules of the road and then get out of the way and let  people decide which vehicle they want to drive on that road. That is  what has happened this week.

I understand there has been a lot of bluster and trying to redefine  what actually occurred. But what has occurred this week is choice for  the American people and clarification of what has always been: When an  Agency says it is a rule, it is a rule--just like it was last year,  just like it is now, just like it will be next year.

It is technical but important because the American people want to  follow the U.S. Constitution and know that all legislative powers  resides with this body, not in some other building somewhere down the  street.