Nationwide Injunctions


Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I rise today to talk about two separate  issues that seem to be confusing in our current climate at this point.

The first of those is something called nationwide injunctions. Now,  for folks that don't track this issue of nationwide injunctions, they  have no idea what this means. I would tell you it is a fairly recent  thing.

We have three branches of government. Any civics student in middle  school knows that. We have the legislative branch, we have the  executive branch, and we have the judicial branch. All three have  unique roles. The legislative branch that we are in right now--we write  the law. The executive branch executes the law. The judicial branch  interprets the law.

Now, we know there is a difference between the House and the Senate.  The Senate has a responsibility and the House has a responsibility, and  they are different, but they are both in the legislative branch.

The judicial branch also has different pieces as well, just like the  legislative branch. There is the Supreme Court. We know that. It is  right across the street. There are nine Justices that sit there, and  they are the final decision makers on what the law says. But there are  also daughter courts. There are circuit courts below the Supreme Court,  and below the Supreme Court, there are district courts. District courts  are scattered all over the country, and those individual, small  district courts that are scattered all around the country--those  individual courts make a decision on the person that is in front of  them.

Now, again, this is fairly simple civics. When you have a Federal  case in front of you, you go to the district court, and you file, and  you get time in front of a judge. It may take time to be able to get  there, but they make a decision on what is in front of them. That is  what district courts do. They don't make decisions on something that is  in a different State. The fine judges that are in Oklahoma make  decisions about the case that is in front of them in Oklahoma. They  don't decide a case in Indiana because they are not in Indiana and it  is not a case filed in front of them; it is only the case filed in  front of them in Oklahoma.

Now, if there is a dispute about that, it can be appealed, and it  goes up to a circuit court, and it takes in a region. If there is a  dispute even there, they take it on to the Supreme Court.

It is pretty simple--until the last several decades. You see, prior  to 1960, there was no such thing as a nationwide injunction. No one  even considered that. But we started seeing this beginning point where  a district judge in a court in a single State would hear a case and  say: This is so big, I am not going to let this go to the circuit court  or to the Supreme Court. In my lower--in fact, lowest--court in the  Federal structure, I am going to decide for the entire country, not  just the person in front of me.

There were just a few that happened at that time, and the Supreme  Court kind of looked away because they seemed like big cases. But then  it started to rise.

During the George W. Bush administration, there were six nationwide  injunctions that were done in these local district courts. Under  President Obama, there were 12 nationwide injunctions that were issued.  Then under President Trump, the first term, there were 64 nationwide  injunctions.

More and more individual district courts decided: I have an opinion,  and I am not going to decide about the case in front of me; I am going  to decide about the entire country.

Under President Biden, there were 14 nationwide injunctions that  happened. In fact, President Biden's Solicitor General--the one who  actually argues to the Supreme Court--warned that nationwide  injunctions halt legal government actions and policies.

See, this is not a Republican-Democrat thing; this is a  constitutional thing. This is the U.S. Constitutional structure to say:  What is the role of lower courts? What is the role of a circuit court?  What is the role of the Supreme Court?

We as people in our Nation honor the constitutional construct. For  me, it is exceptionally important that the courts are blind to these  issues and that they take action on the case in front of them and not a  case that is not in front of them.

Senator Grassley has introduced a bill to rein in the use of  nationwide injunctions. His legislation is called the Judicial Relief  Clarification Act. It makes it very simple. It is an important piece of  legislation to decide how we are going to handle cases like this. It is  very simple: Courts decide the cases in front of them. That had been  the practice up until the early 1960s. We need to get it to be back to  that practice again.

It is not a Republican issue and not a Democrat issue. It is a  constitutional issue.

Nationwide injunctions are a backdoor way for judges to actually  write legislation and to bring the decision of the executive branch to  a halt.

The executive branch does have checks and balances, as does the  legislative branch, as does the judicial branch. Those checks and  balances are clear. If the executive branch does something inconsistent  with the Constitution, it goes to our Federal courts and quickly works  its way up through the district court, circuit court, to the Supreme  Court. The Supreme Court is the one who checks the executive branch,  not each district court around the country. It is the Supreme Court. We  need to be able get back to that process in the days ahead. That needs  to be done.

So I am looking forward to seeing Senator Grassley's legislation  actually move.