No Rogue Rulings Act of 2025


Mr. ISSA. Madam Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 294, I call up  the bill (H.R. 1526) to amend title 28, United States Code, to limit  the authority of district courts to provide injunctive relief, and for  other purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. ISSA.  1526.

Mr. ISSA. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, in recent years it has become glaringly obvious that  Federal judges are overstepping their constitutional bounds under  Article III of the Constitution which applies that lower courts are  created under statute by Congress. Pursuant to congressional action,  district judges are limited to the plaintiff before them that has nexus  in their district.

Madam Speaker, in short, that means that a district judge needs to be  confined to their district and to people who are in their district.  Case after case, over decades, has shown that when they fail to do so,  the cases are thrown out.

More importantly, if they were to continue to do what is generally  called nationwide injunctions, then, in fact, there would be no need  for a 5-4 or 6-3 decision by the High Court. The High Court of nine  must reach a majority in order to make something the law of the land,  and yet a single district judge believes they can make the law of the  land.

Since President Trump has returned to office, left-leaning activists  have cooperated with ideological judges whom they have sought out to  take their cases and weaponized nationwide injunctions to stall dozens  of lawful executive actions and initiatives.

Proof of that occurred just yesterday when, by a majority of the U.S.  Supreme Court, yet another judge's national ban was overturned.

These actions touch on many of the most critical issues facing our  country, such as securing our borders, reforming insufficient and  ineffective government bureaucracy, and strengthening our military.

Let me be absolutely clear. These sweeping injunctions represent  judicial activism at its worst. Don't just take my word for it, Madam  Speaker. As late as October of last year, the Solicitor General of the  Biden administration urged the end of these practices, stating that, in  fact, the Biden administration has to win every time, but the  opposition only has to win one out of even one dozen cases. That is  exactly the problem we are facing.

The Supreme Court regularly considers cases that are done in the  ordinary course where one district judge, and perhaps a jury, rules one  way and another rules another way, and the courts, through the  appellate process, come up with a single law of the land. However, they  do so looking at the arguments of both winning and losing, and they do  so while the administration is not nationally and internationally  banned.

National injunctions are being used to halt executive actions and  executive orders not just for plaintiffs before the court but across  the entire country, including individuals and entities that are not  even parties to the litigation and, in many cases, may not favor the  outcome and would not have been willing plaintiffs.

This undermines the system of government. It empowers individual,  unelected judges to dictate national policy and to thwart the  Constitution to take rights reserved to Congress and the President of  the United States.

NORRA, the No Rogue Rulings Act, puts an end to this type of abuse.  Under NORRA, we reaffirm the principles that district court orders can  only bind parties before the court and not nonparties across the  country. This reform will also discourage the growing trend to forum  shop, Madam Speaker. If you can go to Hawaii because you can find a  judge who will rule against an action taken here in the District of  Columbia, then you will do so if you can get a nationwide injunction.  If you can only enjoin individuals who may not even be affected by it,  then there is no incentive to do so.

Madam Speaker, there are 677 current judge positions not including  those on senior status. There are 677 individuals, each of whom can  exceed their authority and stymie the legitimate actions of government.  In some cases, these judges have even ordered the payment of amounts  when the administration has determined that there is great risk of  fraud.

During the last administration, they objected to this. They tried to  stop it. Even in the last days before the election, the Biden  administration was doing everything they could to accomplish what we  are doing here today. In fact, there was even legislation in the last  Congress authored by Democrats to do it.

This is not a partisan issue. It may be a timely issue for this  President, but that does not make it partisan. To do the right thing at  this time is critical.

Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the CBO estimate for  this bill.     H.R. 1526, NORRA OF 2025 AS REPORTED BY THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON THE                        JUDICIARY ON MARCH 25, 2025 ------------------------------------------------------------------------                                           By fiscal year, millions of                                                    dollars--                                      -----------------------------------                                          2025      2025-2030   2025-2035 ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Direct Spending (Outlays)...........          a           a           a Revenues............................          a           a           a Increase or Decrease (-) in the               a           a           a  Deficit............................ Spending Subject to Appropriation             a           a           a  (Outlays).......................... ------------------------------------------------------------------------  a. CBO has no basis to estimate the budgetary effects of enacting H.R.

1526.

Increases net direct spending in any of the four       consecutive 10-year periods beginning in 2036? a

Increases on-budget deficits in any of the four consecutive       10-year periods beginning in 2036? a

Statutory pay-as-you-go procedures apply? Yes

Mandate Effects

Contains intergovernmental mandate? No

Contains private-sector mandate? No

H.R. 1526 would limit the ability of U.S. district courts       to issue broad injunctive relief that applies to nonparties.       (Nonparties are individuals or entities not directly involved       in a legal case.) Under current law, parties often seek       injunctive and other forms of relief in federal courts to       challenge federal laws, executive actions, and regulations.       Injunctions and certain other forms of relief issued by       judges in those cases can sometimes apply to nonparties.

Under the bill, district courts could only issue       injunctions that provide relief to parties participating in       the case (and to nonparties that are represented by parties       in the case, such as in a class action). In a case brought by       two or more state governments located in different circuits,       H.R. 1526 would allow for a three-judge panel to provide       injunctive relief that would otherwise be prohibited by the       bill.

H.R. 1526 would not block district courts from issuing       other forms of relief that can affect nonparties. For       example, a district court could still vacate an agency       action, such as by setting aside a new regulation, which       could have similar effects on nonparties as injunctive       relief.

Because many federal actions, such as executive orders and       regulations promulgated by agencies, affect direct spending,       revenues, and spending subject to appropriation, CBO expects       that enacting the bill could have significant budgetary       effects, depending on the extent to which judges choose to       rely instead on other types of relief like vacatur. CBO       cannot predict what actions will be litigated or the       decisions that judges will make. Accordingly, CBO has no       basis for estimating the budgetary effects of H.R. 1526.

The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Jon Sperl. The       estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy Director       of Budget Analysis.                                                 Phillip L. Swagel,                             Director, Congressional Budget Office.

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for  yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, all across the country, at record levels, activist  judges are impeding President Trump's America First agenda with  nationwide injunctions, depriving the American people of the changes  they demanded in November.

To put how unprecedented this is into perspective, President Trump  has faced more than twice as many nationwide injunctions as Presidents  Bush, Obama, and Biden combined. In addition, more than 90 percent of  these nationwide injunctions have been issued by Democrat appointed  judges.

I am calling this what it is: weaponized political lawfare.

There are 677 district court judgeships nationwide, and as of now, if  just one of these judges decides to block an executive action, they can  singlehandedly halt the President's agenda.

I am sure our Founders did not envision this extreme constitutional  overreach from the judicial branch. Fortunately, Congressman Issa's No  Rogue Rulings Act will correct this discrepancy by ensuring that  district court judges cannot issue nationwide injunctions.

The American people demand sweeping change from us. From cutting  waste, fraud, and abuse in our bloated Federal Government to deporting  the millions of illegal alien invaders, we need to make progress.

Right now, a single district court judge can impede this progress on  a whim, essentially holding the America First agenda hostage  indefinitely. This must end.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in voting  ``yes'' on the No Rogue Rulings Act to stop this judicial tyranny from  harming the American people.

Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I did ask unanimous consent that all Members  be able to place extraneous material in the Record. I guess they are  taking me up on it.

Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, perhaps you can just consider that every time  the other side speaks, they will be speaking in violation of our rules  about disparaging the President, and you need not say it each time, I  trust.

Mr. ISSA.  Boebert).

Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I note that what the gentlewoman from Colorado  (Ms. Boebert) is referring to is what has now been affirmed as an  inaccurate decision by the U.S. Supreme Court. My colleagues on the  other side, in disparaging the President, keep using the word  ``illegal.''

I ask that my Democratic Colleagues really reconsider. The minority  may disagree with the executive actions of the President. From time to  time, the court may disagree. Yet, in fact, not only are his actions  not illegal, but they are well within the reach of what any President  might well do in trying to defend the United States from enemies,  foreign and domestic.

We can disagree about the meaning of a law that has been on the books  for 225 years. We should not disparage the motives or the actions of  the chief executive simply because we disagree.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to bring down a little bit of the tone and  remind everyone in this Chamber that the chief executive, since it was  George Washington, has been charged by Congress to be the first to  interpret the faithful execution of the Constitution and the amazing  amount of laws that have been passed in our nearly 250 years.

During those decades, one after another, all the way back with  Marbury v. Madison, there have been disagreements and the Court has  interpreted, but those interpretations, including Brown v. Board of  Education, historically became nationwide when the High Court by a  majority ruled one direction or the other. That is the way our Founding  Fathers intended it to be.

The ranking member of the full committee is a scholar and a teacher,  a professor of this, and knows full well that we created under the  Constitution a Supreme Court and then we gave to this branch, to  Article I, to the Congress, the authority to create subordinated and  specialized or limited courts. Those courts of any sort are under the  Supreme Court because only the Supreme Court is to rule on the law of  the land.

Now, my colleagues have noted the last administration and the fact  that parties, including more than a dozen attorneys general, from time  to time came and asked for and may or may not have been granted  nationwide protection. This bill, as amended in committee, thoughtfully  amended, in fact, takes into consideration that there may be times in  which multiple States are represented before one judge. As long as that  judge is the nexus of at least one, and in the case of the District of  Columbia perhaps speaks for all, he or she should rule on behalf of all  the plaintiffs represented in front of them.

Let it be clear: The work of the Supreme Court is not just to  overturn one ruling by a judge. The Court most often in the 62 to 66  cases it takes per session, per year, rules primarily on when there is  a difference between the ruling in one and the ruling in another. It  rules very often because there needs to be a single voice for the law  of the land.

There doesn't always have to be. The fact is, if a plaintiff comes  and says they represent one of many unlawful aliens, criminals, or  terrorists who have been deported under a law that has been on the  books for more than 225 years, the judge has a right to rule if that  defendant has a legitimate nexus in their court, has a right to rule as  to that plaintiff or any others that come before him that have nexus,  but to rule that the President must turn an airplane around with  dangerous terrorists on it, why? Why would you do that?

The fact is, judges are shopped for. My colleagues on the other side  of the aisle, rightfully so, said that venue shopping has become a  problem. That is not limited to Republicans or Democrats. In fact, both  sides do it.

As a matter of fact, Mr. Speaker, they do it in civil cases. They do  it all over the place. Lawyers are very good at it, but as the chairman  of the Subcommittee on the Courts, Intellectual Property, Artificial  Intelligence, and  the Internet and with the ranking member of the full committee here  today, it is our obligation to fine-tune the law so that, in fact,  these kinds of injustices don't happen. We are here today to fine-tune  the law to protect the Constitution and the intent of Congress for more  than 225 years.

Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. Speaker, just yesterday the Court ruled against the district  judge by a 5-4 ruling undoing this whole question of does the President  have the right to deport aliens. Yes. They said that there was a  possibility of bringing a case in Texas as to one or more of them. To  be honest, we have said that for quite a while that, in fact, there was  a procedure and that, in fact, the chief judge of the D.C. circuit  assigned himself four cases and made a decision that a chief judge  should know better than.

Now, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court said the right way to  deal with a judge that makes a bad ruling is, in fact, appeal it.  However, the right way to deal with judges who take cases, take another  case, take a total of four cases so far, and seem to rule very  predictably, even if inaccurately, against the Trump administration is,  in fact, to rein in the excesses.

We try to do this in a measured way. I might note for the speaker  that just today by a 7-2 overwhelming majority, the Court ruled, to no  surprise to this Congressman, that the President has the right to  dismiss probationary employees, even though an activist judge stayed  that and said that he didn't have that right, that somehow everyone  else can get rid of probationary employees, including the last  administration that summarily dismissed immigration judges on the last  days of the probationary period, and did so without seeing a nationwide  injunction.

There were plenty of opportunities to disagree, but I hope that my  colleagues, once again, as the speaker has so well stated, will stop  claiming that these are illegal actions when we simply agree or  disagree with the actions of the President and in many cases the Court  finds the President is well within his rights in faithfully executing  his obligations.

Mr. ISSA.

Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, as I close, since the ranking member so aptly  named a couple of famous quotes and famous movies, I might call  attention to the line: What we have here is a failure to communicate.

The other side, just a few months ago, supported this legislation in  a more radical form than, in fact, we bring today. Thanks to  Congressman Schmidt and others on the committee, we have thoughtfully  amended this to make it limited, for which the ranking member and  others seem to claim that we were somehow being nefarious. No, we  weren't.

In the last cycle under President Biden, yes, half a dozen or so  attorneys general came and disagreed with the attempt to forgive $188  billion in student loans. There was a temporary injunction on behalf of  those multiple States. Lo and behold, the High Court stated and ruled  that, in fact, he didn't have the authority, saving us nearly $200  billion that was being given away by Joe Biden.

Not in any way deterred by that, President Biden bragged that he  circumvented it and did give away billions more. That is still  something being worked on by this body.

Presidents push the limits of their authority. President Biden  certainly did. President Obama famously said he didn't have the  authority to do things and then did them later and dared the Court to  stop him.

I think we have to come here and realize if we do our job, we are  drawing the appropriate balance on one of the two branches that we do  have an obligation to keep an eye on. We keep an eye on the executive  branch, and the minority being the branch not of the President  generally calls the strikes, the balls, and not the home runs. That is  okay. They do it, and they have been doing it for 250 years. I commend  them.

We also have an obligation to come together, to communicate, to not  have a failure to communicate, to realize that on behalf of the  American people, on behalf of the best interests of the High Court not  being swamped with an amazing amount of these, and not having future  Presidents find themselves deterred from executing what they believe is  best in a timely fashion, that we come together and vote this moderate  and, quite frankly, modest piece of legislation. It won't stop all  national injunctions, but it will define more narrowly when they can be  done. I hope we would do that.

I will close simply by saying Teddy Roosevelt sent the Great White  Fleet out not necessarily having the money to get them back. Franklin  Delano Roosevelt pushed the bounds of the Constitution for what he  thought was right, including the incarceration of threats to our  democracy under this very act, and the Court affirmed that.

Presidents have seen reasons to do it. This President has seen an  onslaught, more than 10 million illegals, many of them actually here  from terrorist gangs, and he is trying to protect our Nation.

I would hope that instead of talking about Elon Musk and others, we  would come together to do something that we know if the next President  is of the other party, my colleagues will be supporting something that  looks amazingly like what we have in front of us today.

I would ask, Mr. Speaker, that all who are watching and listening  take heed that this is a bill supported by the last administration and  should be supported by everyone in this body.