Relating to A National Emergency By the President on February 2025


Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to slightly drift off, but not really leave  this point.

Fentanyl kills 5,000 in New York. It kills 100,000 in the U.S. It  kills thousands in Canada and thousands in Mexico. Those numbers are  staggering, but those numbers are a small part of the tragedy to  families.

For every fentanyl death in our countries, there are families who are  suffering. For every fentanyl death, there is somebody who goes to the  hospital multiple times. For every fentanyl death, there are three or  four people who are living homeless, drug addicted, and their families  are suffering. For every death, there is, in fact, a broken  relationship somewhere. That is not 100,000 in America. That is  millions in America.

Mr. Speaker, I don't know of an American that you talk to about  fentanyl who won't tell you that they know someone whose family, their  health, or their child has been destroyed by fentanyl, many of them  being destroyed as we speak.

There are about 1,900 miles of Mexican border between the United  States and Mexico. I represent about 80 of those miles right there  outside of San Diego. I have seen the border closed as best it possibly  could in an amazing way. I have seen submarines still coming in the  Pacific to try to circumvent it. I know we will never get to zero.

All the President has asked Canada to do is show the kind of effort  they can afford as a First World country, and that effort should be far  greater at all of their borders than Mexico's, which is a relatively  poor country. That effort should be shown. If it is shown, the  President has made it clear that these tariffs will immediately go  away.

This isn't a tariff that is just because you don't like someone. It  is a tariff that says this behavior, this leverage, is being used for  one purpose: to get you to live up to a standard that is in your own  best interests.

By the way, the 5,500 miles of land border between the U.S. and  Canada is our longest by far. The thousands of miles of sea border that  Canada needs to also patrol is huge. This President stands with Canada  to help them do it, to help in technical ways and every other way, but  we cannot allow millions of Americans and countless other Canadians and  Mexicans to continue to suffer without us having the real empathy to do  something about it.

The chairman said: What about the 5,000? We got this answer: How do  you know that they came from Canada? I am sorry, but every time we have  a major bust on the Mexican border, my agents tell me that we are  getting maybe 10 percent, maybe 20 percent in certain areas. We are  never getting 80 or 90 percent. The reality is that those are  indications of a small amount of what is getting in through Buffalo and  other borders into the United States.

Although the gentleman from New York is from a fairly populous State,  he is not from a State without a large rural border, one that you can  simply walk across with impunity normally, which has been used to  smuggle drugs successfully.

The point I make here today--and I thank the chairman for the time-- is: Every life matters. If the President of the United States cares  about his 5,000 or 500 or 5 or 1 enough to use the power of the  executive office to get the right thing out of our neighbors to the  north and the south, then I want to stand with him. I would never take  away a tool being used to save even one life, much less hundreds of  thousands of lives and millions of families.