Authorizing the En Bloc Consideration in Executive Session of Certain Nominations on the Executive Calendar


Mr. BARRASSO. On behalf of the chairman of the Budget Committee, I  object.

Mr. BARRASSO. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the  Senator from Indiana (Mr. Banks) and the Senator from Utah (Mr. Lee).

The result was announced--yeas 51, nays 47, as follows:                        [Rollcall Vote No. 526 Ex.]                                  YEAS--51       Barrasso      Blackburn      Boozman      Britt      Budd      Capito      Cassidy      Collins      Cornyn      Cotton      Cramer      Crapo      Cruz      Curtis      Daines      Ernst      Fischer      Graham      Grassley      Hagerty      Hawley      Hoeven      Husted      Hyde-Smith      Johnson      Justice      Kennedy      Lankford      Lummis      Marshall      McConnell      McCormick      Moody      Moran      Moreno      Mullin      Murkowski      Paul      Ricketts      Risch      Rounds      Schmitt      Scott (FL)      Scott (SC)      Sheehy      Sullivan      Thune      Tillis      Tuberville      Wicker      Young                                  NAYS--47       Alsobrooks      Baldwin      Bennet      Blumenthal      Blunt Rochester      Booker      Cantwell      Coons      Cortez Masto      Duckworth      Durbin      Fetterman      Gallego      Gillibrand      Hassan      Heinrich      Hickenlooper      Hirono      Kaine      Kelly      Kim      King      Klobuchar      Lujan      Markey      Merkley      Murphy      Murray      Ossoff      Padilla      Peters      Reed      Rosen      Sanders      Schatz      Schiff      Schumer      Shaheen      Slotkin      Smith      Van Hollen      Warner      Warnock      Warren      Welch      Whitehouse      Wyden                               NOT VOTING--2       Banks      Lee

The en bloc nominations provided under the provisions of S. Res. 377  were confirmed, as follows:

Executive Calendar No. 89, Jessica Kramer, of Wisconsin, to       be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection       Agency

Executive Calendar No. 105, Dario Gil, of New York, to be       Under Secretary for Science, Department of Energy

Executive Calendar No. 107, Brandon Williams, of New York,       to be Under Secretary for Nuclear Security

Executive Calendar No. 121, Tristan Abbey, of Florida, to       be Administrator of the Energy Information Administration

Executive Calendar No. 122, Leslie Beyer, of Texas, to be       an Assistant Secretary of the Interior

Executive Calendar No. 123, Theodore J. Garrish, of       Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Nuclear       Energy)

Executive Calendar No. 124, Andrea Travnicek, of North       Dakota, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior

Executive Calendar No. 132, Justin Overbaugh, of Florida,       to be a Deputy Under Secretary of Defense

Executive Calendar No. 133, Scott Pappano, of Pennsylvania,       to be Principal Deputy Administrator, National Nuclear       Security Administration

Executive Calendar No. 135, Michael Cadenazzi, of Rhode       Island, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense

Executive Calendar No. 136, Sean O'Keefe, of Virginia, to       be a Deputy Under Secretary of Defense

Executive Calendar No. 137, Michael Obadal, of Virginia, to       be Under Secretary of the Army

Executive Calendar No. 139, Katherine Sutton, of Illinois,       to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense

Executive Calendar No. 141, William L. Doffermyre, of       Texas, to be Solicitor of the Department of the Interior

Executive Calendar No. 142, Kyle Haustveit, of Oklahoma, to       be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Fossil Energy)

Executive Calendar No. 152, Matthew Napoli, of Virginia, to       be Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation,       National Nuclear Security Administration

Executive Calendar No. 153, Richard Anderson, of Virginia,       to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force

Executive Calendar No. 154, Conner Prochaska, of Texas, to       be Director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency--Energy,       Department of Energy

Executive Calendar No. 156, Tina Pierce, of Idaho, to be       Chief Financial Officer, Department of Energy

Executive Calendar No. 157, Jonathan Brightbill, of       Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Energy

Executive Calendar No. 161, Robert Gleason, of       Pennsylvania, to be Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors       for a term of 5 years

Executive Calendar No. 177, Sean McMaster, of Virginia, to       be Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration

Executive Calendar No. 180, Donald Bergin III, of Virginia,       to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs       (Congressional and Legislative Affairs)

Executive Calendar No. 185, John Squires, of Florida, to be       Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and       Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office

Executive Calendar No. 251, Daniel Aronowitz, of Virginia,       to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor

Executive Calendar No. 276, Michael Dodd, of Indiana, to be       an Assistant Secretary of Defense (New Position)

Executive Calendar No. 277, William Gillis, of Virginia, to       be an Assistant Secretary of the Army

Executive Calendar No. 278, Jules Hurst III, of Virginia,       to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army

Executive Calendar No. 279, Brent Ingraham, of Virginia, to       be an Assistant Secretary of the Army

Executive Calendar No. 283, George Wesley Street, of       Virginia, to be Director of the National Counterintelligence       and Security Center

Executive Calendar No. 285, Peter Thomson, of Louisiana, to       be Inspector General, Central Intelligence Agency

Executive Calendar No. 289, Jeffrey Bartos, of       Pennsylvania, to be Representative of the United States of       America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform,       with the Rank of Ambassador, and to serve concurrently and       without additional compensation as an Alternate       Representative of the United States of America to the       Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations

Executive Calendar No. 290, Jennifer Locetta, of Florida,       to be Alternate Representative of the United States of       America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations,       with the rank of Ambassador, and to serve concurrently and       without additional compensation as an Alternate       Representative of the United States of America to the       Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations

Executive Calendar No. 297, Dudley Hoskins, of the District       of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for       Marketing and Regulatory Programs

Executive Calendar No. 298, Scott Hutchins, of Indiana, to       be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education,       and Economics

Executive Calendar No. 303, Benjamin DeMarzo, of Virginia,       to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development

Executive Calendar No. 305, Jovan Jovanovic, of       Pennsylvania, to be President of the Export-Import Bank of       the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2029

Executive Calendar No. 324, Richard Fordyce, of Missouri,       to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and       Conservation

Executive Calendar No. 344, Paul Roberti, of Rhode Island,       to be Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials       Safety Administration, Department of Transportation

Executive Calendar No. 346, Jonathan Morrison, of       California, to be Administrator of the National Highway       Traffic Safety Administration

Executive Calendar No. 352, Jason Evans, of Texas, to be an       Under Secretary of State (Management)

Executive Calendar No. 356, Edward Aloysius O'Connell, of       the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the       Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15       years

Executive Calendar No. 362, Katherine Scarlett, of Ohio, to       be a Member of the Council on Environmental Quality

Executive Calendar No. 365, Bryan Switzer, of Virginia, to       be a Deputy United States Trade Representative (Asia,       Textiles, Investment, Services, and Intellectual Property),       with the rank of Ambassador

Executive Calendar No. 149, Callista Gingrich, of Florida,       to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the       United States of America to the Swiss Confederation, and to       serve concurrently and without additional compensation as       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Principality of Liechtenstein

Executive Calendar No. 286, Kimberly Guilfoyle, of Florida,       to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the       United States of America to Greece

Executive Calendar No. 302, Christine Toretti, of       Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and       Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the       Kingdom of Sweden

Executive Calendar No. 350, Peter Lamelas, of Florida, to       be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Argentine Republic