Coal


Mr. BARRASSO. But, Mr. President, I come to the floor today to talk  about a different topic, and that topic is coal--and, specifically,  Wyoming coal, which is world-class coal, clean coal, low-sulfur coal.

This is Wyoming coal. We need more of it--not less of it--to power  our Nation. It is available, affordable, and reliable. This has powered  our Nation for  over a century. It continues to be a major source of power for our  Nation, and we need it far into the future.

And today, to that case, President Trump is going to sign an  Executive order making clear his commitment to American energy  independence. The President is moving very quickly in terms of boosting  the coal industry. It is part of his bold plan that the administration  has to restore American energy dominance.

We have more coal in this country than any other country in the  world. It is one of our most affordable, reliable, and abundant sources  of energy on the planet. And in America, we can use that coal cleaner  than ever before.

Wyoming's Powder River Basin produces the cleanest burning coal in  the world. Nearly half of all coal produced in America comes from the  Powder River Basin in Wyoming and our neighboring State of Montana.  Wyoming's energy warriors will lead the way.

For years, Democrats have held coal captive with reckless  regulations, making it harder for us to use American energy and making  us more dependent on foreign sources of energy. Joe Biden took coal  offline in America. Democrats' war on American energy strained our  grid, subsidized unreliable energy, and as a result, energy prices  spiked in their administration by 31 percent. That hit American  consumers, American manufacturers, American families; and it hurt our  economy.

Meanwhile, what we know is that China is opening up two new coal- fired powerplants each and every week. It is hard to believe, but they  are doing it. They continue to build those powerplants in China.

We will talk about what they want to do with that energy and what we  need to do in America because President Trump is cutting redtape so we  can compete again--compete with China. And coal is making a comeback.  Wyoming wins, America wins, but not China.

What do Americans want? They want affordable, reliable, available  power. We need the energy, and clean coal will deliver it. American  energy is rocket fuel for a stronger economy--also, for a more secure  Nation.

What does more energy mean? It means lower prices for consumers and  manufacturers and producers. Electricity demand is projected to double  by the year 2050. We cannot meet this demand if we lock up our valuable  energy resources, but that is what the Democrats wanted us to do. That  was the purity plan that they had the last 4 years.

High energy prices under the previous administration drove up food  prices, fuel prices, and strained families. All of this hurt our Nation  and hurt our economy. President Trump wants to produce more American  energy, and that includes coal.

Investing in American energy lowers the cost of food. It puts more  money back into families' pockets. This is how we need to deal with the  energy crunch that we are facing.

Plus, this creates more American jobs, brings jobs back to our  country. Coal is an engine of our American economy, and the Democrats  continue to treat it as an enemy. Everything we do in this country  relies on energy. We need more energy, not less. Steel producers,  manufacturers, data centers need steady, reliable power if we are going  to compete and win. The electricity needed for data centers alone is  predicted to increase by up to 20 percent each year over the next 5  years. Coal will help power them. It will give our industry an edge, a  competitive advantage. In turn, more workers will find that they get  steady, reliable paychecks. Coal miners will also get new  opportunities. All of America will get a boost.

More American energy also means that data centers, artificial  intelligence--which are major users of energy--will grow here in  America, not overseas. With it, we can power our economy; we can win  the energy race; we can win the AI, artificial intelligence, race  against communist China.

More energy secures our Nation. Energy security is national security.  Republicans understand it. President Trump understands it. That is why  he is going to do what he is doing this afternoon at the White House,  and I am delighted to have been invited to be part of it.

We don't need more liberal energy chokeholds. Energy independence is  what matters for our Nation and our future. Europe, last year, spent  $23 billion on Russian oil and gas because they didn't have enough of  their own energy. That is more money than Europe sent in aid to  Ukraine. This shows you that Europe's energy crisis proves dependency  upon our enemies for energy is self-defeating.

American energy dominance, including clean coal, reduces our Nation's  vulnerability. The climate alarmists--and we hear them, and we  understand they will come to the floor to talk about this--claim that  coal is the energy of the past. They are misinformed. Clean coal is a  fuel for the future. It is affordable, it is reliable, and it is ready  to go.

President Trump knows that. He knows that coal is a key ingredient in  an all-of-the-above energy strategy and agenda for our Nation. So I  look forward to standing today with President Trump to celebrate this  victory for Wyoming and for America and for a strong energy future for  our Nation.