Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, you know, Republicans have a simple  message for the American people, and that is, what we are doing here as  Republicans is putting more money in your pockets, creating more  opportunities for the American people, for American families, and  families all across America are feeling it today.

Americans are no longer seeing these sky-high increases in prices  like we experienced over the 4 years of the Biden administration--not  at all.

Five years ago, inflation began to soar because of the Democrats'  reckless tax-and-spending plan. As a result, we saw inflation hit 40- year highs, and people suffered all across this country as a result.

Well, over the last year, Republicans--now with President Trump and a  Republican House and Republican Senate--have eliminated billions of  dollars of wasteful Washington spending, and we are seeing that the  pressure on prices is easing.

Families in more than 40 States are paying less than $3 a gallon for  gasoline. In the Presiding Officer's State of Oklahoma and in my home  State of Wyoming, it is at $2 for gasoline right now.

Lower gas prices, as the Presiding Officer knows, impact everything  that a family does. It impacts everything in the country: the cost of  groceries, the cost of commuting to work, or keeping going a ranch or  family business. Energy prices affect all of it.

And lower prices are happening because Republicans are successfully  changing the direction of the country. We promised to cut burdensome  Biden regulations--regulations that have been punishing, penalizing-- and we are getting it done. We promised to unleash American energy and  we have done it. We have delivered on our promises.

You know, under the Trump administration, permits to explore for  energy right here in America have gone way up. It has been successful.  The United States has never produced more energy than we are producing  today. Energy dominance is fueling our opportunity economy. It is  making a difference in families and in their lives.

America is standing by our manufacturers and helping them. And, look,  our Working Families Tax Cuts law and the incentives in that are making  a real difference for our economy. It is helping businesses build  things, building them right here at home in America.

It allows for full expensing for factory improvements, new machinery,  and farm equipment. We are seeing that in farms and ranches across  Wyoming.

I heard it at the Farm Bureau. I heard it from our stock growers. It  is encouraging businesses to innovate.

We have restored full and immediate expensing for research, for  development, done right here in America. And we have made those savings  permanent.

For businesses, that means it is more affordable to build at home in  America, not 5 years from now but today, not overseas but in places  like Wyoming.

And people are responding. These pro-growth policies are already  driving a surge of business investment. More investment means more  manufacturing at home and more American jobs--jobs that have been  shipped overseas by the Democrats in the past. More manufacturing leads  to high-paying jobs at home.

Construction sites are booming. You are seeing it there in the  construction sites. You are also seeing it in the assembly line. More  innovation, more production means prices go down.

And small businesses are the engine of Americans' prosperity. The  Working Families Tax Cuts law helps small businesses all across  America.

The law makes permanent the 20 percent small business tax deduction.  Every Democrat voted against that. Republicans are focused on helping  small businesses grow.

So American workers are the clear winners in what we have done with  the Working Families Tax Cuts law.

You know, what we put in that law--no tax on overtime--that means a  lot for the miners and the linemen in Wyoming. They are going to be  able to keep $1,400 more this year in their paychecks.

Now, the Democrat leader, Senator Schumer, was just on the floor, and  he talked about firefighters. Well, firefighters work a lot of  overtime. They need to stay on the job. They do that. No tax on  overtime now--that means more money in their pockets to take home.  Firefighters, the nurses in Wyoming--they are happy with what we have  done.

Chuck Schumer, who was just talking about it, voted against it. The  Democrats wanted to raise taxes by $4 trillion. How is that going to  help our country? It is not.

And then I heard Senator Schumer talk about bartenders. Well, we say  no tax on tips. Bartenders get tips as part of their pay, so do  waiters, waitresses. Lots of people work with tips. No tax on tips-- every Democrat voted against that. That was taking money--they would  rather just take that money for themselves. They like the tips. They  want it to go to the tax so they can spend more. We said: no tax on  tips.

Look, this is money that our workers in America have earned. They  ought to be able to benefit from it. It is not going to be wasted away  anymore by these unaccountable, unelected, heavyhanded bureaucrats who  think they know better than the American people. And it is certainly  not going to continue to be stolen like it has been by these fraudsters  in Minnesota, while the Democrats look the other way.

In all, American workers are going to see higher take-home pay, more  money in their pockets, thanks to what we passed with the Working  Families Tax Cuts law.

Republicans are creating an economy that works for working Americans.  We are creating a prosperous America, an America where citizens are  free to use their money. If they want to save it, if they want to spend  it, if they want to invest it, they get to decide.

They want to use it to build a small business, good. They want it to  control their family's future, perfect.

It is no wonder that the University of Michigan found that consumer  sentiment continues to go up. That confidence rose the most among blue- collar workers--the workers who were hit the hardest by the Democrats'  unaffordable economy.

Republicans were successful in stopping the Democrats' $4 trillion  tax increase. We eliminated burdensome regulations. We unleashed  American energy. We are getting America back on track. So that is why,  today, Americans are seeing more money in their pockets. They are going  to see bigger tax refunds. They are going to see more opportunities in  their future.

That is what Americans voted for last November, and that is what  Republicans have delivered. And this economic progress is just the  start of the prosperity to come.