Immigration


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, on a related matter, the Iranian air  strike is about more than nuclear weapons. It is about, also, the  threat of terrorism. Iranian terrorists have targeted Americans for  decades. Iran actively pursued an assassination plot against President  Trump. Other top officials in the United States have also been targets  of Iranian terrorists.

Recently, Iran threatened to activate its so-called sleeper cells  right here inside the United States. Let that sink in. This is an  urgent reminder that national security starts with border security.

Under Joe Biden and the Democrats, more than 1,500 illegal immigrants  from Iran crossed our southern border, and 729 of them were released  into our country by Joe Biden. And that might just be the tip of the  iceberg because, remember, under Joe Biden and the Democrats, there  were millions of ``got-aways,'' people who weren't stopped sneaking  across the border; they were detected--either through satellite images  or different mechanisms of looking for people: heat detection of people  moving across the desert--but not able to be captured.

How many of them were Iranian agents as well? How many of them are,  today, in sleeper cells? Well, the truth is, no one knows. What we do  know is this: President Trump took office, and since that time, illegal  border crossings are down by 95 percent.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents are working fast. In the  last 7 days alone, ICE arrested 130 illegal immigrants from Iran. Right  now, 670 Iranian nationals are being detained. President Trump's  detentions are working.

Now the administration needs more resources to finish the job. That  is why Republicans are fighting for our comprehensive safety agenda.  Our bill increases funding for border security and enforcement by $160  billion. It finishes the wall. It hires thousands of new Border Patrol  and ICE agents. It gives them a bonus for keeping our communities safe.

In November, Americans wanted, needed, and voted for safe communities  and secure borders. Our Republican safety agenda delivers what the  Americans want, need, and have voted for.