National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, once again, Senate Democrats are  threatening to shut down the government. A government shutdown is bad  for everyone. The cost of a Democrat shutdown is staggering.

Reopening the government after a shutdown is even more costly. And  who pays the price of a Schumer shutdown? Well, it is the American  people.

It is not the people in this room. No. It is hard-working Americans.  It is seniors who rely on Social Security; they are going to be  impacted. People living on a fixed income; they budget down to the last  dollar. They need to pay for rent; they need to pay for groceries; they  need to pay for prescriptions. Democrats don't seem to worry about  that. Oh, they say they can wait.

Because a Democrat shutdown means that customer service applications  to the Social Security Administration--well, they will be delayed.

Now, many military families also live paycheck to paycheck. They are  going to face a lot of uncertainty. The men and women who protect our  families will be left to wonder how they can protect their own  families. Border Patrol agents, they put their lives on the line every  day to protect the American people. They are going to be forced to live  without a paycheck.

Democrats already tried to defund the Border Patrol. Now they want  Border Patrol agents to go home without a paycheck until the government  reopens.

National parks, they risk being closed as well. In my home State of  Wyoming, we have Yellowstone National Park; we have the Grand Teton.  These are more than parks; they are part of our State and our Nation's  rich history and heritage.

Families from across America and around the world visit Wyoming, our  national parks, and other national parks. They do it every year.

Under a Schumer shutdown, those plans will be forced to be canceled.

Local businesses like hotels, restaurants, they will lose revenue.  Park staff are reduced to skeleton crews. Trash piles up. That is not  stewardship. That is neglect.

That is what the Democrats are risking. It is what Democrats are  threatening with this reckless talk of a shutdown.

The American people shouldn't be forced to pay the cost of Democrats'  political games. That is what it is. Shutdowns are political games.  Political acts are choices.

Congress has the tools to avoid this chaos. It requires, however,  cooperation from the Democrats.

The appropriations process, it exists. It exists for a reason. It is  how Congress fulfills its basic mission--the power of the purse. That  is our duty, and that is what Republicans are doing.

For the first time in 4 years, the Senate passed bipartisan  appropriations bills before the August recess.

More are on the way.

Appropriations Committee Chairwoman Susan Collins is working hard to  get each and every bill passed. That is something that the current  Minority Leader refused to do when the Democrats were in the majority.

Last year, 11 out of 12 funding bills passed the Senate  Appropriations Committee. They passed many along bipartisan ways, many  were unanimous, all done in regular order. That was last year when  Schumer was, at that time, majority leader, but he refused to bring a  single one of them to the floor of the U.S. Senate for a vote. He let  those 11 bipartisan appropriations bills die in the drawer of that desk  rather than let the Senate vote on them.

He shut down the appropriations process, and now he and the Senate  Democrats are threatening to shut down the government. He himself has  recently suggested a shutdown. He said: It is preferable to accepting  bipartisan solutions.

Senator Cory Booker, who is another member of the Senate Democrat  leadership, went even further. When asked about a short stopgap measure  that we are talking about now to keep government open so we can proceed  with additional appropriations bills, he said:

I am going to block it.

That is what he said--block the normal process to regular order.

And it is not just the Democrat-elected officials calling for a  shutdown. Liberal columnist Ezra Klein recently wrote in the New York  Times and he was on television urging Democrats to shut down the  government. He did it despite the costs and consequences to the  American people, but that is where the radical left is.

He said joining Republicans to fund this government is worse, he  said, than failing at opposition.

That is what they think their job is: to disrupt, to make it harder  on the American people's lives. That is not what we ought to be doing  here in the U.S. Senate. Democrats are ignoring the needs of keeping  the essential functions of our Nation open. And what are those  essential needs? Securing the border, Social Security, supporting our  military--doesn't seem to care if you are a Democrat these days. What  is so wrong with doing the job voters elected us to do?

To my Democrat colleagues, I would say: Stop this political theater.  The Republican message is simple: Let's fund the government; protect  Social Security; keep servicemembers and border agents paid; keep the  government open in order to serve the American people.

Senate Republicans are ready. Ready to keep the government open.  Senate Democrats are bragging about being ready to shut it down. The  choice is theirs, and the consequences of that choice will be felt by  the people of our Nation.