Unanimous Consent Requests--The Calendar


Mr. MULLIN. Mr. President, I reserve the right to object.

The junior Senator from California knows good and well what  ``classifications'' mean because he had 15 years on the House  Intelligence Committee until his clearance was pulled in 2023. He  understands classifications. He understands when certain things can be  exposed and certain things cannot because of the sensitivity of them.

He also understands that committees of jurisdiction are privileged  with the correct clearance to be able to watch this video because the  junior Senator from California stated that himself. It has been shown  to not a partisan but a bipartisan group of individuals who do have the  accurate oversight and clearances to watch it.

Now, what is this really about? Politics? Maybe.

During the junior Senator's time on the House Intelligence Committee,  then-President Obama had 500 strikes on terrorist organizations. Let's  keep in mind that we are striking terrorist organizations, and no one  is denying that. There are 24 cartels that are being deemed terrorist  organizations that are poisoning our streets, that are killing our  families, that are killing our friends, that are affecting all of our  homes and all of our streets in all of our States all across the  country--in fact, to the tune that there have been more people killed  in 2024 by drug overdoses--the sum of 10,000 more individuals--than we  lost in U.S. personnel during the entire Vietnam war. If that is not an  attack on us, I don't know. If that is not a terrorist organization  that is truly poisoning our streets, then I don't know.

During the time that the junior Senator from California sat on Intel,  not one time did he ever ask for the release of the same videos from  the Obama administration that killed 3,700 individuals, including U.S.  citizens.

Now, if you think there would be transparency, that would need to be  released. We would want to see the videos at least on the U.S. citizens  who were killed in this manner, not these narcoboats that are poisoning  our streets. But that really isn't what this is about, and the junior  Senator from California knows that. This is all about politics. That is  what this is about.

Why are we protecting the ones who are poisoning our streets?  Shouldn't we be trying to protect the ones who are on our streets?

I don't think it is crazy to think that we would want to be proactive  about going after narcoboats. I, for sure, want to. I have zero issue  with this. I have been able to be briefed. I know the junior Senator  was recently briefed; he is just upset that he may not have the  clearances to watch the videos anymore.

But there is sensitive material, and it was clearly explained why it  can't be released.

Of all the people in this Chamber, the junior Senator from California  knows that when it is in certain classifications, there is a reason for  that.