Education is of Great Importance to Congressional Black Caucus, Congress, and Constituents


Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, it is with great honor that I rise today  to co-anchor this CBC Special Order hour along with my distinguished  colleague, the gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Clyburn).

For the next 60 minutes, members of the CBC have an opportunity to  speak directly to the American people on education, an issue of great  importance to the Congressional Black Caucus, Congress, and the  constituents who we represent.

Mr. Speaker, in the 1880s, my great-grandfather founded a school in  his rural community because the State of Alabama did not provide a good  education to Black children. As explained in his autobiography, he  wanted to teach children, whose parents and grandparents had been  enslaved on plantations nearby, to be of better service to themselves,  their employers, and the community in which they lived.

In the 1930s, my father and his sisters attended that school because  the State  of Tennessee did not provide a good education to Black children. Like  his father and his grandfather, my dad became an educator himself,  ultimately teaching the next generation of educators at Virginia State  University.

In the 1950s, my mother had to move away from her hometown because  the State of Mississippi did not provide a good education for Black  children. The only school that did was run by the Catholic church, but  only up until the eighth grade.

As the third youngest of 14 children, she wanted more than the  domestic and laborer jobs that were available to her parents, her  grandparents, and her siblings. She had to move to go to high school,  becoming an educator herself, eventually running the TRiO Programs at  Virginia State University. These are federally funded programs run by  the Department of Education to work to ensure that children like her  have the support they need to go to and graduate college.

My parents understood how important a good education is not only to  individual opportunity, but to a thriving, healthy economy, community,  and democracy. Like my grandparents and great-grandparents before them,  they dedicated their lives to ensuring not only that their children had  a good education but every child did. Not every child is so lucky.

The legacy of 300 years of slavery and Jim Crow, massive resistance,  and chronic underfunding have created too many obstacles to the ability  of States and local governments to give every child an opportunity for  a good education.

For the past 20 years, first as a State legislator and now in  Congress, I have worked to ensure that every child in Virginia could  have a good education. As the mother of two children in public schools,  I know that, even with bipartisan and Herculean efforts, there are  still gaps in Virginia and across the country.

The Department of Education was created to fill those gaps. The  Department protects students' civil rights, particularly those with  disabilities who often need special accommodation to learn. It provides  support to attract, train, and retain the best and brightest teachers,  school administrators, support personnel such as counselors, nurses,  and mental and behavioral health specialists, especially in hard-to- staff rural or urban schools.

It measures and tracks academic progress across the country and helps  those school divisions that lag behind address areas of concern. It  manages student loan and grant programs that ensure children without  financial means can go to and succeed in college without incurring more  debt than they could ever pay off.

The Trump administration's illegal actions to dismantle the  Department of Education will ensure that these gaps remain. The  administration claims that it is just returning control of public  education back to States and localities. States and localities have  always had that control, but they have not always had the will or the  ability to ensure that every child can get a good education.

In my own State of Virginia, State and local officials and educators  right now fear that local agencies and the Virginia Department of  Education will not have the funding or the staff to handle the  workload, especially in areas like special education.

The block grant funding that the Trump administration promises comes  with little accountability, making it unclear whether the funds will  actually reach the students and schools that need them the most:  children with disabilities in rural and low-income communities.

Education lays the foundation for a strong future. Our Founding  Fathers understood that. Today's students are the entrepreneurs, civic  leaders, teachers, doctors, lawyers, engineers, and Members of Congress  of tomorrow. We owe it to our parents, our grandparents, and our great- grandparents to protect and build upon the progress that they have  made. We owe it to our children and theirs to fight efforts to roll  back that progress now.

Mr. Speaker, it is now my privilege to yield to the gentleman from  the great State of South Carolina, the Honorable   James Clyburn.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Honorable Mr. Clyburn for his  speech.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Georgia for  speaking.

Moore),  who represents the State's Fourth District.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Ms. McCLELLAN.  Clarke), the chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.

Ms. CLARKE of New York. Let me first start by thanking Jennifer  McClellan of Virginia and  Jim Clyburn of South Carolina for anchoring  this evening's Special Order hour on behalf of the Congressional Black  Caucus.

I rise on this day in opposition to President Trump's unprecedented  and alarming efforts to dismantle the Department of Education. With no  consideration for the will of Congress or the will of the American  people, Donald Trump has commenced an attack on education that we  haven't seen the likes of since the racist segregationist Plessy versus  Ferguson decision declaring separate but equal as an educational  doctrine.

At a time when racial segregation is increasing in our schools to  levels not seen since before the Supreme Court ruled that separate but  equal had no place in the United States, Donald Trump's actions will  not only make our schools more segregated and less equal but they will  put quality education out of reach for countless young Americans today  and in the years to come.

No matter what justification the President gives, we know the real  reason he is tearing apart the Department of Education. That is to  steal money from public schools and funnel it into private ones that  don't care about teaching our kids, only indoctrinating them into the  cult of Trump.

Mr. Speaker, make no mistake. These attacks on the Department of  Education are deeply, deeply unpopular in every corner of the country.  In fact, two-thirds of Americans oppose them. They oppose them because  families from all walks of life rely on the Department of Education to  meet their children's needs.

Districts with high rates of poverty depend on Title I funding to  serve their students, just as parents of children with disabilities or  special needs depend on IDEA funding to give their kids the care they  deserve.

In New York's Ninth District alone, the administration has already  clawed back $4 million in funds that our schools were entitled to. That  figure is as much as $300 million across our State.

Because of Trump's war on education, classroom sizes will balloon.  Teachers' recruitment will plummet. Higher education will be  inaccessible for thousands of students. Money will be taken from  students with disabilities and special needs and given to the  President's allies.

Let's be clear. The President's actions represent a disturbing new  step in his crusade against public education and all it represents. I  reject his war against education, just as I will reject whatever bill  comes before Congress to further damage the Department of Education.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I want to end where I began and that is  with the story of my mother who lived to be 94.

She was the third youngest of 14 children in the Gulf Coast of  Mississippi where the only school available to her was the Catholic  church because Mississippi did not deem Black children important enough  to educate. She wanted more than the life that was available to her  siblings, her parents, her great-grandparents, and her grandparents.  She had to move to go to high school.

She ended up running the Federal TRiO programs at Virginia State  University to ensure that a little girl, whether she is in Petersburg,  Virginia, or a little boy on the Gulf Coast of Mississippi, would have  the same access to an education, no matter their parents' financial  situation, no matter the obstacles in their way. As a mother of two  children in public school who has spent almost 20 years in public  service, I have dedicated my life to making sure that every child has  that same opportunity.

The Department of Education doesn't run schools. They don't set the  curriculum. They fill the gaps that State and local governments have  been unwilling or unable to.

Without the Department of Education, there is going to be a little  girl  somewhere in this country as brilliant as my mother was, as dedicated  as my father was to public education, as passionate about it as I am  now, who will not be able to succeed because their school lacks a  quality teacher or a principal who knows what he is doing or the school  lacks the resources to provide a student with disabilities the tools  they need to succeed.

Every Member of Congress in this body was privileged enough to get a  good education to get here, but not every child we represent has that  same ability. The Congressional Black Caucus, as the conscience of  Congress, will fight for every child no matter their ZIP Code, race,  creed, or background to get that education.

Mr. Speaker, I thank you for your attention tonight and I yield back  the balance of my time.