Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''


Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New Jersey for  the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to H.J. Res. 35, which  will block the methane polluter fee, which is designed to control  wasteful methane from the oil and gas industry.

This resolution is another attempt by Republicans to put corporate  polluters ahead of hardworking American people. Much like their budget  adopted last night, it is a handout for billionaires and large  corporations.

Despite President Trump's promise to cut energy costs, Republicans  are actively working to raise Americans' energy bills, not to mention  the effect that reckless tariffs that, together with this policy, the  Republicans are pushing will drive American energy bills and prices at  the pump sky high.

However, I guess those high prices are worth the costs to Republicans  if it means Big Oil and Gas are pleased.

The Methane Emissions Reduction Program was created to make sure that  these big corporations pay for their own pollution, but I guess my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle would prefer that American  families cover the cost of corporate pollution.

Under this resolution, the American people will be stuck footing the  bill. That is egregious. It is egregious to let the American people  bear the burden of industry's pollution. It is not just a cost to their  wallets, but also a cost to their health and safety.

The oil and gas sector is the single largest industrial source of  methane pollution in the United States, responsible for nearly a third  of our emissions. We know that this pollution of our air has powerful  effects on our climate and is driving worsening natural disasters.

The devastating wildfires and hurricanes that we have seen, fueled by  climate change, aren't just our children's problem. They are here  today. The pollution that this methane gas produces affects our  children's health today. It affects their respiratory health, among  other things.

While Republicans are pushing tax breaks for billionaires and  corporate polluters, they will get a pat on the back from the industry  today. Democrats are thinking about the future and the world that our  children and their children will inherit.

Will it be livable? Will they be able to breathe?

I urge my colleagues to put the American people and families now and  in the future over polluters and vote ``no'' on H.J. Res. 35.