Recognizing Virginia's Fourth District Black History Month Essay Contest--1St Place Middle School Winner, Augustus Rezba-Patel


Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the following  essay from Virginia's Fourth District Black History Month Essay  Contest--1st Place middle school contest winner, Augustus Rezba-Patel.

Women are 17 percent of active-duty U.S. military members       today. They serve in combat and leadership roles and are       vital to the function of the U.S. military. But it wasn't       always this way. When Charity Adams-Early joined the military       in 1942, women were restricted to certain occupations and       comprised just 1 percent of the military. Not only that, but       people were discriminatory to Black Americans, restricting       their education, housing, and neighborhoods. Even the       military was segregated by race. Despite these barriers,       Charity Adams-Early overcame both racism and misogyny to       become the highest-ranking Black woman in the military during       WWII.

Charity Adams-Early was born in Kittrell, North Carolina on       December 5, 1918, two years before women's suffrage, where       segregation and racial prejudice were social norms. She often       faced challenges that tested her resilience, but with her       mother's help, she excelled at learning, graduating high       school two years early as the valedictorian. She attended       Wilberforce University, triple-majoring in Latin, physics,       and math. After graduating, she taught math and science       (Eley).

When WWII started, the U.S. rapidly expanded the military.       In 1942, the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps (WAAC) was formed,       allowing skillful women to serve. Adams-Early was highly       recommended and was accepted. She arrived at Fort Des Moines,       Iowa, in July, to start training. Segregation immediately       took effect when she arrived at the fort, with White and       Black women assigned to different barracks. Adams-Early       prevailed over racism to become the first Black officer in       the WAAC, and was promoted to Major in 1943, meaning she was       high rank (Eley).

Adams-Early overcame systemic racism. Believe it or not,       systemic racism is happening right under our noses at this       exact moment. For example, my school's Honors English class       is mostly White, while the non-honors classes are mostly       Black. This isn't because our Black students have less       potential, but because their Elementary schools didn't get as       much financial support as other schools, giving them fewer       opportunities for advanced academics and extracurriculars.       Another example of systemic racism is the story of Richmond's       Jackson Ward. Jackson Ward was a positive place, where black       people and businesses thrived. Then, in 1958, the state put       the highway right through their neighborhood, cutting them       off from their businesses and jobs, leading to unemployment       and poverty.

Adams-Early also faced sexism because in 1940 many people       hated the idea of a woman achieving more than them (and still       do). Women didn't even have the right to maintain a fixed       status in the military. So Adams had the worst of it.

Charity Adams-Early overcame many social and systemic       obstacles. She paved the way for generations of women and       Black Americans in the military. Today women and Black people       hold leadership roles, serve on the Joint Chiefs of Staff,       advise the President, and serve as Cabinet leaders. We all       owe her a lot, but we still have much to learn from her.       Currently, women and people of color can learn from her and       face systemic racism and sexism by always being determined       and never giving up.