Recognizing the 10th Anniversary of Educators Rising


Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the 10th  anniversary of Educators Rising.

Established in 1937, Educators Rising, formally known as the Future  Teachers of America, serves as a nationwide movement dedicated to  eliminating the teacher shortage in America by recruiting, preparing,  and inspiring the next generation of educators. The Future Teachers  Association evolved into the Future Educators Association and was  acquired by PDK International in 1994 and rebranded as Educators Rising  in 2015.

Educators Rising is a community-based Career and Technical Student  Organization within Phi Delta Kappa (PDK) International that develops  middle and high school students in rural, urban, and suburban  communities to become highly skilled educators in the communities where  they live.

As a ``Grow Your Own'' initiative, Educators Rising helps create  diverse teaching workforces that reflect communities where students  live. Teachers who share similar backgrounds and experiences with their  students foster stronger student-teacher relationships and improved  academic outcomes, including higher test scores, rates of high school  graduation and college enrollment, more inclusive school climates,  fewer suspensions, and lower rates of chronic absenteeism.

With over 1,400 school chapters and 38 state-level partnerships,  Educators Rising has a presence in all 50 states and the District of  Columbia. It continues to work with institutions of higher education  and State Departments of Education to create seamless transitions into  the education field.

In Virginia, over 70 schools have an Educators Rising Chapter that  contributes to ending the teacher shortage in America, including eight  in Virginia's 4th District. Since 1994, over 325,000 students have  participated in Educators Rising, including nearly 145,600 students  since its 2015 rebranding.

With over 60 percent of K-12 educators in the United States teaching  within 20 miles of the high school they attended, creating pathways for  local talent to enter the teaching profession plays a critical role in  addressing our nation's shortage of teachers. PDK International awards  nearly 100 scholarships annually, ranging from $500 to $5,000, to  students pursuing careers in education through Educators Rising and  other PDK International programs.

I commend Educators Rising's work to recruit local and diverse talent  while building career pathways for educators as a solution to  addressing teacher shortages in communities across the country. Their  hard work and commitment to producing driven teachers is remarkable and  essential to the development of a student's academic success.