-9999


Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, this month we will reach the fourth  anniversary of Vladimir Putin's unprovoked and illegal invasion of  Ukraine.

As we all know, Vladimir Putin is a war criminal, a KGB alumnus, an  oppressor of the Russian people, and we also are finding out more and  more that he is really bad at fighting a war.

For 4 years, Putin has insisted that Russian victory is just around  the corner. That is his dream, but it is a lie. The facts show that  Putin is nowhere close to winning. Here are the facts: During the year  2024, Russia captured 0.6 percent of Ukrainian territory. Last year, it  captured 0.8 percent. So 2 years of massive, tragic bloodshed caused by  Vladimir Putin has resulted in 1.4 percent of enemy territory taken.

So he is bad at tactics, he is bad at strategy, but he sent millions  of Russian men into battle in his unprovoked and illegal invasion,  inflicting 1.2 million casualties on his own people, on his own Russian  people--1.2 million Russian casualties. He may have at one time been a  successful KGB torturer, but he is a failure at today's attempt to  overrun his neighbor by force.

The Russian dictator is actually breaking records for his inability  to achieve battlefield gains. Since 2024, his most significant  offensives have scraped a meager 16 yards to 75 yards of ground per  day--less than the length of a football field. This is among the  slowest military campaigns since World War I. This would be  embarrassing if it weren't so tragic for the civilized world and so  tragic for the Russian people, not to mention the Ukrainian people.

Since Putin's military campaign is failing, he has now doubled down  on his attacks on civilians--unarmed civilians. As we all know, a  bitter cold snap has descended on Ukraine, and the maniacal Vladimir  Putin has turned this winter into a weapon. He has systematically  targeted energy sites, wiping out power and turning homes into  freezers. The results--specifically directed at civilians, directed at  mothers and children--have been deadly. Putin knows that he has failed  to achieve his objectives on the battlefield, so he continues trying to  achieve it through civilian torture--even today.

Indeed, Putin has failed in his two overriding goals. First of all,  he has not weakened NATO. Under Putin's watch, NATO has expanded and  awakened. Secondly, he has not brought Ukraine into Russia's orbit.  Ukraine and its people have overwhelmingly moved philosophically  further from Russia and toward the civilized democracies of this world.

Putin is failing, but he still peddles the lie that Russian victory  is right around the corner. And some American voices are repeating this  misinformation. They are echoing this. And we have heard this for  years. Yet, in spite of his years of failure, Vladimir Putin persists  for the moment in killing Ukrainians and causing the deaths of Russians  and his allies.

We must show him it is time to stop, and that is what I am urging our  government to do and this Senate to do. The West should unite around  security guarantees and a framework for a just end to this war.

NATO will continue purchasing American-made weapons for Ukraine. The  United States can and should get Ukraine more offensive and defensive  aerial capabilities. Congress should take up the Russian sanctions  bill. We know it has overwhelming support on this side of the aisle, on  that side of the aisle, and at the other end of the building. What are  we waiting for? Let's do it.

Secretary Hegseth and I have worked together to expedite weapons  development. Already, we are seeing progress there. This week, the U.S.  Air Force live-tested a new, low-cost, air-launched cruise missile  called ERAM, and we did so just 16 months after the initial contract-- impressive. We can do better than that, but that is impressive. The  missiles are now headed to Ukraine. We continue to work to stand up a  pipeline of novel capabilities, built by American industry and built by  American manufacturing workers, with which we can arm our ally Ukraine.

For years, the Russian military has flung itself against the rock of  a country it covets and a country it dwarfs in size but moving more  slowly than nearly any military in a century. We need to show Vladimir  Putin that it is time to stop. We must not let him off the mat. We must  increase the pressure.