Authorizing Representation By the Senate Legal Counsel in the Case of Desmond Bellard V. Ronald Wyden, U.S. Senator


Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I seek recognition to make a unanimous  consent request.

Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, actually, I am going to ask unanimous  consent that we go ahead and confirm General Caine as Chairman of the  Joint Chiefs of Staff, but I must say that I do so with mixed feelings.

On the one hand, we need a Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff  immediately, and there is overwhelming support on the Democratic side  and Republican side for this nomination.

On the other hand, passage of this confirmation would pretty much end  our week, and that would prevent us from getting a lot of work done  later on this afternoon and into tonight and tomorrow if we have to  stay until tomorrow to confirm this very important officer as Chairman  of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

So, in a way, we can have it either way, but, frankly, to stay here  and get some Congressional Review Act resolutions done so that we can  end a number of the pernicious regulations foisted off on the American  people and on our economy by the Biden administration--that has a lot  of appeal also.

75 and 74, making Gen. John Caine Chairman of  Joint Chiefs of Staff, ripen at 3 p.m. today.

Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I may have other unanimous consent  requests, but if I could be heard on this matter for another moment, I  would seek recognition for that purpose.

Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I am happy to yield to my friend from  Alaska, who has now vacated the floor. I thought we had this more  synchronized.

But let me say this: There was a vote earlier this week in the Armed  Services Committee. It passed the Armed Services Committee with  overwhelming Democrat and Republican support--23 yeses and only 4 noes.  So there is really no reason to delay this any longer.

Frankly, there is so much going on around the world with the four  powers that constitute an axis of aggression to the United States that  we really should give the President the choice that has been endorsed  overwhelmingly by a bipartisan majority of the Armed Services  Committee.

With that, having communicated better now with my dear colleague from  Alaska, I would yield to the junior Senator from the State of Alaska.

Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I wonder if I could reclaim my time to ask  my distinguished friend from Alaska a question.

Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, yes, that is correct.

I would then ask my distinguished friend from Alaska: Isn't it a fact  that General Caine time and again has demonstrated his aptitude and  leadership abilities while actually deployed in combat zones, leading  servicemembers in Iraq and Syria, and while serving in various Special  Operations forces units and also in the intelligence community and that  he ran some of our most secretive programs for the security of  Americans?

Mr. WICKER. If the gentleman would further yield?

I just wondered if the gentleman would yield to the distinguished  minority leader to ascertain how this matter is going to be resolved  differently if we wait until tomorrow. The gentleman has the floor.  Perhaps he would do so.

Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, just for the information of Senators, as  the unanimous consent request has been objected to, and we are not  allowed to vote at this point to give the President of the United  States a Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, I just wanted to inform  the Senate, based on conversations with the majority leader and his  staff, that there are two matters that we can and will proceed to later  on this afternoon and perhaps into the night.

The first would be the House version of Senator Scott of South  Carolina's Congressional Review Act resolution, H.J. Res. 61, providing  for congressional disapproval under section 8 of title 5, United States  Code, of the rules submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency  relating to ``National Emission Standards For Hazardous Air Pollutants:  Rubber Tire Manufacturing.''

That is one matter that the objection has given us an opportunity to  proceed to.

The other would be Senator Curtis's Congressional Review Act, S.J.  Res. 31, a joint resolution providing for the Congressional disapproval  under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted  by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to ``Review of the  Final Rule Reclassification of Major Sources As Area Sources Under  Section 112 of the Clean Air Act.''

As I said, during my unanimous consent request, proceeding to the  vote on the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff would give the  President the advice and counsel that our Commander in Chief needs  during a very dangerous time.

That said, I made the unanimous consent request with mixed feelings  because, frankly, there are two regulations--pernicious, onerous,  needless regulations--by the Environmental Protection Agency that need  to be wiped off the books.

So this will give us an opportunity to do that. It is 10 after 3 at  this point, and I am not sure when the distinguished majority leader  will schedule that, but Members should be advised that unless we are  able to get a unanimous consent request and give the President his  choice for Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, those are items that can still  be the order of the day, and perhaps there are other votes tomorrow.