CNN "Erin Burnett Outfront" - Transcript:  Sen. Chris Coons (D-DE) Discuss About What Will Happen After The Motion For Witnesses And Documents Has Been Defeated


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

ERIN BURNETT, CNN HOST: Good evening. I'm Erin Burnett and the breaking news, history is unfolding as we speak. Right now the impeachment trial of President Trump is about to resume any second. They've been in recess for nearly 80 minutes, trying to do some sort of a backroom deal to figure out how to move forward.

A motion to allow witnesses was defeated and now the senators are going to be taking on amendments. They have been debating what comes next. That final vote we now believe will be Wednesday and I want to go straight to Democratic Senator Chris Coons who's about to head back into that room.

And Senator, what can you tell us? Let's start with right now you're going back into that room, what happens the rest of tonight?

SEN. CHRIS COONS (D-DE): Well, Erin, that's really in the hands of the Republican majority right now. I'm expecting that we're going to be called back in for a vote any moment. The majority leader will lay out whatever he's been able to work out with his caucus, which is the majority of the Senate.

And then I expect a series of amendment votes to be offered by the Democrats. Frankly, trying through a number of votes to force reconsideration of this central vital question, will there be any witnesses, will there be any documents.

I'll remind you, Erin, this will be the very first impeachment trial in the entire history of the Senate to have no witnesses. The last impeachment trial when it happened right as I got here 10 years ago of a judge from Louisiana, had 26 witnesses, 17 of whom had not appeared before their appearance in front of the Senate trial committee.

I think the House managers made an excellent case today about why we should be hearing from John Bolton and other witnesses and it was frankly very painful that this didn't happen.

BURNETT: But that all got voted down. I mean, it seems at this point though, of course, I mean, look, I understand you got to make your point on these amendments, but you're talking about taking a last stand, the next step --

COONS: That's right.

BURNETT: -- which would be closing arguments on Monday and a vote on Wednesday is what we understand. Is there any more you can tell us about the deal from here to make it clear that would mean that the vote comes after the State of the Union and after the Iowa caucuses?

COONS: Well that, as I said, Erin, that's what I have heard through press reports is what the majority leader is trying to persuade his caucus to support. I don't think that will get much support in our caucus. There's a lot of folks who would like to see us keep fighting and keep pushing for more votes tonight and tomorrow, and to be here for our arguments on the floor.

But given that he was able to secure 51 votes against any more witnesses or any more documents, it seems likely that the majority leader has the votes to drive through the process that he's fighting for.

BURNETT: So there are some Republicans who wanted an acquittal tonight. They wanted it very quickly, right?

COONS: Yes.

BURNETT: There were some though who did want a chance to talk, to stand up and say something and that's in part why the majority leader is going to allow these closing statements and senators to speak Monday, Tuesday and then that vote on Wednesday.

Have you talked to any of those Republicans who actually wanted a chance to stand up and speak? And if so, why? What do they want to say? Why is this important to them?

COONS: I've talked to a couple of my colleagues. Frankly, it's hard. I'm normally someone who works across the aisle fairly well but this has been a really hard two weeks and I am very disappointed in some of my colleagues, very frustrated at this process.

As we saw just today, The New York Times reported more breaking news from the upcoming book by the former National Security Advisor John Bolton suggesting that President Trump was in the room with John Bolton, with Rudy Giuliani, with the White House Counsel.

BURNETT: Yes.

COONS: Months earlier, weeks earlier, excuse me, than we previously knew. Why they don't want more evidence? I don't understand. But a number of them are making the argument that this is not an impeachable offense and I think, frankly, the consequences of their deciding that this is not an impeachable offense will be long lasting and great for our country.

BURNETT: Senator, I appreciate your time very much. Of course, he's referring to senators Lamar Alexander, Marco Rubio and others who said assume everything that happened is true, they don't believe it's impeachable.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT