CNN "The Situation Room" - Transcript: Sen. Chris coons (D-DE) is Interviewed about Coronavirus Testing Kits


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

We're joined now by Senator Chris Coons of Delaware.

Senator, thanks so much for taking a few moments to join us. Your Republican colleague, Senator Lamar Alexander says the United States, in his words "has a serious deficiency in testing for the virus." What needs to happen now, senator, to increase testing capacity all around the country?

[17:10:00]

SEN. CHRIS COONS (D-DE): Well, first, Wolf, one of the things that impressed me today was the difference between the speech we heard from President Trump last night and the remarks we heard mid-day from former Vice President Biden on this topic. Vice President Biden was clear that if he were president, he would be posting results every single day, about how many tests have happened, what the results are, where they're available. And making sure that every American has access to a free test without co-pays, without expense.

And the President even though he was reading his speech last night failed to speak directly and correctly to these issues. He announced a travel ban, blocking people coming here from Europe. But he didn't make clear how we we're going to expand the quality and number of tests around the country.

If the FDA acts more quickly and state laboratories and university health laboratories are allowed to certify their tests up to FDA standards as has been promised, I think we should be able to get the volume of tests and the accuracy of tests up and available nationally, fairly quickly. But it requires a focus and a push and transparency and accountability. We need administration effort that is respectful of science rather than driven by politics.

BLITZER: So far, senator, as you know, we keep hearing these awful stories, people all over the country, they're sick, you know, they have all the symptoms. They want to get a test but they can't get a test, which is a really sad state of affairs here in the United States of America. What about your office up on Capitol Hill, your office in Delaware, are you keeping them opened?

COONS: I just had a conference call with my staff, Wolf, to convey to them. Everybody on my staff is being provided with a laptop and the ability to telework from home. If they develop symptoms, if they've got work-life balance questions, because many are hearing, their children may be home from school or coming home from college, or, frankly, if they are concerned about their health.

Many of the public meetings that we had scheduled for this coming week have already canceled and there are real limitations being put on visitors to our Senate offices in the Capitol Complex. And, frankly, Wolf, I think we need to watch what's happening in the weeks ahead as this continues to develop as to whether or not I ask all of my staff to telework.

BLITZER: Because there's been some cases up at the U.S. Capitol, as you know, at least one Senate staffer has now tested positive for the coronavirus. Do you think it's safe for Congress, the House and the Senate for that matter to continue business as usual during these difficult days?

COONS: Well, it's important that we meet and vote on a package that responds to America's real and pressing needs. So, we will likely go back into session one or two days next week. We have a critical civil liberties and national security issue we need to resolve, reauthorizing or reforming the surveillance powers that were granted to the federal government. Under the Patriot Act they expire in the next couple of days.

And frankly, more urgently, passing a package like what Speaker Pelosi proposed today that would deal with paid sick leave, expanded unemployment insurance, guaranteeing that folks can get access to quality tests in a timely way without cost. Providing support for those child and their families who get school lunch to get those meals at home if our schools are closed for weeks or months.

I support the package that the Speaker discussed today. And I think we heard from Joe Biden in his very presidential and focused speech today, a plan for how we should go forward with meeting the needs of the American people. That's the one reason, Wolf, that I think we should go back into session briefly next week. But after that you may see the Congress on an extended recess.

Our offices should still be available for people to call or to e-mail to get information. But in the digital age, Wolf, we can answer those calls and e-mails remotely.

BLITZER: Yes. Things are moving very, very quickly. All public schools now in Ohio and Maryland are shut down. I suspect a lot more states will be doing the same thing. Senator Chris Coons of Delaware, thanks so much for joining us.

COONS: Thank you, Wolf.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT