Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COONS. Mr. President, the Senate of the United States has just  acted. It has taken up and passed a roughly $104 billion package of  assistance that will go out to American families, to American workers,  to our healthcare system, to our States, and to our communities. I want  to take a few minutes to talk about this important step we have just  taken and where we have to go next. 

  The Delawareans I have heard from today and this week and this month  are worried, and they are anxious. They have been up all night and are  trying to figure out how they are going to care for their children who  are home from school and need support and instruction and how they are  going to care for their parents who are vulnerable and elderly and  sick. They are concerned about our hospitals and our healthcare system  and its capacity. 

  They are anxious because they are frontline workers, they are first  responders, and they are volunteer firefighters, nurses, and orderlies,  who are exposed every day and concerned. They are just average citizens  asking: How can I get a test and where? 

  I have heard from the presidents of our major universities, the head  of our hospital system, our Governor, and my colleagues in our  congressional delegation. We have talked repeatedly to our director of  public health, our secretary of health and human services, and I have  heard from business owners, large and small, who run everything from  coffee shops and diners to restaurants and hotels in our State. There  is a lot of anxiety and concern. 

  The folks in my State want to know that we here in Washington are  going to put the partisan bickering aside, find answers, and get  resources out to deal with this significant public health emergency. 

  And so I hope folks take some encouragement from today's actions. It  passed 90 to 8. Very little passes in this Senate 90 to 8, and I have  very rarely seen a bill of this size, scope, and magnitude that goes  from an idea to bill text, to enactment in such a short period of time,  but this moment demands it. 

  Let me talk through, also, the priorities that are reflected in the  Families First Coronavirus Response Act, because the name reflects the  priorities. 

  Hubert Humphrey, who is a former leader in the United States in our  political community and system, once said, ``The moral test of our  government is how it treats those who are in the dawn of life, the  children; those who are in the twilight of life, the elderly; and those  who are in the shadows of life, the sick, the needy and the  handicapped.'' 

  I am pleased that the package just passed here in the Senate takes  important strides to take care of exactly those folks. Children home  from school, who need support for learning remotely, and those, in  particular, who rely on school lunch programs for their one good,  stable healthy meal a day, will be able to continue to get school  lunches delivered, either through their schools or at home. There are  significant resources in this bill for that. Those who are on the  frontlines of this crisis, the individuals who are cleaning offices and  cleaning hospital rooms and cleaning Amtrak cars and public buses,  those who are putting themselves directly at risk by cleaning the  spaces we all count on for our society, frontline workers, people who  are in our first responder community, people who are working in our  hospital emergency rooms--this provides support for them. 

  And for anyone who is concerned about the cost of access to testing,  this bill makes clear that testing for COVID-19, for this dreaded  disease caused by the novel coronavirus, will have a test for free,  including those without health insurance. 

  There are some big pieces in this bill that I will briefly mention.  There is paid emergency leave for workers at companies below 500  employees for 2  weeks of sick leave and up to 10 weeks of additional paid family and  medical leave. We just had a disagreement over exactly how that is  going to get paid for and how it is going to get compensated and on  what timeline, and we are going to work out those details. 

  My office's website will have an accessible, readable summary of what  is in this bill up later tonight. 

  The larger point was that we thought it essential that folks who we  want to stay home, but who are maybe living paycheck to paycheck, know  that they will get paid sick leave so they can stay home and we can  slow the spread of this disease. 

  There is also an increase in funds from the Federal Government to  States for Medicaid, because a lot of our States are going to see  increased costs as folks move to Medicaid as the place they get  healthcare as they move to unemployment. One hundred million dollars in  additional resources will go to the State of Delaware alone to provide  support for those who may be newly dependent on Medicaid. 

  Then, last is an expansion of unemployment benefits--26 weeks of  unemployment benefits, including temporary unemployment caused because  of COVID-19. 

  There are more details as to how this temporary unemployment  insurance will work, but it will last longer and have a higher level of  benefit and be more flexible than previous versions of Federal  unemployment insurance, and it is being delivered in partnership with  States. 

  So those are the biggest pieces of this bill. It is just $104  billion, but the bill we are already hard at work on will be an order  of magnitude greater, likely more than $1 trillion. If what we have  seen in terms of anxiety and concern from families up and down my State  and all over our country is any indication, we must take this up  quickly and enact it. 

  There are small business owners, whom I have heard from today, who  want to keep employing the folks who work for them but have lost half  of their business since our Governor took the bold and necessary step  of closing our restaurants and bars to all except drive-through and  delivery service. Ten percent of the folks who work in Delaware work in  restaurants and hospitality. Folks who want to keep their people on  payroll but have no work for them to do face a very hard choice.  

  We need to find ways that we can both defer the payments that are  necessary for students, for homeowners, for businesses, for those who  have outstanding payments on SBA loans or on federally guaranteed  mortgages or on bank loans where we can work out some way to provide  temporary relief, and then individual payments that will help students,  that will help heads of households, and that will help individuals. 

  So there are a lot of different pieces that are being debated and  discussed here in the Senate--support for Amtrak, a priority for me  because I commute by Amtrak and it is one of the biggest modes of  transportation on the east coast; support for the airline and  hospitality industries because they employ hundreds of thousands of  people and have seen their business drop off sharply; support for long- term structural changes to how we provide access to healthcare, access  to skills and training for our workforce, and access to higher  education. 

  I have heard very concerning stories from the folks who lead some of  the most important nonprofit and faith and educational institutions in  my State, and they are looking to us for bold and decisive leadership. 

  Last, we must not forget those on the margins of our society--people  who are homeless, people who are incarcerated, people who are  uninsured, people who are undocumented. If we want to make sure that we  make our country safe, we need to practice not just good hygiene, not  just social distancing, but we need to refrain from moral distancing.  We need to remember the words of Hubert Humphrey, and we need to be  reminded exactly why people look to this Federal Government for prompt  action and for significant resources: It is because they look for us to  be able to make sure that we see all Americans and that we know that we  are all in this together. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT