Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COONS. Madam President, I come to the floor today to add my voice  to the debate on the system of checks and balances that are essential  to and that define our very democracy. I am here, in no small part,  because of a series of events that unfolded slowly over 40 years, and  then, with a sharper tempo, near the end of last year, culminated in a  strike by U.S. forces on January 3 that killed General Qasem Soleimani  of the Quds Force of the IRGC of Iran. 

  That precipitated a series of briefings and debates here among  Senators and with our constituents in the country, and, today, after an  important 51-to-45 vote to proceed, we are debating this measure. This  measure is S.J. Res. 68, from Senators Kaine, Durbin, Lee, and Paul, to  direct the removal of U.S. Armed Forces from hostilities against the  Islamic Republic of Iran that have not been authorized by Congress. 

  I want to simply make a few observations today about the importance  of the war making power and the role of Congress. 

  In my view, we are at a critical inflection point in our Nation, one  where history will question whether we served our Nation or served more  partisan or parochial aims. 

  To be clear, I do not seek or want a war between the United States  and Iran. I think our best path forward is a multilateral, several- nations-coming-together initiative to deescalate rising conflict  between the United States and Iran, with so many--tens of millions of  people--displaced from their homes around the world from conflicts  ranging from Syria and Yemen, to the Democratic Republic of the Congo,  to the Central African Republic. There is conflict in many places in  our world, and our country has seen what happens in the absence of  effective diplomacy. 

  But I came to the floor today really in no small part because, in the  group briefings that happened after the strike that killed General  Soleimani, a number of points were made that I think deserve to be  addressed. 

  One, a suggestion was made by one participant that simply debating  whether the authorization for the use of military force that was  adopted by Congress back in 2001 or 2002--simply debating whether that  authorized this strike and simply questioning whether this strike  should be authorized and future actions authorized by this Congress  would weaken the morale of our troops and would send a signal to our  enemies and adversaries of a lack of resolve by our Nation, and so we  in Congress should simply allow the President, under article II, which  gives to him, the Commander in Chief, responsibility, to simply  exercise the overwhelming capabilities of the United States and our  tremendous Armed Forces to keep us safe and to push back on our  adversaries. 

  I don't think anything could be further from the truth. I actually  think it strengthens our democracy when we engage in a robust and  vigorous debate on this question. I actually think showing that we have  confidence in our Constitution and that we in the Senate realize that,  over decades, we have gradually allowed our central role in authorizing  war to be weakened--that retaking some of that role is, in fact,  showing confidence in our democracy. 

  Let me be clear up front. I support the men and women of the U.S.  Armed Forces, and I have great confidence in their ability to carry out  their mission. I am clear-eyed about the threat that Iran, the Islamic  Republic of Iran, poses to our interests, to the region, and to the  world. As one of the world's great state sponsors of terrorism, as one  of the great sources of instability in the region, as a country that  for 40-plus years has been genuinely opposed to much of what the United  States believes in and tries to do in the region--I am clear-eyed both  about supporting our troops and about the threat posed by Iran. But if  we are to do right by the men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces, whom  we ask to go around the world and to serve us and to sacrifice for us  and to keep us safe, we can do no less than to ask whether we are  sending them with the full support of the American people. 

  This S.J. Res. 68 begins with a simple but important finding:  ``Congress has the sole power to declare war under article I, section  8, clause 11 of the United States Constitution,'' and ``Congress has  not yet declared war upon, nor enacted a specific statutory  authorization for the use of military force against . . . Iran.'' That  makes a simple point. 

  Previous administrations of both parties have overused the  authorizations for the use of military force passed here in 2001 and  2002. An overwhelming majority of the currently serving Members were  not present for the debates that led to those authorizations, and the  fact patterns and circumstances that led to their being adopted have  long since passed into history. So if we in this Chamber are to  exercise our responsible role, we shouldn't simply let the President  take the responsibility and possibly the blame for the conduct of war  overseas; we should take that responsibility back on ourselves. 

  In 2001, Congress authorized the use of force against al-Qaida and  associated forces based on the deadly strike against the United States  and our territory that happened on 9/11 but did not authorize the use  of force against Iran. In 2002, Congress did the same against Saddam  Hussein's Iraq, which is one of Iran's greatest enemies, then and now.  So, frankly, I think to suggest that either of these former  authorizations for the use of military force, or AUMFs, authorize this  action goes way beyond its scope. 

  I have heard from hundreds of constituents at home in Delaware about  their rising anxiety and concern, and I have heard from many both  currently serving and formerly serving that we should do our job, that  Congress has a role, and that we need to debate and demand a strategy  from this administration and a path forward that we can articulate and  defend. 

  We are in a scenario now where the possibility of military conflict  between the United States and Iran is entirely foreseeable. President  Trump has drawn a line in the sand, much as his predecessor did, and  said: We will never let Iran have a nuclear weapon. 

  With the United States having withdrawn from the Iran nuclear deal,  the JCPOA, and with Iran and our European allies increasingly further  and further apart on their conduct and with Iran restarting centrifuges  and restarting enrichment, it is not an unforeseeable moment that,  whether weeks or months or years from now but quite possibly months, a  team from the senior ranks of our military will go to the President and  say: Here is a range of options. That might include striking Iran. That  is a fact pattern that requires Congress to have provided  authorization. 

  Yes, I recognize there are exigencies, there are emergencies, there  are moments when the President must take action to authorize our Armed  Forces to strike in order to defend our troops and to defend our  interests at home and abroad, but this entirely foreseeable scenario-- one which we should all be working to avoid but which is foreseeable-- is exactly why I am supporting the bipartisan resolution introduced by  Senators Kaine and Lee. 

  The Senate must take back its responsibility for authorizing our  Armed Forces to protect us overseas, and we need to show clear-eyed  support for our Armed Forces and for the path forward. 

  President Trump, like all Presidents before him, does not have the  authority to wage war without consulting this Congress. And Democrats  and Republicans are concerned about this administration's apparent  indifference toward Congress and its critical role in deciding matters  of war and peace. 

  The House has just passed two measures to restrict the President's  war-making powers. The Senate needs to have that same debate, that same  discussion, and needs to take up and pass this resolution. 

  This is how our system of government works best--through respectful  disagreement, through thoughtful, informed debate, and through votes in  both Chambers to express the will of the American people. 

  Let me close by saying this to servicemembers whom I meet in Delaware  and to many more serving around the country and around the world: War  should be our last resort. 

  If diplomacy should fail in this case or others, I will insist our  administration produce a clear strategy and a  mission for our troops that our service men and women can accomplish  and that our Congress provide our military with the resources and  authorities they need. 

  We are blessed with a system of democratic governance that challenges  us in times when stakes are highest to rise to the occasion and to earn  our place in the history of this democratic Republic. We do that by  reaffirming our faith in our Constitution, including article I, which  gives to this body the responsibility to weigh vital decisions of war  and peace. 

  Thank you. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT