Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COONS. Mr. President, the last time this body--the last time the  Senate--debated the fate of a Presidency in the context of impeachment,  the legendary Senator from West Virginia, Robert Byrd, rose and said:  

       I think my country sinks beneath the yoke. It weeps, it       bleeds, and each new day a gash is added to her wounds.  

  Our country today, as then, is in pain. We are deeply divided, and  most days, it seems to me that we here are the ones wielding the shiv,  not the salve. 

  The Founders gave this Senate the sole power to try impeachments  because, as Alexander Hamilton wrote: ``Where else than in the Senate  could have been found a tribunal sufficiently dignified, or  sufficiently independent?'' 

  I wish I could say with confidence that we here have lived up to the  faith our Founders entrusted in us. Unfortunately, I fear, in this  impeachment trial, the Senate has failed a historic test of our ability  to put country over party. 

  Foreign interference in our democracy has posed a grave threat to our  Nation since its very founding. James Madison wrote that impeachment  was an ``indispensable'' check against a President who would ``betray  his trust to foreign powers.'' 

  The threat of foreign interference remains grave and real to this  day. It is indisputable that Russia attacked our 2016 election and  interfered in it broadly. President Trump's own FBI Director and  Director of National Intelligence have warned us they are intent  on interfering in our election this coming fall. 

  So, to my Republican colleagues, I have frankly found it difficult to  understand why you would continue to so fervently support a President  who has repeatedly and publicly invited foreign interference in our  elections. 

  During his 2016 campaign, Donald Trump looked straight into the  cameras at a press conference and said: Russia, if you're listening, I  hope you're able to find Secretary Clinton's 30,000 emails. 

  We now know with certainty that Russian military intelligence hackers  first attempted to break into Secretary Clinton's office servers for  the first time that very day. Throughout his campaign, President Trump  praised the publication of emails that Russian hackers had stolen from  his political opponent. He mercilessly attacked former FBI Director  Robert Mueller throughout his investigation into the 2016 election and  allegations of Russian interference. 

  Now we know, following this trial, that the day after Special Counsel  Mueller testified about his investigation to this Congress, President  Trump, on a phone call with the President of Ukraine, asked for a  favor. He asked President Zelensky to announce an investigation of his  chief political rival, former Vice President Joe Biden, and he asked  for an investigation into a Russian conspiracy theory about that DNC  server. In the weeks and the months since, he has repeated that Ukraine  should investigate his political opponent and that China should as  well. 

  During the trial here, after the House managers and President's  counsel made their presentation, Senators had the opportunity to ask  questions. I asked a question of the President's lawyers about a  sentence in their own trial brief that stated: ``Congress has forbidden  foreigners' involvement in American elections.'' 

  I simply asked whether the President's own attorneys believed their  client, President Trump, agrees with that statement, and they refused  to confirm that he does. And how could they when he has repeatedly  invited and solicited foreign interference in our elections? 

  So, to my colleagues: Do you doubt that President Trump did what he  is accused of? Do you doubt he would do it again? Do you think for even  one moment he would refuse the help of foreign agents to smear any one  of us if he thought it was in his best political interest? And I have  to ask: What becomes of our democracy when elections become a no-holds- barred blood sport, when our foreign adversaries become our allies, and  when Americans of the opposing party become our enemies? 

  Throughout this trial, I have listened to the arguments of the House  managers prosecuting the case against President Trump and of the  arguments of counsel defending the President. I engaged with colleagues  on both sides of the aisle and listened to their positions. 

  The President's counsel have warned us of danger in partisan  impeachments. They have cautioned that abuse of power--the first  article--is a difficult standard to define. They have expressed deep  concern about an impeachment conducted on the brink of our next  Presidential election. 

  I understand those concerns and even share some of them. The House  managers, in turn, warned us that our President has demonstrated a  perilous willingness to seek foreign interference in our elections and  presented significant evidence that the President withheld foreign aid  from a vulnerable ally, not to serve our national interest but to  attack a political opponent. They demonstrated the President has  categorically obstructed congressional investigations to cover up his  misconduct. These are serious dangers too. 

  We, then, are faced with a choice between serious and significant  dangers. After listening closely to the evidence, weighing the  arguments, and reflecting on my constitutional responsibility and my  oath to do impartial justice, I have decided today I will vote guilty  on both articles. 

  I recognize that many of my colleagues have made up their minds. No  matter what decision you have reached, I think it is a sad day for our  country. I myself have never been on a crusade to impeach Donald Trump,  as has been alleged against all Democrats. I have sought ways to work  across the aisle with his administration, but in the years that have  followed his election, I have increasingly become convinced our  President is not just unconventional, not just testing the boundaries  of our norms and traditions, but he is at times unmoored. 

  Throughout this trial, I have heard from Delawareans who are  frustrated the Senate refused to hear from witnesses or subpoena  documents needed to uncover all the facts about the President's  misconduct. I have heard from Delawareans who fear our President  believes he is above the law and that he acts as if he is the law. I  have also heard from Delawareans who just want us to find a way to work  together. 

  It is my sincere regret that, with all the time we have spent  together, we could not find common ground at all. From the opening  resolution that set the procedures for trial adopted on a party-line  basis, the majority leader refused all attempts to make this a more  open and more fair process. Every Democrat was willing to have Chief  Justice Roberts rule on motions to subpoena relevant witnesses and  documents. Every Member of the opposing party refused. We could not  even forge a consensus to call a single witness who has said he has  firsthand evidence, who is willing to testify and was even preparing to  appear before us. 

  When an impeachment trial becomes meaningless, we are damaged and  weakened as a body, and our Constitution suffers in ways not easily  repaired. We have a President who hasn't turned over a single scrap of  paper in an impeachment investigation. Unlike Presidents Nixon and  Clinton before him, who directed their senior advisers and Cabinet  officials to cooperate, President Trump stonewalled every step of this  Congress's impeachment inquiry and then personally attacked those who  cooperated. The people who testified to the House of Representatives in  spite of the President's orders are dedicated public servants and  deserve our thanks, not condemnation. 

  Where do we go from here? Well, after President Clinton's impeachment  trial, he said: ``This can be and must be a time of reconciliation and  renewal for [our country],'' and he apologized for the harm he had done  to our Nation. 

  When President Nixon announced his resignation, he said: ``The first  essential is to begin healing the wounds of this Nation.'' 

  I wish President Trump would use this moment to bring our country  together, to assure us he would work to make the 2020 election a fair  contest; that he would tell Russia and China to stay out of our  elections; that he would tell the American people, whoever his opponent  might be, the fight will be between candidates, not families; that if  he loses, he will leave peacefully, in a dignified manner; and that if  he wins, he will work tirelessly to be the President for all people. 

  But at this point, some might suggest it would be hopelessly naive to  expect of President Trump that he would apologize or strive to heal our  country or do the important work of safeguarding our next election. So  that falls to us. 

  To my colleagues who have concluded impeachment is too heavy a hammer  to wield, if you believe the American people should decide the fate of  this President in the next election, what will you do to protect our  democracy? What will you do to ensure the American people learn the  truth of what happened so that they can cast informed votes? Will you  cosponsor bills to secure our elections? Will you insist they receive  votes on this floor? Will you express support for the intelligence  community that is working to keep our country safe? Will you ensure  whistleblowers who expose corruption are protected, not vilified? Will  you press this administration to cooperate with investigations and to  allow meaningful accommodations so that Congress can have its power of  oversight? Why can we not do this together? 

  Each day of this trial, we have said the Pledge of Allegiance to our  common Nation. For my Republican friends who have concluded the voters  should decide President Trump's fate, we need to do more together to  make that possible. Many of my Democratic friends, I know, are poised  to do their very best to defeat President Trump at the ballot box. 

  So here is my plea--that we would find ways to work together to  defend  our democracy and safeguard our next election. We have spent more time  together here in the last few weeks than in the last few years. Imagine  if we dedicated that same time to passing the dozens of bipartisan  bills that have come over from the House that are awaiting action.  Imagine what we could accomplish for our States and our country if we  actually tackled the challenges of affordable healthcare and ending the  opioid crisis, making our schools and communities safer, and bridging  our profound disagreements. 

  What fills me with dread, to my colleagues, is that each day we come  to this floor and talk past each other and not to each other and fail  to help our constituents. 

  Let me close by paraphrasing our Chaplain--Chaplain Black--whose  daily prayers brought me great strength in recent weeks: May we work  together to bring peace and unity. May we permit Godliness to make us  bold as lions. May we see a clear vision of our Lord's desire for our  Nation and remember we borrow our heartbeats from our Creator each day. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT