H. Con. Res. 14


Ms. SLOTKIN. Thank you, Senator.

I mean, I think what we are all here talking about into the dead of  night is this idea of whom we want to be as a nation when it comes to  providing healthcare.

Do we believe that the greatest country in the world should be able  to treat the people who need help in our country or are we OK with the  poorest among us, the weakest among us--those who are disabled, those  who are elderly, those who are children--just not having access to  care?

As the Senator said, when you look around at the math--right?--this  isn't a political statement. The math of needing to find $880 billion  with a ``b''--the math just doesn't work without gutting Medicaid. I  think it is important to understand, at least in my State, that this  isn't just about people who have Medicaid as their primary insurance,  right? We have 10 million people in Michigan, and 2.6 million people  are on Medicaid. The vast majority are children, right? They are people  who can't live up to work requirements, people who just happen to be  young, people who happen to be born where they were born. Thirty-seven  percent of all of our births in Michigan are handled and covered by  Medicaid, and two out of every three of nursing home elderly are  covered by Medicaid. So it is not just about the people who are  receiving direct care; it is about what Medicaid reimburses in funds.

It is the idea that 65 percent of our nursing homes could potentially  go under if they don't get this funding. It is the idea that our rural  hospitals from Hillsdale to Marquette, MI, have come to see me, and  they say: Look, this is--we are not Democrats; we are conservative  people, but if you take away this reimbursement, we will collapse. They  were already suffering after COVID, and they are barely hanging on. So  access to rural hospitals is something we are deeply, deeply worried  about.

I think the bigger question is, Who do we believe we are, and do we  have a commitment to serve and protect and provide basic healthcare to  people in our States?

Now, you mentioned this, but I think it is important to realize that,  with a number that big, we are not just talking about Medicaid. There  is a real risk of Medicare Part D being touched--the prescription drug  piece of that--and the Affordable Care Act, which so many people depend  on, the many, many people being cut off from that at the end of the  year. The math just doesn't work.

So what we are really talking about is, in the State of Michigan and  in the United States, the potential for either people to lose their  coverage or to have the price of their coverage go up because everyone  who is talking about these Medicaid cuts back home has also mentioned,  by the way, if we don't get the Medicaid reimbursement at our hospital,  I am just going to charge more to the people who have insurance. There  are going to be more people in my ER. I am going to have to pass that  expensive cost off to customers who do have health insurance.

So it is just important to understand the full spectrum of what we  are talking about here. Now, I am sure you have heard a ton of personal  stories, right? It is important to understand that we are giving a talk  on the Senate floor, and we are talking about numbers, but at the end  of the day, these are human beings, and I am sure your phones are as  flooded as mine are with people who want to tell their personal  stories.

I will say, for me, it feels like ``Groundhog Day'' because I decided  to run in 2018 for the very issue of healthcare because I happened to  live through my mother getting stage IV ovarian cancer without having  insurance. She had no insurance.

That first month of that terminal diagnosis, where you are desperate  to get her tests and coverage and some kind of emergency surgery, you  are using your credit cards, you are doing whatever you can while you  are just feeling completely lost that you know your mother is going to  die. That feeling is the worst feeling I have ever experienced, and it  is what we are proposing to millions of additional Americans by the end  of this year.

I am sure you heard a lot of personal stories on your phones. I don't  know if you want to walk through a couple of  those stories, but I think it is important to make it a human issue,  not just a numbers issue.

Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. That is right. And I thank my colleague from  Michigan because it is true. I mean, I can tell you, in February, I  spoke with Madison from Nevada. She has stiff-person syndrome. This is  the disease that impacts all her muscles and her breathing, and she has  had to be on a ventilator seven times. She wouldn't be here today  without Medicaid, which provides her with home healthcare.

Madison's sister Trisha was with her that day when she had to deal  with such--and this is trauma. Healthcare is trauma in somebody's life.  If Madison's Medicaid coverage ends, she would have to go live with her  sister and depend on her for care. She would be forced to move away  from her community and her whole life. Madison needs, really, Medicaid  to live her life to the fullest.

Like my colleague from Michigan says, these are real people that will  be impacted. And I know she is seeing the same.

I do want to pose for her this thought, though, that it is not just  the individuals. We know there is real-life impact, and we see it. We  hear it in our offices. We are getting those calls. We are meeting with  individuals. We know them. We know them. They are our neighbors. They  are our friends. We know them when we are home.

Here is what people forget, though. I know in Nevada we already don't  have enough providers in Medicaid. We don't have enough providers in  the program to begin with.

Expanding the number of healthcare providers in Nevada really has  been a priority of mine. That is why I am leading legislation-- bipartisan legislation--with my colleague Senator Cassidy from  Louisiana to support graduate medical education programs.

But here is the deal: If Medicaid funding in Nevada is cut, not only  will those rural health clinics close that I talked about, but here is  the thing people forget: We would have fewer providers because they  would not be incentivized to come to my State and treat patients. They  are going to figure out where they can go and still survive. Remember,  our providers have still to survive and make a living, and they want to  treat patients. So we are going to have a provider issue in my State.

I don't know if that is an issue for Michigan, but it is something  that goes hand in hand with Medicaid cuts because I hear from my  providers as well.

Ms. SLOTKIN. Yes. We talked about rural hospitals. I think, again,  even if you are not on Medicaid, you have never signed up, you have  never been in a low point in your life where you have needed a bridge,  you have never had a child with a disability, you have just never  touched the system, I guarantee you the hospitals that you depend on,  the clinics that you depend on, the nursing homes that you depend on  for your mom, your dad are dependent on Medicaid. I guarantee it.

And what we are hearing from our rural hospitals is: Look, we are the  only hospital in 3 hours where you can get care. If we go, where do our  people go? Where do we tell them to go?

If you are delivering a baby and you have to come off the Upper  Peninsula into the Lower Peninsula of Michigan, there is just no way  that we can function that way. So it is not just about, as you say,  individuals--although, those stories are striking--it is about access  to care for everybody.

I was talking to a doctor from the Lansing Care Free Medical Clinic.  It is completely Medicaid covered. It is the folks who are left out of  the system. He will just close. We will have clinics just close. So I  think we are talking about something that, again, comes to the heart of  who we are as a community.

I will also just say, I think it is important to put a warning label  on it, and then I will turn it to you to maybe finish out.

There is a lot of magic math going on right now on the other side of  that.

How do you take a group of people who both want to cut Medicaid in a  devastating way, want to cut other healthcare in a devastating way, and  match them up with a bunch of people who say, ``I can't,'' colleagues  on the other side of the aisle who say, ``I can't accept cuts like  that''? How do you balance two completely different factions in the  same party? And it happens. Right?

What, normally, we would see is tough choices being made, right?  Either the other side of the aisle is going to acknowledge we have to  make these devastating cuts, or they are not going to cut them. But  what we see now is that third secret option, which is magic math, which  is: We are going to tell you we are not cutting anything, but we are  going to quietly make the math just work so that we are actually  cutting all these things, we are able to reap the benefits, or we push  those cuts out to the outyears. So you don't notice them today, but  maybe later, maybe after other elections, you are going to feel those  Medicaid cuts.

So I guess my big warning label on the whole story here is that there  is magic math going on from beginning to end on this package.

And don't be fooled. They are coming for your healthcare. You are  either going to be paying more, or you are going to lose your coverage.  That is just a fact based on the math that they put out publicly and  voted on today.

So I thank my colleague for the opportunity to do my first colloquy.  I didn't know this was a thing that we could do. Thank you for giving  me that opportunity, and I will let you finish us out.

Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Thank you, the great Senator from Michigan.

Let me say, I am so pleased that she brought this up because it is a  gimmick. It is a gimmick that they are playing right now that somehow  the $7 trillion in tax cuts that they want to give to billionaires is  not going to add to our deficit or debt.

Remember, these are the Republicans, the party of fiscal  responsibility, and it is not going to add to our deficit or our debt.

This is the perfect example. I have read this in the papers--a  perfect example of what this means. This is like you are a parent, and  you have put your daughter through college for 4 years. She comes home,  and she says: Oh, well, you are already paying for it. So it is not  really an additional cost for you. So I am just going to stay home and  not work, and you just continue to pay the same amount that you were  paying for college, and I will just live off of that. That was a great  example one of our papers put out--a journalist put out--because that  is exactly what the Republicans are trying to do here. This is it.

And, remember, they are next going to come and try to lift the debt  ceiling--more debt--to pay for this. This is the party of fiscal  responsibility--think about this--at a time when our economy is already  in a free fall because of these crazy tariffs.

And, by the way, if you care about your retirement and your 401(k),  you are watching that stock market because that is in free fall. That  is what this administration, that is what these Republicans are  bringing you.

But, remember, when they started, they got handed an economy from the  previous administration that was going strong. They had just come out  of a pandemic and were trying to turn everything around. Was it  perfect? No. But we were working on addressing the challenges facing  this country.

I know. I know my colleague from Michigan knows this. Our family's  prices are too high. Costs are high. We have got to focus on them. We  have to lower those costs. These tax cuts should be about them, more  money in their pocket.

We started doing that around healthcare, capping the cost of insulin,  making sure that those Big Pharma companies would negotiate with us,  and we can keep those prescription drugs down. We started that process.  We have more to do. I know that.

But when President Trump came into office, the first thing he said  was he was going to lower those costs for our families. That is not his  priority, and that is not what he is doing. And that is why we have to  shine a light on this.

That is why I am so proud of my colleagues for standing up and making  sure the American public knows that they are coming after your  healthcare, and they are coming after your retirement, and they are  coming after you so that they can pay for these tax cuts for  billionaires.