Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, on average, we lose 100 Americans every  single day to firearms. 

  Last week marked 1 year since the House of Representatives passed  H.R. 8. It was a bipartisan bill. Both Democrats and Republicans  supported it. The bill stood for a very basic proposition, and the  proposition is this: Whatever your constitutional rights or God-given  rights--if you make that argument--to a firearm might be, we as a  society cannot allow people who are convicted felons or who are shown  to be mentally unstable to legally buy firearms in this country. We are  supposed to have background checks to make sure this doesn't happen. It  turns out that more than one out of five firearms are sold in America  without there having been background checks on the purchasers. 

  So H.R. 8, this bipartisan bill, passed the House to close the gaps  in our background system. What kind of gaps are we talking about? We  have terrible gun violence in the city of Chicago. Some of the critics  of Chicago like to say: You have the toughest gun laws and the most gun  deaths. Well, they don't tell you the whole story. Many of those guns  start off not in Chicago and  not in Illinois but at gun shows in Northwest Indiana, where they are  sold sometimes in volume without there being any background checks made  on the purchasers. 

  It has been 1 year of nothing in the U.S. Senate in responding to  this national crisis--not one thing. It is within the power of the  majority leader, Republican Senator Mitch McConnell, of Kentucky, to at  least let us address the issue and debate it. 

  He has a majority. Nothing is going to pass here without Republican  support. We know that. But don't the American people deserve a debate?  One man, the Republican majority leader, says no. He styles himself as  the Grim Reaper of the Senate. He takes pride in the fact that he has  killed hundreds of bills passed by the House that will never, ever see  the light of day in the U.S. Senate. 

  Well, I can tell the Senator from Kentucky that after attending so  many funerals, after giving heartbreaking sympathy to the families of  those who have lost their children and loved ones, after hearing about  so many mass shootings--mass shootings that should shock our  conscience--aren't we shocked when people just go to a movie theater in  Colorado and are gunned down as they watch a movie? Aren't we shocked  when a crowd in Las Vegas just wants to enjoy a country western concert  and they are gunned down? Weren't we shocked at a high school in  Florida or a first grade classroom in Connecticut when mass shootings  take place? 

  What will it take, America? What will it take for this Senate, what  will it take for this majority leader to realize enough is enough? 

  I believe in Second Amendment rights to bear arms for those who buy  them legally, use them and store them responsibly, whether it is for  self-defense, sport, or hunting. But none of the people who come to me  and argue this issue are arguing for convicted felons and mentally  unstable people to buy a firearm. We need them to stand with us and to  stand with law enforcement, who are often the victims of these  firearms, to make this a safer nation. 

  There are obvious gaps in the Federal gun laws that make it easy for  felons, abusers, and mentally unstable people to get their hands on  guns and hurt innocent people. Loopholes in the background check  system, like the gun show loophole I mentioned and one I haven't  mentioned--the loophole on the internet, where there is no real  background check whatsoever--account for massive sales of firearms each  year in the United States. 

  The House-passed Bipartisan Background Checks Act would close these  gaps in the background check system. Around 90 percent of Americans  support the proposals in this bill--90 percent of them. It is good  enough for America, but not good enough for the Senate. 

  Obviously, the majority leader needs to be persuaded, and 90 percent  of America is not enough. It is a commonsense, bipartisan step we  should take, consistent with constitutional rights but consistent, as  well, with common sense. 

  I can't explain why the Senate Republicans will not take up a  bipartisan, House-passed bill that is so overwhelmingly supported, even  by Republicans. There are literally hundreds of bills, which have  passed the House of Representatives, gathering dust on the Senate desk,  and this is one of them. These bills deal with issues like reducing the  cost of prescription drugs, protecting the pensions of working  Americans and retired Americans, securing our elections from foreign  interference, and, of course, reducing gun violence. They all wait on  the desk of the Senator who styles himself the Grim Reaper. 

  There have been too many excuses for inaction. There is plenty of  time, as you can tell, on the Senate floor for us to roll up our  sleeves and actually legislate, and when it comes to gun violence, the  cost of inaction is devastating--100 Americans a day. 

  It is time for Senator McConnell to call up H.R. 8, the Bipartisan  Background Checks Act, and have this Senate actually debate an issue  and actually vote on an issue that can make a real difference in  America.                                   S. 2657  

  Mr. President, I will commend the majority leader and Senator  Murkowski of Alaska for doing something that is out of the ordinary.  There is a bill pending before the Senate on the issue of American's  energy policy. You see, last year on floor of the U.S. Senate--this  deliberative body that has been honored throughout history for the  great debates that have taken place here--last year, during the entire  calendar year, the Senate considered only 22 amendments in the entire  year. 

  I have served here for a while. I can never remember a time when  there was so little activity on the floor of the U.S. Senate. 

  Well, I want to commend Senator Murkowski. She has started us off  this year, I hope, with an indication that things might change. 

  This Energy bill before us is going to be hotly debated. I am not  going to agree with every provision, but that isn't required of it.  What is required is to bring a measure forward, debate it, compromise  where you can, and come up with the best product you can come up with. 

  Congress has not passed major energy legislation since the year 2009.  Over 10 years have passed. Has the energy picture in America changed in  10 years? Of course. Has the environmental picture changed? We know it  has. 

  President Obama, in 2009, in a stimulus package, included critical  tax credits for renewable energy like wind and solar. This week's  debate marks an opportunity to tackle a decadelong legislative slump on  these issues. 

  The American Energy Innovation Act seeks to modernize our electrical  grid, support research into advanced energy technology, and improve  energy efficiency in buildings across America. 

  Through significant bipartisan effort, my colleagues have constructed  a package that starts to address one of America's most pressing  issues--energy for our future. 

  Although the bill contains provisions that support innovation and  research at the Department of Energy, I have to say I think we can do  more. We need more robust support for basic science research--the kind  of research that costs too much and takes too long for private  companies to undertake on their own. 

  Time and again, whether it is new medicine, new medical devices, or  new energy policy, the Federal Government has shown the real leadership  in basic research. 

  We are at risk of no longer leading the world in cutting-edge  research because our generation is not adequately funding basic  science. We are living off the achievements of previous generations. We  are not leaving the world of our children and grandchildren better for  the research we are doing today--at least not as much as we should.  That is why I put forth an amendment to this bill to increase funding  for the Department of Energy's Office of Science by 5 percent real  growth--that is 5 percent over inflation--each year for the next 5  years. 

  This amendment will provide more than $43 billion over 5 years for  basic research in energy technology and close a funding gap that has  stunted some of DOE's most important projects. 

  Think for a moment about electric vehicles. Commonly now, their range  of mileage is 200 to 300 miles. What if we doubled or tripled that  number? Would it change the attitude of the public about using electric  vehicles and reducing pollution? I think there is no doubt that it  would. 

  This investment in research will pay off. It will strengthen the  Energy bill and help move us into the 21st century in a leadership  position where the United States should be. 

  While my amendment addresses one priority to enhance the American  Energy Innovation Act, a larger question remains. It is fundamental and  basic: How does this bill on energy address the existential threat of  climate change? We should ask that about every bill that comes across  the floor--certainly a bill talking about the future of energy. 

  My colleagues have worked to improve energy efficiency and fund  innovation. I support both of those efforts. But this bill does not  honestly and aggressively deal with climate change. 

  Unfortunately, facing the global threat of warming will require more  than just faith and technology. Climate change impacts every sector of  American life. It is well past time that we deal with solutions that  can promise our kids and grandkids a habitable planet. 

  According to the climatologist in my State of Illinois, as a result  of climate change, Illinois faces higher temperatures and more  frequent, intense rainfall than at any other time in our State's  history. That is over 200 years. 

  Our farmers have seen it. Last year, increased precipitation between  April and June literally crippled our farmers when it came to planting  and left them, many times, with fields that were not productive. 

  We have seen it in the city of Chicago. In January, there were waves  as high as 20 feet pummeling the Lake Michigan shoreline of Chicago and  flooding our coastal communities. 

  During the summer, record temperatures in Chicago last year  threatened the elderly with heat stroke and kept many kids behind  doors. Even the Trump administration has seen it. Despite the  President's denial of climate change, people within his administration  spoke up. 

  In November of 2018, the ``Fourth National Climate Assessment''  reported that American economic losses could reach hundreds of billions  of dollars by the end of the century as a result of climate change. 

  For decades, scientists have warned us about this threat, and now we  can see it in our lives almost every day. 

  As the Senate considers energy legislation, we do the American people  a great disservice by failing to seriously address climate change. That  is why I have been working on an approach that I think has some  promise. 

  Let's look back at history, to the 1930s. The United States faced a  different existential crisis called the Great Depression. At that time,  Franklin Delano Roosevelt established the Reconstruction Finance  Corporation. This was an agency that issued low-interest loans and  harnessed investment across the economy. The RFC, as it was known,  became a critical lifeline for the U.S. economy, and its catch-all  approach to investment spurred us into a recovery. 

  Though climate change represents a different set of challenges than  the Great Depression, the RFC model shows us an example of a broad  strategy needed to combat existential threats to our Nation. We need to  take immediate action to decrease greenhouse grass emissions and limit  human-induced global warming. 

  According to the EPA, in 2018, the United States emitted more than  5.2 billion tons of carbon dioxide--a 3.2-percent increase over the  previous year. We are moving in the wrong direction. 

  Clearly, this administration's strategy of removing the United States  from the Paris climate accord and skirting around climate change is one  that is not helping us address this issue successfully and effectively.  Tackling this issue requires an immediate reduction in carbon  emissions, massive investments in resilience and clean energy  technology, and a willingness to take this threat seriously. 

  Climate change makes the normal disasters in America that much worse.  It increases their frequency and their intensity, and it is devastating  to the most vulnerable people and businesses in America. 

  I support efforts like the bill before us--the American Energy  Innovation Act--that take small steps toward addressing climate change,  but this problem calls for a much larger commitment, not just by the  Senate and the House and by the President, but certainly by the  American people. We have it within our power, if we have the will, to  deal with this challenge. 

  Research, technology, and a willingness to make a sacrifice for  future generations is all it takes. We can put that package together on  a bipartisan basis. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT