CNN "CNN Newsroom" - Transcript: Interview with Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL)


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

Joining me now is Democratic Senator Dick Durbin of Illinois. Senator, I know we only have you for a few minutes here, but if I could just get your reaction to the latest developments here, and an update for everyone waiting for you guys to pass this Families First bill. Is it going to happen, and in what form?

SEN. DICK DURBIN (D-IL): I don't know the answer about timing in the Senate; it's in the hands of Senator McConnell. He received the entire package last night, it's ready to be voted on immediately and we should do it and as soon as possible.

HARLOW: OK.

DURBIN: It could have been considered by unanimous consent even a few days ago, but right now there's no need for delay. We should move on it quickly. Members are here, staff is here, let's get it done.

You were up in arms on the Senate floor last night, saying we shouldn't have to be flying back and forth for this and waiting and, you know, risking our families and other staff. Can you just tell me, there seems to have been a change in the bill overnight that would lessen the protection, the family leave protection for workers and would only include those who have to stay home to take care of their children, would not include a lot of first responders, et cetera. Is that true?

DURBIN: That's my understanding, and I can tell you, the White House negotiated that part. You can understand, the Democrats and Speaker Pelosi and others would like to expand medical leave coverage as much as possible. We -- I think the analysis, early analysis says about a fourth of American workers would be covered by this bill, it should be expanded.

But let's grab this part, take it now --

HARLOW: Right.

DURBIN: -- and the other provisions that are included, and then move into the third bill in this package as quickly as possible. I hope we can expand medical leave in that bill.

HARLOW: OK. Senator Dick Durbin, I know you have to go in about 30 seconds so I'm going to let you do that. We'll have you back to ask you the rest of the questions that we had planned for you. I appreciate your work. Thank you very much for your time.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT