Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I come to the floor this morning with  sad news. Illinois has lost its first resident to the coronavirus--a  pandemic which is threatening our country and the world. Her name was  Patricia Frieson, 61 years old, a retired nurse. She was an exceptional  person. Her brother said she cared for everyone but herself. She lived  taking care of people, and she loved it.  

  She started having breathing difficulties last week and was  hospitalized at one of our better hospitals in the city of Chicago and  succumbed yesterday to the coronavirus and its complications. She had a  history of respiratory illness, but she was taking care of herself and  staying home, as she was told to do. 

  The family remembers the last time she left the house was 2 weeks ago  to attend a funeral of a friend. She did entertain visitors at her home  from time to time. Her two sisters have asked for tests themselves  because they were in contact with her. I am sorry to report they have  been unable to obtain those tests, at least as of late last night. 

  I have spoken with the Governor of Illinois almost every day, and we  are having--through the State laboratories--about 350 tests each day,  this State of almost 13 million people. In addition to the State lab  tests are the private labs and hospital tests, which account for a  number comparable but not much larger than 350. There just aren't  enough tests. I am sure our plight is not unusual. 

  We have heard a lot about the tests on the horizon, coming soon--the  sooner the better. Until we get into more complete testing, it is going  to be difficult for us to measure the extent of the infection and the  impact. It is almost impossible to target areas of our State that need  more attention than others because of the lack of testing. 

  We had a nursing home over the weekend where there was a patient who  tested positive for the coronavirus. The Department of Public Health of  the State of Illinois went to that nursing home in Willowbrook as a  consequence of the first test and tested all of the residents and staff  and found 22 tested positive for the coronavirus infection. Naturally,  that raised our numbers dramatically. We now have 160 known cases in  our State, in 15 different counties. It is an indication where there is  a signal of infection that testing is absolutely essential so we can  identify all of those who may test positive. 

  Patricia Frieson's brother Richard was asked what he thought about  the news that she was the first fatality in our State. He said it was  heartbreaking. But then he said: I tell everybody to take this very  seriously, as we should. 

  I think, across the United States, we are coming to realize that this  is an exceptional public health crisis and challenge, the likes of  which we have never seen. 

  Sometime later this morning or early this afternoon, we will consider  the package that was passed by the House of Representatives in the  early morning hours of Saturday. It is a package that was designed to  provide some help, some financial assistance, to workers and families  across the United States who are coping with the illness or losing  their jobs or being laid off because of the state of the economy. 

  We on the Democratic side feel--and I believe that feeling is shared  on the Republican side--that one of the first things we need to do is  to assure those employees who may not feel well that it is best to stay  home, and there is a way to do that without sacrificing the basics in  life--your home, your food--which your family counts on. 

  We put together this package with the White House on a bipartisan  basis that provides family leave and medical leave. It also provides  extension of unemployment benefits that are necessary for many workers  across this country. 

  Passing this bill this morning or this afternoon is an important step  forward to let the people across America know we are doing what we can  here in the Senate and in the House to be responsive. 

  Senator McConnell came to the floor this morning and announced the  next bill--coronavirus 3, if you wish--which is a much larger  undertaking, and it will embark on trying to get the economy on its  feet enough to sustain what we are facing with layoffs and business  closures. It is a daunting task. The amount of money involved is  anywhere from $700 billion to $1 trillion. I have heard these estimates  from time to time. That is a massive amount of money by any measure,  but when measured against the economy of the United States, it may not  be adequate to the challenge. 

  Some have suggested cash payments to individual Americans. I have no  aversion to that idea, but I hope it is substantial, and I hope it  isn't a one-time helping hand that isn't followed up. 

  Many of us on the Democratic side are working on a program that we  think will say to families that we are not just going to send you one  check and wish you the best; we are going to stand by you during this  very difficult, challenging time. 

  I spent the last several days on the telephone with business leaders  across our State. It started with calling one of my favorite  restaurants that sent an online message about closing down for business  and being not quite sure of their future. It is troubling to hear a  person or family member who put their life into a restaurant now facing  closure, wondering if they will ever open again. 

  Some of us are buying gift certificates at our favorite restaurant to  help them get through this and help their employees during this period  of time. My wife is doing that in Springfield. I have done it in  Chicago. We will probably do it more. I encourage others who want to  make sure that restaurant is there after we weather this storm to  extend a helping hand if we can. 

  Some of these restaurants are teaming up with charitable  organizations to produce the meals that are needed for schoolchildren  and their families. It is a little different assignment, but these  restaurants are the best in their profession, and it is great to see  them cooperating and working together. 

  I might also add that the Democrats have a proposal that Senator  Schumer has spelled out and will undoubtedly speak to again when he  comes to the floor this morning. At this moment, we have at least two  tracks, two paths toward the third bill to try to help the economy.  Senator McConnell has suggested that he will do his exclusively among  Republicans, and that may be a necessary starting point, but I urge him  and all of the leaders to come together on a bipartisan basis as  quickly as possible. 

  The first two measures that we have passed--the initial $8 billion  supplemental appropriation for the healthcare side of the equation was  essential and done quickly on a bipartisan basis. 

  The second measure, which I hope we pass today in the Senate, was  also done with the White House, Speaker Pelosi--Democrats and  Republicans working together. Each of us had to give. This measure we  are voting for is not what I would have drawn up, and I am sure  Republicans feel the same, but it is a compromise and one on which we  ought to move forward. 

  The third measure we are considering should be nothing less--it ought  to be bipartisan from the start. In a press conference yesterday,  Senator Schumer suggested that the four leaders in the House and  Senate, Democrats and Republicans, meet with the White House and sit  down at the table now to get started on putting together this measure  rather than to retire to our sidelines and each work individually or  separately. The sooner we come together, the better. 

  One of the provisions Senator Schumer insists on--and I would add my  voice in chorus--is that we be sensitive to the reality of the  healthcare facilities across America and what they are likely to face  in the weeks to come. Hospitals and frontline responders are telling us  they are worried they lack the equipment and resources we need. Some  experts predicted as many as 1.9 million--1.9 million--intensive care  unit admissions from this outbreak will take place over the next  several months, swamping existing facilities. There are only 100,000  ICU beds across the entire United States, and we know accommodating 1.9  million will just overwhelm the system. There is also a major dearth of  necessary masks, respirators, ventilators, gowns, goggles--all of the  things that are essential to protect healthcare workers and to save the  lives of those who are facing this illness. 

  What a frustration it is in my State, the State of Illinois, that I  still get reports from virtually every level that the so-called  national stockpile has not opened up its doors for my State when it  comes to basic needs. I mentioned earlier about a nursing home with 22  positive infections in my State. The head of the Illinois Department of  Public Health, who alerted me to this, told me that in a very short  period of time,  they were going to use up the protective equipment and masks and  gloves, for example, that they had available. They didn't know where to  turn for more. 

  Let's get this together. I believe there is a national stockpile, and  I believe it should be open for the States that need it immediately.  Our State is one of those. 

  Referring to these ventilators and breathing devices, in a press  conference a couple of days ago, the President said the Governors  should do their best. We can do better than that. The largest stockpile  of this equipment is in possession of the Federal Government, and we  should turn to it quickly to help those in need. 

  I am very concerned as well--I will close. I see other colleagues on  the floor, and I know they would like to make comments as well. I will  close by also saying that as we undertake the next piece of  legislation--the $800, $900, $1 trillion bill--I hope the first  priority is to make sure we help our hospitals. 

  I have a measure with Senator Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, that  will compensate hospitals in rural areas and downstate areas in  Illinois. I am fearful they will be the first to be overwhelmed. I hope  those representing rural States will come together and join, as Senator  Lankford and I have, to try to find a way to make sure they are  adequately funded to get through this crisis. 

  I might add that we also need medical professionals in the long term.  I hope we will dedicate ourselves to improving the National Health  Service Corps as one way of doing that and focusing that in rural  areas. 

  Finally, I have a bill with Senator Alexander, Senator Murray, and  Senator Blunt to take a survey through the National Academy of Sciences  of our dependence on foreign-made medicines and medical supplies and  medical equipment so that we can establish, not only during this  challenge and crisis but for future challenges and crises--whether we  have adequate domestic production capacity or a necessary stockpiles to  protect us. We found, for example, that some 20 major drugs were  manufactured exclusively in China. As China went through the early  stages of this coronavirus crisis, there was a fear that we would be  cut off from sources. We have asked the National Academy of Science to  give us a survey as quickly as possible 

  I will close by saying that it is interesting, as I follow the emails  of my friends and family and hear from my colleagues, that as we are  separated with this social distance which we are trying to respect  across the United States--as we are separated, it is interesting how  much we are drawn together. Our family's emails and phone calls have  been more numerous than ever as we think about one another more and  reach out as we hear that there is a need within our family. There is  more conversation and candor than I can ever recall in our family  conversations. 

  Perhaps adversity has a created community. Perhaps this situation,  this concern that we have, is leading to more empathy. 

  We are going to get through this. America always does. There will be  some painful moments and very difficult ones. I think those who sent us  to do this job in Washington expect us to put our party labels at the  door, find solutions to the challenges we face, help our Nation through  this crisis, and come out strong on the other side. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT