Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, yesterday, the President of the United  States and the Centers for Disease Control contacted us individually  and at least through the media to advise us to avoid gatherings of more  than 10 people. It is a reflection of the national emergency we face  and the public health crisis that America is facing head-on, as it  should. 

  This morning, as we opened the Senate, there were 18 people gathered  on the floor of the Senate--3 Senators and 15 staff people. As those  who follow all the Senate can tell, our staffers come to work, as they  are expected to, but come under circumstances that are more challenging  than they were just a few weeks ago. 

  I want to thank each and every one of them here on the floor, as well  as the many who you don't see, behind the scenes, who are necessary for  the opening of this Capitol and for the protection of everyone who  works here. There are policemen and there are people engaged in basic  activities here who keep this magnificent structure functioning, and  they come here now in the midst of a public health challenge, where  most every American has been told to stay home: If you can possibly  stay home, do it; for social distancing, make certain that you stay a  certain distance between yourself and some other person. Yet they come  here, and we thank them for it. 

  The obvious question is, Why are we here under these circumstances?  We were called back into a week of legislative activity, which had been  scheduled to be a week where we were back home in our individual  States. There is a lot for me to do back home, and I am sure that is  true for every Senator, from the crises which we had at O'Hare  Airport--I was working on that on Saturday and Sunday night--to the  issue of closing schools and feeding children, and all of the other  issues that are part of this coronavirus challenge. 

  But we were told to come back here this week, to make a trip back, to  fly back from wherever, to come to the U.S. Capitol for two reasons. We  were told we had to pass the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act  reauthorization because it expired as of last weekend. It turns out  that we have found a way to avoid a necessary vote at the last minute.  The Senate Republican leader agreed last night, just a few minutes  before the scheduled vote, to accept a proposal that had been made to  him by Republican Senator Mike Lee of Utah last Thursday. The Senate  Republican leader did not accept it then. He accepted it last night.  The net result was we didn't have to be present. We didn't have to make  the journey for that purpose.  

  The second part of our return is equally important and maybe more so  in light of this public health crisis, and that was to consider the  measure that was taken up by the House of Representatives and passed in  the early-morning hours of Saturday. This measure, known as the  Families First Coronavirus Response Act, is the second piece of  legislation we have considered and, I am sure, not the last. We are  already talking about the coronavirus 3 act, which is likely to be  debated and voted on soon. 

  The point I am making is this measure, which was physically sent to  us last night with technical corrections,  could have been considered as early as last Saturday. By unanimous  consent, the Senate can take up a measure before it physically arrives  from the House. It has happened many times before. It is not  extraordinary. The physical presence of the document is not necessary  for this debate or for a vote to consider it. 

  We acknowledge the fact that sometimes the movement of paperwork from  the House may take a little longer than the actual time when we  physically can take possession of it through other means. 

  So the argument that was made this morning that it wasn't until we  received the document last night that we could consider it is not  accurate. Under the Senate rules, by unanimous consent, we could have  considered it as soon as it was enacted by the House. 

  The question before us now is, What are we waiting for? There was a  technical correction bill that was added to it yesterday, after the  House overcame the objections of a Republican Congressman. After his  objections were set aside or satisfied, they moved forward with the  technical corrections. 

  We have the package. It is before us now. The obvious question is,  Why aren't we passing this measure immediately? We should because  contained in this measure are important changes in the law that will  help American families respond to this coronavirus crisis--fundamental  questions: Will we provide, for many American workers, medical leave if  they decide that they don't feel well and want to keep themselves,  their family, their coworkers, and the public safe by staying home? 

  They are afraid that if they don't get a paycheck, they won't be able  to meet the needs of their families. So this bill extends the medical  leave coverage to more workers across America. I am unhappy that it  doesn't go further, and perhaps we can extend it further with the third  iteration of our coronavirus legislative package. But there is no  reason not to pass this and to pass it now and not to wait a day or two  or three before we get around to it. Let's do it. Let's get it done. 

  In addition, we have changes in unemployment compensation. If someone  literally loses their job because of this public health crisis, we want  to make sure they have something coming in to help their families as  quickly as possible. That is a measure I am sure all of us agree on--to  change the unemployment compensation laws to help these families  through very difficult times. Why would we wait to pass that? 

  We should pass this by unanimous consent today and do it quickly.  That is something I hope the Senate Republican leader will consider.  There is just no reason for the delay. 

  There are so many other things involved in this. The basic issue of  feeding America is now in question. Who is going to feed these students  whose schools have been closed across Illinois and across the United  States? It is a practical challenge in Springfield, IL, as well as in  Chicago. Well, we have issues that are raised by this coronavirus  legislation that is before us that will change and strengthen food  assistance at this time of public health crisis. Why wait? Let's get  this done by unanimous consent. We should be doing it and doing it  right now. 

  In addition to that, we provide additional Medicaid benefits to the  States to deal with the obvious health challenges. We want to make sure  that the healthcare workers--and God bless them for risking their lives  for us--are paid. We want to make sure the equipment that is needed by  hospitals and clinics comes on board as quickly as possible. 

  In my State of Illinois, we have challenges, from the city of Chicago  to rural and small towns. They need help. The Medicaid assistance in  this bill will provide help for them immediately. Why wait? Let's pass  this and do it this morning. 

  We also have free testing for coronavirus that is set out in the law.  Whether you have insurance, whether you are covered by Medicare or  Medicaid, you are going to be able to be tested--when the tests are  available, I might quickly add--without cost to you. And that is the  way it should be.  

  These are things that are basic. They were agreed to not just by  Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker of the House, but by the Trump White House,  Mr. Mnuchin. The Secretary came forward and negotiated all the changes  I have just described. So they are bipartisan in nature. 

  There is no reason for us to delay this in any way. We should move on  it quickly. Putting this off for a day or two or whatever the plan is  with the Republican leadership is totally unnecessary and unfortunately  requires staff to wait around here when they have been advised they  should be home, there should be social distance, and they should be in  a circumstance where they are not endangering themselves in terms of  their health or anyone else's. Let's get this done. 

  The third issue I want to raise is one which is critically important  but I believe is timely. We have to think anew about the way the Senate  does business. If we are telling people to do their work from home when  possible, teleconferencing as opposed to being physically present at  work, what are we doing to achieve the same thing? 

  There has been speculation, conjecture about a coronavirus aid  package--the third one in the series. I totally support it. On the  Democratic side, we have a long list of particulars of things that we  think will be helpful to get this economy back on its feet by starting  with families and workers and expanding it to small businesses. It is a  long list, it is a comprehensive list, and I am sure there are even  more suggestions that could come before us. How are we going to  consider those? Are we going to meet as committees as we ordinarily do,  in the same room, when we have been advised that is not a good idea  from a public health viewpoint, or are we going to do it by  teleconferencing and Skyping and using modern technology? 

  It is time for the Senate to wake up to the 21st century and to make  sure we are using technology that allows us to communicate with one  another without any danger or risk to public health. 

  In addition to that, there is a more difficult question about how we  can vote in the U.S. Senate if we are not physically present. I know  that is being considered. Senator Klobuchar and I have discussed it. I  know she is thinking about it from a Senate rules perspective. Senator  Schatz of Hawaii has raised the same question. Others have too. 

  Let's get into this. Let's find a way to do this that protects the  integrity of our voting procedure but acknowledges the reality that our  physical presence on the floor may not be required to be actually  present under the rules of the Senate--at least for the sake of  counting our votes. We ought to be discussing that this week and make  sure we have a task force that is working on coming up with answers to  that as quickly as possible. 

  Finally, I think it is time for us to start meeting as committees by  this teleconferencing and Skyping and talking about this coronavirus 3  package--the one that really stretches us beyond where we are. 

  Let's take a look at the first two measures. With coronavirus 1,  which was a supplemental appropriation, the President asked for about  $2 billion. We came up, on a bipartisan basis in just 2 short weeks,  with $8 billion, primarily focusing on healthcare resources, on  research, and on developing vaccines. That was a must, and we did it on  a bipartisan basis. 

  The second package talks about families and workers and small  businesses and how they should respond and how we can help them. 

  The third package I think will take a look at the original two to see  if they need to be changed in any way but to expand our reach even  more. 

  Let's do it in the context that we are preaching to America. As we  hold the press conferences in Washington and tell Americans ``Avoid  going to work physically if you can,'' let's try to find ways to make  the Senate work without putting anyone's health at risk. We can do  that, but we need to do that together. 

  Let me also say that the Senator from Kentucky said that the Senate  will not recess until significant new measures beyond what the House  has passed are considered. If there is a plan for that, please let us  know. Those of us who are here and worried about whether there will be  transportation back home to our families at some point would like to  know what the schedule is going to be. If the Senate  leader, the Republican leader, has a plan, please share it with us too.  All of us are waiting and anxious to know what our circumstances will  be for the days ahead. 

  I want to stay here and get the work done, but let's do it in an  orderly, safe, and nonrisky way. Let's try to abide by the same  guidelines we are preaching to the rest of America. Let's use new  technology. Let's use our best thinking and come up with bipartisan  answers. That, to me, is the way to manage the Senate in the midst of  this national emergency. 

  We shouldn't be returning, as we have this week, and facing  situations like last night where our vote was not even necessary. Many  of us came here ready to vote and found that there had been an  agreement that made such a vote unnecessary. 

  It is time for a greater spirit of cooperation and communication.  Just to have the Republican side come up with their list and we come up  with ours, without dialogue, doesn't lead us to where we need to be.  Let's have that dialogue and do it in a safe and thoughtful way. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT