Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, there was a meeting last week--a  telephone conference call--of the leaders of a dozen major nations  around the world. It was a meeting to discuss something we are all  thinking about, the answer to the question everyone in America asks  every day: How will this end? When will this end? In this telephone  conference, leaders from other nations talked about the ending that  most of us envision--the discovery of a safe and effective vaccine that  can protect people around the world from the scourge of this  coronavirus. 

  I am not sure when that vaccine will be discovered--the sooner the  better--but the big question we need to ask ourselves at this point is,  Where will it be discovered, and what benefit will it provide for the  United States? 

  You see, there was one major nation that boycotted this international  telephone conference about discovering a vaccine. It was the United  States. President Trump decided not to participate with the leaders of  nations from around the world in this global conversation about finding  a safe and effective vaccine to fight coronavirus. I am not sure what  his motive was. But we know that at least 94 other vaccines are being  explored and worked on in nations around the world--in England, for  example, and in Germany and so many other countries. They are looking  for the same safe and effective vaccine as we in the United States are  looking for. 

  I have great faith and confidence in the men and women in medical  research in the United States and the production facilities in our  country, but I am not so proud or so vain as to believe that no other  country could find that safe and effective vaccine. And if they did-- and if they did--would we hesitate for a moment to turn to a country  and say that the United States wants to be part of producing that  vaccine and receiving that vaccine for the people who live here? 

  Why would the President of the United States decide we are going to  boycott that conference, stay away from it? Oh, I am sure he has a  dozen reasons, but they don't seem very convincing to me. We should be  at the table wherever there is a serious, credible effort to discover a  vaccine. The United States should be participating. 

  They were trying to raise $8 billion. That is a lot of money, but  remember, we are dealing with an effort to rescue our economy from  coronavirus, which is now in the range of $2.8 trillion. They are  asking the participants to put in money. Norway said it would pledge $1  billion--Norway. The European Union said it would pledge $1 billion  toward this global vaccine effort. The United States should have been  at that table. We should be all in for any credible effort to find this  vaccine as quickly as possible. I have introduced a resolution calling  on the administration to reverse its position and to join in this  effort.  

  I want to commend Bill and Melinda Gates, who participated in that  telephone conference and pledged millions of dollars of their own funds  on behalf of the United States. Thank you to the Gates family for  caring. 

  Now, Mr. President, you should join them. 

  This morning, the Republican leader came to the floor to talk about  the problems and challenges that we face and the fact that there is  another bill that is going to be offered publicly this week by Speaker  Nancy Pelosi--the next in a succession of legislation that we have  considered over the last several weeks. 

  We have seen dramatic investments in unemployment insurance for a  record number of unemployed people in this country. We have seen  dramatic investments in the small businesses of America, to give them a  fighting chance to reopen and to prosper in the future. I have joined  in all of these on a bipartisan basis, and I will continue to. 

  I don't know the specifics of Speaker Pelosi's proposal. Senator  McConnell came to the floor and warned us not to think big and not to  think about transformational things. Then, of course, he went back to  his time-honored course about the question of liability. 

  Senator McConnell has come to the floor repeatedly--repeatedly--and  said that before he would consider another COVID-19 rescue bill, he  would need to see what he calls a redline honored when it comes to  immunity from lawsuits. 

  What is being proposed by Speaker Pelosi when it comes to State and  local governments is really an affirmation of what has been said by  every one of us when it comes to our first responders, the police, the  firefighters, the paramedics, the healthcare workers, and the teachers.  What she says in the bill is that they have been hit and been hit hard  at the State and local government levels by this COVID-19. She is  proposing, as I understand it, a substantial commitment to help those  units of government that have truly been hurt by this coronavirus. What  she is asking for, really, is whether or not all of our speeches about  healthcare workers, police, first responders, firefighters, and  teachers are really credible and whether, in fact, we will come up with  the resources that are needed. 

  Senator McConnell has said that he will not support that legislation  unless--as he calls it--his redline of liability immunity is honored.  What he is saying is that he refuses to fund our police, firefighters,  paramedics, and teachers unless we provide guaranteed business immunity  for corporations. This is, sadly, an invitation for irresponsible  corporations and businesses to cut corners when it comes to protecting  workers and those customers and such who would be threatened by  coronavirus. 

  The McConnell redline threat would result in more people being  infected by the coronavirus and more people getting sick. That is not  what we want. There is a better way. We should be talking about how to  do this properly. 

  This afternoon there will be a hearing before the Senate Judiciary  Committee. One of the witnesses being called by the Republicans is a  man named Kevin Smartt. He is the chief executive officer and president  of Kwik Chek food stores in Bonham, TX. He is testifying on behalf of  the National Association of Convenience Stores on this question of  liability. 

  I read his statement this morning in preparation for the hearing, and  I commend it to my colleagues because I want them to listen carefully  to what Mr. Smartt says he believes businesses need. Here is what he  says. He talks about his own company Kwik Chek.  

       Kwik Chek's first priority is the safety of our employees       and customers. Beginning in early March, we adjusted our       daily protocols to mitigate the spread of the virus. This was       a challenge--  

  Listen to what Mr. Smartt says--       because the guidance provided by the CDC, the Occupational       Safety and Health Administration, as well as State and local       governments, often conflicted with one another in addition to       being vague and difficult to follow. Yet despite many       uncertainties, including the constantly fluctuating public       health guidelines, we began to adjust to the pandemic.  

  Mr. Smartt is not saying that businesses don't have a responsibility  here. He is accepting that responsibility to create a safe environment  for workers and customers, but he is saying to us: When are you going  to establish the standards? Why do you keep changing the standards? 

  Here we are with Senator McConnell threatening to derail the next  rescue  bill for police, firefighters, and teachers across America, unless  there is guaranteed immunity from lawsuits, and here is one of the  leading companies, the No. 1 primary witness of the Republicans in the  Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, saying to the Federal and  governments: Establish standards, reasonable standards, for us to live  up to when it comes to conducting business, and we will do it. 

  I think that is a reasonable request by his business. Why aren't we  doing it? Why hasn't OSHA established standards for the safety of  workers? 

  One of our other witnesses here is this gentleman who is the head of  the United Food and Commercial Workers, Marc Perrone. I have a special  fondness for this union because when I was a college kid, I spent 12  months working in a slaughterhouse in East St. Louis, IL, and it was  this union that I belonged to back in those days 

  It was tough, dirty, and dangerous work. I look to it as an important  chapter in my life, when I saw how real people go to work every day and  many times risk their safety and their health in doing it. 

  Marc Perrone tells us there are literally thousands of his meat  processing workers who have been affected by this virus and 95 of his  members who have died as a result of it. What he is looking for--what  we are looking for--is for those companies to establish standards of  safety for their workers so that they can go back to work in this  important business. 

  Some are doing just that. I commend them. Some are working with the  union to find safe ways to test their workers and to bring them back to  a job site that is safe for them to work in. But they don't have a  national standard to live up to. We haven't established a national  standard, as we should. Whether through OSHA or through CDC, we ought  to establish standards for businesses across this country to live up  to. I believe many--Mr. Smartt with Kwik Chek and Marc Perrone with the  United Food and Commercial Workers--would applaud that. They would say:  At least we know what social distancing standards are to be used in the  workplace. At least we know what protective equipment is required in  the workplace to protect our employees. At least we know going into  this exactly what the standards are that we need to live up to. 

  Senator McConnell's approach is immunity from lawsuits; don't  establish any standards and don't hold anybody to any standards at all.  That is wrong. The net result of that is that more people would be in  danger, more people would be infected, and more people would die. That  is not the right approach. 

  What we need to do is to make certain that when this is all said and  done, we have a smart approach to this; that a business that is  conscientious, cares for its customers, and cares for its workers has  standards to live by and that they can meet reasonable standards that  have been thought through from a public health viewpoint. 

  It is no wonder that there is uncertainty when you look at the  situation today. The Centers for Disease Control suggests voluntary  standards, suggestions. The White House accepts some, publishes some,  scoffs at others, and ignores others. There is just no clear message to  businesses and people across America on what the standards of safety  will be. 

  So I would say that this hearing this afternoon is important to hear  from Mr. Smartt and his willingness to look for standards that he can  live by, and to hear from Marc Perrone about the dangers to his workers  across the workplace. And don't believe for a minute that this caravan  of lawsuits threat that we hear over and over tells the whole story. 

  When you take a look at the lawsuits that have been filed, it is not  just the so-called caravan of trial lawyers that are coming in and  jumping on this. There are businesses suing businesses. There are lots  of lawsuits that have little or nothing to do with personal injury.  There are also lawsuits involving workers' compensation. 

  Senator McConnell's suggestion is that we overturn the State laws  that give workers the right to recover in the workplace if their  injuries and or their health is impaired because of the COVID-19 virus.  What a terrible outcome that would be to walk away from decades of  established protection for workers in every State in the Union, for  Senator McConnell's so-called redline threat when it comes to the COVID  virus No. 4 bill that Speaker Pelosi is proposing. 

  There is a reasonable answer here. We can say to these businesses  across America: Join us in the fight. Let's stand together. You protect  your workers, you protect your customers, and we will stand by you. We  will establish a reasonable standard of conduct for you, which will  protect you from frivolous lawsuits. But to take the approach by  Senator McConnell, saying that we just are going to guarantee immunity  from lawsuits, is exactly the wrong thing to do. We need a standard of  safety that businesses can be proud of, that workers can respect, and  that customers can count on so that they can go into places, do their  business, buy the products, and know that there is a standard of good  health that is being established for everyone. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT