Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. This week, amid the devastating coronavirus pandemic, we  saw what world powers are supposed to do--join forces to raise funds to  research, manufacture, and distribute a vaccine and treatments. This  makes obvious strategic and lifesaving sense, being both the moral and  strategic thing to do. All of us joining forces and working together  will help speed up efforts and the eventual discovery and distribution  of a coronavirus vaccine that we all desperately seek. Many of us  believe that until that day comes when that vaccine proves to be  effective and safe and is widely distributed, we are going to still see  what we call our normal lives compromised. So there is no greater  priority. This effort will save lives around America and around the  world. 

  Who knows where that vaccine is going to be discovered, produced, or  distributed? I want America in on this conversation from the start and  end on the collective efforts. Clearly, other world leaders understand  this. So when there was an effort to raise $8 billion for the discovery  of this new vaccine, they had a virtual global telephone conference.  Our allies in the European Union and Norway offered to give $1 billion  each toward this goal. Who was absent from this critical effort to save  lives around the world, to discover this vaccine, including the  distribution of it to those who need it in every corner of the world?  Which country did not participate in this global virtual telephone  conference? The United States of America. 

  In yet another shortsighted, missed opportunity to address the  coronavirus, this administration refused to participate. America was  missing in action when leaders around the world came together with the  determination to find and distribute a vaccine against coronavirus. The  President's supporters in Congress said nothing, focusing instead on  judicial appointments and other things on their mind. 

  Given this President's penchant for blaming others but not himself  for any mishandling of this viral contagion, maybe his dereliction of  duty in this global conference should come as no surprise, but it does  because of the devastating consequences that could result. What does  this mean for America if the United States sits on the sidelines while  other countries set out to discover this lifesaving vaccine? 

  Well, we still continue to have some of the best researchers in the  world at the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease  Control and Prevention, and the many university and private researchers  around this country. Many NIH-funded researchers have  spent years studying coronaviruses. Perhaps their knowledge could be  helpful with these other countries in quickly developing an effective  vaccine. In fact, some clinical trials are already now under way by the  National Institutes of Health. I want to commend Dr. Francis Collins,  who heads up NIH, and, of course, Dr. Anthony Fauci, a friend of many  years, for their amazing work. But it is quite plausible--it is even  possible--that the best vaccine may turn up in another country. 

  There are efforts under way in England and Germany and in many other  countries to find this vaccine, as well. In a rush to research and  validate a vaccine, ramp up production, address global allocation and  supply needs and ensure affordability and access worldwide, will the  United States be standing on the sidelines again? When the United  States pursues a go-it-alone--not just ``America first'' but ``America  only''--approach, while the rest of the world is working together,  where does that leave us? 

  Remember, it hasn't been that long ago when the United States first  opted to develop and distribute its own American coronavirus test kits  that turned out to be faulty, instead of choosing the World Health  Organization's test kit, which was available at the time. That set our  Nation back at least a month, up to 6 weeks. In fact, many believe we  still haven't recovered from that critical first misstep by this  administration. 

  Even when his own incompetent response was increasingly obvious,  President Trump turned and tried to place all the blame on the World  Health Organization, even cutting off all U.S. funding to this critical  international body with decades of experience in dealing with  pandemics. 

  The New York Times columnist Nick Kristof starkly wrote last month:  ``Thousands of Americans would be alive today if President Trump had  spent more time listening to the World Health Organization instead of  trying to destroy it.'' 

  Don't get me wrong, WHO and many international bodies are imperfect  and make mistakes, and they are often only as strong as their member  states are willing to help make them or help fund them. 

  The World Health Organization first warned of the coronavirus on  January 4, issuing increasingly urgent warnings in February, while the  President was saying publicly that the issue ``was totally under  control.'' American personnel at the World Health Organization were  also sending warnings back to Washington about the threat. What was the  President's response? On February 10, he said of the coronavirus:  ``When it gets a little warmer, it miraculously goes away.'' 

  On February 27, the President said: ``It's going to disappear. One  day, it's like a miracle, it will disappear.'' 

  Well, more than 2 months later, we are still waiting for that and  praying for that, and 70,000 Americans have died. The WHO is a critical  lifesaving body that helps eradicate polio, reduce the number of women  and children who die in childbirth, and stem malnutrition. The WHO has  led the historic global vaccination campaign to eradicate small pox. 

  When it was issuing coronavirus warnings, the President and all of us  should have been listening. Instead, the President ignored them and  chose to walk away from the World Health Organization, undermining its  international efforts and, ultimately, giving more global leadership  to, of all nations, China, which is only more than happy to step in  when the United States steps away. 

  We should be increasing our investment and leadership at the World  Health Organization as one of the many efforts to stem this virus and  not cover our ears and walking away from it. 

  The World Health Organization's efforts to halt Ebola are an example  of what its work can do to save lives at the outbreak of a pandemic and  stop one from reaching the United States. 

  Presidents Obama and George W. Bush understood this need for global  health engagement. I was proud to rally to President Bush's call to  stem the scourge of AIDS around the world through the historic PEPFAR  program. It was a bipartisan, international, global effort--the world  first, not just America first. Many of my Republican friends in the  Senate supported these efforts, and we need them now with this  coronavirus outbreak. 

  I was equally proud of President Obama's efforts to set up infectious  disease prevention systems and his leadership on the Ebola crisis. 

  Presidents Bush and Obama understood the traditional leadership role  of the United States in such matters and how important it was for the  world to know that we were engaged and involved. 

  Sadly, so much of the world looks at us in dismay today as President  Trump undermines American Governors who are doing their best to try and  save lives, and refuses to take any responsibility, snubs our allies,  and withdraws from global efforts. 

  That is why I plan to introduce a resolution here in the Senate  calling on the United States to join this important global vaccine and  treatment effort--something I hope my colleagues on both sides of the  aisle will support. 

  Can we put aside our political differences for a moment and agree on  one basic thing? Wherever this vaccine is to be discovered, we pray  that it will be done quickly, effectively, and safely. We want the  United States in on the effort, whether it is discovered here in our  country or in another country. We want to be at the table to help  support the research and development efforts. We want to be at the  table when the good news of the discovery of this vaccine is delivered.  We certainly want to be at the table when it comes to questions of  manufacturing and distributing this vaccine around the world, and  especially here in the United States. 

  Standing by on the sidelines with our arms folded, chins jutted out,  and saying it is America first or else--this is the wrong moment for  it. This is a global challenge. It is a global solution. We don't know  which country God will bless with the ability to come up with this  vaccine. Whatever it is, we want to be at that table with them in its  development and distribution. 

  Let's remember that this global pandemic and any real solution  involves more than just our great country. We cannot isolate ourselves  from this international race to find treatments and develop a vaccine.  Doing anything else will only waste more time and cost lives. 

   Skips Virtual Vaccine Summit as World Leaders Pledge Billions to                                  Efforts          (By William Booth, Carolyn Y. Johnson and Carol Morello)  

       London--World leaders came together in a virtual summit       Monday to pledge billions of dollars to quickly develop       vaccines and drugs to fight the coronavirus. 

       Missing from the roster was the Trump administration, which       declined to participate but highlighted from Washington what       one official called its ``whole-of-america'' efforts in the       United States and its generosity to global health efforts. 

       The online conference, led by European Commission President       Ursula von der Leyen and a halfdozen countries, was set to       raise $8.2 billion from governments, philanthropies and the       private sector to fund research and mass-produce drugs,       vaccines and testing kits to combat the virus, which has       killed more than 250,000 people worldwide. 

       With the money came soaring rhetoric about international       solidarity and a good bit of boasting about each country's       efforts and achievements, live and prerecorded, by Germany's       Angela Merkel, France's Emmanuel Macron, Britain's Boris       Johnson, Japan's Shinzo Abe--alongside Israel's Benjamin       Netanyahu and Turkey's Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 

       ``The more we pull together and share our expertise, the       faster our scientists will succeed,'' said Johnson, who was       so stricken by the virus that he thought he might never leave       the intensive care unit alive last month. ``The race to       discover the vaccine to defeat this virus is not a       competition between countries but the most urgent shared       endeavor of our lifetimes.'' 

       A senior Trump administration official said Monday the       United States ``welcomes'' the efforts of the conference       participants. He did not explain why the United States did       not join them. 

       ``Many of the organizations and programs this pledging       conference seeks to support already receive very significant       funding and support from the U.S. government and private       sector,'' said the official, who spoke on the condition of       anonymity under White House rules for briefing reporters.  

       Public health officials and researchers expressed surprise. 

       ``It's the first time that I can think of where you have       had a major international pledging conference for a global       crisis of this kind of importance, and the U.S. is just       absent,'' said Jeremy Konyndyk, who worked on the Ebola       response in the Obama administration. 

       Given that no one knows which vaccines will succeed, he       said, it's crucial to back multiple efforts working in       parallel. 

       ``Against that kind of uncertainty we should be trying to       position ourselves to be supporting--and potentially       benefiting from--all of them,'' said Konyndyk, a senior       policy fellow at the Center for Global Development. ``And       instead we seem to be just focused on trying to win the race,       in the hopes we happen to get one of the successful ones.'' 

       Conference participants expressed a need for unity. 

       ``We can't just have the wealthiest countries have a       vaccine and not share it with the world,'' Canadian Prime       Minister Justin Trudeau said. 

       ``Let us in the international community unite to overcome       this crisis,'' Abe said. 

       Russia and India also did not participate. Chinese premier       Li Keqiang was replaced at the last minute by Zhang Ming,       Beijing's ambassador to the European Union. 

       The U.S. official said the United States ``is the single       largest health and humanitarian donor in world. And the       American people have continued that legacy of generosity in       the global fight against covid19.'' 

       ``And we would welcome additional high-quality, transparent       contributions from others,'' he said. 

       Asked three more times to explain why the United States did       not attend, the official said he already had given an answer. 

       The U.S. government has provided $775 million in emergency       health, humanitarian, economic and development aid for       governments, international organizations and charities       fighting the pandemic. The official said the United States is       in the process of giving about twice that amount in       additional funding. 

       There was one major American player at the virtual summit:       the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which promised to       spend $125 million in the fight. 

       ``This virus doesn't care what nationality you are,''       Melinda Gates told the gathering. As long as the virus is       somewhere, she said, it's everywhere. 

       Scientists are working around-the-clock to find a cure or       treatment for the coronavirus. The World Health Organization       says eight vaccines have entered human trials and another 94       are in development. 

       But finding an effective vaccine is only part of the       challenge. When it's discovered, infectious disease experts       are predicting a scramble for limited doses, because there       won't be enough to vaccinate everyone on Day One. And       deploying it could be difficult, particularly in countries       that lack robust medical infrastructure. 

       Those that have begun human trials include a research       project at Oxford University in England, which hopes to have       its vaccine ready in the fall. The university started human       trials on April 23. ``In normal times,'' British Health       Secretary Matt Hancock said, ``reaching this stage would take       years.'' 

       Conference participants expressed hope that by working       together, the world will find solutions more quickly--and       they can then be dispersed to all countries, not only the       wealthy, or those that developed vaccines first. 

       Many of the leaders stressed their support for the WHO.       President Trump announced last month he was cutting off U.S.       funding for the WHO because he said it had sided too closely       with China, where the coronavirus arose. Trump says Chinese       leaders underplayed the threat and hid crucial facts. 

       Public health analysts have shared some of those criticisms       but have also criticized Trump for cutting off funding. 

       Peter Jay Hotez, dean of the National School of Tropical       Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine, said the United       States has always been the primary funder of new products for       global health. The country invested $1.8 billion in neglected       diseases in 2018, according to Policy Cures Research, more       than two-thirds of the worldwide total. 

       Hotez said the United States shoulders the burden of       investing in global health technologies, while countries such       as China do not step up. 

       ``More than one mechanism for supporting global health       technologies--that may not be such as a bad thing,'' he said.       ``If it was all under one umbrella, you risk that some       strong-willed opinions would carry the day and you might not       fund the best technology.'' 

       Hotez is working on a coronavirus vaccine that uses an       existing, low-cost technology, previously used for the       hepatitis B vaccine, precisely because he is worried about       equitable distribution of the vaccine. 

       ``I'm not very confident that some of the cutting-edge       technologies going into clinical trials, which have never led       to a licensed vaccine before, are going to filter down to       low- and middle-income countries anytime soon,'' Hotez said.       ``I'm really worried.'' 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I would like to add one last thing.  Yesterday, we had a telephone conference with Bill and Melinda Gates.  They were part of the summit that the U.S. Government boycotted, and  they pledged to spend $125 million of their own money in this fight to  find a virus vaccine as quickly as possible. Let's join them. Let's  join them as a nation--Democrats, Republicans, Independents, those who  vote and those who don't--all of us who understand that the sooner this  vaccine is found, the sooner it is proven safe, and the sooner it is  distributed, it will be the best for America and for the rest of the  world. It isn't just America first. It is America involved, America  committed, America willing to work with the world to find a solution to  one of the greatest public health crises of our time. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT