Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, yesterday I came to the floor with some  optimism about what we could be including  in the legislation currently being considered in the Senate to respond  to the coronavirus public health emergency. I laid out priorities  ranging from shoring up the hospital systems to measures to provide  direct assistance to students, workers, businesses, and families  through this economic crisis. 

  Since that time, Leader McConnell has released the Republican draft  of his offering for this third package. It is a 250-page bill that some  estimate will cost $1 trillion. That is a daunting pricetag, except  when you put it in context of the American economy and what it takes to  keep us on track or put us back on track. 

  Our top priority must be immediate, direct relief to the healthcare  sector--our heroic doctors, nurses, first responders, lab techs, and  the hospitals and health clinics they support. 

  Yesterday I spent an hour on the telephone with the Governor of  Illinois, J.B. Pritzker, talking about the reality on the ground in my  home State and the choices he faced. It is a tough job being Governor-- never tougher than when you have to make a decision about the lifestyle  of families and individuals, about the businesses and their future,  and, literally, a life-and-death choice in terms of policy. No one  willingly accepts that, but when you run for high office, there is  always that possibility. 

  He is concerned--and I share his concern--about the capacity of our  hospitals and clinics in Illinois to deal with the infections that are  becoming more and more common in our State. The numbers of infections  are growing as the number of tests are increasing, which is an  indication that there are many undiagnosed people in our midst, and  that number is likely to continue to increase. 

  Those who administer the hospitals of Illinois have given us some  yardsticks to measure the future. They suggest to us that if 20 percent  of the population of my State should become infected for a 12-month  period of time, they will need 88 percent of our hospital resources to  respond. If that same 20 percent becomes infected over a 6-month period  of time, it will be double that capacity; in other words, 176 percent  of our current hospital capacity. It would push our system beyond the  breaking point. If the infection rate, though, is double that--40  percent for any period of time--our hospitals, as good as they are, as  big as they are, as prepared as they are, can't handle it. 

  If that is the situation in our State, it is the situation in many  other States. At that point, we will be dealing with serious  overcrowding and triage decisions being made under heartbreaking  circumstances. 

  That is why many of us on this side of the aisle feel that this third  package offered by the other side really needs to be changed and  improved so that we do have what Senator Schumer is calling a Marshall  Plan for the hospital work healthcare of America. We desperately need  it, and we need it now. Waiting to come and face us at a later date  makes it that much more difficult. 

  Our health system is currently stretched to its absolute limit: surge  staffing, emergency protocols, shortfalls of masks and protective  equipment, and cashflow running out in just weeks. The plan that we  have before us--the draft plan from the other side--does not address  these needs. It has no new appropriations, no real funding or  authorization for staffing or equipment and only meager changes when it  comes to programs like Medicare. 

  What this pandemic demands is that Marshall Plan for healthcare, an  immediate funding boost to our healthcare systems, clinics, and health  departments, mass production of masks, respirators, gloves, and  ventilators. 

  Two days ago, the President acknowledged that he has the authority,  under what I believe is called the Defense Recovery Act, to say to  manufacturers: change whatever you are making and make more respirators  and change whatever you are making in terms of masks and make more  medical-grade masks to meet the needs across this country. I hope the  President will use that authority. That is why it was created in the  law. 

  We also need to support our workforce. We need to increase Medicaid  funding, and we need to put an end to Medicare sequestration and DSH  cuts. 

  I am also calling for the inclusion in this package of a bill known  as the Rural Hospital Relief Act. I am cosponsoring that bill with  Senator James Lankford, a Republican, of Oklahoma. It would keep the  most financially vulnerable hospitals afloat during this challenging  time by providing them access to the stability of the Critical Access  Hospital Program. Every State with smalltown hospitals and rural  hospitals should pay close attention to this bill that we put in. It  could be a great help to hospitals that are otherwise  struggling. Anything less, I am afraid, we will be turning our backs on  the selfless and heroic work of the frontline health workers. How can  we say enough about these nurses and doctors and healthcare workers-- these men and women--who literally risk their lives for every patient  that comes through the door.  

  We need to maintain access to healthcare for people who lose their  jobs as a result of this pandemic too. We must offer Federal funding to  cover the costs of COBRA coverage for people who lose their jobs but  want to keep health insurance. Currently, if you lose your job and you  have health insurance where you work, you can maintain your current  health insurance, but you have to pay for the employer's share since  you no longer work there. The premiums go through the roof in those  circumstances, and many people can't afford these COBRA payments. Why  don't we include in this third package coming before us a subsidy for  those families so they can keep their health insurance, even if they  are not on the job? We certainly don't want them uninsured. It is not  good for them. It is not good for our country. It is certainly not good  for our health system. It is bad enough that millions of people may  lose their jobs; we don't want to also have them lose their healthcare  in the midst of a public health emergency. Let's step up and help them  now. 

  I was not included during the drafting of the bill that was presented  by Senator McConnell, but I would like to give two pieces of feedback  from two colleagues from his side of the aisle. The first said,  referring to this package:  

       Relief to families in this emergency shouldn't be       regressive. Lower income families shouldn't be penalized.  

  That was a quote from Senator Hawley of Missouri, a Republican  Senator. 

  A second Republican Senator said, referring to this draft package:  

       [T]he current bill . . . shouldn't give lower earners       smaller checks . . . that's directly contrary to my proposal       . . . we need to fix this to ensure lower earners get equal       payments.  

  That quote is from Senator Romney of Utah. 

  I agree with both of them. We should make sure that if there is any  financial relief coming to people across the country, those in lower  income categories should get as much, or more, than anyone else. 

  I cannot agree more with their assessment. The direct cash benefit  measure in this plan would give those the most in need of assistance in  the lower income categories sometimes nothing at all. 

  Additionally, the bill contains a provision that would allow middle  and higher income earners to receive more of a benefit than low to  moderate earners. That is upside down. 

  Goldman Sachs released projections this week that unemployment claims  may rise to 2.25 million this week. That would be the highest level on  record. This proposal that we have been given by the other side falls  far short of making sure we have enough resources to deal with this  influx of unemployment claims. 

  The bill also lacks any moratorium on evictions and foreclosures,  leaving those who are particularly vulnerable at risk of being cast out  on the street during a public health crisis. Instead of expanding paid  sick leave to more who need it, I am afraid the new bill tries to  further limit that protection. 

  The McConnell bill provides no additional funds to the military. We  have a supplemental appropriation which is supposed to be taken up. Why  isn't it married into this bill? Why don't we do it all at once, get it  done? We know we are going to need it, and there is no point in  delaying it. 

  We need to help our military, and we need to provide resources to  many of  our States that are high and dry because of the cost of dealing with  this public health crisis and the additional claims on their  unemployment benefits. 

  We need the National Guard and the Defense Department pushing  assistance to every level of government during the pandemic. That means  supplying masks and ventilators and beds to communities that need them. 

  I am also, with Senator Duckworth--my colleague of Illinois--reaching  out directly to the Department of Defense. I want to find out if we can  start building field hospitals in the parking lots of major hospitals  across our State. We have done it before when we had to--particularly  when dealing with the Ebola crisis overseas--and we need to do that  right here at home and take the expertise of the Army Corps of  Engineers and other professionals at the Pentagon. They are ready to  move at a moment's notice to build a field hospital, if needed, for our  men and women in uniform. Let's take that same willingness and  expertise and translate it into more bed capacity and room capacity at  the hospitals most in need. 

  The protective equipment across this country still is not at the  level it should be for the men and women in the military as well as  those in civilian life. 

  The proposal before us ignores the desperation we are hearing from  cities and town and States. Without tax revenues coming in, they are  running out of cash to keep operating services and meeting payroll. We  need a surge of Federal funding through current programs with  flexibility for States and localities to allow them to keep paying  their workers and ensuring things like transit, airports, schools, and  housing. 

  The McConnell plan also does not provide much needed education  assistance to deal with the increased expenses related to closing  schools and moving to online learning. We have to make sure that this  new technology keeps our kids learning, even though they may be home in  the process. It provides nothing for these emergency needs. That bill,  I hope, will be improved today as the Democrats get a chance to sit  down with Republicans for the first time and talk about compromises. 

  The Republican majority leader himself said this is a public health  crisis with an economic crisis strapped to its back. I couldn't agree  more. Where are the test kits? Where is the protective equipment? Where  is the assistance for working families? Let's get it done. 

  The Senator from Kentucky is giving us a deadline to do it by  tomorrow. I think that is ambitious, but let's try to meet it and do it  on a bipartisan basis. 

  I couldn't agree more that some affected industries--like the  airlines and hospitality, along with small and midsized businesses-- need to be assisted. We can also take care of American workers and  families at the same time. I think it is incumbent on us to do both. 

  In short, the Senate needs to act now to fix the major flaws pointed  out by both Republicans and Democrats in this third package. I stand  ready to work on these fixes. 

  Just a few minutes ago, I left one of the working groups, and it was  a very positive atmosphere and attitude in which the two sides were  sitting down and trying to work out their differences. 

  For the dark time ahead, we need to continue reminding American  people that we can rise to the challenge--both political parties--not  to politically fight but to find political answers and compromises that  solve these problems I have outlined here today. 

  The bottom line is, people are sitting at home. Some are even  following C-SPAN in their absolute boredom, trying to figure out what  to do with their lives, and they are listening to our speeches. 

  My report is this: We passed two major pieces of legislation  involving billions of dollars. We have done it in record time. We have  done it on a bipartisan basis. Both have been signed by the President.  This third measure that may reach a trillion dollars in cost is a  challenge, for sure, but one we can meet again on a bipartisan basis.  We owe America, at this moment in our history, nothing less. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT