Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I come to the floor today to thank  Speaker Pelosi, Leader Schumer, and all of my colleagues who help  support the Families First Coronavirus Response Act. That measure was  signed yesterday by President Trump. As I understand from Leader  McConnell, work is underway on a third coronavirus package in the form  of an economic stimulus to provide more support to families,  businesses, and to the healthcare community, including our hospitals. 

  This morning, I spoke to the Governor of Illinois--we have been  speaking on almost a daily basis, sometimes almost several times a  day--and asked him about the State of the situation in our home State  of Illinois. Unfortunately, we are still desperate for testing kits.  Illinois has about 5,000 more kits that were provided yesterday by a  private company at the urging of our Governor, but we have never seen  the number of test kits that we believe are necessary to measure the  current state of this coronavirus in our home State of Illinois. The  official count--and I might add that word ``official''--is that we have  had 288 Illinoisans infected and 1 fatality. I believe that the number  of infections in the official report grossly understates the exposure  in my home State of Illinois. Once more tests are administered and we  receive the results, I am afraid we are going to see a dramatic  increase in that number of reported infections in the State. 

  One hundred and twenty-eight new cases were announced yesterday in  our State. It is the largest single 1-day increase since we have been  reporting. We have 2 additional counties that have now been touched out  of the 102. We are now up to 17 counties with the infections. An  additional 20 people at the DuPage County long-term care facility  tested positive, bringing it to a total of 42--30 residents and 12  members of that staff--in that one facility. 

  Forty-one thousand unemployment insurance claims were filed in  Illinois in the past 2 days. To put that in perspective, during the  same 2 days last year, 4,445 were filed. That is roughly 10 times the  number of unemployment claims that have been filed this year. As I  mentioned, that is 10 times the level of the same 2-day period a year  ago. 

  The Department of Labor reported this morning that 281,000 people  filed unemployment insurance claims nationwide last week, and that  number is likely to grow. Oak Park--just to the west of Chicago--is the  first town in Illinois to issue a shelter-in-place order for residents,  which will last until April 3. Mayor Lightfoot for the city of Chicago  announced the city would temporarily suspend debt collection practices  and nonsafety-related citations, as well as penalties for late payment. 

  I might add that we learned last night that two Members of the House  of Representatives have tested positive for the virus: Representatives  Mario Diaz-Balart of Florida and Ben McAdams of Utah. Both developed  symptoms last Saturday, just hours after voting on the coronavirus  response bill with hundreds of other Members. 

  I have joined with Senator Rob Portman of Ohio in proposing that we  take into consideration the fact that we have critically important work  to do in the Senate, but gathering in groups, as we have done  historically, poses a health risk not just to us as Members and our  families but to the staff as well as their families, the staff in the  Senate and their families. We ought to be more thoughtful in terms of  our own families and the people who work in the U.S. Senate. Yes, do  our job, but do it in a sensible and thoughtful way. 

  Senator Portman and I are exploring possibilities for remote voting  by Members of the Senate. Why is it required that we be physically  present on the floor, closer to one another, than perhaps we should be  at this moment during a public health crisis? Senator Portman and I, on  a bipartisan basis, are trying to find a way to achieve this goal and  to still protect the integrity of the voting process in the U.S.  Senate. Yes, it is new. Yes, it is different. Yes, it reflects the 21st  century and reflects a challenge, the likes of which we have never  seen. Tomorrow that challenge may be another public health crisis, some  other national emergency, or maybe even a terrorist attack.  Shouldn't we be ready to make sure the Senate can still do its business  if it is difficult, impossible, or not advised for Members of the  Senate to come physically to the floor and announce their vote each  time it is needed? We believe we should explore this on a bipartisan  basis, and we are urging the leaders on both sides to look at it  seriously at this moment. 

  I might add as well that Governor Pritzker spoke about the issues  that they are facing and said to me, more than once, that we need  Federal guidance as to what we should do in our State. I want to salute  him and the other Governors who are doing the best they can in drawing  their own public health conclusions based on the advice they have  received. 

  I would think we need to be sensitive to the reality of the hospitals  that are facing real challenges today that are likely to increase. What  we have seen over the past few weeks from our healthcare workers on the  frontline is nothing short of heroic. The nurses, the doctors, the  technicians, the lab experts have done work above and beyond their call  of duty that we hope for in these times of challenging crisis. I  commend every hospital employee for their selflessness and quality  work. 

  What I am hearing from Illinois health officials is that hospitals  are being stretched to the absolute limit. One hospital executive in  central Illinois told me that his cashflow runs out in a matter of  weeks and his hospital may be forced to close. In downtown Chicago, our  academic medical centers have activated emergency protocol and are  burning through protective masks, respirators, and other equipment. 

  As of Tuesday, three-fourths of the 2,600 intensive care beds in  Illinois were already occupied, and 40 percent of our 2,100 ventilators  were being deployed. 

  For the next package that we are considering here--CV-3 or phase 3,  however you characterize it--Congress must step in with direct,  immediate assistance to recognize the extreme financial burden and  equipment shortfalls of hospitals and healthcare workers. This has to  be priority No. 1, period. 

  Prior to this coronavirus challenge, one in four rural hospitals  across America were already facing closure. If a rural hospital closes  in your home State--whether it is Nebraska or Kansas or Ohio or  Illinois--jobs will leave, businesses close, and the community's  healthcare needs are in peril. As part of the measure that we are  presently considering--this phase 3 or CV-3 measure--Senator James  Lankford of Oklahoma, a Republican, and I are calling for inclusion of  our rural hospital relief act, which will provide immediate relief to  the most financially vulnerable rural hospitals. These hospitals are  the backbones of our health system in rural America. 

  As we know, as well, many people soon may lose their jobs, if they  haven't already, because of this pandemic. In so many cases, losing  your job means losing your health insurance. That is why I am working  to ensure individuals who lose their job as a result of this  coronavirus do not also lose their healthcare. Under current law, COBRA  coverage allows individuals to remain on their employer-sponsored  health insurance plan after they lose their jobs and otherwise become  ineligible. There is a basic problem with COBRA. It costs too much and  the employee--now severed from their work--has to pay 100 percent of  the premiums with no employer contributions. Many people just can't  afford it. 

  I think it is imperative that Congress step up and offer Federal  funding to cover the costs of COBRA coverage for individuals who lose  their jobs as a result of this pandemic. Loss of a job is bad enough.  We can't also sit by while millions of people lose their health  insurance. 

  Democrats are working on a robust funding package to help our U.S.  military defend our country against this pandemic. It includes  substantial increases in the capacity of military healthcare that will  benefit the troops, their families, retirees, and members of the  public. We need more resources to provide the National Guard with the  means to tackle this crisis. As of Wednesday, nearly 2,000 Guardsmen  are active in 54 States and territories. The number grows each day. The  women and men of the National Guard are working hard, distributing  meals, transporting medical professionals, assisting with planning, and  much more. Our States are paying for this emergency mission work out of  their own pockets. This is a national emergency. States need Federal  assistance as the role of the Guard is likely to grow. 

  Some may be surprised there are just over 4,000 beds in the entire  military medical system. Some projections say we will need triple that  number, and I want to make sure that the funding is there if, God  forbid, we need it. 

  We also need to take immediate action to address the threat COVID-19  poses to inmates and staff in our Federal prison system. Just  yesterday, two Federal Bureau of Prison staff tested positive for  COVID-19. It is only a matter of time until the virus begins to spread  within these correction facilities, if it hasn't already. Despite this  threat, the Trump administration has not requested any additional  funding for the Bureau of Prisons to prepare for overtime costs. We  need to make sure our Federal, State, and local prisons and jails have  access to the supplies and personnel and resources they need. We need  to do everything we can to safely release or transfer as many inmates  as possible to home confinement, particularly those vulnerable and  elderly. 

  Our economy is being ravaged by this public health epidemic. The  Department of Labor reported this morning that more than 281,000 people  applied for jobless benefits last week, a 33-percent increase from the  previous week. Similar grim news has come out of Illinois that has seen  unemployment claims skyrocket, as I mentioned earlier. These figures  show us how serious this is for working families, underscoring the  importance to move quickly and boldly. 

  Congress must immediately take steps to ensure State unemployment  trust fund accounts have more resources to get the benefits to those  who need them. This morning, my Governor alerted me to the fact that  there is a cashflow problem because of these claims being made on the  unemployment benefits account. Nationwide, small businesses and  retailers are closing their doors--some, we hope, only temporarily.  Restaurants are moving to take-out only or closing up their shops  altogether. 

  This morning, I had a webinar with Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce.  We expected about 100 people to participate, and over 500 did. Small  businesses across America are very conscious of the threats to their  continuing business by this public health crisis. This is going to be a  significant hit for a lot of small businesses. We have to be there to  help them. 

  I support a proposal that also is being led by my Senate colleagues,  Senators Brown Bennet, and Booker, to request that direct cash  assistance beginning at $2,000 be sent to American families in need.  This will be a crucial lifeline, but it alone can't help these families  navigate the crisis. 

  I support what Senator Schumer said earlier about strengthening  unemployment insurance for these same families. A second wave of  assistance is likely to go out. I support that as well. 

  I don't believe this is a short-lived crisis. We have to see it  through and stand by the workers and their families all the way. 

  In past times of economic crisis, we have seen an increase in chapter  11 bankruptcy filings by businesses. Too often, these businesses have  been able to manipulate the bankruptcy process to favor creditors and  management while leaving the workers high and dry. We cannot let this  happen again. For more than 10 years, I have had a bill to reform  chapter 11 to improve outcomes for workers and retirees, most  importantly, by doubling to $20,000 the value of worker wage claims  that are entitled to priority payment in bankruptcy. 

  Let's get that reform done as part of the challenge of this crisis.  Let's make helping workers the highest priority when it comes to  business bankruptcy. 

  We also need to make clear that companies that take Federal bailout  money can't turn around and use chapter 11 to try to get rid of their  collective bargaining agreements with their workforce. My legislation  would prevent this type of gaming. We need to get that done as well.  

  If Congress is going to consider changes to make the bankruptcy  process simpler and less painful for businesses, we ought to do the  same for workers and families. That includes Americans who are  currently being crushed by student loan debt and face their own  economic recession even before this one. If we are talking about  relieving debts that businesses and individuals cannot pay, for  goodness' sake, how can we ignore the crushing student loan debt across  America, which compromises the futures of the thousands of Americans?  We need to take steps to forgive student debt, like for students who  were defrauded by for-profit colleges--a measure we continue to fight  Secretary DeVos over--and we need to restore dischargeability in  bankruptcy for student loans once and for all. 

  In short, bold policy ideas to help families during this time are not  exclusive to either political party. I look forward, as we have in the  first two measures, to a bipartisan effort and a timely effort to  respond. America is counting on us.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT