Durbin, Duckworth Statement On Nominations Of David Dugan, Iain Johnston, Franklin Valderrama To Serve As U.S. District Judges


U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) today released the following statement after the White House announced the nominations of David Dugan to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois, Iain Johnston to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, and Franklin Valderrama to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.

"We are pleased that the President nominated Judge Dugan, Judge Johnston, and Judge Valderrama to fill vacant district court judgeships in Illinois.  All three nominees were carefully reviewed by nonpartisan screening committees we established to evaluate potential candidates, and we expect these nominees to be diligent, thoughtful, and principled District Court Judges.  We look forward to guiding their nominations through the Senate."

Durbin and Duckworth established screening committees to assist them in evaluating candidates for vacant federal judgeship, U.S. Attorney, and U.S. Marshal positions in Illinois.  The task of the screening committees is to review and vet candidates for the vacancies and advise the senators regarding the candidates' qualifications and fitness for the position. 

Bios of the nominees from the White House are included below:

If confirmed, David W. Dugan will serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois.  David Dugan currently serves as a Circuit Judge for the 3rd Judicial Circuit, Madison County, Illinois.  Prior to taking the bench in 2017, Judge Dugan was in private practice for more than 30 years, where his practice focused on personal injury and commercial litigation in both State and Federal Courts.  Judge Dugan previously served as an Assistant States Attorney for Madison County, Illinois.  Judge Dugan earned his B.A. from Eastern Illinois University and his J.D. from Valparaiso University School of Law.

If confirmed, Iain D. Johnston will serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.  Iain Johnston currently serves as a United States Magistrate Judge on the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.  Before taking the bench in 2013, Judge Johnston was a unit supervisor for the Office of the Illinois Attorney General and in private practice at Altheimer & Gray, Holland & Knight LLP, and Johnston Greene LLC.  Judge Johnston also serves as an adjunct professor at UIC John Marshall Law School.  Upon graduation from law school, Judge Johnston served as a law clerk to Judge Philip Godfrey Reinhard of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.  Judge Johnston earned his B.S., cum laude, from Rockford College and his J.D., cum laude, from UIC John Marshall Law School.

If confirmed, Franklin U. Valderrama will serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.  Franklin Valderrama currently serves as an Associate Judge in the Circuit Court of Cook County.  Judge Valderrama serves on the Illinois Supreme Court Rule Committee and the Supreme Court Committee on Illinois Evidence.  Before taking the bench in 2007, Judge Valderrama was a partner at Sanchez, Daniels & Hoffman LLP, where his practice focused on trial litigation.  Judge Valderrama has also served as an adjunct professor at UIC John Marshall Law School where he taught Pre-Trial Civil Litigation.  Judge Valderrama earned his B.A. from the University of Illinois at Chicago, and his J.D. from The DePaul University College of Law.