Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I listened carefully to the comments by my  colleague from Texas, Senator Cornyn, when he talked about impeachment  purgatory and the fact that the Senate is unable to act on critical  legislation--many bills that have already passed the House of  Representatives--because of the impeachment proceedings. 

  Well, the impeachment proceedings have not started in the U.S.  Senate. So what is the excuse? Was it the impeachment proceeding that  stopped us from considering one bill in the Senate this week? Was it  the impeachment proceeding that stopped us from considering one bill in  the Senate last week? No, it was the conscious decision of the Senate  majority leader, Senator McConnell, the Republican leader, with the  Republican majority, not to call a single piece of legislation in the  last 2 weeks. 

  There shouldn't be any surprise among the membership that we did  nothing in the last 2 weeks other than a few garden-variety  nominations. The fact is, we have done nothing for a long time under  Senator McConnell's leadership. Do you know, for the record, how many  amendments were actually debated on the floor of the U.S. Senate last  year in the entire calendar year? Twenty-two. Twenty-two amendments,  six offered by the junior Senator from Kentucky. If I am not mistaken,  all of them were defeated, but the point I am trying to make is, 22  amendments in 1 year and now the Republican majority is blaming Speaker  Pelosi and the impeachment proceedings for the fact that we do nothing.  It doesn't make sense, and it doesn't add up. 

  We are doing nothing because that is the strategy of Senator  McConnell. The House of Representatives has passed hundreds--not a  dozen, hundreds--of bills for the Senate to consider, on every  imaginable topic: issues relating to healthcare, which we heard about  from the Senator from Texas; issues relating to immigration. The litany  is long. Within that litany, you would think that Senator McConnell  could find one bill--just one--from the House of Representatives to  debate on the floor of the U.S. Senate, but we don't do that in the  Senate. We no longer debate under Senator McConnell's leadership. 

  Some people look at this room and call it the Senate Chamber. That is  true; it is the Senate Chamber. Now, sadly, it is more the Senate  storage facility. We store on the floor of the Senate Chamber the desks  of former Senators who actually legislated on the floor of the Senate.  It is not a museum because there is still some active business  underway, but it is a storage facility. 

  These desks, if they could only speak, would tell the stories of men  and women who stood up on the floor and debated critical issues. I was  here for some of it. Issues of war and peace--we don't take those up  anymore. If a President wants to go to war in Iran, obviously, his  party thinks that we shouldn't interfere with his thought process,  though the Constitution states clearly we are supposed to interfere.  Congress has the authority, under the Constitution, to declare war. 

  When issues would come up before us--important issues--in the past,  we would debate them at length, whether it was health insurance for  Americans, whether we were talking about questions of the disabled in  America being active participants in our society, a time when Senators  from both sides of the aisle stood up in this Chamber and, in a lengthy  debate, passed the Americans with Disabilities Act. One was Senator Bob  Dole, a disabled veteran from World War II and Republican leader;  another was Tom Harkin, a Democrat from Iowa. The two of them had a  bipartisan measure and a real fulsome debate that doesn't happen on  this floor of this Senate Chamber anymore. 

  For Senators to come here and blame Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker of the  House, for our inactivity is laughable. We have failed to move forward  because the leadership does not want to call the bill. Senator  McConnell has the authority to decide what we will debate on the floor  of the U.S. Senate, and he has decided we will debate nothing--nothing. 

  What a wasted opportunity. If America was just picture-perfect from  sea to shining sea, you would say: Well, there is no reason. We don't  need a Senate or a House. We know better. There are important issues we  should address, issues related to challenges facing families across  America; issues of the mounting student debt across this country and  what it has meant to hundreds of thousands of young people and their  future; the issues involving gun violence in this country, where we  still have mass killings yet can't even pass one bill to keep guns out  of the hands of convicted felons and people who are mentally unstable;  the issue of healthcare. 

  I certainly agree with the Senator from Texas when it comes to the  cost of prescription drugs, the No. 1 concern of families across this  country. All Senator Schumer has asked for is that we bring this  measure to the floor and let Senator Cornyn's good idea be brought to  the floor with Senator Durbin's good idea--and perhaps other Senators'  good ideas--and actually have a debate right here on the floor of the  Senate. It would be amazing. People would be tuned in all across  America saying: You can't imagine; the Senate is alive; it is actually  considering measures. 

  Although, we don't. Twenty-two amendments in one calendar year--it is  just amazing that we have reached that point.                             Political Prisoners  

  Mr. President, I come to the floor to address three specific issues.  One of the first is a matter that I didn't know would actually be part  of my responsibility as a Senator, but over the years my staff came to  me and talked to me about political prisoners in far-flung nations  around the world, men and women literally in jail because they are  exercising their right to speak, to be journalists, to assemble, to run  for political office. 

  My staff said: They are forgotten. Nobody knows they are there. They  languish in prisons for months and  years and sometimes die there. Nobody even mentions their name. Would  you consider coming to the floor of the Senate and saying something,  perhaps writing a letter to the Embassy of the country where they are  being held prisoner? 

  I was skeptical as to whether or not that would even be worth the  effort, but I have learned over the years it is. I have come to the  Senate floor to raise the cases of political prisoners around the  world, typically journalists or activists who found themselves jailed  for defending basic freedoms we take for granted. 

  In some cases, with the help of my colleagues on both sides of the  aisle, we have seen the release of some of these prisoners. Others  still languish. 

  I bring their pictures to the floor because mentioning their names is  important, but seeing them tells a story too. Raif Badawi and Waleed  Abulkhair, in Saudi Arabia, and interim Venezuelan President Guaido's  chief of staff Roberto Marrero continue to languish unjustly in prison.  We continue to press for their release. 

  I always thought that trying to secure the release of political  prisoners was worthwhile because it spoke to our values as Americans. I  have had a chance to meet some of them after they were released. 

  It is an amazing feeling after someone has spent years--literally  years--in prison and comes to my office in the Capitol and breaks down  in tears in gratitude. It reminds me that they shouldn't be forgotten,  and neither should many others. 

  Unfortunately, this President is too comfortable with these  autocratic leaders who imprison people around the world. I wish he  weren't. 

  That brings me to the Philippines, one of our key democratic allies  in Asia. Over the Christmas break, I thought my friends were joking  with me when they came to me and said: Well, I guess you will not be  going to the Philippines soon. I didn't know what they were talking  about. 

  It turns out that in my home State, in Illinois, there are many  Filipino Americans. It is one of the largest immigrant groups coming to  our country. What an incredible population Filipino Americans are. As I  have come to know them, they have strong family values and strong  religious values, and they are hard-working folks. They open these  little shops and sit in them for 16 hours or 18 hours a day because  that is the way an immigrating Filipino sets the stage for their son  and daughter to have a better life. 

  Over the holiday recess, the President of the Philippines, President  Duterte, announced that he was banning Senator Patrick Leahy of  Vermont, as well as myself and Senator Ed Markey of Massachusetts, from  ever visiting the Philippines. I was kind of shocked to see that. I  didn't expect that. 

  What precipitated this reaction? He also, incidentally, threatened to  restrict the travel of all Americans to the Philippines. For some time,  several of us, including Senator Leahy and Senator Markey, have been  advocating for the release of Filipina Senator Leila de Lima. Senator  de Lima was a former head of the National Human Rights Commission of  the Philippines and an internationally recognized human rights champion  critical of President Duterte's extrajudicial killings. 

  What did that lead to? Her arrest and her being sentenced and  imprisoned for up to 3 years in jail for speaking out against the  current President of the Philippines. 

  Here is a photo of her being taken to court after she was arrested a  little over 3 years ago. 

  Who is behind her release? Not just Senators Leahy, Durbin, and  Markey and many of our colleagues, but also Amnesty International, the  Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, and the Raoul Wallenberg Center. 

  Let me read an excerpt from the letter she sent me.  

       As you can imagine, I may be the one currently in       detention, but I am not the only victim suffering in this       situation . . . so are the victims of extrajudicial killings       and their families, so are all defenders of human rights . .       . and ultimately, so are all of us all over the world who       defend democracy and rule of law.  

  Senator Markey has a resolution calling for Senator de Lima's release  and an end to the harassment of Filipina journalist Maria Ressa, which  I am proud to cosponsor and hope will pass the Senate soon. 

  Last year, Senator Leahy joined me in an amendment to the State and  Foreign Operations bill, denying U.S. visas to those involved in  Senator de Lima's politically motivated incarceration. It was our  little measure in that appropriations bill that led President Duterte  to ban us from ever traveling to the Philippines. There is an easy and  honorable way forward. The Duterte regime should stop threatening the  travel of Filipino Americans and so many others who travel between our  nations and, instead, ensure a quick and credible trial for Senator de  Lima or simply do the right thing and release her. 

  In the end, her freedom and the end of government harassment of  journalists like Maria Ressa will be important tests of whether the  cherished democratic norms we share with our longstanding Filipino  allies will be respected by President Duterte.                 United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement  

  Mr. President, trade agreements are controversial. They come before  the Senate and the House infrequently and are usually very hard to  pass. It takes months and months of work. One of those trade  agreements, which is known as the USMCA, or the United States-Mexico- Canada Agreement, or NAFTA 2.0, is one that I have watched carefully. I  voted for the original NAFTA agreement when I was a Member of the House  of Representatives. It was not a popular vote among many people in  Illinois, but I felt that it was the right thing to do. I felt that  moving the Mexican economy forward, watching it mature, with the  creation of a middle class, would mean that it would be a more stable  nation and a nation that would consume many goods produced in the  United States. 

  That happened, but it happened at an expense, too, to be very honest.  Many companies in the United States saw the low wage rates in Mexico,  closed their plants in places like Galesburg, IL, and moved operations  to Mexico. Some moved to China and other places. 

  That displacement of jobs was painful. It was hard to explain to  families that this was a transition that ultimately was for the good of  all nations involved. If it was your family, you didn't care about the  good of a nation. You wanted to know if dad had a job. 

  The pain we went through over the last 25 years led me into this  conversation about the USMCA with some skepticism. I didn't want to be  behind any effort that would ultimately result in more American jobs  being lost unnecessarily. I am proud to say that this negotiation,  unlike many things in this town, turned out to be a bipartisan success. 

  President Trump presented us with an original version of the USMCA,  and many of us took exception to some of its contents. I was  particularly worried about one provision in there relating to the price  of prescription drugs and some other provisions in the original  measure. Then, a fulsome negotiation took place. Democrats and  Republicans sat down. The net result was a positive thing. Just this  last week, the Senate Finance Committee reported this USMCA by a vote  of 25 to 3. I believe this bill--this new measure, this new NAFTA-- enjoys broad bipartisan support. 

  This morning, I went on a conference call with the agriculture  leaders of Illinois. I am proud to say we have one of the strongest  agricultural States in the Nation and some of the best women and men  who farm our land and produce food and fiber for people to consume all  across America and around the world. They have gone through some very  tough times. The President's trade problems with China have hurt us  especially. Our soybean producers have seen a 93-percent decline in  their exports of soybeans and soybean products from the State of  Illinois. They have paid heavily for the decision in this  administration to cut back on renewable fuels and to issue waivers to  oil companies so they don't have to blend them in the fuel they sell us  at gas stations. 

  They have seen the decline in the net foreign income, an increase in  foreign debt, and we have sent aid payments to them, which they  reluctantly accept as just the only lifeline they have to keep their  farms in the family.  

  They are happy to see that we are moving forward on this new trade  agreement. A new NAFTA--the USMCA--means the top trading partners of  the State of Illinois, Mexico and Canada, will have a new lease on a  relationship that can improve as we increase trade among our nations.  The three nations will prosper. Our bounty, which we produce in the  farmlands of Illinois, will be shared with Mexico, Canada, and many  nations far beyond them. It is a step forward for us. 

  I am glad it was done on a bipartisan basis, and I am particularly  happy to see the overwhelming majority of labor organizations in my  State of Illinois and in the Nation support the USMCA. It is great to  have both labor and business and farm communities together in this  effort. 

  It is far from perfect. This is a bill that moves in the right  direction, and I hope we bring it up for consideration and a vote very  soon on the floor of the Senate.                                 E-Cigarettes  

  Mr. President, for many years, I have had a battle on with the  tobacco lobby. It is personal. I lost my father to lung cancer when I  was 14 and he was 53. I watched and stood by his bedside for literally  100 days as he languished and ultimately died from lung cancer. He  smoked two packs of cigarettes a day. 

  When I came to the U.S. House of Representatives, I was determined to  try to do something about the deaths that were being caused by tobacco  products across America. I proposed a measure, which seemed pretty  modest at the time, that banned smoking on airplane flights. It was an  inconvenience and a mess to get on a plane with the so-called smoking  and nonsmoking sections. So I thought: Let's get rid of it once and for  all. 

  It was quite a battle in the House of Representatives. We passed it  by a handful of votes, to ban smoking on airplanes. Luckily, I found a  great colleague and friend, former Senator Frank Lautenberg of New  Jersey, who took up the cause on the floor of the Senate, and we banned  smoking on airplanes over 25 years ago. 

  I didn't know that it was anything more than elimination of an  inconvenience while people took airplane flights. It turned out to be  much more. It turned out to be a tipping point. People across America  said: If it is unhealthy to breathe in second-hand smoke on an  airplane, how about trains? How about buses? How about offices? How  about hospitals? How about restaurants? 

  At the end of the day, we know what happened. If someone walked into  your home or your place of business and lit up a cigarette, you would  look at them and think: Where are you from? We don't do that anymore. 

  We certainly don't do it without asking permission. But that is what  has happened in America. 

  We had to fight the tobacco lobby every step of the way, and we have  had some success. The number of young people who were using tobacco  cigarette products declined dramatically, from over 20 percent to  around 8 percent. We were winning the battle because these tobacco  companies were recruiting our kids at an early age with a nicotine  addiction they couldn't shake later in life. 

  Guess what happened. The tobacco companies invented a new product  that is called e-cigarette, or vaping. If you think I am making this  connection up, take a look at the largest vendor of vaping devices,  JUUL, and look at the major shareholder of JUUL. It turns out to be  Altria, which also turns out to be a major tobacco company. 

  Now the tobacco companies have decided that since kids don't  gravitate toward tobacco cigarettes, they will give them an  alternative. The alternative is an e-cigarette, or a vaping device. 

  You know what has happened, Mr. President, in your State and in my  mine? High school kids are taking up this vaping addiction in numbers  unimaginable. The latest report suggests that almost 29 percent of high  school students across the United States are currently vaping. What  they are doing is using pods and flavor pods with nicotine included and  using an electronic device to inhale this vapor and blow it out.  Unfortunately, in inhaling it into their lungs, they are also inhaling  nicotine and developing a terrible addiction. 

  Students from New York came to my office a few weeks ago, and they  said: Senator, don't kid yourself. It is not 28 or 29 percent. It is  over 50 percent of students who are vaping today, and they are  desperate to buy these flavor pods and to buy these new JUUL devices.  When the teacher in a classroom steps out, they are all vaping, right  there in the classroom. They do it in the restrooms and the classrooms  and the cafeterias and outside the schools. They are doing desperate  things to be able to afford these devices. 

  On September 11 of this year, President Trump and the First Lady held  a press conference in the Oval Office. Though I have been critical of  this President for many things, I applauded what they said. They  recognized this vaping crisis, and they said that we are going to stop  it and that we are going to make the moves necessary to make sure that  these flavor pods that are enticing children are finally taken from the  market. 

  I couldn't believe my ears when I heard it. Here was President Trump  stepping up to do the right thing. Perhaps he and his wife, as a father  and a mother of a teenager, understand this better than some. But  whatever the reason, whatever the motivation, they came forward with  what I thought was the best proposal: End the flavor pods once and for  all. 

  After they made their announcements, the vaping industry went to  work. They started buying ads on FOX--naturally, that is where the  President watches television--and they started saying to the people  that it was unfair to take away these flavor pods. 

  Sadly, these flavor pods, when you look at them very closely, are  just an enticement for young people to use this product. 

  Now the vaping industry tries to argue: Well, wait a minute. People  who want tobacco cigarettes ought to have vaping as an alternative. It  is safer. 

  Well, marginally it may be, if that were the end of the story. But it  turns out that vaping device is also becoming an enticement for young  people to use flavor pods and to develop this addiction to nicotine of  vaping devices. It is impossible to argue that some veteran smoker of  tobacco products is going to be enticed to vaping if he can buy candy  flavors, bubble gum flavors, fruit flavors, or other flavors. Can you  imagine some 50-year-old who has been smoking Marlboro for years, and  says: Man, if I could just get my hands on some Unicorn milk flavor  pods, I would give up tobacco and move to e-cigarettes. 

  We know better. These pods are designed to entice children. 

  (Mr. ROMNEY assumed the chair.) 

  We waited to see what would happen after the President's September  announcement. We were lucky to have one of our own colleagues, from the  State of Utah, who has now taken the Chair, who was present at the  meeting with the President on the issue of vaping. I salute him for his  friendship and leadership on this issue. 

  Last week, after delays, President Trump finally announced a plan to  ban some of the e-cigarette flavors that are hooking our kids on  nicotine. Within 30 days, some flavored e-cigarette pods and cartridges  will be removed from the market. This is an important step, but it is  not nearly enough. For instance, menthol pods are exempt, so I am  afraid kids are just going to move to JUUL's menthol flavor. Further,  liquid e-cigarette flavors that are used in open-tank vaping shops are  also exempt. The vaping shops are still in business, unaffected by this  new policy of the administration. Liquid nicotine is sold in flavors  like Gummy Bear, Whip Cream, Sugar Cookie, and Unicorn Milk. These  flavors, definitely intended for kids, will stay under President  Trump's new policy. 

  This week's announcement is not what the President said would happen  in the Oval Office a few months ago. That is why the public health  community and this Senator are so disappointed. We know the President  decided to water down the e-cigarette flavor ban. Heavy lobbying by Big  Tobacco and Big Vape were behind it. When announcing this new  restriction, President Trump said some words that may tell the story.  He said: 

  We have to protect our families. At the same time, it's a big  industry. We want to protect the industry. 

  Protect the vaping industry? It makes sense why these companies  wanted the President to backtrack on his promise. They make a lot of  money off our kids. They addict them, and the kids spend money because  of the addiction. Why doesn't it make sense for the President to stand  up to Big Tobacco and Big Vaping on behalf of our kids across America? 

  The fight is not over. Fewer than 4 percent of adults use e- cigarettes, while 30 percent, at least, of high school kids across  America are using them. Now the FDA--with a new leader, Dr. Stephen  Hahn--has to come off the sidelines and do their job to protect the  kids. By court order, all e-cigarette companies will have to submit  applications to the Food and Drug Administration in May if they want to  keep their devices and flavors on the market. If they do not submit an  application in May, they will have to come off the market immediately.  The FDA must enforce this fully. For companies that do submit an  application, the FDA has up to 1 year to decide whether they stay in  the market. The FDA must reject the applications of any vaping products  that are clearly designed to appeal to children, period. And if they  are significantly used by children, they should be taken off the  market. 

  I have told Commissioner Hahn that the FDA must evaluate these  applications based on science, not anecdotes. What matters is that e- cigarette companies prove their health claims, which, to date, they  have never been able to do. Do e-cigarettes actually help smokers quit  cigarettes? Are they actually safe? Or are they, in fact, hooking  children on nicotine? Those are the important questions that should be  answered with science, not with politics. 

  There are ways to preserve e-cigarette access for adult smokers  without allowing an entire generation of kids to be hooked on nicotine.  This means getting rid of all of the flavors, taking illegal products  off the market immediately, and rejecting e-cigarette applications that  fail to show a strong public health benefit. 

  To date, the FDA has not been as active or aggressive as it should.  For the sake of our children and the families who love them, it is time  for the FDA to get off the sidelines and make sure that we do  everything in our power, including in Congress, to make certain that  this epidemic--and the FDA came up with the word--this epidemic of e- vaping and e-cigarettes comes to an end in America. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT