Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, this morning, the Republican majority  leader took to the floor and spoke at great length about the execution  of General Soleimani. General Soleimani, who was the head of the  military forces in Iran, was killed by a drone strike at the  authorization of the President of the United States, Donald Trump. 

  Senator McConnell, this morning, made a lengthy case about the  background of General Soleimani. It is hard to argue with the facts he  brought to the floor. In fact, I would concede and most would agree  that General Soleimani, in his time, was an architect of terrorism and  that, in the course of his career, there has been American blood on his  hands. That is fact, but it wasn't a fact just discovered in the last  few weeks. The Presidents of both political parties have known this  about General Soleimani for a long period of time. They have had  opportunities to end his life, yet they didn't seize those  opportunities. Presidents of both parties decided it was prudent not to  do it. 

  The question that has been raised now is why this President, at this  moment, made the decision to execute the general. We know this general  and his past activity have had an impact not only on the United States  but on the Middle East and many other innocent people. The question  that has been raised is, Why at this moment? Why did it make sense at  this moment? 

  But for a few Members of the Senate, most of us have not had  extensive briefings or an opportunity to ask questions of this  administration about the timing of this critical decision. We will get  our chance tomorrow. There is a classified briefing in which  representatives at the highest level of this administration will come  before us and explain why they believe the President's decision at that  moment was the right thing to do for America. So many of those who come  to the floor and defend the decision or criticize those who question  that decision really have not had the benefit of a classified briefing,  which will be offered to Members tomorrow. 

  I am going to withhold any comments about those elements, as much as  I can possibly say publicly, until I get the chance to have more  information. But this much I do know: Regardless of that decision on  General Soleimani, we know for certain the Constitution of the United  States empowers the American people, through their elected  Representatives in the Senate and the House, to make the ultimate  decision about whether the United States will go to war with Iran or  any other country on Earth. We have learned, bitterly, that the  ignorance or refusal of Congress to exercise that constitutional right  can be disastrous. 

  Many of us have memories of the war in Vietnam, where 58,000 American  lives were lost, 2 million Vietnamese were killed, and $170 billion-- now, in today's terms, $1 trillion--was spent on a conflict that  divided America and cost so many American lives. Congress did not  exercise the authority given to it under the Constitution to make the  initial decision about that war in Vietnam. Many times thereafter,  people said: Why didn't you step up and make the decision before this  costly mistake was made? 

  If there is to be a war with Iran, I join with Senator Kaine of  Virginia in saying that the American people, once again, need to make  this decision under the Constitution through Congress, article I,  section 8, which provides, in clause 11, that only Congress has the  power to declare war. 

  If we are going to proceed down a path to war with Iran, the American  people have the right to know and the right to hear the fulsome debate.  In the time I have served in the Senate, I have seen Presidents in the  past who have come before the American people with flimsy evidence or  even misleading evidence to justify military action. I know the bitter  consequences of war. Even the best American troops are going to suffer  casualties and deaths in the execution of a war. 

  Let us make certain that if we are going to move forward with  hostilities against Iran, we do it under our constitutional requirement  to have a fulsome debate before the American people and have an  official declaration of war before we move forward. We owe the American  people nothing less.                                 Impeachment  

  Madam President, secondly, I would like to address the issue of the  impeachment trial, which the Senate majority leader, Senator McConnell,  raised this morning. 

  Before I was elected to Congress, I made a living as a lawyer. I took  many cases to trial. Few, if any, ever moved to a final decision  without the introduction of evidence. The evidence, of course, consists  of documentation, sometimes physical evidence, but often the testimony  of people who were witnesses to events critical to a jury's final  decision. 

  This impeachment trial should be nothing less. This is an opportunity  for us--a rare opportunity in American history--to come forward and to  demonstrate that we are going to handle a trial in the U.S. Senate in a  professional manner. For the Senate majority leader, Senator McConnell,  to announce that there will be no witnesses, there will be no evidence,  there will be no documents in advance is to deny the very basis of a  trial, as I understand it and as most Americans understand it. 

  If this President believes, as he has said so often, the charges in  the impeachment articles do not rise to any serious or credible level,  then, certainly, there is evidence that could prove his case. He will  have his managers on the floor of the Senate when the articles are  presented to us. They can certainly call witnesses. They can bring  evidence before us. But so far, the record is not very strong for that  to happen. 

  One of the Articles of Impeachment, the second one, relates to the  President's refusal to cooperate with the investigation in the House,  refusal to provide documentation and witnesses. For a President who is  arguing that there is really nothing to these charges, he has refused  to provide even the most basic evidence to prove his point, if it  exists. 

  What we are saying on the Democratic side is that if there is to be a  trial for impeachment in the U.S. Senate, common sense and the  Constitution require that it be a fair trial with evidence for not only  the Senators but the American people themselves to see. What we have  asked for so far is limited in terms of what we are looking for: four  witnesses and documents that can be clearly identified. Those are  things I think should be part of this trial record so that regardless  of the outcome of the trial, the American people will believe it was  handled fairly, in a dispassionate and nonpartisan way.                     For-Profit Colleges and Universities  

  Madam President, I have come to the floor many times to speak to the  American people about an industry, the most heavily federally  subsidized industry in America today. No, it is not a defense  contractor. It has nothing to do with American agriculture. What I am  speaking of are the for-profit colleges and universities of the United  States. These colleges and universities, sadly, have written a  notorious record when it comes to the treatment of their students. They  have often cheated their students, luring them into signing up for  expensive, often worthless college courses with false promises and  inflated outcomes if they graduate. 

  At the end, the students are left with massive student debts, a  diploma that is worthless, credits that can't be transferred to any  other reputable college or university, and the prospects of a job that  is almost impossible to find. In many cases, these sham operations  actually go out of business in the middle of the student's education. 

  As an industry, for-profit colleges need to be remembered for two  numbers--two numbers that tell the story of this industry. Nine percent  of all postsecondary students go to for-profit colleges and  universities in the United States. The University of Phoenix, DeVry-- you have heard their names. They advertise quite widely. Nine percent  of students are attracted to these for-profit colleges and  universities. But 33 percent of all of the federal student loan  defaults in the United States are by the students who chose to attend  those colleges and universities. 

  What is going on here, with 9 percent of the students and 33 percent  of the student loan defaults? The answer is obvious. The cost of  education at for-profit colleges and universities is too  high. Students incur more debt than they would by attending community  colleges, city colleges, or other universities and colleges that have  good reputations. 

  Secondly, the education is substandard. You can advertise everything  online about this great education. I can recall an ad that was on  television in the Washington, DC, area a few years ago, and it showed a  young woman--probably a teenager, not much beyond--in her pajamas, on  her bed, saying: I am going to college on my laptop here. 

  Well, that kind of easy education, many times, is no education at  all. At for-profit colleges and universities, too many students end up  taking these expensive courses that are meaningless. It turns out that  none of these courses can be transferred to some other school or  university. When you take these courses and you spend your money and  you spend your time and you end up with so-called college credits by  for-profit colleges and universities, no one else will take them. No  one else accepts them. They laugh at them. Then the students, if they  can hang in there long enough with massive student debt, end up with a  diploma that is a joke, a diploma that can't even lead to a job. That  is what the for-profit colleges and universities are all about. Despite  the fact that they have been pretty widespread across the United  States, many of them have gone bankrupt. 

  What happens to you as a student if you have gone to one of these  universities that has made all these promises to you along the way  about taking college courses and how it is going to end up being an  education that will lead to a job, and it turns out they were all lies,  fraud, deceit, deception? You have the debt, right? You have the  student debt, but you can't find a job. You went through 4, 5 years of  these so-called courses at for-profit colleges and universities, and  the only thing you have to show for it is a debt that is going to  decide the rest of your life. 

  It is not just the for-profit college industry that is burdening and  exploiting our students. I come to the floor this morning because,  sadly, at this moment in time, an agency of our government is  complicit. Secretary Betsy DeVos and the U.S. Department of Education  have made a fateful decision for hundreds of thousands of American  students that I have just described. Let me explain. 

  After a for-profit college defrauds a student--lies to the student-- Federal law gives that student the right to have his or her Federal  student loan discharged under a provision known as borrower defense.  Follow me. I have gone to a school and incurred a debt. They lied to me  about their courses leading to a certain degree or to a job. Now the  college is going out of business, and I still have the debt, but, under  American law, I am protected as a student. 

  The law says that if you were defrauded, you can use something called  a borrower defense to discharge the student debt, wipe it clean, and  get another chance at life. Congress has rightly decided with this law  that we shouldn't leave students holding the bag when these schools  should be held responsible. 

  Is that something most Americans agree with? Take a look at this New  America poll. Americans agree that students should have their Federal  student loan debt canceled if their college deceived them. For  Republicans, 71 percent agree with that statement; Democrats, 87  percent. Seventy-eight percent of the American people say that if these  colleges lied to them, the students shouldn't end up holding the bag.  It is pretty obvious. 

  But sadly, Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos is trying to make it  difficult, if not impossible, for defrauded student borrowers to get  the relief. Secretary DeVos has allowed a backlog of--listen to this-- more than 223,000 claims of students with student debt who claimed they  were defrauded by these colleges and universities. There are 223,000  queued up, waiting in line for the Department of Education to implement  the law. For more than a year, she has also failed to approve one  single claim of the 223,000 who say they were defrauded--not one. She  couldn't help one student who was defrauded out of 223,000. 

  Now she wants to change the rules to make it impossible for future  student borrowers to be relieved from their student debt when the  schools have deceived them and defrauded them. She has put forward a  new rule that places unreasonable burdens on student borrowers to seek  and receive relief. Under this rule, the applicants looking for  discharge of their student debt must prove that the school  intentionally misled them. How is the student supposed to prove  intention on the part of the school? Borrowers must also file a claim  within 3 years of leaving the school, even though the conduct is often  not discovered until many years later. The new rule also requires  borrowers to apply individually instead of receiving automatic  discharge when they are part of a group who has been harmed by similar  widespread misconduct. 

  We have seen it before. Some of these names may ring a bell with you:  Corinthian Colleges. They were all over the United States. They went  bankrupt. It turned out they were defrauding students, saying: Go take  these courses, and you can end up being qualified for these jobs. 

  It turned out it was a lie. After they went bankrupt, under the Obama  administration, many of the students, as a group, were protected by  this law, the borrower defense rule. Secretary DeVos says: Every  student, you are on your own at this point. Lawyer up. You are going to  have to prove your case as an individual. 

  This new rule requires borrowers to apply individually, instead of  receiving this automatic discharge, which was the case under the Obama  administration. With this new rule, Secretary DeVos is saying to  borrowers: We are not on your side. You are on your own. 

  In addition, if a borrower's claim for relief is denied, they would  not be allowed to appeal under Secretary DeVos's new rule. Even if more  evidence of deception and misconduct is found. 

  This new rule also puts taxpayers on the hook for relief, shielding  schools from being held directly accountable by students. The DeVos  rule eliminated the current prohibition on institutions using class  action restrictions and mandatory arbitrations as conditions of  enrollment. 

  These practices, which you have seen over and over again by  Corinthian and ITT Tech and others, require borrowers to sign away  their rights when they go to school. Think about that. You are 19 years  old, and you are starting your college education. You are going before  one of these schools. They push in front of you that you have to sign  up for $10,000 or $20,000 in tuition and sign the following contract.  There you are, at age 19 without much life experience, being asked to  sign up. Do you know what the fine print says? The fine print says that  if I am lying to you, you can't go to court. Most students don't even  understand that. They sign it because they are off to college,  thinking, finally, here is our opportunity to be educated and have a  life, a future. They don't know they are being deceived by these  schools. 

  Secretary DeVos has said: Sorry students, you signed that paper when  you were 19, and now you are stuck with it. 

  It is impossible for student borrowers to get relief under this new  rule by Secretary DeVos. According to an analysis by the Institute of  College Access & Success, the new Secretary DeVos rule will end up  forgiving, at most, 3 percent of the loans associated with school  misconduct. They will be able to recoup just 33 percent of that relief  from the schools themselves, and taxpayers will foot the difference.  The current rule is estimated to forgive 53 percent of loans associated  with misconduct and recoup a greater percentage of the relief from  schools. Secretary DeVos has loaded up the U.S. Department of Education  with people who were in the for-profit college industry. These are  folks who are devising rules good for their industry but not good for  the American student borrowers. The bottom line is, the DeVos rule  makes it harder for borrowers to receive relief, and the schools who  commit the misconduct will pay for a lower portion of the relief that  is given. 

  I introduced S.J. Res. 56 last September to overturn Secretary  DeVos's borrower defense rule. Representative Susie Lee of Nevada  introduced a companion resolution in the House. Many organizations have  endorsed my bill, including the Leadership Conference on  Civil and Human Rights, the AFL-CIO, American Federation of Teachers,  National Education Association, Consumer Federation of America, Student  Veterans of America, and the NAACP, but there is one most recently that  I want to share with you because I think it is important that Members  of the Senate of both political parties realize that we now have a  major organization--a nonpartisan organization--that speaks for the  veterans of America who have endorsed this effort. 

  I have in my hand a letter submitted to me by James Oxford, who goes  by the nickname ``Bill,'' national commander of the American Legion of  the United States of America, sent to me on December 18, 2019. He tells  the story of veterans who were exploited by these for-profit colleges  and universities. They ended up serving our country, earning their GI  bill of rights, then losing their benefits to these schools--these  worthless schools--and going further in debt to pay for their  education. 

  Commander Oxford sent this letter. 

       Dear Senator Durbin: On behalf of the nearly 2 million       members of The American Legion, I write to express our       support for Joint Resolution 56, providing for congressional       disapproval of the rule submitted by the Department of       Education relating to, ``Borrower Defense Institutional       Accountability.'' The rule, as currently written, is       fundamentally rigged against defrauded borrowers of student       loans, depriving them of the opportunity for debt relief that       Congress intended to afford them under the Higher Education       Act. Affirming this position is American Legion Resolution       No. 82: Preserve Veteran and Servicemember Rights to Gainful       Employment and Borrower Defense Protections, adopted in our       National Convention 2017. 

       Thousands of student veterans have been defrauded over the       years--promised their credits would transfer when they       wouldn't, given false or misleading job placement rates in       marketing, promised one educational experience when they were       recruited, but given something completely different. This       type of deception against our veterans and servicemembers has       been a lucrative scam for unscrupulous actors. 

       As veterans are aggressively targeted due to their service       to our country, they must be afforded the right to group       relief. The Department of Education's ``Borrower Defense''       rule eliminates this right, forcing veterans to individually       prove their claim, share the specific type of financial harm       they suffered, and prove the school knowingly made       substantial misrepresentations. The preponderance of evidence       required for this process is so onerous that the Department       of Education itself estimated that only 3 percent of       applicants would get relief. 

       Until every veteran's application for student loan       forgiveness has been processed, we will continue to demand       fair and timely decisions. The rule that the Department of       Education has promulgated flagrantly denies defrauded       veterans these dignities, and The American Legion calls on       Congress to overturn this regulatory action. 

       Senator Durbin, The American Legion applauds your       leadership in addressing this critical issue facing our       nation's veterans and their families.            For God & Country,                                          James W. ``Bill'' Oxford,                           National Commander, The American Legion.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Let me read one paragraph from Commander Oxford:  

       As veterans are aggressively targeted due to their service       to our country, they must be afforded the right to group       relief. The Department of Education's ``Borrower Defense''       rule eliminates this right, forcing veterans to individually       prove their claim, share the specific type of financial harm       they suffered, and prove the school knowingly made       substantial misrepresentations. The preponderance of evidence       required for this process is so onerous that the Department       of Education itself estimated that only 3 percent of       applicants would get relief.  

  Whether you are a Democrat or Republican, don't go waving that flag  and tell everybody how much you love our veterans and ignore this  letter. The leader of the largest veterans group in the United States  of America--a nonpartisan group--told us these schools exploited  veterans, and Secretary DeVos's new rule means that these veterans will  never get relief. Ninety-seven percent will never get any relief. 

  In a matter of a few days--maybe weeks--I will be calling this matter  to the floor. I am asking my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  put the party labels outside, hang them up in the cloakroom, come on  inside here, and stand up for students across America who did their  best to get a college education and were deceived in the process, stand  up for students who were loaded up with student debt, which could  destroy their lives, and give them a fighting chance for a future by  saying that Secretary DeVos's borrower defense rule is unfair to  veterans, unfair to students, and unfair to American families. 

  I ask my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do the right thing  when the time comes and give these borrowers a second chance at being  financially independent Americans who can contribute to their families  and our national economic growth. For our veterans, please join me in  making sure that Secretary DeVos's borrower defense rule is disapproved  by both the House and the Senate. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN.   Klobuchar), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Sanders), and the Senator  from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) are necessarily absent. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT