Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I would like to note that this morning  at 8 a.m., an unusual meeting took place in this Capitol Building. It  was in the area of the building that is reserved for top-secret  classified briefings. All Members of the Senate were invited. The issue  at that briefing was the coronavirus. 

  I sat through the major part of that briefing before I had to leave  for another meeting. There wasn't anything in there that should have  been classified or top secret. If there were ever a time when we need  to be open, honest, and complete in telling the whole story to the  American people, it is this moment when we face the coronavirus, which  started, we believe, in China and is now spreading across the world. 

  I back up what the Democratic leader said earlier because the request  was made at this meeting for some $2 billion in the United States to  respond to this coronavirus threat. When we questioned  the administration as to why that number and what they were going to do  with it, the answers were limited. In fact, when it came to the source  of the money, they had no answer at all.  

  Remember, this is an administration which has consistently asked to  cut the funding for the Centers for Disease Control. It has been a low  priority of the Trump administration until we faced this threat, and  now they have suddenly awakened. It turns out that even in the next  fiscal year, which begins on October 1, the Trump administration has  asked to cut the money for the Centers for Disease Control again. 

  You ask yourself, who is in charge over there? Who is making the  basic decisions? Well, it could be the person who has decided that  every available dollar needs to be put into a wall on the Mexican  border. 

  Think of this for a moment: Ten billion dollars currently sits in an  account for the building of this wall--unspent. They can't spend it.  Yet the President recently asked for $3.8 billion more for building his  almighty wall--which I thought Mexico was going to pay for--and now  comes at the last minute asking for some $2 billion for the  coronavirus. 

  As one Senator said in the meeting this morning, when it comes down  to it, if our business is to protect the American people, isn't the  highest priority to stop the spread of this virus in the United States?  Of course it is, and that is why it should be a higher priority. No  wall is going to stop that virus from coming into the United States.  The President ought to wake up to that reality. 

  When you look at the efforts that are being made here in the United  States and around the world, we can and should do more. I support this  request for a dramatic increase in funding for this purpose now--now,  before it spreads across the United States, which God forbid it ever  does. We don't want it to. We want to make sure we have done everything  in our power to stop it, and that means empowering those in charge with  the knowledge, with the expertise, and with the authority to protect  our families. First and foremost, protect American families. That is a  much higher priority than any campaign promise this President made  about a wall on our southern border. 

  I support the effort by Senator Schumer asking for some top doc or  some individual with management authority, management experience, and  the knowledge of the public health threat we face with this  coronavirus, to be put in charge to coordinate the myriad agencies that  will be touched by this campaign to protect America. Now is the time to  do it. The time to do it--at least now, but it should have been much  earlier, with more money dedicated to this purpose rather than cutting  back on these key agencies.                              Women's Healthcare  

  Madam President, on a related topic, related to health, this morning  Senator Mitch McConnell came to the floor and said that today, this  afternoon, we are likely to take up two votes on motions to proceed.  This is so typical now of what we do in the Senate. Instead of bringing  a measure to the floor with an understanding of an amendment process so  that we can discuss it fully, vote on it in many different aspects, and  then come to a conclusion with a majority vote in this body, Senator  McConnell comes to the floor with another drive-by political hit on the  issue of women's reproductive health. 

  We know what this issue is all about. Many of us who have served for  years know there is a fundamental difference among those of us here in  the Senate, and we know what the outcome of this vote will be because  at least one of these votes was cast last year on exactly the same  topic. So why would Senator McConnell bring it back? It is to get that  drive-by shooting when it comes to this political issue. To me, that is  unfortunate, and I would like to suggest there is a better alternative.                             Black History Month  

  Madam President, this is Black History Month, and I want to take the  time to celebrate a person who made history when it came to healthcare. 

  Helen Octavia Dickens was born in Dayton, OH, in 1909, a daughter of  a former slave. She attended Crane Junior College in Chicago, now  Malcolm X  College. In 1934, she graduated from the University of Illinois College  of Medicine, Chicago, as the only African-American woman in her class  of 137 students. She was the university's first Black woman physician  graduate. 

  Dr. Dickens became a specialist in obstetrics, eventually moving to  Philadelphia to work in a birthing center, where she provided care for  the poor. While there, she broke barriers by becoming the first  African-American woman to be admitted into the American College of  Surgeons, receive board certification in obstetrics and gynecology, and  practice medicine in Philadelphia. 

  Her work to help heal and guide women of all ages was nothing short  of inspiring and her efforts to shine light on the troubling issue of  health disparities in the United States that continues to this day. Let  me be specific. 

  America has a long history of medical inequality. Sadly, we know that  history has not ended. From premature births to premature deaths,  people of color disproportionately bear the brunt of America's troubled  healthcare system. On average, they live sicker, die sooner, and go  without needed medical care more often. Communities of color suffer  disproportionately from HIV, heart disease, stroke, diabetes, kidney  failure, prostate cancer, and other medical conditions. 

  President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law nearly 10  years ago. It is still one of my proudest votes. Thanks to that law, 20  million Americans gained health insurance--more than 1 million in my  home State of Illinois. 

  I am proud to say that law has taken strong steps to address racial  inequalities in healthcare across America. A report last month found  that the Affordable Care Act helped narrow racial and ethnic  disparities in healthcare access and coverage, especially in States  like mine--Illinois--that expanded the reach of Medicaid. Yet we know  that better is not nearly good enough when it comes to healthcare.  Nearly half of Black Americans--46 percent--live in the 15 States that  did not expand Medicaid coverage after the Affordable Care Act was  passed. 

  Another area of racial disparity is maternal and infant health. I  raise this issue because instead of these drive-by issue votes, which  Senator McConnell insists on without debate and without amendment, we  should be addressing an issue that should have bipartisan support. Let  me be specific about what I mean. 

  The United States ranks 32nd out of the 35 wealthiest nations when it  comes to infant death, infant mortality. Let me repeat that. Our Nation  ranks 32nd out of the 35 wealthiest nations when it comes to infant  mortality, and babies of color are the hardest hit. 

  If you are an African-American infant born in America today, you are  twice as likely to die in the first year of birth compared to White  infants. 

  And the mother giving birth? In the United States, African-American  women are three to four times more likely to die giving birth than  other women in this country. In Illinois, sadly, they are six times  more likely to die. 

  The United States is one of only 13 countries in the world where the  maternal mortality rate is worse now than it was 25 years ago. Instead  of impaling ourselves politically on the issues that divide us, can we  come together on an issue that could unite us: that we are going to do  something in America to reduce the infant and maternal mortality,  particularly among African Americans. 

  I have given a lot of thought to what we can do to try to bridge this  racial divide to help women and babies of color. For the past two  Congresses, I have introduced a bill with Illinois Congresswoman Robin  Kelly called the MOMMA Act. The bill would expand Medicaid coverage for  new moms from 60 days after birth to a full year postpartum to ensure  adequate care after the child is delivered. The bill would also ensure  implicit bias and cultural competency training for healthcare providers  to help address health disparities in communities of color and increase  access to doulas. 

  We are simply not doing enough to correct this injustice and save the  lives of new moms and babies across the country. Instead, Senate  Republicans are pushing two anti-choice bills this day that will do  nothing--nothing--to help improve maternal and infant outcomes in  America nor to help address racial disparities that currently exist. If  they actually wanted to save and improve the lives of new moms and  babies, they should consider passing legislation like the MOMMA Act,  which I have just described. I am going to try to call this to the  floor this afternoon. Wouldn't it be a breath of fresh air in the U.S.  Senate if, on a bipartisan basis, we could agree to do something about  this public health crisis affecting infants and mothers across America? 

  The fact that we rank so low in the world standings of safety when it  comes to delivering a baby among African-American parents in this  country is just unacceptable and unforgivable. Can we muster the  courage to stop the political shootings here on the floor, this drive- by shooting of political issues, and instead address an issue which  truly is a life-and-death matter that we all should agree on? The  Republicans have a choice this afternoon to join me in this effort. 

  I am proud to stand here today and to honor Helen Dickens, the  African-American doctor I described earlier who passed away in 2001.  Her fierce advancement in the medical field helped pave the way for  future doctors, particularly women of color, and led to important  discoveries in women's health. 

  Today, much of what we know about the importance and effectiveness of  annual OB/GYN visits was influenced by Dr. Dickens' work. With a grant  from the National Institutes of Health, she helped train general  practitioners to give women the exams they need to note early detection  of cervical and uterine cancer. In 1982, the University of Illinois  honored Dr. Dickens with the Distinguished Alumni Award. 

  While the United States has a troubled past in addressing racial  inequality, we need to learn from the mistakes of the past to ensure  that all Americans receive the healthcare they deserve in the future. 

  Dr. Helen Dickens and many other African-American pioneers give me  hope for a brighter future. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN.   Klobuchar), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Sanders), and the Senator  from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) are necessarily absent. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT