Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN.  Smith), and the  Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) are necessarily absent. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, 2 weeks ago, I came to the floor of the  Senate to ask for consent on the simple, timely Senate resolution  sponsored by nearly half of the Members of this Chamber. What did the  resolution call for? Well, it urged the United States to join global  coronavirus vaccine and treatment efforts. That doesn't sound like a  radical idea, does it? In the midst of a global pandemic that is  causing so much suffering and so many deaths, it would seem that asking  the United States to join other countries of the world in searching for  therapies and vaccines is just common sense. 

  We don't know where or when a vaccine will be discovered. We don't  know if an effective treatment will be discovered in the United States  or in some other place. Certainly, with the respected medical and  scientific leadership in the United States, you would hope that it  would be here, but let's be honest. If a safe and effective vaccine  against the coronavirus is discovered in some other country, the United  States would want to be there and be part of the discussion about its  production and distribution. Wouldn't we? That is all this resolution  says. 

  Why not team up with allies around the world since we are all looking  for the same thing--a safe and effective vaccine. Whether that vaccine  is stamped ``Made in the USA'' or is made in some other country is  secondary. Is it safe? Is it effective? Will it save lives? Do we  really want the American people to be left out of such an effort? It  was a global effort to eliminate smallpox, Ebola, polio, and so many  other deadly diseases we took for granted. We were all in it together. 

  These viruses and diseases don't know any boundaries. People around  the world have the same fears and concerns that we have in the United  States about what we are paying in price of suffering and death until  we find a way to avoid it. This resolution would just call on the  United States to be part of a global effort to find a therapy and a  vaccine, but this resolution was blocked here in the Senate. Since  then, since the 2 weeks that have passed, we have lost over 100,000  American lives. Sadly, the number still grows. This has been 100,000  lives in just a few months--the same number of American casualties in  the wars of Korea, Vietnam, Iraq, and Afghanistan combined. 

  What was President Trump's response? Was there empathy or a message  of national unity or healing during this tragic moment? No. Once again,  President Trump refused to take any responsibility for leadership  during this crisis. Sadly, he has cast blame in every direction and  ignored his own responsibility amid a deadly global pandemic that has  had devastating consequences for the American people.  

  Sadly, we lead the world in infections and death, but President Trump  has decided that now is the moment in history for the United States to  pull out of the World Health Organization--the same body that is  heading the global pandemic response. What is he thinking--that we  would walk away from the organization that has called to the table  countries from around the world in an effort to find a safe and  effective vaccine? Here we are, on the 40th anniversary of the World  Health Organization's historic achievement in eradicating small pox,  stumbling along with a President who is more interested in settling a  score, casting blame, and finding ways to divide us. Once again, the  majority of his party here in the Senate is not chiming in and joining  us in this effort to pass this resolution. 

  While we continue to have some of the world's best researchers and  experts, it is plausible that a vaccine will be found and developed  elsewhere. In a rush to research and validate a vaccine, ramp up  production, address global allocation and supply needs, ensure  affordability and access worldwide, and make sure the United States  gets its fair share of any safe and effective vaccine, where will we  stand if the President insists on being on the sidelines, unengaged?  When the United States pursues this Trump go-it-alone approach while  the rest of the world is working together, where does that leave us?  Pride cometh before the fall. 

  Just as with the smallpox effort, a global, collaborative approach  makes obvious sense, and it will save American lives. Joining forces  with other countries around the world will help to speed the  development and eventual distribution of the coronavirus vaccine we  desperately seek. 

  Do you want to know what one Republican Senator from Tennessee said  about this? He said: ``I disagree with the President's decision.'' 

  Withdrawing U.S. membership from the WHO could, among other things,  interfere with clinical trials that are essential to the development of  a vaccine. No one knows where this vaccine will eventually be perfected  or produced. God willing, it will be soon. Yet why shouldn't we be  joining in this global effort? Why? Why, at this moment in history, has  President Trump said we are stepping away from the organization that  leads this effort? 

  Given this President's--sadly, I hate to use the word--``obsession''  with blaming everyone but himself for mishandling this situation, maybe  his dereliction of duty should come as no surprise, but what a bitter,  bitter disappointment it is. 

  I return to the floor to ask unanimous consent on a straightforward  resolution--a simple resolution that should have passed without any  fanfare by a voice vote unanimously in the Senate. This resolution  calls on the United States to join in the global effort to find a safe  and effective vaccine--something that we have done consistently  throughout our history until this President took office. 

  Ultimately, let's remember that this is a pandemic that affects the  world, and any solution has to be a worldwide solution as well. We  cannot isolate ourselves from the international ways of finding  treatments and the development of a vaccine. Doing so not only wastes  time but risks there being a loss of life.                    Unanimous Consent Request--S. Res.  Res. 579, a resolution encouraging the  international community to remain committed to collaboration and  coordination to mitigate and prevent the further spread of COVID-19 and  urging renewed United States leadership and participation in any global  efforts on therapeutics and vaccine development and delivery to address  COVID-19 and prevent further deaths; that the Senate proceed to its  immediate consideration; that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble  be agreed to, and that the motions to reconsider be considered made and  laid upon the table with no intervening action or debate. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I have respect for my colleague and thank  him for his positive statement about the work to be done in the Foreign  Relations Committee. There is nothing in this resolution that preempts  or tries to impact on anything he mentioned. The operative language is  a few words, ``urging renewed United States leadership and  participation in any global efforts on therapeutics and vaccine  development and delivery to address COVID-19 and prevent further  death.'' 

  How we do that, whether we create an agency or not, this is simply an  expression of policy that I hope we can embrace. I will be back if we  don't move forward with alternatives. Lives are at stake, and we should  be part of the international conversation to avoid it. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Certainly. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, Monday, President Trump stood in the Rose  Garden and called for the use of military force against individuals who  have been gathering across the country protesting racism and police  brutality against Black Americans. This historic call for empowering  the Commander in Chief to militarize law enforcement in our Nation  pushes this President's reach for new Executive authority to the most  extreme level. 

  This follows the President's tweets since last week, threatening to  turn ``vicious dogs''--his words--on protesters outside the White House  and quoting the racist phrase from the 1967 Miami police chief,  stating: ``When the looting starts, the shooting starts,'' bringing to  mind, sadly, for many, shameful moments in our Nation's struggle for  civil rights. 

  President Trump said nothing to address the anguish felt by many in  this country, particularly people of color, and instead called on  Governors to ``dominate the streets,'' as though the Americans, who  peacefully exercise their right to protest, are an enemy force. 

  Initially, Defense Secretary Esper went even further when he referred  to cities as a ``battlespace.'' I am heartened by the fact that he has  made it clear that he does not support the President's suggestion of  militarizing the police forces and police across America. These calls  by the President to militarize cities across America ignore that for  far too long he urged law enforcement to ``dominate,'' as the President  often says, rather than to protect and serve, which is exactly what is  contributing to the challenge we face today. 

  The other night, minutes before Mayor Bowser's 7 p.m. curfew came  into effect, the President used law enforcement personnel to use tear  gas and rubber bullets on peaceful demonstrators in LaFayette Square  across the street from the White House. They even beat these peaceful  demonstrators with batons and shields. There are conflicting reports as  to whether the National Guard participated in the violence. I have made  a direct inquiry to the Department of Defense, and they have denied it. 

  According to press reports, the assault began with law enforcement  kneeling, not to express any solidarity  with any racism efforts as we have seen some police officers do across  the country; instead, they were kneeling to put on gas masks to protect  themselves from the weapons they were readying to fire. 

  As soon as this gathering was dispersed, the President marched across  LaFayette Square to St. John's Episcopal Church. The Attorney General,  the Secretary of Defense, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff  all followed--only the battle that they were witnessing was against  Americans using their voices to stop racism who got in the way of a  Presidential photo opportunity. 

  I simply cannot understand what the President and each of these  senior officials were thinking, if they were consciously deciding to be  part of this by taking a stroll in the aftermath of the violence in  Lafayette Square and whether they approved of that treatment of their  fellow Americans. 

  The Rt. Rev. Mariann Budde, the Episcopal bishop of Washington, DC,  said she was not even given a courtesy call by the White House ahead of  the President's action. In fact, the bishop was outraged by the use of  physical force and tear gas in the shadow of her church to remove  peaceful protesters so that the church and the Bible could be used for  some photo opportunity. 

  President Trump has ``not acknowledged the agony of our country right  now,'' she said in an interview. ``Everything he has said and done is  to inflame violence.'' 

  President Trump's actions violate the sanctity of our First Amendment  freedoms and represent an abuse of his authority. We know this  President well after more than 3 years. As shocking as Monday night's  events were, they represent through and through who this President  really is. It is wrong. 

  The American people will have the last word in November, but I am  encouraged to see that in my home State of Illinois officials have  rejected the use of military force and are committed to American's  right to protest. Governor Pritzker said the President's call to send  troops to Illinois is ``illegal'' and ``ridiculous.'' Chicago Mayor  Lightfoot has called to ``turn our pain into purpose'' and to ``learn  from this moment and move forward together.'' 

  In my hometown of Springfield, IL, on Tuesday, three high school  students, young African-American women, sponsored a Black Lives Matter  rally, and 1,000 people in Springfield, IL, gathered peacefully to  demonstrate against racism in law enforcement. No windows were broken.  No one was arrested. They exercised their constitutional rights, and I  am damn proud of them. They speak for me and for America; that we still  have the right to stand up and express ourselves, and they did so  effectively. 

  Right now those around the President should look themselves in the  mirror and ask whose agenda they are serving and whether it is the  right agenda for America. The collective leadership of our military,  civilian and uniformed alike, needs to decide what kind of leaders they  want to be for the men and women in uniform they command and what  legacy they want to be associated with. Monday night was not the legacy  this country deserves. 

   Mariann Budde, the Episcopal bishop of       Washington, was seething. 

       President Trump had just visited St. John's Episcopal       Church, which sits across from the White House. It was a day       after a fire was set in the basement of the historic building       amid protests over the death of George Floyd in the custody       of Minneapolis police. 

       Before heading to the church, where presidents have       worshiped since the days of James Madison, Trump gave a       speech at the White House emphasizing the importance of law       and order. Federal officers then used force to clear a large       crowd of peaceful demonstrators from the street between the       White House and the church, apparently so Trump could make       the visit. 

       ``I am outraged,'' Budde said in a telephone interview a       short time later, pausing between words to emphasize her       anger as her voice slightly trembled. 

       She said she had not been given any notice that Trump would       be visiting the church and did not approve of the manner in       which the area was secured for his appearance. 

       ``I am the bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Washington       and was not given even a courtesy call, that they would be       clearing [the area] with tear gas so they could use one of       our churches as a prop,'' Budde said. 

       She excoriated the president for standing in front of the       church--its windows boarded up with plywood--holding up a       Bible, which Budde said ``declares that God is love.'' 

       ``Everything he has said and done is to inflame violence,''       Budde of the president. ``We need moral leadership, and he's       done everything to divide us.'' 

       In a written statement, Presiding Bishop Michael Curry,       head of the Episcopal denomination, accused Trump of using       ``a church building and the Holy Bible for partisan political       purposes.'' 

       ``This was done in a time of deep hurt and pain in our       country, and his action did nothing to help us or to heal       us,'' Curry wrote. 

       ``The prophet Micah taught that the Lord requires us to `do       justice, love mercy and walk humbly with our God,' '' he       continued, calling on Trump and others in power to be moral.       ``For the sake of George Floyd, for all who have wrongly       suffered, and for the sake of us all, we need leaders to       help us to be `one nation, under God, with liberty and       justice for all.' '' 

       Budde and Curry are among the pantheon of progressive       religious leaders who have long been critical of Trump's       political agenda. The Episcopal Church's policies include       supporting abortion rights, refugee resettlement, an       expansion of health care and other issues that Trump has       opposed or not embraced. According to the Pew Research       Center, 49 percent of Episcopalians are Democrats or lean       Democratic, compared with 39 percent of church members who       are Republican or lean Republican. 

       Trump's longtime religious allies, who are far more       conservative on both domestic and foreign policy, saw his       walk to St. John's much differently. ``What kind of church I       need PERMISSION to attend,'' tweeted Pastor Mark Burns of       South Carolina after Budde and others said Trump should have       let them know he was coming. ``Jesus welcomes All.'' 

       Johnnie Moore, a spokesman for several of Trump's       evangelical religious advisers, tweeted favorably about the       incident as well. 

       ``I will never forget seeing @POTUS @realDonaldTrump slowly       & in-total-command walk from the @WhiteHouse across Lafayette       Square to St. John's Church defying those who aim to derail       our national healing by spreading fear, hate & anarchy,'' he       wrote. ``After just saying, `I will keep you safe.' '' 

       Trump did not enter St. John's on Monday evening. No one       associated with the church was present for his visit. 

       Andrew Whitehead, a sociologist at Clemson University who       studies Christian nationalism, said the president's       appearance was an attempt to promote the idea of America as a       distinctly Christian nation after his Rose Garden speech. 

       ``Going to the church, not going in it, not meeting with       any clergy, holding up a Bible, but not quoting any       scripture, after an authoritarian speech, was about using the       religious symbolism for his ends,'' Whitehead said. 

       ``It was a signal to the people that embrace the idea of a       Christian nation, that he will defend Christianity in the       public sphere,'' Whitehead said. ``He said he'll make America       safe. That raised the question, for whom? It's largely for       white, mostly Protestant America.'' 

       Budde--who spent 18 years in as a rector in Minneapolis       before being elected bishop of the Washington diocese--said       the Episcopal Church disassociates itself from the messages       offered by the president. 

       ``We hold the teachings of our sacred texts to be so so       grounding to our lives and everything we do,'' she said. ``It       is about love of neighbor and sacrificial love and justice.'' 

       Following a tradition set by President Franklin D.       Roosevelt, Trump attended a service at St. John's before his       swearing-in ceremony in 2017. He visited the church again       that year to mark a national day of prayer for victims of       Hurricane Harvey and in 2019 on St. Patrick's Day. 

       Budde said she learned he was headed back to the yellow,       19th-century building on Monday by watching the news. 

       ``No one knew this was happening,'' she said. ``I don't       want President Trump speaking for St. John's.'' 

       The Rev. Robert W. Fisher, the church rector, said he felt       blindsided by the visit. Usually, the White House gives the       church at least 30 minutes' notice before the president comes       by. 

       ``We want St. John's to be a space for grace, as a place       where you can breathe,'' he said. ``Being used as a prop, it       really takes away from what we're trying to do.'' 

       Earlier in the day, Fisher said, he and other clergy were       outside the church handing out water bottles and granola bars       to protesters, and expressing solidarity with their cause. He       said he left the area to be interviewed on television about       the damage from the fire the previous night and later watched       images of the protest being dismantled ``with disbelief.'' 

       Fisher, 44, became the rector of St. John's in June 2019       and has not yet hosted a presidential visit. The church       usually draws       about 400 people on a typical weekend. But it has been closed       since mid-March due to the broad shutdown restrictions in       place to combat the novel coronavirus. 

       Damage to the building from Sunday night's fire and       vandalism will cost at least $20,000, Fisher said. But he       said the destruction should not become the focus of what has       been happening in the streets outside the White House. 

       Fisher said that when people have talked about the church       being burned, he has tried to redirect them, saying it was       likely one person who does not represent the majority of       people protesting. 

       ``That has pulled away from the more important message that       we have to address racism in this country,'' he said.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN.  Smith), and the  Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) are necessarily absent. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT