Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I am learning the etiquette of the mask as  we try to make certain we set a good example for our country that is  very attentive to the public healthcare crisis we face. 

  I listened carefully to the remarks of the Republican majority  leader. He spoke about the reconvening of the Senate this day, and he  talked about the work that we achieved a few weeks ago in passing the  CARES Act--$2.2 trillion in rescue funds for America--by 96 to nothing.  Then, by a voice vote, we passed $484 billion more--almost $2.7  trillion. That is an amount that is far in excess of the annual Federal  budget of the United States of America for domestic discretionary  spending, and we did it in a matter of days and weeks. We knew that we  were facing, as the President characterized it, a national emergency,  and we still do. 

  The Senate is here today because, against medical advice, the  majority leader has brought us back to Washington. We know what the  standard is  in the District of Columbia for the people who live here--to stay home;  not to meet in groups; to work away from your normal working place to  protect yourself, your family, and everyone else. Yet we are back in  town. The majority leader tells us we don't take days off. He says we  are here to do the Nation's business, which can only be done--that it  is only possible--when we are here. He talks about taking careful steps  back. I have been waiting for the majority leader to announce what the  business of this week will be. Boy, there are a lot of things we should  be doing. 

  I know, back home, from the endless telephone conference calls that I  am involved in and from the comments by my friends and neighbors in  Illinois, that there are many unanswered questions which they would  like this Congress to address. We have been waiting carefully,  expectantly, for the majority leader to announce what we are doing this  week that merits this return. It is not just because Members of the  Senate are being asked to come back. Listen, that is what we ran to do.  We promised the people of our States that we would be there to do the  business of the Senate and the Nation when called upon. Certainly, I  want to keep that promise. All of us do. Yet it is appropriate to ask  exactly what it is this week that we will be doing. 

  There is a noncontroversial nomination that will be before us in a  matter of 2 hours, which is likely to pass by an overwhelming vote.  That can't be the reason. There must be more, but what is it? There are  lots of things which the majority leader could bring us back to do. It  appears one of the things he is most intent on is to make certain that  we consider the nomination of a young district court judge from the  Commonwealth of Kentucky. This individual was nominated last year to  serve on the district court in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. His name  is Justin Walker. 

  Justin Walker has a distinction. He is one of nine Presidential  nominees who has been sent to the Senate Judiciary Committee by the  White House who has been judged ``not qualified'' by the American Bar  Association. It was the American Bar Association that said his absence  of any significant trial experience disqualified him to serve at the  lowest Federal court--a lifetime appointment, make no mistake. Yet it  seems Justin Walker is well connected with the majority leader by his  having served on his staff, at least as an intern, but it may be more-- I am not sure--and other connections that I am not aware of. It is  enough that his nomination has become a priority for the U.S. Senate,  which is interesting. Despite any ``career'' on the Federal district  court of less than 6 or 8 months and despite the fact that he has had  no trial experience by which to take that job, the majority leader,  Senator McConnell, wants this man to be elevated to the second highest  court in the land--the DC Circuit Court of Appeals. 

  I don't understand it. It is certainly hard to argue that this is  part of a response to a national health emergency in America. It has  nothing to do with it. It is a political decision, clearly, to elevate  this man--of all of the members of the Federal district court bench  across the Nation--to be next in line to be considered for the Supreme  Court. I hope he has seen a Federal trial in the time he has served on  the district court in Kentucky. I guess we will find out in the hearing  that has been called for on Wednesday of this week.  

  So, when the majority leader comes to us and says we have important  nominations that deal with national security, I am sorry, but Judge  Walker is not one of them. What we have in his confirmation hearing is  a political decision for political advancement at the risk of this  Senate and the hundreds of people who are working here today because we  have been called back. 

  What else could the Senate Judiciary Committee do other than to  entertain Senator McConnell's former intern to be raised to the second  highest court in the land? There are a number of things we might  consider. 

  I think one is contact tracing. Contact tracing is going to be the  key to opening our economy in America. Contact tracing says, if you  have been exposed to a person who has tested positive for COVID-19,  that we have ways--technological ways and other ways--to trace you and  notify you. That also raises questions about information and privacy,  which is one of the issues the Senate Judiciary Committee considers. 

  There is the Bureau of Prisons. Currently, at the Bureau of Prisons,  there is a raging conflict because there is raging infection. This is  not the only correctional institution that faces that, but it does.  Guards, correction officers, as well as the inmates themselves, are at  risk because COVID-19 is in the ranks of those serving time in our  prisons. Many States--even the Federal Government to some extent--are  considering the appropriate policy to keep America safe but also to  treat these individuals with fairness, especially those who are working  for the Federal Government and are doing what we ask them to do. That  is under the jurisdiction of the Senate Judiciary Committee. 

  Instead of this Kentucky nominee of Senator McConnell's, whom he  wants to move up quickly to the second highest court of the land,  shouldn't we be asking basic questions about the policies of the Bureau  of Prisons? 

  There are immigration issues too. It is interesting when you take a  look at the spokespersons when it comes to medicine. So many of them-- not all of them by any means--are new immigrants to America. I salute  all of our healthcare heroes. We have signs in our yard at home, and  others around the neighborhood do as well. We can't thank these men and  women enough for going to work every day and risking their lives every  day to keep us safe--doctors, nurses, lab technicians, those working in  nursing homes--and to treat those who are infected and save the lives  of the people we love. 

  As you listen on television to their comments about the risks they  are taking and the costs they are paying with their families and  others, I note how many of them are new immigrants to this country. It  is no surprise. Many of these people--well-trained and educated--come  to the United States for opportunities they can't get in their home  countries, and in terms of our healthcare, we prosper because of that  decision. Yet, when it comes to decisions by the U.S. Senate in dealing  with immigration and healthcare, you would think that we would have no  use for these people. 

  Take the DACA protectees--those who, under President Obama's  Executive order, have the protection of DACA so they will not be  deported from the United States and can legally work in the United  States. These are important people. I tried, with Senator Graham, in a  bipartisan amendment back 6 weeks ago, to say that their legal status  in America would be respected at least until the end of this calendar  year so they could continue to be here without the fear of deportation,  and it was stopped. 

  According to Senator Graham, the comment from one of his colleagues  was: There go Durbin and Graham again, working on the Dream Act. 

  Yes, I am. I am still working on the Dream Act. Do you know why I am  doing this? It is that, out of the 780,000 DACA protectees, at least  41,000 of them are in the healthcare field today. 

  When it come to those here in the United States who have temporary  protected status--at least 11,000 of them--are we ready to say publicly  what some Members of the Senate say privately: ``Let them leave. We  don't need them''? I am not going to say that. I know better, and so do  families across America. Thank goodness for these healthcare heroes-- those born in the United States and those not born in the United  States--who have come here to help us through this public healthcare  crisis. Immigration is an issue for the Senate Judiciary Committee.  Will there be a hearing this week? None have been posted that relate to  this COVID-19 challenge. We haven't even addressed it. 

  What about profiteering? Wouldn't that be an interesting issue for us  to have a hearing on in the Senate Judiciary Committee--violations of  current law? As I mentioned, I spent my time in telephone conference  with a lot of people who are buying protective equipment-- administrators of hospitals, clinics, and medical professionals  themselves. They report what is happening. It came from Fairfield, IL,  which is a smaller community in downstate Illinois, where the hospital  administrator said: Senator, we used to  pay 22 cents for a surgical gown at this hospital. The price is now  between $11 and $20 apiece. Somebody is ripping them off. They know it,  I know it, and the Senate Judiciary Committee should know it too.  

  This is another issue we could take up and that I hope we would  consider. Instead, we have McConnell's nominee for the DC Circuit Court  of Appeals, which he considers to be vital national business. I don't  see it that way. What I see is a lot of people here who are gathered in  the Capitol, doing their jobs as they were hired to do and as they are  dedicated to perform--at risk. I am prepared to be here because that is  what I ran for office to do, but I would hope it would be for something  substantive in order to deal with real issues of national security and,  certainly, issues related to this national health emergency. 

  The District of Columbia and the States on either side of the  District--Maryland and Virginia--all continue to record new cases of  COVID infection and death. They have not seen a 2-week decline in new  COVID cases, which the White House announced as a guideline a few weeks  ago, that is necessary to begin the first phase of reopening. The  opposite is true. In this Washington Metropolitan Area, where we have  been called in to work today, we find a COVID hotspot. In the week  ending last Thursday, the District, Maryland, and Virginia recorded  20,000 new COVID cases--a staggering amount of sickness and suffering.  All three jurisdictions remain under stay-at-home orders to try to curb  the spread of this deadly virus in order to save lives and ease the  burden on our exhausted medical workers. 

  My State of Illinois also remains under a stay-at-home order as do  more than half of the States. Not one State in America has yet to meet  the first requirement of safety to reopen our schools and businesses  and communities in this pandemic. That first requirement is a 2-week  decline in new infections. Like millions of Americans, Members of the  Senate and our staffs have been working from home for the last 6 weeks  to try to save lives and keep our health system from collapsing. 

  I do have to take exception to the statement made by Senator  McConnell when he said: Across America, you don't get to take days off.  I have been on the phone every single day--my colleagues, the same-- talking to people in their own home States, dealing with challenges and  issues that face businesses and labor unions and charities and  hospitals. The list is so long that I don't know where to start or  where to end. Yet he would suggest I was home, taking a day off. 

  Out of my home, Senator McConnell, my kitchen became my surrogate  office, and I am sure many Senators will say the same. I worked as hard  there as I do in this building--maybe harder on some days. So we didn't  take days off. We have negotiated a nearly half-trillion-dollar COVID  emergency aid package for our home States--a life support package to  provide much needed resources for testing and for our heroic healthcare  workers. 

  When you take a look at the issue of lost revenue, I spoke to the  mayor of the District of Columbia a few minutes ago. She talked about  revenue that is, obviously, lost to her--hundreds of millions of  dollars that she has to face in the next budget--all related to the  COVID and all related to the downturn in our economy. The same thing is  true in my State and virtually every other State. 

  This COVID crisis has taken its toll on business activity, on the  attendance at events, on purchases. It means less revenue going into  the coffers of States and local governments. We provided $150 billion  for this purpose in the original CARES bill. Many of us believe we need  to stand up for them again. You can't give speeches on the floor about  your respect for the police and first responders and firefighters and  then say it is a darned shame that the people who employ them will not  be able to pay them in the months ahead. 

  As for this notion of declaring bankruptcy, what an economic disaster  that would be if States and local governments were declaring bankruptcy  right and left, not to mention the real hardship it would cause among  first responders and those healthcare workers, including nurses, whom  we value so much. So many of them who are employed by State and local  governments would suffer if the suggestion of bankruptcy went forward. 

  We can legislate without violating public health guidelines and  risking making this pandemic worse. So the urgent business of the  Senate should be the COVID challenge that we face everywhere. In our  coming back to Washington, why isn't that a priority that has been  announced? At this moment, we don't know what will happen with the  Senate's agenda tomorrow or in the 2 or 3 days after. If it relates to  COVID-19, count me in. If it relates to true national security, count  me in. Yet, if we are just coming here because of a promise made to a  38-year-old Federal judge in Kentucky, it doesn't meet the test. As I  mentioned before, this nominee was judged ``not qualified,'' and he has  made statements that are openly hostile to the Affordable Care Act,  which I would like to address for a moment.  

  When we passed the Affordable Care Act about 10 years ago, the goal  was to reduce the number of Americans who had no health insurance. It  was successful. In the State of Illinois, it cut in half the number of  uninsured--people without health insurance. Its critics didn't vote for  it; have not come up with an alternative to it; and like this Justin  Walker, the Federal judge in Kentucky, have been openly contemptuous of  the notion of moving our Nation toward full healthcare coverage. I  don't think that argument is as compelling today, under the current  circumstances, if it ever were. All of us appreciate the need for a  real safety net. All of us understand, without real health insurance  protection at this moment in history, the people we love--our children,  our spouses, our parents--would be at risk because they wouldn't have  access to good, quality healthcare. 

  This is a situation in which this judicial nominee--Mr. Walker, who  was found ``not qualified'' for the Federal district court position--is  now openly contemptuous of the Affordable Care Act and argues that it  should be eliminated at this moment in history--the assurance of  healthcare and health insurance protection. Is he the person we want on  the second highest court in the land? In the midst of the most deadly  health crisis and the most devastating economic catastrophe of our  times, the majority leader's agenda remains unchanged--to fill the  Federal bench at any cost. 

  The Trump administration's response to the COVID-19 crisis has  shocked many people. America has 5 percent of the world's population.  Yet we have one-third of the world's COVID infections and more than 25  percent of the COVID deaths. Let me say that again. America has 5  percent of the world's population and more than 25 percent of the COVID  deaths. As of this morning, 67,682 Americans have died of this  ferocious virus. They include my friends, people I know, and members of  my family. In my State of Illinois, we have lost 2,618 men, women, and  children to this pandemic. When the Senate left Washington, DC, 6 weeks  ago to work from home, there were 5,000 COVID infections in my State.  There are more than 50,000 today. We are No. 2 in testing, so our  numbers, I think, are more accurate than in many other States. 

  Americans feel great anxiety and sadness, but these healthcare  professionals keep our heads up and our focus very clear. These  essential heroes are doctors, nurses, respiratory therapists,  pharmacists, and the men and women who make sure there is food in these  hospitals and that the floors are clean. They include postal workers,  grocery store clerks, truckdrivers, law enforcement officers, teachers  who continue to teach our kids and help to keep them safe. They are all  part of this national effort. I would say that the notion of  homeschooling, or e-schooling, which is now very common across America,  has renewed the appreciation of many parents for what the teachers are  doing every single day to help their kids. 

  In my State and every State, people of color have suffered more than  their share of COVID sickness and death, partly because of longstanding  health inequities that leave people of color with more preexisting  health conditions, partly because of barriers to healthcare, and partly  because Black and Brown people fill so many jobs  that are deemed essential. One major hospital in Chicago told me that  half the people who died from COVID-19 in their hospital were  uninsured, many of them Hispanic. They are people who may or may not  have health insurance. They are desperate to work and earn a living.  Some of them are afraid that they or some member of their family may be  deported if they show up to a hospital to report themselves sick, so  they wait until it is literally too late, and they die. 

  We have seen our economy shut down and a lot of hardship as a result.  Many owners of businesses, restaurants, and others have talked to me  and others in the Senate about how soon we can reopen. But most of  them, not all of them, most of them understand that going through this  kind of shutdown of our economy and our personal lives is bad--bad if  we do it one time; it is horrible to think about doing it a second time  if we reopen too soon in the wrong way. 

  In my State, 830,000 people filed for unemployment insurance between  March 1 and April 25. They are among the 30 million Americans who filed  for unemployment since COVID came to America--40 million. That is the  fastest, deepest loss of jobs we have ever seen. To reopen our States  and Nation before we have done the hard and careful work required to  open safely only risks more infection, more death, more lost jobs, and  more economic hardship. Reopening before we can reopen safely risks  overwhelming our hospitals and ICUs. We need to listen to public health  experts, the doctors and the nurses, many of whom have worked past  exhaustion. We need to be responsible and not give in to chance on the  street. 

  What is the essential work that the Senate should be doing?  Investigating why we do not have enough testing in this country that is  essential to reopening the economy and working with State, local, and  Tribal governments to help them hire and train the estimated 300,000  contact tracers needed to reopen America safely. Rather than forcing  States to bid against each other, we have to plead with the President  to use his authority under the Defense Production Act to produce here  in America the respirators and other PPE that is essential for workers  and their families. We have to provide oversight for the Paycheck  Protection Program and make sure those loans are going to small  business as we originally intended and not to wealthy hedge fund  operators. We ought to be working to shore up the U.S. Postal Service,  an essential public service created under the Constitution. What a  reminder it has been to all of us staying at home, watching that letter  carrier come by every single day. It is a bright spot, with his big  smile, greeted by everybody on my street with gratitude for his  continuing work day in and day out. That is what our Postal Service is.  For them to be degraded and insulted by the critics is totally unfair-- totally unfair. 

  We ought to be making plans to ensure that every American voter can  vote by mail in the November election, given the likelihood that this  lethal virus will still be threatening us. If this Senate is going to  gather as a body in this pandemic against the medical advice of some  and the sound judgment of others, let's make sure our work is  essential. We are still waiting for a report from our Republican  majority leader about the agenda that brought us to Washington and that  brings us here this week, ready to work, ready to address the COVID-19  crisis that faces our country. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN.  Stabenow), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr.  Udall), and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) are  necessarily absent. 

  The result was announced--yeas 87, nays 0, as follows:                         [Rollcall Vote No. 81 Ex.]                                  YEAS--87       Alexander      Baldwin      Barrasso      Bennet      Blackburn      Blumenthal      Blunt      Booker      Boozman      Braun      Burr      Cantwell      Capito      Cardin      Carper      Casey      Cassidy      Collins        Coons      Cornyn      Cortez Masto      Cotton      Crapo      Cruz      Daines      Duckworth      Durbin      Enzi      Ernst      Feinstein      Fischer      Gardner      Gillibrand      Graham      Grassley      Harris      Hassan      Hawley      Hirono      Hoeven      Hyde-Smith      Inhofe      Johnson      Jones      Kaine      Kennedy      King      Klobuchar      Lankford      Loeffler      Manchin      Markey      McConnell      McSally      Menendez      Merkley      Murkowski      Murphy      Paul      Perdue      Peters      Portman      Reed      Risch      Roberts      Romney      Rosen      Rounds      Sasse      Schumer      Scott (FL)      Scott (SC)      Shaheen      Shelby      Sinema      Smith      Sullivan      Tester      Thune      Tillis      Toomey      Van Hollen      Warner      Warren      Wicker      Wyden      Young                               NOT VOTING--13       Brown      Cramer      Heinrich      Leahy      Lee      Moran      Murray      Rubio      Sanders      Schatz      Stabenow      Udall      Whitehouse 

  The nomination was confirmed. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT