Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, last week the Senate concluded the  impeachment proceeding. I heard one of my colleagues say it is the most  serious thing that the U.S. Senate has the constitutional authority to  do. That argument can be made, but I would disagree. 

  I think the most serious thing we are assigned under the Constitution  is the declaration of war because, you see, it isn't just a matter of  the political fate of any individual; it is the matter of the lives of  many good people in America who serve in our Armed Forces, who may be  in danger if we decide to go to war. Even under the best circumstances,  a quick and effective war can lead to the deaths of brave and innocent  Americans who are simply serving their country. That is why the  comments made by the majority leader this morning need to be responded  to. 

  His suggestion that Senator Kaine's War Powers Resolution is a  mistake, I think, really ignores the obvious. It has been 18 years-- almost 18 years--since Congress and the Senate had an active debate  about the United States engaging in war. I remember that debate in 2002  very well because it was a debate that consumed the attention of the  Senate, the House, and the Nation over whether we would invade Iraq and  whether we would invade Afghanistan. 

  Most of us remember the argument made by the Bush administration for  the invasion of Iraq. We were told there were weapons of mass  destruction in that country that could threaten the  neighbors of Iraq, our allies, and even the United States. Over and  over again we heard that phrase, ``weapons of mass destruction,''  ``weapons of mass destruction.'' 

  I was serving on the Senate Intelligence Committee at that time. I  remember the classified testimony behind closed doors. I had serious  doubts in my mind as to whether they had established that weapons of  mass destruction actually existed and whether authorizing a war meant  we would just use that as a device to force Iraq into better conduct or  we would actually invade their country. 

  As a consequence, I joined 22 other Senators in voting against the  invasion of Iraq, which we voted on the floor of the Senate in 2002.  Twenty-two Democrats and one Republican all voted against that invasion  of Iraq. Obviously, we did not prevail. A majority gave that authority  to President George W. Bush, and the invasion was underway. I can still  remember it. 

  I can remember the unfolding events as our troops arrived, made their  impact on that nation, and eventually took control of Iraq. 

  Then the search was on for the weapons of mass destruction, which led  to our invasion of Iraq. The search continued for days and weeks and  months without any evidence of weapons of mass destruction. It was a  farce. It was a fraud on the American public. Almost 5,000 Americans  lost their lives because of our invasion of Iraq, but the premise, the  pretense that led to that invasion was misleading information from the  administration. But at least I will say this: There was a debate. There  was a vote on the floor of the Senate. Did anyone at that time believe,  18 years ago, that we were voting for a war in Iraq that would continue  for 18 years? 

  On the invasion of Afghanistan, the argument was made to convince me  and virtually every Member of Congress that the parties responsible for  the tragedy and terror of 9/11 were somehow camped in Afghanistan, and  we needed to go after ISIS and all those responsible for that 9/11  invasion of the United States. I voted for that, but I have to say as  well, there wasn't a single Senator or Member of the House who really  believed that 18 years later, we would still be at war in Afghanistan.  Yet we are. 

  The President is now talking about removing more troops from  Afghanistan. We will see. We have heard these promises before, but  perhaps it will lead to such a decision by the administration. 

  The point I am getting to is, the Kaine War Powers Resolution--I see  Senator Kaine has come to the floor--really addresses the most  fundamental question of our constitutional authority and responsibility  to declare war. As Senator Kaine says in this resolution, which I am  happy to cosponsor, Congress has the sole power to declare war under  article I, section 8, clause 11, of the U.S. Constitution. 

  When I heard Senator McConnell come to the floor this morning and  argue against the Senate stepping forward and asserting its  constitutional authority, I wondered, how does he explain in the  Commonwealth of Kentucky that we are still engaged in a war 18 years  after there was any vote for an authorization for use of military force  in Iraq and Afghanistan? 

  The larger question Senator Kaine and I tried to raise in this  resolution is, What does this mean in terms of our future relationship  with Iran and their neighbor, Iraq? We know we have had a rocky and  contentious relationship with that country. We know they have engaged  in acts of terrorism that cost American lives. There has been tension  between our countries for decades. We know that full well. 

  President Obama tried to at least bring some sanity to the  relationship by limiting the ability of the Iranians to develop nuclear  weapons. He felt, I felt, and most Americans felt that was a step in  the right direction, to take the nuclear weapons out of the hands of  Iraq so that even if they are engaged in conduct we find reprehensible,  it would not reach that horrible level of a nuclear confrontation. 

  I thought the President was right. I supported President Obama's  efforts to develop this inspection mechanism where international  inspectors would come into Iran and see if they were developing weapons  and report to the world. 

  We engaged countries around the world to join us in this effort to  stop the development of nuclear weapons in Iran. It was an incredible  coalition that included Russia and China and the European nations that  joined with us to impose this limitation of nuclear weapons in Iran. I  thought it was a move in the right direction to have this kind of  international support. 

  Yet, when President Trump took office, sadly, he kept his promise to  eliminate that nuclear control agreement between the United States,  Iran, and the other parties. By eliminating it, he basically gave  permission to the Iranians to continue development of nuclear weapons.  Yet he warned the Iranians that if they did, there would be a price to  pay. 

  This is the very reason why this resolution by Senator Kaine is  relevant and why we need to consider what the next step will be,  because if we are going to stop the Iranians from developing nuclear  weapons--and I pray they will not--how are we going to do it and how  much force will we use in response? Will it be authorized by the  Constitution and by Congress? 

  I listened to Senator McConnell this morning, and he has basically  said to do nothing. Do nothing. Don't assert the constitutional  authority of the Congress under the Constitution when it comes to any  declaration of war against Iran or any future military endeavors. He  described this as a one-off situation, a one-off use of force that we  have currently seen in the targeting of General Soleimani. Perhaps it  was, but we don't know the answer to that. When it happened a few weeks  ago, there was real uncertainty about what would follow, and I suppose  that uncertainty is still here to this day. 

  This morning, the majority leader said that he thought the  impeachment effort that came to the Senate over the last week would not  have occurred if we had been patient, and he said this is another  example of impatience where we are setting up this constitutional  responsibility of the administration. 

  Well, I disagree with him on two counts. If Senator McConnell is  counseling patience, patience in an impeachment trial would certainly  have involved evidence, documents, and witnesses. Yet he was impatient  to get it over with without any evidence coming before the Senate. 

  I also would say that patience is a good virtue when it comes to most  of life's experiences, and it certainly is if there is a prospect of  war. 

  What Senator Kaine is doing is asserting the authority of Congress to  step up and be party to discussions about whether we move beyond the  current situation to one that involves troops or any type of invasion  of territory in Iran. 

  I see Senator Kaine is on the floor, and I will defer to him in a  moment, but I will tell you this before I sit down: As long as I have  been a Member of the House and Senate, I have felt that Congress has a  responsibility under the Constitution to declare war. It is a  responsibility that most Members of Congress talk about a lot but,  frankly, don't want to face. They don't want to be on the record for or  against war for fear they will guess wrong in terms of certain foreign  policy decisions. 

  Regardless, I think the Framers of our Constitution understood full  well that if we are going to ask American families to potentially  sacrifice the lives of their sons and daughters in combat, in a war,  they should have a voice in the decision on going to war. That is what  this article in the Constitution provides--a voice for the U.S. public  that comes through the Congress as to whether we are going to engage in  a war. Otherwise, we find ourselves in a situation like today, 18 years  after an authorization of use of military force--and part of it under  false pretenses--continuing a military effort that was never truly  authorized. 

  I support Senator Kaine's effort. I am glad it is a bipartisan  resolution. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, we are likely to postpone a vote this  week that had been scheduled on a Congressional Review Act resolution  of disapproval relative to Education Secretary Betsy DeVos's new  borrower defense rule. I would like to explain the background behind  this procedure. Although it is likely it will be postponed until after  our 1-week President's Day recess, I still think Members should reflect  on the importance of this measure. 

  In 1992 Congress added a provision to the Higher Education Act that  allowed student borrowers who were defrauded by their schools to have  their Federal student loans discharged. Here is what it boiled down to:  The Federal Government recognizes the accreditation of colleges and  universities. With that recognition, those colleges and universities  can offer Federal loans to the students who attend. So there is a  partnership that begins this process and this relationship, and the  partnership is a seal of approval by the Federal Government in the  authorization of Federal loans. 

  What we found was that some of the institutions that were given  permission to authorize Federal student loans for those attending their  institutions, in fact, were lying to their students. So the students  were in a situation where they incurred a debt in student loans for  promises made by a college or university that turned out to be false. 

  We said that under the law, that is not fair to the student and the  student's family. Those students can be discharged from federal student  debt if, in fact, that college or university defrauded them. 

  What would be a typical fraud? To invite students to enroll in your  college with the promise that the courses they take in that college  would be transferrable, that the credits are transferrable to another  school, and then it turns out to be a lie; the promise that if you  complete a certain number of courses in the school, you will have  satisfied the requirements for licensure for nursing, for example, and  that turns out to be a lie; or the possibility that you would finish  the courses of this school and get a job in a certain field. 

  Great promises were made to the students, and it turns out they were  lies. In those circumstances, students--many of whom are young and  facing the first serious financial decision of their lives--were misled  and defrauded. We said that under the law, those students should have  an opportunity to discharge their student loan. 

  It is bad enough they were lied to, bad enough they wasted their  time, and bad enough they had a college experience that didn't make  life better for them, but to be saddled with debt because that school  lied to them and defrauded them is unacceptable. The process for having  their loans discharged is called borrower defense. 

  Under President Obama, we found that many schools--almost exclusively  for-profit universities such as Corinthian, ITT, and others--lied to  students about what their experience would be if they went there. So  the students, saddled with debt, having been lied to, went to the  Department of Education to have that debt discharged. There was some  success in that, but then came the new President. 

  President Trump, with his Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos, took a  much different view and has ignored the claims of these students for  discharge of their student loans. They started stacking up, and nearly  230,000 students from across the United States who were looking for  this borrower defense relief from their student loans, after having  been lied to and defrauded by these colleges and universities, just  found no response whatsoever from the Trump administration and from  Education Secretary DeVos. As a consequence, they asked Members of  Congress to intervene, and we tried but with no success. 

  Then Secretary DeVos took this decisive step in changing the rules  for future students. Do you know what she said? She said to these  students: In the future, if you want relief from student debt from  being defrauded, prove your case. Lawyer-up. Get your lawyer, and let's  have a hearing. 

  Well, understand that these students--young and in debt to start  with--are not likely to turn around and hire a lawyer to prove  Corinthian, in its catalogues and representations to students, for  example, misrepresented the education they were offering. 

  Under the previous administration, that could be established in  evidence, and all the students affected by it could use that evidence.  Under the DeVos administration, it is an individual burden of proof to  qualify for borrower defense. So that will leave many students with no  recourse. As a consequence, they will be stuck with the debt for a  worthless education or one that didn't meet as promised. 

  More than 223,000 claims are pending before the Department. Many of  them have been waiting for years. The claims come from every State in  the Union--large, small, red, blue and purple--and they are not going  to stop. These claims have led to this CRA, this Congressional Review  Act resolution of disapproval. 

  I doubt that we are going to be taking it up this week, so I am going  to withhold making a presentation on this until we return after the  President's Day recess. But I want to make one last point. We are not  just bringing this up on behalf of students; we are bringing this  matter before the Senate on behalf of veterans. Student veterans. 

  The American Legion of the United States has stepped up and said to  us that veterans have been defrauded just like the students we are  talking about on the floor of the Senate. 

  If you believe in these veterans and these military families who are  stuck with student loan debt because of lies from colleges and  universities, I urge my colleagues to think twice and join us in this  effort to stop the DeVos rules and give our veterans a fighting chance  not to be burdened with this unfair debt. 

  Madam President,                       Recognition of the Minority Leader  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN.  Klobuchar), the Senator from Vermont  (Mr. Sanders), and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) are  necessarily absent. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT