Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, we are going to complete 3 weeks of  Senate activity, called together by Senator McConnell at a time when  the House of Representatives, under the guidance of Dr. Monahan, who  was just praised--and I join in that praise--was not in session when  the Senate came to session. 

  I said at the time that it was our responsibility to be here. That is  why we ran for office. Important things need to be decided, and we need  to be part of it for the good of the Nation. 

  We are about to complete 3 straight weeks without one measure on the  floor of the Senate relating to the national public health emergency-- not one. There have been hearings in some committees, yes, but activity  on the floor of the Senate, no. No bill was brought to the floor. 

  In fact, there was an attempt yesterday to bring a resolution that  said the United States should be involved in the global international  effort to find a vaccine. It was objected to on the Republican side.  The reason the Senator objected to it--the chairman of the Senate  Foreign Relations Committee--is that he wants to take up the measure in  his committee at some later date. I encourage that Senator to do it  quickly. 

  I think there is a sense of urgency across America in terms of this  national health emergency that we face.  Yet there is not a sense of urgency on the Republican side of the  aisle, despite the fact that for 3 weeks we have not considered one  measure on the floor related to this COVID-19 virus, which is  unexplainable and indefensible. 

  Senator McConnell, of Kentucky, has told us that he doesn't sense the  urgency for us to take up the measure passed last week by the House of  Representatives. This was a bipartisan measure that was brought to the  floor of the House of Representatives, which attempted to move us  forward from the original CARES Act, the $3 trillion of cumulative  spending that we have focused on the economy and the public health  challenge facing our Nation. 

  Is there any urgency to it? Well, I sense that urgency every time I  pick up the phone or read the newspaper in my State of Illinois. I am  on conference call after conference call with groups across our State  that are concerned about economic issues, as well as public health  issues. There is truly a sense of urgency where I live. I cannot  believe that Senator McConnell doesn't sense it in his own State of  Kentucky. 

  Kentucky hospitals and healthcare providers have received $900  million in CARES Act funding. I don't question whether they were  deserving or needed it; we received funds, as well, in the State of  Illinois. But the Kentucky Hospital Association tells us that the  hospitals in Kentucky are expected to lose $1.3 billion in March and  April alone. 

  You know, we are next door to Kentucky, and my hospitals in downstate  southern Illinois, right next to Kentucky, have told me the same thing.  They are losing money right and left. Do they think this is an urgent  problem in Illinois? You bet they do, and I will bet the hospitals in  Kentucky do as well. 

  This is what the vice president of the Kentucky Hospital Association,  Carl Herde, said: ``Since there is no clear path to recoup these  losses, the hospitals are left with no choice but to look at their own  operations to cut as much cost as they possibly can.'' 

  The University of Kentucky is projecting a $160 million loss for its  healthcare system. It has furloughed 1,500 employees. Jenny Stuart  Health in Hopkinsville, KY, has furloughed 248 staff members.  Appalachian Regional Health in Lexington will furlough 500 employees.  St. Claire Health in Morehead is furloughing 300. Pikeville Medical  Center has furloughed 200. 

  Is there a sense of urgency in these communities, when many of these  hospitals are the largest employers in town and hundreds of people are  being furloughed because of the COVID virus, because of the fact that  they cannot resume ordinary hospital operations with this shadow of  infection hanging over them? 

  The bill that passed the House of Representatives last week, which we  did not consider or even discuss, to my knowledge, in the Senate this  week, the HEROES Act, called for more than $100 billion more in relief  to hospitals. How important is that? 

  I know how important it is in Illinois; I can tell you flat-out. As a  downstater, when you take a look at the rural and smalltown hospitals  in my State, they are struggling. 

  One hospital administrator told me that she had scheduled four  elective surgeries last Monday, a week ago, and only one patient showed  up. The other three called in and said they were too frightened to go  to the hospital and run the risk of being exposed to the COVID virus. I  cannot imagine there is not the same situation going on in Kentucky. 

  Isn't there a sense of urgency in Kentucky, as in Illinois, for us to  move and move quickly to help these hospitals before they furlough more  people and ultimately face closure--a disaster in any community that we  want to urgently avoid? 

  State and local governments are struggling now to pay teachers, first  responders, and healthcare workers as they face record revenue losses  and increased costs of fighting the virus. The measure that passed the  House of Representatives last week had almost $1 trillion to help these  State and local governments--not just in Illinois but in every State,  including the Commonwealth of Kentucky. 

  In States around the country, red and blue--the Center for Budget and  Policy Priorities estimates that States will lose $650 billion in  revenues by next summer. By the end of the year, Kentucky is expected  to lose between 10 and 17 percent of its annual revenues. Without help  from the Federal Government, Kentucky's Governor announced that  Kentucky's ``recession will be longer or unemployment will be  greater.'' 

  Congress appropriated $150 billion in funding for State and local  governments in the original CARES Act, but that funding is not enough  to make up for the enormous losses that are being faced by State and  local governments across the United States. These Governors, these  mayors, these leaders have a sense of urgency in making up this  revenue. They face the reality of cutbacks in police, firefighters,  first responders, paramedics, nurses, doctors, and teachers 

  The HEROES Act which passed the House of Representatives last week  and which has not been considered this week in the Senate included $875  billion in fiscal relief for State and localities to help cover the  shortfall to make sure communities can continue to pay frontline  essential workers. 

  Understand the deadlines that were built into the CARES Act. The  first deadline is June 8. That is the date by which small businesses  that borrowed money under the payroll protection part of that act need  to have spent the money in order to have the loan forgiven--June 8. 

  Who among us believes that small businesses will be in a position to  recover and get back to business as usual by June? I pray that is the  case, but I know better in my home State and I will bet you in the  State of Kentucky as well. 

  How about unemployment? We came through in the CARES Act and did  something dramatic and unprecedented. We said that we were going to  give an extra payment, a Federal payment, to those who were unemployed  so that they could weather this storm as their families try to adjust  to no breadwinner in the house--$600 a week on top of whatever the  State benefit of unemployment might be. For some families, it was just  enough to get by. 

  Understand, though, that benefit--that unemployment benefit of $600  from the Federal Government each week--is going to end at the end of  July. That is not that far way. We are talking about 10 weeks at the  most. Do we honestly believe the unemployment crisis, with 36 million  unemployed Americans, will be behind us by the end of July? I wish that  were the case, but we know better. In my State of Illinois, I know  better. 

  We are hoping to start reopening the economy in a safe, responsible,  careful way and to give these small businesses a fighting chance to  open their doors again and survive, but it is going to be a struggle,  and many of them won't make it. 

  Earlier this month, 69,000 people filed new unemployment claims in  Kentucky--a 4,000-percent increase from last year. Do those families  who are now unemployed feel that this response, this Federal assistance  in unemployment benefits, is urgent? Well, you bet it is. How many of  those in Illinois or Kentucky believe they won't need this help after  the end of July this year? July--the same month the $600-per-week  unemployment benefits expire--the unemployment rate in Kentucky has  been projected to be 16.3 percent--the 10th highest in the Nation. Yet  the Republican leader says there is no sense of urgency in moving on  this measure that was considered by the House of Representatives and  passed last week. 

  The IRS has sent out almost 2 million economic impact payments to  that State of Kentucky, worth more than $3 billion, helping families  put food on the table and pay their rent and their mortgage. 

  When you take a look at that economic impact payment, understand that  the measure that passed the House, which we did not bring to the floor  this week in the U.S. Senate, calls for $1,200 more for each adult and  $1,200 for each child. Do families need it in Illinois? You bet they  do. 

  Even though it was originally proposed by President Trump, politics  had nothing to do with the support that it received from both political  parties--the support that this measure that just passed the House  should receive from  both parties here in the Senate as well. There is a sense of urgency  when it comes to these cash payments to people who are struggling to  make ends meet. The bill that passed the House includes a second round  of these critical payments and makes sure that we extend the  unemployment benefits beyond the end of July. 

  According to the Kentucky Center for Economic Policy, tens of  thousands of Kentuckians have lost their health insurance as a result  of this pandemic. What a moment in life to lose your health insurance-- in the midst of a pandemic, with people facing hospitalizations,  treatment in and out of the hospital and in some cases ICUs, to think  that you would be without health insurance? 

  The measure that passed the House of Representatives last week, which  was not brought to the floor by the Republicans this week in the  Senate, includes a provision to ensure that people who have lost their  health insurance as a result of becoming unemployed can remain on their  employer healthcare plan without paying any premiums. In other words,  we want to make sure that people have health insurance rather than lose  it. Was that brought up this week for debate and consideration in the  Senate? No. No, it wasn't. Is it a matter of urgency if you are facing  the loss of health insurance in the middle of this coronavirus  epidemic? Of course it is. 

  The Paycheck Protection Program still has funding left in it to  provide some loans, but businesses have to spend the money within 8  weeks of receiving the loan or it won't be forgiven. Many small  business owners across the United States are facing a June 8 deadline,  struggling to spend the money due to the fact that they still haven't  been able to open their doors. 

  The HEROES Act, which passed the House of Representatives and was not  brought up for consideration in the Senate this week, which it could  have been, would extend the deadline an additional 16 weeks, providing  small businesses 24 weeks to spend the money they were loaned by the  SBA, and it would authorize the Paycheck Protection Program through the  end of the year to ensure that we can continue to help small businesses  through this difficult time. 

  Is there a sense of urgency in small businesses in my State to extend  this period that you can spend the money as a small business and have  your loan forgiven? Of course there is a sense of urgency in Illinois,  in North Carolina, in Georgia, and in Kentucky--across the United  States. Why the Senate Republican leader does not feel a sense of  urgency on this measure, which ultimately ends on June 30, is beyond  me. 

  I have heard from farmers across my State who are struggling to  survive, asking for help. I have heard from the Census Bureau about the  need to push back its response deadline to October 31--measures also  included in the HEROES Act that passed the House of Representatives. 

  Three weeks have ended here on the floor of the Senate, and, but for  a few speeches on this floor, if you read the record of legislative  activity, you would wonder if the leaders in the Senate even realize we  are facing a pandemic. We have spent our time on nomination after  nomination. We have spent our time in hearings on friends and those who  pass political muster who want lifetime appointments to the Federal  court. But somehow we have managed to miss the biggest story in  America--the pandemic. 

  I would say to Senator McConnell and the Republican leadership: We  have wasted an opportunity--a 3-week opportunity--to move forward, and  we have particularly wasted this week when we could have taken up the  measure that passed the House of Representatives last week. 

  Are we prepared to negotiate a compromise? Of course we are. We have  done that every time we have brought up a measure related to the  pandemic. It should be bipartisan in the end. But to say it is ``dead  on arrival'' and there is no sense of urgency among the Republicans in  the Senate to take up this measure is to ignore the obvious. Whether it  is $1,200 payments to American citizens who are struggling to get by,  whether it is an increased period of time for qualification to receive  unemployment insurance, whether it is loans to small businesses so they  can survive, these are the urgent needs of America.  

  When we have hospitals furloughing employees in Illinois, in  Kentucky, and around the Nation, we run the risk of losing these great  hospitals that are needed for the future. 

  Is it urgent that we take up this matter? Of course it is. Yet this  week we have done nothing, zero, when it comes to this measure. 

  We are going to leave now for the Memorial Day week, which means it  will be about 2 weeks before we return. I can just about guarantee that  the sense of urgency across America will be palpable at that time. The  question is whether there will be a sense of urgency felt by the  Republican leader from the State of Kentucky. 

  The other day, my friend and colleague from Texas, Senator Cornyn,  came to the floor, as he has before, to discuss the issue of liability  and immunity as part of the conversation on the next measure of relief  and rescue for our economy. 

  For weeks, Senator McConnell and Senator Cornyn have said that unless  Congress gives broad legal immunity to corporations, they would block  emergency aid to help States and local governments avoid massive  layoffs of policemen, firefighters, and teachers. The logic behind this  position is hard to fathom. 

  There has been no flood of COVID-19 lawsuits. There is a website  maintained by the law firm Hunton Andrews Kurth that tracks all the  lawsuits filed in America based on COVID-19. Senator McConnell has  cited this tracking. That tracker updated its numbers as of yesterday.  It reported that out of 1.5 million confirmed COVID-19 cases and 90,000  deaths, there have been 2--2--COVID-19 medical malpractice cases filed  in the United States in over 1,000 complaints that have been filed and  26 cases alleging workplace exposure to COVID-19. The Senator from  Kentucky has called this a tidal wave of lawsuits, a windfall for trial  lawyers--2 cases of medical malpractice and 26 cases for workplace  exposure? 

  The other cases that mention COVID-19 relate to prisoners in prisons  and jails, who are questioning whether their rights are being violated  because of the health circumstances in the prisons. There are lawsuits  against insurance companies as to whether the policy covers a business  that has suffered losses because of the COVID virus. There have been  lawsuits as well between businesses as to responsibility for it. But  this notion of a tidal wave of lawsuits being filed--2 medical  malpractice cases across the United States of America and 26 workplace  exposure cases. 

  Keep in mind that if you do get sick and you want to file a lawsuit,  a good lawyer will advise you: Be careful. Proving where you were  infected is not an easy thing. And they also look at the standard of  conduct of the business or individual who could be the defendant. Did  they act reasonably? 

  We had a hearing in the Senate Judiciary Committee last week on  liability during the COVID-19 pandemic. I have quoted this before, but  it is worth repeating. One of the witnesses called by the Republicans  was a very good man, very thoughtful. His name is Kevin Smartt, and he  is the chief executive officer and president of Kwik Chek Foods in  Bonham, TX. He went through a litany of things that he had done in his  workplace to make it safer, not just for his employees but also for the  customers who came in. It was impressive. If the statements he made to  us were accurate--and I believe they were--he is doing his part to try  to make his workplace safer. 

  Here is what he said:  

       This was a challenge because the guidance provided by the       CDC, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, as       well as state and local governments, often conflicted with       one another in addition to being vague and difficult to       follow. Yet, despite many uncertainties, including the       constantly fluctuating public health guidelines, we began to       adjust to the pandemic.  

  The point I am making--and I see our Democratic leader on the floor;  I am going to wrap it up quickly--the point I am making is this: We  should establish reasonable standards through the Centers for Disease  Control and OSHA so that conscientious businesses can in good faith  know what needs to be done to protect their employees and their  customers. When they follow those guidelines, I believe they have  absolved  themselves of liability. They certainly have a valid defense to any  claims of wrongdoing. But this notion that comes before us on the floor  from the Republican side goes to an extreme--asking for government  immunity from the conduct of businesses in the midst of this pandemic  without holding them to any standards. We are still waiting for an  explanation. Why would we allow the workplace to be more dangerous for  employees? Why would we allow the business place to be more dangerous  for customers? 

  If the owner is willing to live up to reasonable standards  established based on science and health, in my mind, that is a good  defense, and that is the way it should be. To do otherwise is to give a  green light to businesses that don't follow standards, endangering  their workers, their employees. It means more people are going to get  infected and sick in America--the last thing we need. 

                        Recognition of the Minority Leader  BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT