Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, to date, more than 1 million people have  contracted coronavirus in the United States--61,000 in the State of  Illinois. Sadly, we are quickly approaching a death toll of 100,000  Americans. While more people continue to contract and  succumb to the virus, another alarming trend has come to light. The  coronavirus disproportionately affects minority communities. Black  Illinoisans make up less than 15 percent of the State's overall  population. However, they account for 34 percent of all coronavirus  deaths. In Chicago, Black residents account for 52 percent of the total  coronavirus deaths despite their comprising only 30 percent of the  city's population. 

  Recently, a survey of Latinos in Illinois, who make up 17 percent of  our State's population, surpassed Black Illinoisans in confirmed cases  of coronavirus. Now Latino Illinoisans account for 23 percent of  confirmed cases in the State--the most cases of any race or ethnicity.  Last week, on a call with the Illinois community health centers, I  learned that, of the 34,000 African Americans who were tested in  Illinois, 36 percent were positive for coronavirus. Of the 24,000  Latinos tested, 62 percent tested positive--62 percent. Compare that to  the 73,000 White Illinoisans tested for coronavirus, wherein 18 percent  tested positive. 

  Latino and Black populations in Illinois and across the Nation are  bearing the brunt of this pandemic. As we continue to hit new, grim  milestones during this public health crisis, these disparities are a  sobering reminder of the historical inequities of our healthcare system  in our country. Nationwide, Black and Latino Americans are more likely  to have chronic diseases, such as diabetes, asthma, and heart disease,  and are less likely to have health insurance than are White Americans.  These health gaps are the result of historic and structural inequality,  including their exposure to trauma, racism, stigma, and food deserts,  and this pandemic magnifies the need to immediately address them. 

  Black and Latino Americans are also more likely to hold frontline  jobs that have been deemed essential in the food, retail, and service  industries. That increases their risk of contracting the coronavirus  when reporting for work. I have spoken with many community  organizations, such as the First Ladies Health Initiative and West Side  United, as well as the Illinois community health centers, and they have  all stepped up to help Illinoisans find solutions to these challenges.  Yet we can't just talk about the problem. We need to put solutions on  the table. 

  Congress needs to step up. I am working with the Illinois  congressional delegation to improve our Nation's coronavirus data  collection efforts so that we can better understand and address these  racial disparities. It is unacceptable that not all States are  currently reporting coronavirus incidents and deaths by race. We need  these vital statistics to help the Federal Government, as well as the  State and local governments, to develop plans to protect our most  vulnerable populations. 

  A few moments ago on the floor, the Republican leader--the Senator  from Kentucky, Mr. McConnell--kind of warned us about the next stage of  the debate when it comes to this coronavirus. He warned those of us on  this side of the aisle not to see this crisis as the basis for  fundamentally transforming our country. Well, I want to say to my  colleague from Kentucky and all other colleagues, if we don't learn  from this crisis the weaknesses of this great Nation when it comes to  healthcare, if we don't understand the inequities of this great Nation  when it comes to healthcare, and if we don't resolve to do something  about it, shame on us. If at the end of this crisis we breathe a sigh  of relief and say that now we will go back to business as usual,  wherein health disparities are accepted in this country, shame on this  Senate 

  Yes, I want to see our way through this crisis with the fewest number  of infections and the fewest number of deaths. That is our immediate  goal--to protect America and to restore the economy. Yet, when it is  over, if we don't step back and take a look at what we have learned  from this crisis and vow to make America stronger, fairer, and more  just when it comes to healthcare in this country, shame on us. 

  There are those who voted against every aspect of the Affordable Care  Act--so-called ObamaCare--10 years ago. I remember it well. Not a  single Senator from the other side of the aisle would support our  effort to reduce the number of uninsured people in America  dramatically. We barely passed it--by one vote in the U.S. Senate and  with Senator Harry Reid as the majority leader at the time--and without  any help, without any votes, from the other side of the aisle. And what  happened? In my State, the number of those who were uninsured was cut  in half by this so-called ObamaCare. Proudly, I call the Affordable  Care Act ``ObamaCare.'' 

  Since then, those on the other side of the aisle have been resolute  in their determination to repeal it, not to replace it with anything  that is better--they don't even have a replacement--and to give up on  our quest of making sure that every American has the peace of mind for  having the protection of health insurance--affordable, quality health  insurance. 

  At the end of this health crisis, are we still going to hear the  other side of the aisle arguing that we shouldn't dedicate ourselves to  reducing the number of uninsured? I hope they will take the time, as I  have, to talk to administrators at hospitals about what is happening in  their emergency rooms, in their surgical suites, and in other places in  which they have had to address this crisis firsthand. One major  hospital in Chicago said that half of the people in that hospital who  have died from coronavirus-related disease had no health insurance. Is  this a coincidence? No. It is a pattern. Without health insurance and  with gross disparities in the delivery of healthcare, we know that  there are groups of Americans who are suffering and that many will die. 

  So I would just say to the Republican leader, yes, I hope that our  experience from this coronavirus makes us all vow, on both sides of the  aisle, to truly change America for the better when it comes to  healthcare and health protection. That is a must. 

  Last week, I had the opportunity to speak with several Illinois- focused community development financial institutions. These  organizations do amazing work by offering lending services to small  businesses and populations that are typically overlooked by the big  banks. They were grateful for the work we have done so far and for the  legislation we have passed, but they had suggestions on how to improve  the Small Business Administration's Paycheck Protection Program to  ensure that financial relief makes it to minority-, women-, and  veteran-owned small businesses. 

  In addition, I am working with my colleagues to help ensure that  vaccine and drug trials that are related to COVID-19 include diverse  patient populations and are widely available and affordable. I have  cosponsored the COVID-19 Racial and Ethnic Disparity Task Force Act  with Senator Kamala Harris. This important piece of legislation would  create a task force comprised of healthcare, economic, and government  leaders to provide recommendations about how to best allocate resources  to address racial disparities in our healthcare system. 

  When the Senator from Kentucky, the majority leader, comes to the  floor and says to those of us--warns those of us--on this side of the  aisle not to use this healthcare crisis as an excuse or an opportunity  to transform America, is he wedded to the racial inequality that we see  in our system in his warning us not to try to address it? I hope not. I  hope that we can have a bipartisan approach to making this system  fairer in its reaching more people. 

  This week, I am introducing the Health Heroes 2020 Act, and here is  what is behind it: As we all put up signs in our windows and yards  across America to thank healthcare workers for risking their lives, we  understand that these doctors, nurses, and lab technicians and these  people who work in nursing homes who are taking care of the elderly  folks, as well as those who clean up and provide food, are all  healthcare workers who are risking their lives to do their work. I  thank them. We should all thank them day in and day out. 

  Yet what are we going to do about recognizing the work they have  done? 

  First, I think we ought to compensate them for jobs well done.  Senator Bob Casey has legislation on that subject, which I am happy to  support. 

  Beyond that, what can we do for our healthcare workforce? Why is it  that in the United States of America the best and brightest, who get  great grades in  high school, go through college taking the tough courses and getting  good grades, get accepted to medical school, and after working hard for  4 years or more there, go through residencies which are backbreaking  exercises in actually learning the clinical practice of medicine, and  just before we tell them they are licensed doctors ready to practice in  America, we give them bad news--the news that they must be carrying a  student debt from medical school of between $200,000 to $240,000 on  average? What are we thinking? These women and men are critical to our  future and our own healthcare. Why do we burden them with this certain  awesome debt that they have to carry forward and build their career  around? That is why this bill really seeks to look at this from a new  angle and says that we ought to reward those medical students who are  willing to practice in areas of greatest need--minority students as  well--and provide for them scholarships to defray the cost of medical  school so they don't end up graduating with this incredible financial  burden. This legislation would help provide doctors, nurses, mental  health professionals, dentists, and others to communities with  shortages which often contribute to health disparities as I described  earlier--inner-city areas, rural America, smalltown America. Studies  show that having doctors who reflect the communities they treat  actually helps health outcomes. So my bill would help to expand the  representation of minorities in the workforce. 

  Last week, in a letter to the CDC, Centers for Disease Control and  Prevention, I urged the agency to support global efforts to build up  our community health workforce capacity. Communities of color across  America are suffering at disproportionate rates across this pandemic,  and we have to step up to help all Americans against the threat of  coronavirus. It is unacceptable, but sadly not surprising, that  communities of color are bearing the burden of this dangerous virus. I  stand here to continue fighting with my colleagues in the Senate to try  to solve these inequities happening in communities across the Nation. 

  There aren't many redlines that have been drawn publicly so far as we  have considered coronavirus legislation. We passed the original CARES  Act, $2.2 trillion, with 96 votes on the floor of the Senate and with  no dissenting votes. The next bill, the coronavirus 3.5, as it was  characterized, passed the U.S. Senate by a voice vote, adding $484  billion to the effort. More will obviously be needed, not just for  small business loans but also for unemployment insurance and certainly  to make sure that our hospitals, large and small, can survive this  crisis as we all hope America will. We are certain they will, but we  have to be prepared to do that. 

  Yet, this morning, the Republican leader came forward and said he is  drawing a redline; that Republicans will not move forward when it comes  to dealing with these challenges without addressing one issue, and that  was the issue of legal liability. I will not describe in detail what  the Senator from Kentucky is proposing because we haven't seen it, but  what he is suggesting is that our greatest fear shouldn't be the  coronavirus; it should be trial lawyers--trial lawyers. 

  He is fearful that we are going to see COVID-19 lawsuits. Well, let  me tell you, there could easily be COVID-19 lawsuits and some--and I  think most Americans would agree--should be filed. Is there a COVID-19  lawsuit if someone is profiteering with protective equipment, raising  the prices way beyond reach because they have this moment of  opportunity with the crisis we are facing? One downstate hospital in  Illinois talked about surgical gowns that cost 22 cents apiece and now  cost between $11 and $20 apiece. Clearly, there is price gouging and  profiteering. If we can, can we hold those responsible for profiteering  liable? I would say yes. Is that a COVID-19 lawsuit? I think it is  related to COVID-19, but it relates to it in a way that most Americans  would agree there should be legal action. 

  If there are scams and profiteering, the people responsible for it  should be held legally responsible in a lawsuit, if necessary. If  people are promulgating phony tests and making representations that are  a fraud on the public, should they be held accountable? Well, of  course. Is that a COVID-19 lawsuit? Could be. 

  What about those who are talking about the protection of workers? If  workers are not protected on the job, they may be turning to workers'  compensation for any of the injuries and illnesses that result. Are we  going to stop those as COVID-19 lawsuits going too far? Nurses are  suing in some situations because they are not being given adequate or  quality protective equipment. Do we want to stop that litigation as  well? Is that what the Senator from Kentucky is suggesting 

  There is an interesting situation with meatpacking workers right now.  I know a little more than some Senators about that. When I was working  my way through college, I spent 12 months working in a meatpacking  plant in East St. Louis, IL. I was paid $3.65 an hour. I thought that  was pretty good, but it was hard, hard work. I saw what it was like  then, many, many years ago. I have gone back to see the meatpacking and  meat processors today. It is not much different. People stand literally  elbow-to-elbow, shoulder-to-shoulder, as conveyor belts bring through  hundreds and hundreds of pounds of meat and poultry that have to be  acted on immediately to keep up with the line. It is tough, hard work,  and now it turns out to be an extraordinarily dangerous line of work as  well. We are learning that disproportionate numbers of workers in this  industry are coming down with the COVID virus infection. United Food  and Commercial Workers, which represents many of these plant workers,  estimated that at least 5,000 have already reported infected and  anywhere from 10 to 20 have died. Now the President issues an Executive  order mandating that these companies open for business. Well, I can say  to the President, yes, they should open, but only if they dedicate  themselves to the health and safety of their workforce as the highest  priority. Let's make that workplace safe before we talk about making it  a mandatory opening. 

  In fairness to the industry, in my State of Illinois, several  companies that have been affected have reached out to us and are, in  fact, determined to make their workplace safe. I salute them for taking  that approach. They are talking about testing and making sure that  workers on the job have necessary distancing and protective equipment.  That is the right approach. In the meantime, those companies that  ignore that responsibility, should they bear some liability for the  illnesses or injuries that result? Well, under workers' compensation  law, they certainly would. Is the Senator from Kentucky calling that  the COVID-19 lawsuit? It could be related to COVID-19, for sure. Should  they have their day in court? I certainly hope so. 

  As we look at the challenges before us, and there are many, this  notion of drawing a redline on legal liability, unfortunately, fails to  take into account that system of justice in America which we have  turned to in good times and bad to make sure that justice is meted out  to those who have no recourse but to consider lawsuits in court. Let's  take this issue seriously, carefully. Let's not squander the  opportunity of protecting the people who are risking their lives every  day in essential workplaces and believe they, too, should be protected  by our system of justice. I will stand with them, and I hope that other  Members of the Senate will join me. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT