Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, we will adjourn today and be gone next  week for the Memorial Day recess and then return the following week.  The Senate, at the request and call of the Senate Republican leader,  Senator McConnell from Kentucky, has been in session for 3 weeks.  Senator McConnell has said that we are here because we need to be at  our ``duty stations.'' He has used that term over and over again--a  military responsibility to stay where you are assigned and to be  prepared to fight. 

  Well, those that take a look at what we have done over the last 3  weeks have to ask: Where is the battle? Where is the fight when it  comes to COVID-19? The simple fact is this: The United States Senate,  in the last 3 weeks, has not considered one piece of legislation on  this floor relative to COVID-19, not one. It has reached the point  where the press told me this morning that two Republican Senators are  now complaining publicly that we have done nothing on COVID-19 and  shouldn't leave for the Memorial Day recess until we do. 

  Well, I think they ought to take their appeal not to the American  public but to their Republican leader because he decides what comes to  the floor of the Senate, and he has decided, over the last 3 weeks,  that nothing will come to the floor of the Senate relative to the  biggest issue in the modern history of America: the national emergency,  the public health crisis over COVID-19. 

  I listened to my friend from South Dakota talk about the amount of  money that has been spent. It is an amazing amount--I will be the first  to concede it--almost $3 trillion so far. It is the largest ever I can  remember--well, I will just flatout say ever when it comes to a rescue  package or a relief package. Of course, it comes at a time when we are  facing the worst economic crisis in America for almost 100 years, going  back to the Great Depression. There are 38 million uninsured Americans.  There are 1.5 million Americans so far infected by this virus. The  United States, sadly, leads the world--leads the world--when it comes  to these infections. I would say, when the President calls that a badge  of honor, I do not. We could have done much better. We should do much  better in the future. 

  Now, in just a matter of days--not sure when--we will reach the  tragic milestone of 100,000 Americans who have died from the  coronavirus--100,000 Americans will have died. I join with the  Democratic leader in saying that we should mark that tragic milestone  with grief for the families and their loss and standing as Americans in  honor of the sacrifice they have made. 

  More than that, we need to do what needs to be done, and to argue  that we have done enough now and let's sit back and see what happens is  to ignore the obvious. Jerome Powell is the Chairman of the Federal  Reserve, and he went on ``60 Minutes'' last Sunday and said to  Congress, to the Senate, to the House, and to the President: Don't stop  doing your part. The Federal Reserve is trying to loan money to create  opportunities to rebuild this economy, but we need to do our part. He  didn't say the $3 trillion is all in. He basically said we need to do  more. 

  We had a briefing from Mark Zandi, an economist, in the last day or  two. He is well respected. He has been an economist advising both  Democrats and Republicans, and he said the same. If we don't move and  move quickly and decisively and boldly to restore this economy, what is  now a recession, could be much, much worse. That means, of course,  helping those families who have already been hurt. 

  Last Friday, the House of Representatives did pass another measure  for relief, another effort to deal with the COVID virus. So while we  have been here for 3 weeks and haven't brought one single bill to the  floor on the COVID virus--not one--they moved forward last Friday and  passed, without the cooperation of any Republicans--they passed a  measure to deal with the continuing crisis in America. 

  Let me say at the outset, I don't agree with every provision in that  bill. I know that negotiations are likely to follow, and the compromise  is likely to produce a work product that is somewhat different, but  let's look at what that bill did. 

  The Senator from South Dakota came to the floor and said that bill  did crazy stuff. He repeated it--crazy stuff. Well, let's talk about  what the bill did. 

  What the bill did was to restore the President's cash payment to  families. You remember that well, I am sure, supported by both  political parties. It was $1,200 for each adult and $500 for each  child. It was absolutely necessary for families who are struggling to  get by. 

  In the House version that passed last Friday, there was a renewed  cash payment of $1,200 for adults and $1,200 for children. The amount  of money we initially allocated for this has been all but spent at this  point, so this is an area where we believe, as Democrats, families  still need a helping hand. Why do the Republicans in the Senate insist  on not bringing this measure to the floor of the U.S. Senate or at  least into meaningful negotiation? Do they believe that families across  America have received all the money they need to receive to get through  this crisis? I don't. If they do, they are out of touch. 

  The second thing this bill did was to extend the unemployment  compensation. Remember, there are 38 million and counting unemployed  Americans. We created, in the CARES Act, a Federal boost for  unemployment benefits. So if you qualified for unemployment benefits  from your State, you would receive an additional $600 a week. I think  that was necessary and good for the economy, and for the families  affected, it was a lifeline they desperately needed. But that program,  the $600 a week, expires on July 31--expires. Is there anyone who  believes we will be through this economic crisis by July 31 when  everyone will be back to work? Of course not. We need to continue to  help those families.  

  The bill that passed the House of Representatives, which the  Republican Senator calls crazy stuff--what the bill did was to extend  that Federal unemployment benefit of $600 a week until the end of this  year. I think that is sensible and reasonable. 

  I might tell you that we expanded the categories of those eligible  for employment too. Many independent contractors finally get the chance  to get some help at this point in time. So to call that crazy stuff and  to not even consider it on the floor of the Senate makes no sense at  all. 

  What about the Payroll Protection Program? That was one for small  business loans that could be forgiven if the money was loaned and spent  for specific purposes. There is a reason we had to revisit that. The  money had to be spent by the businesses by the end of June--June 30. I  can tell you, having spoken to many small businesses across the State  of Illinois, that some of them will not even be open for business by  June 30. Requiring them to spend money before they can open their doors  doesn't give them an opportunity to use this money to really get back  in business. 

  There were revisions made in the measure the House passed last  Friday, revisions in terms of the period of time that the business had  to spend the money. Under the current setup, it is 8 weeks. We think  that should be extended to a longer period of time. Is that crazy  stuff? I think, from where I am standing, it just makes common sense  that we would do something that basic. Yet the Senate Republican leader  has refused to bring that matter to the floor of the Senate in the  weeks since it was passed, and there is obviously no meaningful  negotiation underway, and we are leaving to be gone for another week. 

  But the largest measure in the bill that passed the House of  Representatives included a provision to help State and local  governments. My friend and colleague from South Dakota talked about the  $150 billion that has been given to State and local governments, which,  in the end, could be even larger. I would say to him: Don't listen to  me. Listen to the National Governors Association. Ask Governor Hogan, a  Republican from Maryland, if we are all in  and have done enough for State and local governments? We are not even  close. We are not even close, and we know it. 

  Lost revenue by my State and many others is dramatic. So what happens  if these States don't have the money to pay their bills? Well, Senator  McConnell, in an interview, said: Bankruptcy--bankruptcy is an option.  Really? Does he believe we are going to restore this economy by  watching State and local governments go bankrupt? 

  What will be the net result of the McConnell's suggestion of  bankruptcy for these State and local governments? It will mean laying  off, perhaps firing, policemen, firefighters, EMTs, paramedics, and  teachers. At a time when we need to restore our educational calendar,  bring students back to school, the Senator from Kentucky suggested  bankruptcy, laying off teachers, and firing teachers. It makes no sense  whatsoever. 

  The bill that passed the House of Representatives has roughly $1  trillion for State and local governments. So I can tell you, across my  State and I am sure across this Nation, Governors and mayors will step  forward and tell you that is exactly what they need now to get back in  business. 

  Remember, as Senator Murray said in response to another suggestion,  building a bridge halfway across a river is not of much value. We need  to build a bridge in this economy from where we are today to where we  want to be, with small businesses opening and people back at work, and  the notion that we can shortchange parts of this economy and survive is  just wrong. 

  There is a provision in that bill in the House, too, that I  introduced in the Senate. It is not an original idea, but others have  thought of it too. A third of the people who lose their jobs lose their  health insurance because that is where their health insurance came  from. Their employer used to pay a share, and they paid a share, and  they were covered with good policies. But when they lost their job, the  next day, they lost their insurance. What were their options? Sign up  for the Affordable Care Act, which covers about 20 million Americans;  perhaps qualifying for Medicaid if their family income is low enough;  or using what is known as the COBRA Program? The COBRA Program says you  can keep that policy you had at your place of employment; however, you  now are personally responsible for both ends of the premium payment,  the employer and the employee. Well, that comes out to about $1,700 a  month. Imagine that for an unemployed person--$1,700 a month in  premium. They can't do it. So what I proposed, and what was included in  the bill that passed the House of Representatives, was 100-percent  coverage for that premium payment under COBRA so that these families  would have the peace of mind that they would continue to have health  insurance during the course of this crisis. 

  I have given you some highlights of what this bill did. I would just  suggest and challenge those who call this crazy stuff to come to the  floor and be more specific. What part of what I just described is crazy  stuff--extended COBRA protection for more health insurance for those  who are unemployed, extending unemployment benefits for the remainder  of the year, extending the period of payback for small business loans,  making sure, as well, that there is more money for hospitals? 

  I will just state that I have been on the telephone for the last  several weeks with the administrators of hospitals all over the State  of Illinois, large and small, and I have joined them with my Republican  Members of the House and Democratic Members. We have called and opened  the lines and said: What are you finding? Many of these hospitals in  the inner cities, as well as those in rural and smalltown areas in  States across the Midwest are struggling to survive. 

  Yesterday I read a list of six hospitals in Kentucky that were  furloughing hundreds of employees. In most of the communities downstate  where we have hospitals in Illinois, they are the major employer, and  these hospitals are hanging on by a thread. What is wrong? A lot of  COVID virus cases? No, just a fear of COVID virus. 

  One hospital administrator said: We have four elective surgeries  scheduled for money, and, Senator, that is where our revenue comes in  to keep this hospital going. Three of the four patients canceled at the  last minute. They were afraid of the COVID virus. 

  The bill that passed the House of Representatives last week had  another $100 million for hospitals. I will tell you flatout that there  is a sense of urgency there because if you lose--if you lose that  community hospital, it is a grievous loss in many parts of our State,  in the rural areas and small towns in particular. Yet we have not even  brought that issue up on the floor of the Senate over the last 3 weeks. 

  We have a lot of work that needs to be done. We didn't do it in the  last 3 weeks. We considered two circuit court nominees before the  Senate Judiciary Committee. One from the State of Kentucky is a fellow  who has 6 months' experience on the Federal bench. He is being proposed  by Senator McConnell for a lifetime appointment in the second highest  court in the land. Really? That is the best Republican nominee for the  second highest court in the land, a man with 6 months' experience as a  trial judge? He does have one thing in his favor, from Senator  McConnell's point of view: He is completely opposed to the Affordable  Care Act 

  They came up with another nominee from Mississippi yesterday with the  same thing. So they have two nominees in the midst of a public health  crisis in America who are asking for lifetime appointments to the court  who are opposed to the Affordable Care Act, a measure that extended  health insurance coverage to 20 million Americans and provides  protections for over 100 million Americans in terms of their own  personal policies, really making sure that those with preexisting  conditions have coverage they can afford. At this moment in time, the  Republican Party came up with two lifetime nominees who are opposed to  the extension of health insurance in America. The timing is perfect. 

  If you look up the whole question of relevance, and you ask: What is  the most irrelevant thing that has occurred in the midst of this  crisis? It is the last 3 weeks of the U.S. Senate. We have been here  and put at risk 10,000 employees, which is the scale of our workforce  in the U.S. Capitol. We have put them at risk. To come here and never  mention the words ``COVID virus'' or ``coronavirus'' or ``pandemic'' in  legislation on the floor of the Senate is disgraceful. 

  We were elected to serve. We were elected to respond to America's  needs. For the last 3 weeks on the floor the Senate, we have not. The  random committee hearing--good. That is what we are supposed to do.  That is normal. But you would think that Senator McConnell would have  decided, as the House decided last week, that this is still the No. 1  priority in America. It should be. Perhaps after we return from the  Memorial Day recess, there will be a sense of urgency, which, sadly,  does not exist on the Republican side of the aisle of the Senate. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT