For-Profit Colleges and Universities


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, this week Congress submitted to the  President the bipartisan Congressional Review Act resolution that  overturned Education Secretary DeVos's borrower defense rule. 

  The rule that she came up with at the Department of Education makes  it almost impossible for student loan borrowers, including many, many  veterans, who have been defrauded by their schools--these are usually  for-profit schools--to have Federal student debt discharged because of  the fraud under the Higher Education Act's borrower defense provisions. 

  Ten Republicans joined with the Democrats in March to reject this  rule in the Senate and pass this resolution. I thank those on the other  side of the aisle who stood up for the veterans and for students who  have been defrauded. 

  I urge President Trump to sign this bill without delay. More  importantly than my urging, 30 different veteran organizations urged  the President to sign our resolution. We are going to be giving a lot  of speeches about veterans on the Senate floor and back home over  Memorial Day weekend. Here is a chance for the President to stand up  for the veterans on Memorial Day weekend. 

        Hon. Donald J. Trump,      The White House,      Washington, DC. 

       Dear President Trump: In August 2019, you stood with       veterans in directing the Education Department to ensure that       all totally and permanently disabled veterans would have       their student loans forgiven. We were so grateful to you       then. We write now to ask that you please stand with       servicemembers, veterans, their families, and survivors again       in supporting a bipartisan resolution, H.J. Res 76, which       would help veterans and military-connected students get       relief from student loans they incurred as a result of fraud. 

       With a bipartisan vote in both the Senate and the House of       Representatives, it is clear the support of Congress for       veterans, servicemembers, and their families and survivors       stands above partisan politics. 

       Please join us in ensuring that the men and women who have       served their country honorably are not burdened with student       loans that result from fraud. This has been an important       priority for veterans organizations as reflected in a letter       from 27 veterans organizations to the Education Department       and a letter from 37 veterans organizations to Congress. 

       We appreciate your support.            Sincerely, 

       Air Force Sergeants Association; Army Aviation Association       of America; Association of the United States Navy; AMSUS, the       Society of Federal Health Professionals; Blue Star Families;       Chief Warrant & Warrant Officers Association, U.S. Coast       Guard; Code of Support Foundation; Fleet Reserve Association;       High Ground Veterans Advocacy; Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans       of America; Ivy League Veterans Council; Norman Rosenshein,       Jewish War Veterans of the USA. 

       The Military Chaplains Assn. of the USA; John Ballantyne,       Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Military       Child Education Coalition; Dana T. Atkins, Military Officers       Association of America; Douglas J. Greenlaw, Military Order       of the Purple Heart; National Military Family Association;       Non Commissioned Officers Assn. of the United States of       America; Service to School; Service Women's Action Network;       Student Veterans of America; Swords to Plowshares; Laura       L'Esperance, The Mission Continues. 

       Kenneth Greenberg, The Retired Enlisted Association;       Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors; Randy Reid, U.S.       Coast Guard Chief Petty Officers Association & Enlisted       Association; Veterans Education Success; Danielle Applegate,       Vets First; Veterans for Common Sense; Robert F. Muth,       Veterans Legal Clinic, University of San Diego School of Law;       Veterans Student Loan Relief Fund; Vietnam Veterans of       America.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. President Trump has the opportunity to be the one who  rescues these defrauded veterans from a rule that the American Legion  has entitled ``fundamentally rigged against defrauded borrowers'' and  give these Americans who served our country not just a pat on the back  but a chance to get back in the game in their lives. 

  American voters are behind us, overwhelmingly, from both political  parties. New polling by Third Way finds that voters in key red and  swing States believe that the Federal Government should not make  students who took out loans to attend fraudulent or misleading  institutions of higher education pay back those loans. 

  In Ohio, 73 percent of voters believed this, 68 percent in Indiana,  64 percent in Colorado, 63 percent Pennsylvania, 61 percent Missouri  and North Carolina, and 60 percent South Carolina. When asked if  schools that mislead student borrowers should be held accountable, the  numbers are dramatically higher, and 95 percent of Republicans in North  Carolina agree and 91 percent of Republicans in South Carolina. The  list goes on. 

  The DeVos borrower defense rule would make it impossible for  defrauded borrowers to get the relief that the American people and I  believe they deserve. It will lessen accountability for the schools  that defrauded these borrowers. They are just going to do it again. God  forbid we loan these defrauding schools money in the current economic  crisis so they can continue to defraud veterans and other students. 

  This isn't a controversial issue among the American people, just  among politicians. By signing this resolution, President Trump will be  supporting America's veterans, Democratic and Republican voters. I hope  he listens.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT