For-Profit Colleges and Universities


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, this week the House of Representatives  will have the opportunity to stand up for student borrowers who have  been defrauded by the schools they attended. The House of  Representatives will be voting on a resolution introduced by  Representative Susie Lee of Nevada which will allow defrauded student  loan borrowers relief from their student debt. 

  Under the Higher Education Act, currently the law of the land, when a  student borrower is defrauded by their school, they are entitled to  have their Federal student loans to attend that school discharged. That  is what Congress intended. Why? The logic behind it is very  straightforward. 

  Consider the following: The Federal Government recognizes the  accreditation of these schools, colleges, and universities. That  accreditation authorizes these schools to offer loans from the Federal  Government to pay for the cost of attending. It is a very  straightforward process. The schools are accredited. The U.S.  Government recognizes the accreditation which authorizes the school to  offer courses to students, and then it goes on to say that students  attending those colleges and universities will qualify for Federal  student loans. Now, that is where this particular statement I am about  to make becomes particularly relevant. 

  The school makes promises about the education they are going to offer  to the students to entice them to attend and to borrow money to attend.  For example, the school may tell the students that the credits they  earn at this school can be transferred to other schools, but sometimes  that turns out to be untrue and false. These schools may tell the  students there are jobs waiting for them in the fields that they want  them to study at the schools. They tell them that, after graduation,  there are plenty of employment opportunities, and oftentimes that turns  out to be untrue. In fact, in the case of some of these schools, they  have deliberately misrepresented the job placement of graduates to  create the impression of success if you complete a course. The schools  are lying to the students. 

  The school may also promise that, if you complete a course at the  school, you will automatically be qualified for certain certifications  under State law. Sometimes that turns out to be a lie. They may also  tell the students there are certain teachers and courses available to  them if they pay their tuition, and that may turn out to be untrue as  well. 

  The law I referred to earlier is intended, when these types of lies  and misrepresentations occur and the student is misled into borrowing  Federal student loans based on these misrepresentations, to give the  defrauded student the right to be relieved of the student loan  responsibility under the law.  It makes sense. If the student is lied to, takes out a Federal loan,  and it turns out the school lied to them and defrauded them, we don't  want the students saddled with a loan from that school that could  literally change their lives. 

  Now we have a new Secretary of Education under President Trump, Betsy  DeVos. She has decided to rewrite the rules when it comes to these  students receiving relief from the fraud I have just described. She  places burdens on these students that we have not seen before.  Basically, she is saying to the students: Lawyer up. You just can't  make your plea to the Department of Education that you, along with a  group of other students, were defrauded by representations in the  materials they distributed or the statements they made--not good enough  under the new rule written by Secretary DeVos. What she has basically  said is that each one of these students now has an individual  responsibility to prove that that student was defrauded, that there was  a representation to that student as opposed to it being made by the  school to all of the students or in its publications and the like. 

  The burdens which Secretary DeVos now places on defrauded students  have led to estimates that only 3 percent of the students who have been  defrauded can possibly expect to receive relief from their student  debt--3 percent. You might say: Well, these things happen. It is a  ``buyer beware'' market. Students ought to know better. Really? 

  When the Federal Government recognizes an accredited school and says  to that school: You can offer Federal student loans, do we not bear  some responsibility to the student and the family if that school lies  and misrepresents facts to the students? Well, 78 percent of Americans  happen to think, yes, we don't want to have students in a predicament  where their own futures are going to be somehow compromised because of  the fraud by the school. 

  How many students are affected by this? A handful? No. It turns out,  a dramatically large number. Over the last decade, tens of thousands of  college students in America have been defrauded in ways I just  described, lured into enrolling in classes with false promises and  aggressive tactics, only to be left with massive student debt and a  worthless education and no job. Sadly, it is a common occurrence in the  for-profit college industry. That industry, the for-profit college  industry, is an industry that can be best described by two numbers.  Nine percent of postsecondary students are enrolled in for-profit  colleges and universities in America. Think about the University of  Phoenix, DeVry, and others. Nine percent of students end up in schools  like that. Yet 33 percent of all the federal student loan defaults are  students from these for-profit colleges and universities--9 percent of  the students, 33 percent of the student loan defaults. Why? The tuition  is too high; the education is virtually worthless; and there are no  jobs at the end of the rainbow. 

  Some of these schools--for-profit colleges like Corinthian, ITT Tech,  Westwood, Dream Center--preyed on students, reaped huge profits, and  then conveniently went bankrupt. They may be gone, legally gone, but  the debts for the students still live. Others, such as Ashford,  University of Phoenix, Career Education Corporation, are still out  there doing business. Virtually, all of these notorious schools have  been the subject of multiple State and local investigations or lawsuits  for unfair, deceptive, and abusive practices. Unfortunately, they  continue to create more student victims due to the lack of enforcement  by our own U.S. Department of Education and loopholes in the laws,  which, sadly, Congress has been unable or unwilling to close.  

  Currently, there are more than 223,000 claims made by students of  being defrauded and seeking relief under the Higher Education Act--over  200,000 student borrowers whose lives have been collared by student  loan debt from these worthless, defrauding schools. 

  The claims--223,000 of them--come from every State in the Union, big  and small, red, blue, and purple. There are over 11,000 from my State  of Illinois; over 19,000 from the State of Florida; 7,800 from Ohio;  6,100 from North Carolina; 3,800 from Colorado; 1,000 from the State of  West Virginia; 385 in Maine; and more than 200 in Alaska. 

  The American people believe these defrauded student borrowers and  future defrauded borrowers deserve help. According to a poll by New  America, 78 percent of Americans believe students should have their  Federal student loans forgiven if their schools defrauded them. That  includes 87 percent of Democrats and 71 percent of Republicans who feel  that way. 

  This new rule by Secretary DeVos would not allow borrowers to receive  the Federal student loan discharge currently in the law. It is why more  than 60 organizations are supporting the resolution, which the House  will vote on this week, and the companion resolution I have introduced  in the Senate. 

  Among those supporting our effort are the American Federation of  Teachers, the National Education Association, the Student Veterans of  America--and one that I want to highlight. 

  I see there are others on the floor preparing to speak, so I am going  to abbreviate my remarks, but I want to make one last point. 

  Among the groups supporting our efforts to undo the borrower defense  rule, promulgated by Secretary of Education DeVos, is the American  Legion. The American Legion sent me a letter last month, and, in  support of our effort to undo the DeVos rule, they said, among other  things, that the rule is fundamentally unfair to veterans. Listen to  what they say about the plight of veterans having been defrauded by  schools, trying to get relief from their loans. This is from James  ``Bill'' Oxford, national commander of the American Legion. He writes:  

       Thousands of student veterans have been defrauded over the       years--promised their credits would transfer when they       wouldn't, given false or misleading job placement rates in       marketing, promised one educational experience when they were       recruited, but given something completely different. This       type of deception against our veterans and servicemembers has       been a lucrative scam for unscrupulous actors. 

       As veterans are aggressively targeted due to their service       to our country, they must be afforded the right to group       relief. The Department of Education's ``Borrower Defense''       rule eliminates this right.  

        Hon. Richard Durbin,      Senate Dirksen Office Building,      Washington, DC. 

       Dear Senator Durbin: On behalf of the nearly 2 million       members of The American Legion, I write to express our       support for Joint Resolution 56, providing for congressional       disapproval of the rule submitted by the Department of       Education relating to, ``Borrower Defense Institutional       Accountability.'' The rule, as currently written, is       fundamentally rigged against defrauded borrowers of student       loans, depriving them of the opportunity for debt relief that       Congress intended to afford them under the Higher Education       Act. Affirming this position is American Legion Resolution       No. 82: Preserve Veteran and Servicemember Rights to Gainful       Employment and Borrower Defense Protections, adopted in our       National Convention 2017. 

       Thousands of student veterans have been defrauded over the       years--promised their credits would transfer when they       wouldn't, given false or misleading job placement rates in       marketing, promised one educational experience when they were       recruited, but given something completely different. This       type of deception against our veterans and servicemembers has       been a lucrative scam for unscrupulous actors. 

       As veterans are aggressively targeted due to their service       to our country, they must be afforded the right to group       relief. The Department of Education's ``Borrower Defense''       rule eliminates this right, forcing veterans to individually       prove their claim, share the specific type of financial harm       they suffered, and prove the school knowingly made       substantial misrepresentations. The preponderance of evidence       required for this process is so onerous that the Department       of Education itself estimated that only 3 percent of       applicants would get relief. 

       Until every veteran's application for student loan       forgiveness has been processed, we will continue to demand       fair and timely decisions. The rule that the Department of       Education has promulgated flagrantly denies defrauded       veterans these dignities, and The American Legion calls on       Congress to overturn this regulatory action. 

       Senator Durbin, The American Legion applauds your       leadership in addressing this critical issue facing our       nation's veterans and their families.            For God & Country,                                          James W. ``Bill'' Oxford,                           National Commander, The American Legion.        

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I have an additional letter from 20 State  attorneys general led by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Office of  the Attorney General.  

        Senator Dick Durbin,      Washington, DC.      Representative Susie Lee,      Washington, DC. 

       Dear Senator Durbin and Representative Lee: We, the       undersigned Attorneys General of Massachusetts, California,       Delaware, the District of Columbia, Hawai'i, Illinois, Iowa,       Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, New Mexico,       New York, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Vermont,       Virginia, and Washington write to express our support for the       resolution of disapproval that you have introduced regarding       the U.S. Department of Education's (``Department'') 2019       Borrower Defense Rule (``2019 Rule'') pursuant to the       Congressional Review Act. In issuing the 2019 Rule, the       Department has abdicated its Congressionally-mandated       responsibility to protect students and taxpayers from the       misconduct of unscrupulous schools. The rule provides no       realistic prospect for borrowers to discharge their loans       when they have been defrauded by predatory for-profit       schools, and it eliminates financial responsibility       requirements for those same institutions. If this rule goes       into effect, the result will be disastrous for students while       providing a windfall to abusive schools. 

       The 2019 Rule squanders and reverses recent progress the       Department has made in protecting students from fraud and       abuse. Three years ago, the Department completed a thorough       rulemaking process addressing borrower defense and financial       responsibility, in which the views of numerous schools,       stakeholders, and public commenters were considered and       incorporated into a comprehensive set of regulations. The       regulations, promulgated by the Department in November 20l6       (``2016 Rule''), made substantial progress toward achieving       the Department's then-stated goal of providing defrauded       borrowers with a consistent, clear, fair, and transparent       process to seek debt relief. At the same time, the 2016 Rule       protected taxpayers by holding schools accountable that       engage in misconduct and ensuring that financially troubled       schools provide the government with protection against the       risks they create. 

       The Department's new rule would simply rescind and replace       its 2016 Rule, reversing all of its enhanced protections for       students and its accountability measures for for-profit       schools. The Department's 2019 Rule provides an entirely       unfair and unworkable process for defrauded students to       obtain loan relief and will do nothing to deter and hold       accountable schools that cheat their students. Among its       numerous flaws, the Department's new rule places       insurmountable evidentiary burdens on student borrowers with       meritorious claims. The rule requires student borrowers to       prove intentional or reckless misconduct on the part of their       schools, an extraordinarily demanding standard not consistent       with state laws governing liability for unfair and deceptive       conduct. Moreover, even where a school has intentionally or       recklessly harmed its students, it is difficult to imagine       how students would be able to obtain the evidence necessary       to prove intent or recklessness for an administrative       application to the Department. The rule also inappropriately       requires student borrowers to prove financial harm beyond the       intrinsic harm caused by incurring federal student loan debt       as a result of fraud, and establishes a three-year time bar       on borrower defense claims, even though students typicaJiy do       not learn until years later that they were defrauded by their       schools. Compounding these obstacles, the rule arbitrarily       eliminates the process by which relief can be sought on a       group level, permitting those schools that have committed the       most egregious and systemic misconduct to benefit from their       wrongdoing at the expense of borrowers with meritorious       claims who are unaware of or unable to access relief. 

       We are uniquely well-situated to understand the devastating       effects that the 2019 Rule would have on the lives of student       borrowers and their families. State attorneys general serve       an important role in the regulation of private, postsecondary       institutions. Our investigations and enforcement actions have       repeatedly revealed that numerous for-profit schools have       deceived and defrauded students, and employed other unlawful       tactics to line their coffers with federal student-loan       funds. We have witnessed firsthand the heartbreaking       devastation to borrowers and their families. Recently, for       example, state attorneys general played a critical role in       uncovering widespread misconduct at Career Education       Corporation, Education Management Corporation, the Art       Institute and Argosy schools operated by the Dream Center,       ITT Technical Institute, Corinthian Colleges, American Career       Institute and others, and then working with the Department to       secure borrower-defense relief for tens of thousands of       defrauded students. Though this work, we have spoken with       numerous students who, while seeking new opportunities for       themselves and their families, were lured into programs with       the promise of employment opportunities and higher earnings,       only to be left with little to show for their efforts aside       from unaffordable debt. 

       A robust and fair borrower defense rule is critical for       ensuring that student borrowers and taxpayers are not left       bearing the costs of institutional misconduct. The       Department's new rule instead empowers predatory for-profit       schools and cuts off relief to victimized students. During       the comment period on the 2019 Rule, we submitted these and       other objections to the Department. Rather than engaging with       our offices, the Department ignored our comments and left our       concerns unaddressed. We commend and support your efforts to       disapprove the 2019 Rule to protect students and taxpayers.       Congress must hold predatory institutions accountable for       their misconduct and provide relief to defrauded student       borrowers and, by enacting your resolution of disapproval,       ensure that the 2016 Rule remains the operative borrower       defense regulation.            Sincerely,          Maurn Healey, Massachusetts Attorney General; Kathleen             Jennings, Delaware Attorney General; Clare E. Connors,             Hawai'i Attorney General; Tom Miller, Iowa Attorney             General; Brian E. Frosh, Maryland Attorney General;             Keith Ellison, Minnesota Attorney General; Hector             Balderas, New Mexico Attorney General; Xavier Becerra,             California Attorney General; Karl A. Racine, District             of Columbia Attorney General; Kwame Raoul, Illinois             Attorney General; Aaron M. Frey, Maine Attorney             General; Dana Nessel, Michigan Attorney General; Gurbir             S. Grewal, New Jersey Attorney General; Letitia James,             New York Attorney General; Joshua H. Stein, North             Carolina Attorney General; Josh Shapiro, Pennsylvania             Attorney General; Mark R. Herring, Virginia Attorney             General; Ellen F. Rosenblum, Oregon Attorney General;             Thomas J. Donovan, Jr., Vermont Attorney General; Bob             Ferguson, Washington State Attorney General.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, along with Attorney General Kwame Raoul of  Illinois and others, signers include the attorneys general of Maine,  Iowa, Pennsylvania, and North Carolina. In their letter, these chief  state law enforcement officers write:  

       In issuing the 2019 rule, the Department has abdicated its       Congressionally-mandated responsibility to protect students       and taxpayers from the misconduct of unscrupulous schools.       The rule provides no realistic prospect for borrowers to       discharge their loans when they have been defrauded by       predatory for-profit schools . . . if this rule goes into       effect, the result will be disastrous for students while       providing a windfall to abusive schools.  

  Senators are going to get a chance--Democrats and Republicans--to  undo the mess created by the Secretary of Education. Senators will get  a chance to stand up for the student loan borrowers who have been  defrauded and, equally important, a chance to stand up for our  veterans. How many speeches have been delivered on this floor about the  men and women in uniform and those who have served and how much we  honor them? Honor them by standing with the American Legion and vote to  undo the borrower defense rule of Secretary DeVos. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT