Immigrant Health Heroes


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, Americans owe a great debt of gratitude  to the healthcare heroes on the frontlines of the fight against the  COVID-19 pandemic. Today, I would like to spend a few minutes talking  about one special group of healthcare workers: immigrants. 

  Consider this: 1 in 6 healthcare and social service workers--3.1  million out of 18.7 million--are immigrants. These immigrants are  playing a critical role in the battle against the pandemic, yet our  broken immigration system does not allow many of them to fulfill their  dreams of becoming part of America's future. 

  I have come to the floor today to tell a story of one of our  immigrant health heroes, and I will continue to highlight these stories  in the coming weeks. I am also inviting my colleagues from across the  Nation to come tell their own stories on social media or on the floor  with #ImmigrantHealthHeroes, shown on this chart. 

  Thousands of immigrant health workers are suffering because of a  serious problem in our immigration system: It is the green card  backlog. This backlog puts them and their families at risk of losing  their immigration status, and it hinders their ability to participate  in the fight against COVID-19. Under our current laws, there are not  nearly enough immigrant visas, also known as green cards, available  each year. As a result, immigrants are struck in crippling backlogs not  just for years but for decades. 

  Close to 5 million future Americans are in line waiting for green  cards. Hundreds of thousands of them are already working in the United  States on temporary visas, while many more are waiting abroad,  separated from their American families. Only 226,000 family green cards  and 140,000 employment green cards are available each year. The  backlogs are really hard on these families who are caught in this  immigration limbo. For example, children in many of these families age  out and face deportation as their parents are waiting in line for their  green cards. 

  The green card backlog includes thousands of doctors--medical  doctors--who are currently working in our country on a temporary basis.  These doctors face many restrictions due to their temporary status,  such as not being able to volunteer at hospitals in COVID-19 hotspots  where they are so desperately needed. 

  The solution to the green card backlog is clear: Increase the number.  In 2013, I joined a group of four Republicans and four Democrats who  authored a bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill. The bill  passed the Senate with a strong vote, 68-3, and it would have  eliminated the green card backlog. 

  Last year, I introduced the RELIEF Act, legislation based on the 2013  comprehensive immigration reform bill that would clear the backlog for  all immigrants waiting in line for green cards within 5 years. I will  keep fighting to help all immigrants who are stuck in this backlog. 

  Last week, I joined with my colleagues, Republican Senators David  Perdue of Georgia, Todd Young of Indiana, and John Cornyn of Texas and  Democratic Senators Chris Coons of Delaware and Pat Leahy of Vermont to  introduce legislation to quickly address the plight of immigrant  doctors and nurses who are stuck in this green card backlog. This  backlog poses a significant risk to our ability to effectively respond  to this pandemic. Our bill, the Healthcare Workforce Resilience Act, is  a temporary stopgap bill that will strengthen our healthcare workforce  and improve healthcare access for Americans in the midst of this  crisis. 

  Our bill would recapture 25,000 unused immigrant visas for nurses and  15,000 unused visas for doctors. These are visas that Congress  previously authorized, but we never used. Our bill would quickly  allocate these visas to doctors and nurses who can help us today in the  fight against COVID-19. 

  It is important to note that our bill requires employers to attest  that any immigrant from overseas who receives these visas will not  displace an American worker. We want to ensure that all beneficiaries  of this bill complement our American healthcare workforce. As Congress  begins to work on the next legislation to address this pandemic, I will  push for the Healthcare Workforce Resilience Act to be included. 

  Today, I want to tell you the story of one immigrant healthcare  worker who is stuck in this green card backlog and would benefit from  the act I just described. 

  This is Dr. Ram Sanjeev Alur. Dr. Alur was born in India. As a child,  he survived a bout with meningitis, a disease that is often fatal. This  experience inspired him to become a doctor. He went to medical school  in India, then trained in internal medicine in the United Kingdom. Dr.  Alur came to the United States in 2007 for medical residency training.  In 2011, he began working as an internist and hospitalist in the Marion  Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Marion, IL. Dr. Alur has led the  emergency room inpatient unit for the last 3 years, and now, he is on  the frontlines of the pandemic as a member of his hospital's COVID-19  response team. 

  Dr. Alur lives in Marion with his wife and three kids. Their ages are  12, 8, and 6. He sent me a letter, but listen to what he said about his  life in southern Illinois living in Marion:  

       I consider the opportunity to work at the VA medical center       as a blessing. To serve the veterans is an honor,       responsibility and satisfaction that enhances anyone's life.       I found my calling and hope to spend the rest of my career       and raise my family here. I would like to see my children       blossom in this community and grow into successful,       responsible citizens.  

  Unfortunately, Dr. Alur is one of thousands of doctors stuck in this  green card backlog. He has been forced to renew his temporary visa four  times  since he started working serving our veterans at the Marion VA  facility. He has been approved for a green card but will have to wait  decades--decades--because of the backlog of people just like him,  waiting for their green cards. 

  In the meantime, Dr. Alur's oldest daughter would age out--she is 12  now--but she would age out and be forced to leave the country before he  is legally entitled to become a citizen of this country. Think of that  heartbreaking situation, breaking up this man's family because he has  been approved for a visa but has to wait to make sure he meets the  quota in each year, and he will end up waiting for decades. 

  In the midst of this pandemic, Dr. Alur's immigration status puts him  at a great risk. If, God forbid--God forbid--he contracts COVID-19 and  becomes disabled or dies, his family would lose their immigration  status and be forced to leave the United States. Tell me that is fair,  that this man who is serving our veterans and has waited patiently to  become a citizen of United States and be part of our future, should he  get sick or die, his family would be deported.  

  Here is what he said to me about this:  

       The pandemic shook our family. Being a temporary worker on       a visa never stared us in the face more. This lack of       protection is every frontline immigrant doctor's nightmare.  

  Dr. Alur's temporary immigration status also prevents him from  working part-time in a COVID-19 hotspot like Chicago. Here is what he  said:  

       It is depressing to watch the medical system, stretched       while the pandemic takes its toll, and not be able to help or       participate. It is like a soldier sitting out a battle,       player sitting out a game, fireman sitting out a house fire.  

  His family's plight led Dr. Alur to start Physicians for American  Health Care Access, a nonprofit organization to advocate for doctors  serving underserved communities who are stuck in this green card  backlog. 

  I can tell you, in southern Illinois, we are desperate for good  doctors. We need them not just at Marion VA, but we need more  specialists around the entire region. This is a rural area of our  State, small-town area, and they need these specialists more than ever. 

  How we can take a good man like this, who is willing to serve our  veterans and do more in this COVID-19 epidemic, and tell him he is not  welcome to be a citizen of this country, I just do not understand. 

  When I heard Dr. Alur's story, it inspired me to work with my  colleagues on a bipartisan basis to introduce this law that I  mentioned, the Healthcare Workforce Resilience Act. Under our bill, Dr.  Alur and thousands like him could receive their green cards. They and  their families would get the permanent immigration status that they  deserve and be able to use their skills to serve in the frontlines of  the pandemic if they are needed--and they are. 

  I hope that, even in these divided times, we can come together in  Congress to quickly aid these immigrant healthcare heroes.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT