Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I come to the floor of the Senate today  at a moment that will be remembered in history. In just a few hours,  the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court will come to this Chamber and  will be sworn in as the Presiding Officer in the impeachment trial of  President Donald John Trump. He will then administer an oath to each  Member of the U.S. Senate. It is an oath that is included in our Senate  manual. It is very brief, only 35 words, and it bears repeating for the  record at this moment. 

  Each Senator will be asked to make the following oath and  affirmation: ``I solemnly swear that in all things appertaining to the  trial of the impeachment of Donald John Trump, now pending, I will do  impartial justice according to the Constitution and laws: so help me  God.'' 

  In just 35 words, that oath binds all of us--Republicans and  Democrats--who swear by that oath to do impartial justice. The Founding  Fathers, and others, could have been much more elaborate in describing  the process we face, but in its simplicity, this oath really tells us  what we will face in the coming days. 

  I believe more than ever, starting on Tuesday, when the impeachment  trial begins in earnest on the floor of the Senate, America will be  watching. Many Americans have busy lives--personal, private, family,  and professional--and don't tune in to the political events of the  moment as many of us do, but I think more and more will be watching  come Tuesday. They are going to see a historic moment, only the third  time in history when a President of the United States faces  impeachment. What will they find? Will they find an effort to do  impartial justice? Will they find partisanship? Will they find a real  trial? 

  I think it is important for us to realize that a real trial includes  evidence. As a lawyer, I brought many cases to trial, a few of them to  verdict. I had to prepare my case, not just my theory of the law or  statement of facts but proof, real proof that came from documents and  witnesses. That is what a real trial is about. Unfortunately, on the  other side, the majority leader has suggested we don't need witnesses  and that it is only evidence of the weakness of the impeachment  charges. I think he is wrong. 

  As the Democratic leader said this morning, history will prove him  wrong because in impeachment trial after impeachment trial, evidence  and witnesses have been presented. That is the tradition and the  precedent of the U.S. Senate. 

  If there is an effort to short circuit that, to eliminate the  witnesses and the evidence, I think it will be obvious to the American  people who are following this what is underway. 

  In this morning's newspapers, it was reported that the President's  defense team has been ready, anxious, if you will, for this impeachment  trial to begin and equally anxious to end it as quickly as possible. I  hope they don't prevail in that sentiment because a race to judgment  may not serve the cause of impartial justice. We believe that the House  managers should be allowed to make their presentation, and they will,  and the President's defense team, as well. We believe that Members of  the Senate should hear those arguments and then proceed to consider any  additional evidence. 

  What kind of evidence may be relevant? As Senator Schumer, of New  York, mentioned just a few minutes ago, it seems that every day there  unfolds another chapter in this story. Every day we learn of the  efforts of the President's self-described personal attorney, Rudolph  Giuliani, to appeal directly to the leadership of Ukraine to initiate a  political investigation of the Biden family, to serve President Trump's  political interest in the 2020 Presidential campaign. 

  We have also heard repeatedly on the floor that there have been no  allegations of anything that was illegal or criminal on the part of the  President. The standard in the Constitution for impeachment does not  require the violation of a Federal crime. Our Constitution was written  before any statutes creating Federal crimes had been created. Rather,  the phrase ``high crimes and misdemeanors'' was used as a standard to  be imposed on the President. 

  But we just received information in the last 24 hours from the  General Accountability Office, which does raise very serious concern  about illegality of the President's action in withholding the funds  appropriated by Congress to support the Ukrainian defense efforts  against the invasion of Russian troops by Vladimir Putin and their  country. 

  As a Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, ranking member of  the Defense Subcommittee, I can recall when we, on a bipartisan basis,  decided to provide additional assistance to Ukraine in the form of  hundreds of millions of U.S. tax dollars so that they could defend  themselves against the invasion of Vladimir Putin. That money was  appropriated and we believed would be sent in a timely way to the  Ukrainians to defend their own country. Little did we know that money  would become part of the bargaining between President Trump and the  President of Ukraine as to this political investigation. It turns out  that money was withheld until the very last moment. In fact, as I was  offering an amendment in the Senate Appropriations Committee, and I was  told that the night before--late the night before--the President  finally released the funds. 

  Questions were raised by Senator Van Hollen to the Government  Accountability Office as to whether or not it was legal or illegal for  the administration to withhold those funds. We have now received the  statement from the General Accountability Office. They have held that  the President's withholding of funds to Ukraine violated Federal law.  The Government Accountability Office has a sterling reputation as a  nonpartisan watchdog with taxpayers' dollars. GAO's legal opinion today  concludes that President Trump and his administration violated the law  by putting a hold on military aid to Ukraine while that country was  trying to defend itself against an invasion ordered by Vladimir Putin. 

  This is an important ruling that deserves a thorough hearing in the  impeachment trial. It should be part of the evidence of wrongdoing by  the President, especially as it relates to the alleged abuse of power.  I also hope this ruling will convince the administration to speed the  additional delivery of $250 million in military aid, which the Congress  has also sent to Ukraine. 

  I am going to yield the floor because I know one of my colleagues is  coming to speak. 

  In just a few hours, this Chamber will be transformed. As we noted  yesterday, at about 5:38 p.m., when the clerk of the House arrived with  the Articles of Impeachment, there was a change in the atmosphere and  environment of this Chamber, and I can sense it even today. We realize  we are only moments away from a historic meeting of this Chamber on the  issue of Presidential impeachment. When we take that oath of office,  each and every one of us, swearing impartial justice, we need to  remember that not only is America watching but history will hold us  accountable. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT