Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, Benjamin Franklin knew the strength of our  Constitution, but he also knew its vulnerability. His words, oft  repeated on this floor--``a republic, if you can keep it''--were a  stark warning. Franklin believed every generation could face the  challenge of protecting and defending our Nation's liberty-affirming  document. 

  We know this personally. Before we can legally serve as Senators, we  must publicly swear an oath to support and defend the Constitution of  the United States. A trial of impeachment, more than any other Senate  assignment, tests the oath each one of us takes before the people of  this Nation. 

  The President's legal team warns us of the danger of impeachment and  conviction. They tell us to think carefully about what the removal of a  duly elected President could mean for our democracy. But if we should  have our eyes wide open to the danger of conviction, we also cannot  ignore the danger of acquittal. The facts of this impeachment are well  known, and many Republicans concede that they are likely true. They  believe as I do, that President Trump pressured the Ukrainian President  by withholding vital military aid and a prized White House visit in  return for the announcement of an investigation of the Bidens and the  Russian-concocted CrowdStrike fantasy. 

  Some of these same Republicans acknowledge that what the President  did was ``inappropriate.'' At least one has used the word  ``impeachable.'' But many say they are still going to vote to acquit  him regardless. So let's open our eyes to the morning after a judgment  of acquittal. Facing a well-established election siege by Russia and  other enemies of the United States, we, the Senate, will have absolved  a President who continues to brazenly invite foreign interference in  our elections. Expect more of the same. 

  A majority of this body will have voted for the President's argument  that inviting interference by a foreign government is not impeachable  if it serves the President's personal political interests. 

  We will also have found for the first time in the history of this  Nation that an impeachment proceeding in the Senate can be conducted  without any direct witnesses or evidence presented on either side of  the case and that a President facing impeachment can ignore subpoenas  to produce documents or witnesses to Congress. 

  Alexander Hamilton described the Senate as the very best venue for an  impeachment trial because it is ``independent and dignified,'' in his  words. When the Senate voted 51 to 49 against witnesses and evidence,  those 51 raised into question any claim to independence or dignity. 

  In addition, an acquittal will leave the extreme views stated by the  President's defense counsel Alan Dershowitz unchallenged: first, that  abuse of power is not an impeachable offense; second, that the  impeachment charges against the President were constitutionally  insufficient; and, third, his most dangerous theory, that unless the  President has committed an actual crime, his conduct cannot be corrupt  or impeachable as long as he believes it was necessary for his  reelection. 

  By this logic, Professor Dershowitz would have excused Richard  Nixon's ordering of IRS audits of his political enemies. Mr. Dershowitz  has created an  escape clause to impeachment, which is breathtaking in its impact and  unfounded in our legal history. We have all received a letter signed by  nearly 300 constitutional law scholars flatly rejecting the arguments  offered by the President's defense team. 

       To the United States Senate: The signatories of this letter       are professors of law and scholars of the American       constitution who write to clarify that impeachment does not       require proof of crime, that abuse of power is an impeachable       offense, and that a president may not abuse the powers of his       office to secure re-election, whatever he may believe about       how beneficial his continuance in power is to the country.           Impeachable conduct does not require proof of any crime  

       Impeachment for ``high Crimes and Misdemeanors'' under       Article II of the U.S. Constitution does not require proof       that a president violated any criminal law. The phrase ``high       Crimes and Misdemeanors'' is a term of art consciously       adopted by the drafters of the American constitution from       Great Britain. Beginning in 1386, the term was frequently       used by Parliament to describe the wide variety of conduct,       much of it non-criminal abuses of official power, for which       British officials were impeached. 

       The phrase ``high crimes and misdemeanors'' was introduced       into the American constitution by George Mason, who explained       the necessity for expanding impeachment beyond ``treason and       bribery'' by drawing his colleagues' attention to the ongoing       parliamentary impeachment trial of Warren Hastings. Hastings       was charged with a long list of abuses of power that his       articles of impeachment labeled ``high crimes and       misdemeanors,'' but which even his chief prosecutor, Edmund       Burke, admitted were not prosecutable crimes. On George       Mason's motion, the Philadelphia convention wrote into our       constitution the same phrase Parliament used to describe       Hastings' non-criminal misconduct. 

       No convention delegate ever suggested that impeachment be       limited to violations of criminal law. Multiple founders       emphasized the need for impeachment to extend to plainly non-      criminal conduct. For example, James Madison and George       Nicholas said that abuses of the pardon power should be       impeachable. Edmund Randolph believed that violation of the       foreign emoluments clause would be. 

       Thus, Alexander Hamilton's famous observation in Federalist       65 that impeachable offenses ``are of a nature which may with       peculiar propriety be denominated POLITICAL, as they relate       chiefly to injuries done immediately to the society itself''       was not merely an advocate's rhetorical flourish, but a well-      informed description of the shared understanding of those who       wrote and ratified the Constitution. 

       Since ratification, one senator and multiple judges have       been impeached for non-criminal behavior. The first federal       official impeached, convicted, and removed for ``high crimes       and misdemeanors'' was Judge John Pickering, whose offenses       were making bad legal rulings, being drunk on the bench, and       taking the name of the Supreme Being in vain. 

       Among presidents, the tenth and eleventh articles of       impeachment against President Andrew Johnson charged non-      criminal misconduct. The first and second articles of       impeachment against President Richard Nixon approved by the       House Judiciary Committee allege both criminal and non-      criminal conduct, and the third alleges non-criminal       obstruction of Congress. Indeed, the Nixon House Judiciary       Committee issued a report in which it specifically rejected       the contention that impeachable conduct must be criminal. 

       The consensus of scholarly opinion is that impeachable       conduct does not require proof of crime.   

      abuse of power is an impeachable high crime and misdemeanor  

       It has been suggested that abuse of power is not an       impeachable high crime and misdemeanor. The reverse is true.       The British Parliament invented impeachment as a legislative       counterweight to abuses of power by the Crown and its       ministers. The American Framers inserted impeachment into our       constitution primarily out of concern about presidential       abuse of power. They inserted the phrase ``high crimes and       misdemeanors'' into the definition of impeachable conduct in       order to cover non-criminal abuses of power of the type       charged against Warren Hastings. 

       As Edmund Randolph observed at the Constitutional       Convention, ``the propriety of impeachments was a favorite       principle with him'' because ``[t]he Executive will have       great opportunities of abusing his power.'' In Federalist 65,       Hamilton defined ``high crimes and misdemeanors'' as ``those       offenses which proceed from the misconduct of public men, or,       in other words, from the abuse or violation of some public       trust.'' 

       This understanding has often been expressed in the ensuing       centuries. For example, in 1926, the House voted to impeach       U.S. District Judge George English. The Judiciary Committee       report on the matter reviewed the authorities and concluded: 

       Thus, an official may be impeached for offenses of a       political character and for gross betrayal of public       interests. Also, for abuses or betrayals of trusts, for       inexcusable negligence of duty [or] for the tyrannical abuse       of power. 

       Two of the three prior presidential impeachment crises have       involved charges of abuse of power. The eleventh article of       impeachment against President Andrew Johnson alleged that he       abused his power by attempting to prevent implementation of       reconstruction legislation passed by Congress in March 1867,       and thus violated Article II, Section 3, of the constitution       by failing to ``take care that the laws be faithfully       executed.'' The second article of impeachment against Richard       Nixon charged a litany of abuses of presidential power,       including ``interfering with agencies of the Executive       Branch.'' 

       Even if no precedent existed, the constitutional logic of       impeachment for abuse of presidential power is plain. The       president is granted wide powers under the constitution. The       framers recognized that a great many misuses of those powers       might violate no law, but nonetheless pose immense danger to       the constitutional order. They consciously rejected the idea       that periodic elections were a sufficient protection against       this danger and inserted impeachment as a remedy. 

       The consensus of scholarly opinion is that abuse of power       is an impeachable ``high crime and misdemeanor.''   

  A PRESIDENT MAY NOT ABUSE HIS POWERS OF OFFICE TO SECURE HIS OWN RE-                                 ELECTION  

       Finally, one of President Trump's attorneys has suggested       that so long as a president believes his re-election is in       the public interest, ``if a president did something that he       believes will help get him elected, in the public interest,       that cannot be the kind of quid pro quo that results in his       impeachment.'' It is true that merely because a president       makes a policy choice he believes will have beneficial       political effects, that choice is not necessarily       impeachable. However, if a President employs his powers in a       way that cannot reasonably be explained except as a means of       promoting his own reelection, the president's private       conviction that his maintenance of power is for the greater       good does not insulate him from impeachment. To accept such a       view would be to give the president carte blanche to corrupt       American electoral democracy. 

       Distinguishing between minor misuses of presidential       authority and grave abuses requiring impeachment and removal       is not an exact science. That is why the Constitution assigns       the task, not to a court, but to Congress, relying upon its       collective wisdom to assess whether a president has committed       a ``high crime and misdemeanor'' requiring his conviction and       removal.                                 SIGNATORIES  

       Frank O. Bowman, III; Michael Gerhardt; Laurence H. Tribe;       Brenda Wineapple; Timothy Naftali; Neal Kumar Katyal; Pamela       S. Karlan; Noah Feldman; Jack M. Balkin; David A. Strauss;       Martha Minow; Geoffrey R. Stone; Walter Dellinger; Charles       Fried; Erwin Chemerinsky. 

       Paul Butler; Ralph G. Steinhardt; Dawn Johnsen; Sanford       Levinson; John Mikhail; Michael C. Dorf; Julie R. O'Sullivan;       Girardeau A. Spann; Richard Primus; Corey Brettschneider;       Victoria Nourse; Robin West; Abbe Smith; James V. Feinerman;       Jane M. Spinak, Esq. 

       Peter L. Strauss; Jeffrey Fagan; Ira C. Lupu; David C.       Vladeck; Eric M. Freedman; Carol L. Chomsky; Jennifer Taub;       Naomi R. Cahn; Stephen I. Vladeck; Jed Shugerman; Ilya Somin;       Michael Diamond; Paul Litton; Charles G. Geyh; Prof. Joshua       Schwartz. 

       Alan B. Morrison; Deborah Epstein; Dale A. Whitman; Rodney       J. Uphoff; Barry Friedman; Greer Donley; Justin Levitt;       Barbara A. Atwood; Daniel J. Steinbock; Samantha Buckingham;       Maxwell Stearns; Lauren E. Willis; Kirsten Matoy Carlson;       Steven Alan Childress; Liz Ryan Cole. 

       Florence Wagman Roisman; Margo Kaplan; Mark A. Graber;       Sally Goldfarb; Carli N. Conklin; Kandice Johnson; Jeffrey O.       Cooper; John Lande; Mary M. Beck; Benjamin G. Davis; Randy       Diamond; Melanie DeRousse; Gerald S. Dickinson; Laura Rovner;       J. Amy Dillard; Martha Albertson Fineman; Nancy Ota; Ann F.       Thomas. 

       Prof. Dr. Jennifer A. Drobac; Cynthia Matson Adams; Denise       Platfoot Lacey, Esq.; David A. Fischer; Ann E. Freedman;       Michael A. Middleton; S. David Mitchell; Lance Gable; Julie       Goldscheid; Stuart Green; Alan K. Chen; Christopher       Hawthorne. 

       Joshua Aaron Jones, JD, LL.M.; David R. Katner; Nicole B.       Godfrey; Stefan H. Krieger; Sarah Lamdan; Laurie L. Levenson;       Ann E. Tweedy; Caroline Mala Corbin; Nicole K. McConlogue;       David S. Cohen; Perry Dane; Stephen Meili. 

       James May; Nancy Ota; Catherine J. Ross; April Dawson;       Professor Laura J. Hines; Jane C. Murphy; John T. Nockleby;       Professor Nancy Levit; Jonathan Oberman; Michele Gilman;       Katherine A. Perez; Stephen Loffredo; William D. Rich. 

       Joyce Saltalamachia; Dveera Segal; Liz Ryan Cole; Ann       Shalleck; Kate Shaw; Earl Singleton; Keith Werhan; Mary B.       Culbert; Robert Calhoun; Christine Minhee; Nancy Chi       Cantalupo; Professor Steven Zeidman; Kathleen Kim; Professor       Lisa Kelly; Alan Saltzman. 

       Prof. Karl Manheim; Jeffrey M. Feldman; Leah M Litman;       Elliott Milstein; Prof. Deborah A Ramirez; Stacy Hawkins;       Jeffrey T.       Renz; Mary Crossley; Barbara S. Barron; Ira P. Robbins; Clark       B. Lombardi, JD, PhD; Penny M. Venetis; Michael Lawrence;       Joanna L. Grossman; Theo Liebmann. 

       Paul L. Tractenberg; Mikah K. Thompson; Professor Vernon       Valentine Palmer; Barbara Stark; Anya Bernstein; Ruti Teitel;       William D. Araiza; Lauren Gilbert, Esq.; Christopher E.       Czerwonka; James May; Kimberly West-Faulcon; Natalie Gomez-      Velez; Phyllis Goldfarb; Rachel Van Cleave; Arnold Rochvarg;       Lindsey Webb. 

       Ethan J. Leib; Carlton F.W. Larson; Natalie M. Chin; Heidi       K. Brown; Elizabeth McCormick; Bernard P. Perlmutter, Esq.;       Robert St. Martin Westley; John Burkoff; David Rudenstine;       Inge M. Van der Cruysse; James Levin; Babe Howell; Robert       Knowles; Yvonne Lindgren; Mae Kuykendall. 

       Marie A. Failinger; Katherine Mattes; Rebecca L. Brown;       David B. Cruz; Christoph Henkel; Jim Rowan; Elizabeth B.       Cooper; Debra Bechtel; Cornell Clayton; Paul Barron; Allie       Robbins; Wanda M. Temm; Jean C. Love; Rosemary Salomone;       Rachel Vorspan; Beryl Blaustone. 

       Susan Etta Keller; Tom I. Romero, II J.D., Ph.D.; Prof. Dr.       Frank Emmert, LL.M., FCIArb; Kiel Brennan-Marquez; Marcy       Strauss; David A. Harris; Catherine M. Grosso; Lissa Griffin;       Steven Mulroy; William W. Berry III; Richard D. Friedman;       Anthony M. Dillof; Leslie Rose; Arthur B. Lafrance; Pamela R.       Metzger. 

       Eric J. Miller; Marianne Wesson; Stephen F. Smith;       Professor Mark A. Dotson; Donna Coker; Janet Dolgin; Lynda G.       Dodd, J.D., Ph.D.; David B. Wexler; Prof. Deborah A Ramirez;       Ric Simmons; Matthew R. Hall; Miriam R. Albert; Jennifer A.       Gundlach; Michael M. O'Hear. 

       Robert Westley; Lolita Buckner Inniss; Margie Paris; Amy T.       Campbell; Prof. Bruce A. Boyer; Fabio Arcila, Jr.; Michael L.       Perlin, Esq.; Vincent M. Southerland; Robert M. Sanger;       Cynthia Godsoe; Caren Morrison; Daniel JH Greenwood; Paula C.       Johnson; Michael H. Hoffheimer. 

       Jenia I. Turner; Ben Trachtenberg; Catherine Powell; Ruth-      Arlene W. Howe; Charisa Kiyo Smith, Esq.; Dana Alicia       Thompson; Mark C. Modak-Truran, J.D., Ph.D.; Professor Irma       S. Russell; Nicholas W. Allard; Sarah E. Ricks; Daniel       Farber; M. Isabel Medina; Evan Caminker; Miguel Schor; Nina       Chernoff. 

       Rashmi Goel; Barbara Ann White; Monica Eppinger; Jimmy       Gurule; Odeana R. Neal; Gabriel J. Chin; Margaret Montoya,       J.D.; Anil Kalhan; Rebecca K. Stewart; Anthony Paul Farley;       Sahar Aziz; Jaya Ramji-Nogales; Amy Widman; Perry Dane; Maya       Manian. 

       Amanda Leiter; Paula Galowitz; Jesse A. Goldner; Anthony       Paul Farley; Elizabeth Nevins; Rick Wilson; Prof. Jonathan       Askin; James R. Maxeiner; Genevieve Byrne; Daniel L. Hatcher;       Fred B. Brown; Joseph Pileri; David Jaros; Mark N. Aaronson. 

       Sonia Gipson Rankin; Richard C. Reuben; Sam Erman; Katy       Ramsey; Janet M. Calvo; R. Wilson Freyermuth; Sarah Helene       Duggin; Danaya C. Wright; Charles S. Bobis; Kim D. Ricardo;       James Gray Pope; Chuck Henson; George W. Conk, M.A., J.D.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Yet a verdict of acquittal by the Senate blesses the  professor's torturous reasoning. An acquittal verdict would also give  President Trump's personal attorney Rudy Giuliani a pat on the back to  continue his global escapades, harassing American Ambassadors whose  service he distrusts, and lounging at European cigar bars with an  entourage of post-Soviet amigos. 

  More than anything, a verdict of acquittal says a majority of the  Senate believes this President is above the law and cannot be held  accountable for conduct abusing the powers of his office. And make no  mistake, this President believes that is true. 

  On July 23--2 days before his phone call with President Zelensky-- President Trump spoke to a group of young supporters and he said: ``I  have an Article II, where I have the right to do whatever I want as  president.'' 

  This is the dangerous principle that President Trump and his lawyers  are asking us, with a verdict of acquittal, to accept. Under the oath I  have sworn, I cannot. 

  What does it say of this Congress and our Nation that in 3 years, we  have become so anesthetized to outrage that, for a majority in this  Senate, there is nothing--nothing--this President can do or say that  rises to the level of blushworthy, let alone impeachable? 

  Nearly 6 years ago, I traveled to Ukraine with a bipartisan group of  Senate colleagues led by John McCain. It was one of John's whirlwind  visits where we crammed 5 days' worth of meetings into 48 hours. We  arrived in Kyiv on March 14, 2014. It was bitterly cold. Ukrainians had  just ousted a corrupt, Russian-backed leader who looted the national  treasury and hollowed out their nation's military. They had done so by  taking to the streets, risking their lives for democracy and a better  future. More than 100 ordinary citizens in Kyiv had been killed by  security forces of the old government simply because they were  protesting for democracy. 

  Seeing Ukraine in a fragile democratic transition, Vladimir Putin  pounced on them, ordered an invasion and occupied Crimea. Putin and his  thinly disguised Russian thugs were on the verge of seizing Donetsk in  the east. 

  I asked the Prime Minister what Ukraine needed to defend itself. He  said:  

       Everything. We don't have anything that floats, flies or       runs.  

  Many may not appreciate how devastating Russia's war on Ukraine has  been to that struggling young democracy. Their costly battle with  Russia was for a principle that is really basic to America's national  security as well. 

  In a country with one-eighth of our population, more Ukrainian troops  have died defending Ukraine from Russia than American troops have  perished in Afghanistan. 

  During the months President Trump illegally withheld military aid, as  many as two dozen Ukrainian soldiers were killed in battle. By  withholding security aid from Ukraine for President Trump's personal  political benefit, he endangered the security of a fragile democracy. 

  Can there be any deeper betrayal of a President's responsibility than  to endanger our national security and the security of an ally for his  own personal political gain? 

  And to those of my colleagues who describe the President's conduct as  merely ``inappropriate,'' I disagree. Disparaging John McCain's service  to our country is disgusting and inappropriate. What this President has  done to Ukraine crosses that line. It is impeachable. 

  I will close by remembering two public servants who, like us, were  called by history to judge a President. Tom Railsback passed away as  this impeachment proceeding began. He was 2 days shy of his 88th  birthday. I knew Tom. I considered him a friend. 

  In 1974, Tom was a Republican Congressman from Moline, IL, and a  member of the House Judiciary Committee. He regarded President Nixon as  a political friend. He believed that Richard Nixon had achieved much  for America, including the opening of the door to China. 

  After studying the Watergate evidence closely, Congressman Railsback  came to believe that Richard Nixon had violated the Constitution. When  President Nixon refused to turn over records and recordings requested  by Congress, Tom Railsback took to the House floor to say: ``If the  Congress doesn't get the material we think we need and then votes to  exonerate, we'll be regarded as a paper tiger.'' 

  When he voted to impeach President Nixon, Tom believed it was  probably the end of his career, but he was elected four more times. To  his dying day, Tom Railsback was proud of his vote. He voted for his  country above his party. 

  Bill Cohen--also a Republican--was a freshman Congressman at the time  and a member of the House Judiciary Committee. He studied the evidence  with Tom Railsback and then worked with him to draft Articles of  Impeachment. 

  Bill Cohen received death threats, and he thought his votes to  impeach President Nixon would be the end of his political career. But  he went on to a distinguished career in the House, three terms in the  Senate, and served as Secretary of Defense. 

  Listen to what Bill Cohen said recently of President's Trump's  actions:  

       This is presidential conduct that you want to be ashamed       of. He is corrupting institutions, politicizing the military,       and acts like he is THE law.  

  And then Cohen added:  

       If [the President's conduct] is acceptable, we really don't       have a Republic as we've known it any more.  

  May I respectfully say to my Senate colleagues, Ben Franklin warned  us of this day. 

  I will vote guilty on both Articles of Impeachment against President  Donald John Trump, on article I abuse of power and article II  obstruction of Congress. But at this moment of high constitutional  drama, I hope my last words can be a personal appeal to my Senate  colleagues. 

  Last night, many of us attended a State of the Union Address which  was as emotionally charged as any I have  ever attended. As divided as our Nation may be and as divided as the  Senate may be, we should remember America has weathered greater storms  than this impeachment and our current political standoff. 

  It was Abraham Lincoln, in the darkness of our worst storm, who  called on us ``to strive on to finish the work we are in, to work to  bind the nation's wounds.'' 

  After this vote and after this day, those of us who are entrusted  with this high office must each do our part to work to bind the wounds  of our divided nation. I hope we can leave this Chamber with that  common resolve. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT