Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, before I make remarks on a different  issue, I would like to address comments made this morning by the  majority leader, the Senator from Kentucky. The first related, as most  of his comments recently, to the pending impeachment trial in the U.S.  Senate. 

  I listened carefully to his arguments that the House and the Senate  have moved too quickly on this matter. It is true that they moved with  dispatch, and I think it reflects the fact that the charges that have  been made were timely, important, and relevant to the election campaign  cycle which we now face. 

  The charges in the Articles of Impeachment suggest the President, in  conversation with the President of Ukraine, asked for help in the  campaign that is about to ensue, asking specifically for investigative  material on the son of former Vice President Joseph Biden. At the same  time, the President was withholding military assistance voted by the  Appropriations Committee in Congress to Ukraine as they continue to  battle with Russia. These are serious charges, and they were based on a  telephone conversation last July. 

  It is true that the effort by the House of Representatives has been  timely and, by measurement of previous impeachment investigations, much  faster, but I believe that the timeliness is one of the important  elements here because we are facing this campaign.  

  Secondly, there was an argument made by the majority leader that the  Articles of Impeachment which we are about to receive in the Senate do  not state that a crime was committed. I would refer the majority leader  to the Constitution as well as to precedent in the U.S. Senate. The  actual allegation of a crime is not required for an impeachment. I  think the Senator from Kentucky knows that. 

  The last point he makes is one that I think is very important, and  that is that there has been some delay by Speaker Pelosi in sending the  Articles of Impeachment to the U.S. Senate. I would say, during the  course of the period since they were first voted on last December in  the House and their arrival in the Senate this week, we have seen  several things of importance unfold, not the least of which was a  recent disclosure of new witnesses and new evidence that has have been  collected since the House voted on the Articles of Impeachment. In the  eyes of many, it is relevant evidence, and the fact that that  information is now available to the Senate means we have a better  chance of arriving at the truth after deliberation. 

  Secondly, I might add it is encouraging that some Republican Members  of the U.S. Senate have made it clear that they oppose the notion of a  motion to dismiss the impeachment charges as soon as they arrive. That  might have been the dream of some in the White House--and perhaps even  some in the U.S. Senate--but cooler heads have prevailed, and I salute  my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who believe we have a special  responsibility to treat this constitutional assignment with  independence and dignity. That means we don't prejudge by coming to the  floor and announcing, in some critical terms, that the Articles of  Impeachment should not be taken seriously. We should take them  seriously. It is a serious matter. I hope colleagues on both sides of  the aisle will do that.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT