Letter to Mitch McConnell, Senate Majority Leader, and Chuck Schumer, Senate Minority Leader - Duckworth Writes to Schumer & McConnell Requesting Funding for Environmental Justice Communities in Next COVID-19 Relief Package


Dear Leader McConnell and Leader Schumer,

We write to urge you to ensure that the fourth stimulus package passed by Congress includesrobust requirements to provide assistance for low income, rural and communities of color. Thesecommunities, also known as an environmental justice communities, are especially vulnerable tothe virus and live in high poverty areas that could challenge their recovery.

As you know, the COVID-19 virus currently imperiling our Nation has life-threatening impactson people with underlying health conditions. We are concerned that this leaves environmentaljustice communities particularly vulnerable as members of these communities are more likelythan others to experience asthma and have diabetes. For example, in 2015 almost 2.6 millionAfrican Americans reported that they currently have asthma and African American women were20 percent more likely to have asthma than white women. That same year, African Americanchildren were estimated to have a death rate ten times that of white children from asthma. NativeAmericans have the highest asthma rates in the U.S. at 14 percent of the population.

Similarly, diabetes threatens these communities at rates that are higher than elsewhere in theNation. According to the Food and Drug Administration, among Hispanic Americans, the deathrate from diabetes is 50 percent higher than for white Americans. The percentage of AfricanAmericans and Native Americans with diabetes is nearly double the percentage of whiteAmericans with diabetes. And across the country there are approximately 550,000 people livingon the streets struggle to access showers and facilities to wash their hands, especially in citieslike Los Angeles, which have extremely high concentrations of people without homes. Homelessshelters in these cities have crowded conditions, conducive to the spread of COVID-19.

In part, the health outcomes for these communities are due to a lack of healthcare access. Lowincome Americans are more likely to live in areas with physician shortages and closed hospitalsas healthcare access follows wealthier privately insured patients to more affluent areas.

That is why the fourth stimulus we pass must include the policies listed below that will reducepublic health vulnerabilities. Americans under orders to shelter in place should have power, heat,and a safe environment.

We also urge you to ensure that any workforce program created or funded by the stimuluspackage provide economic opportunity to previously incarcerated people, all black and browncommunities include indigenous people, and depopulated rural communities. It is critical thatCongress fund any emergency programs necessary to ensure there are no utility shuts offs duringthis time and that economic stimulus dollars are spent in ways that comply with environmentalregulations to avoid increasing public health and safety risks. Specifically, projects must reducelocally harmful air pollution in communities coping with the cumulative impacts of multiplepollution sources.The stimulus must:

1. Provide emergency utility support to families and guarantee no utility shut-offs by

Funding emergency relief at $5 billion: Congress must fund an immediate moratorium onwater shutoffs for residential households along with restoration of service to those householdswho have experienced shutoffs. In this time of crisis, where hygiene and access to water is animperative public health issue, no family in the U.S. should be without water. Congress mustfund and direct state water control boards, with assistance of Offices of Emergency Services, toestablish emergency drinking water distribution and delivery programs to ensure that all withoutsafe tap water and those experiencing homelessness, have access to drinking water during thiscrisis. Congress must also direct State Water Resources Control Boards to suspend payments onstate revolving fund loans for financially-challenged water systems.

Funding the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program at $17 billion dollars: LIHEAPassists families with energy costs related to energy bills, weatherization and energy-related homeminor repairs. Stimulus legislation should increase the $4.6 billion FY2020 appropriation forLIHEAP to $17 billion. This money should also be used to prevent vital utility services frombeing shut off as well as fund reconnections to homes who have previously experienceddisconnections.

Funding the Weatherization Assistance Program (WAP) at $7 billion: WAP providesweatherization for low-income households, leading to $238 or more in average savings onenergy costs annually for customers. WAP lowers energy bills for mid- and low-income familiesby supporting home energy efficiency improvements and supports clean energy jobs. Every yearthe requests for WAP support far exceed the funds available, leaving many households withoutthe support they need to improve their energy efficiency and reduce energy costs. Congressshould increase WAP's fiscal year 2019 appropriation of $257 million to $7 billion, andstrengthen the program to better reach and serve low-income families.

Funding the Department of Energy's (DOE) Energy Efficiency and Conservation BlockGrant (EECBG) Program at $3.2 billion: The 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Actprovided $3.2 billion in block grants to cities, communities, states, U.S. territories, and Indiantribes to develop, promote, implement, and manage energy efficiency and conservation projects that ultimately created jobs. Stimulus legislation should provide $3.2 billion to the EECBGprogram. These programs should also prioritize communities left that cannot afford the upfrontcosts of energy efficiency upgrades, but would benefit from its energy and costs savings. 

2. Address toxic pollution by:

Funding the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Office of Enforcement andCompliance Assurance at $552 million; creating a new program under it called the Officeof Cumulative Impacts to be funded at $100 million: EPA's Office of Enforcement andCompliance Assurance (OECA) is the Agency's program dedicated to improving complianceand enforcing the Nation's environmental laws. Without an active and vigorous enforcementprogram, EPA cannot implement its mission of protecting public health and the environment. Fartoo often, enforcement action is lacking in environmental justice communities. Additionally,EPA must create a new office, to be under the Office of Enforcement, titled the Office ofCumulative Impacts. This office will identify overburden communities using EPA's EJ Screentool that are vulnerable to various sources of toxic pollution. To do this, EPA's EJ Screen mustbe mandated and funded by law. The Office of Cumulative impacts will make policyrecommendations on how to mitigate legacy pollution as well as recommend and enforce civiland criminal legal actions.

Reinstating and funding the Office of Environmental Justice at EPA at $100 million: ThisOffice provides EPA its internal capacity for environmental justice policy and decision making.The Office also ensures that environmental justice communities have access to EPA's capacityand skills and can benefit from specialized agency programs. In addition to reinstating theOffice, Congress must provide $100 million in funding for EPA to administer as small grants toHistorically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUS), tribal colleges and other majorityminority serving academic institutions with environmental and public health programs. Thesefunds should also go to nonprofits working in environmental justice communities as communitygrants.

Funding EPA's Superfund and Brownfield programs at $20 billion with funding set asidefor workforce training and renewable energy development: To accelerate toxic site cleanupand protect the 53 million people living within three miles of the existing 1,836 Superfund sites,stimulus legislation should increase the $1.16 billion appropriated to Superfund in 2019 to $20billion. To ensure that communities are protected into the future, all Superfund sites mustincorporate the local impacts of climate change in their planning and remediation, similar towhat is prescribed in the Preparing Superfund for Climate Change Act. Funding must also beincreased for the Brownfields program which drives economic growth by providing funds andtechnical assistance to assess and clean-up contaminated property sites for redevelopment andhelps promote successful local economic development in communities across the United States.Brownfield redevelopment must incorporate community-driven planning and protect againstcommunity displacement. 

Passing the Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation Fee Extension Act of 2019 to clean uplegacy mine sites that have been abandoned: Since the passage of the Surface Mining andReclamation Act (SMCRA) of 1977, $5.7 billion in AML fees have been disbursed to states andtribes to reclaim AML legacy sites, including 800,000 acres of damaged land and water. Despitethis success, the existing backlog of AML needs are estimated to be more than $10 billion. TheseAML sites continue to pose a threat to the health, safety and vitality of these coal communities --particularly in Appalachia. The Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation Fee Extension Act of 2019recognizes the continuing contributions of the coal industry to our economy, and the need forexisting environmental clean-up by extending the AML fee period for an additional 15 years.

Passing the Reclaim Act to accelerate the clean-up of abandoned coal mines while creatingjobs in areas hard-hit by the decline of the coal industry: Ever since the federal surfacemining law went into effect in 1977, coal companies have paid a tax on coal production toreclaim the millions of acres damaged by mines that were abandoned before the 1977 law. Thefund currently has an unappropriated balance of $2.4 billion, $1 billion of which isn't scheduledto be spent until after 2023. Starting in fiscal year 2021, the RECLAIM Act would acceleratespending of that $1 billion, distributing it to states and tribes over five years. Across the coalbearing mountains of Central Appalachia, communities that long depended on mining are stillhurting economically from the industry's decline.

Passing portions of the Environmental Cleanup Infrastructure Act to fund cleanup oforphan Superfund Sites and defense and former atomic energy sites: The EnvironmentalCleanup Infrastructure Act would allocate $30 billion for the cleanup of Superfund projects,$12.7 billion for Formerly Used Defense Sites (FUDS), and $3 billion for Formerly UtilizedSites Remedial Action Program (FUSRAP) sites. These contaminated properties causedisproportionate harm to communities of color, low income communities and indigenouscommunities. The levels of funding in this legislation would cleanup every FUDS and FUSRAPsite in the nation.

3. Recognizing the human right to clean, safe, and affordable drinking and waste waterservices for all by:

Reauthorizing the Clean Water State Revolving (CWSRD) Loan Fund and funding it at thefunding levels in H.R. 1497 the Water Quality Protection and Job Creation Act: TheCWSRF is the main source of funding and financing for waste water utilities across the Nation.H.R. 1497 renews the Federal commitment to addressing our Nation's substantial needs forwastewater infrastructure by authorizing $20 billion over five years in wastewater infrastructurethrough the Clean Water State Revolving Fund, which is a significant investment to improvewater quality. Providing robust funding for the State Revolving Loan Fund will also createthousands of new, domestic jobs in the green infrascture and wastewater sectors and reduce thecost of constructing and maintaining that infrastructure, promote energy efficiency and waterefficiency, and reduce the potential long-term operation and maintenance costs of publiclyowned treatment works.

Increasing funding for the Drinking Water State Revolving Loan Fund to $2 billion andrequiring states to use twenty percent of its capitalization grant to provide grants, negativeinterest loans, and forgiveness of principal for small and disadvantaged communities:States must be allowed to provide additional subsidies to eligible recipients in order to addresspublic health threats from a State or Federal emergency declaration, including leadcontamination. Furthermore, this funding should include technical assistance for Indigenouscommunities, who face severe disparities in water-related infrastructure maintenance andimprovement and water contamination. Investment should begin with the top third of countieswith the most drinking water violations and vulnerable populations. Finally, this package shouldinclude a pilot program for communities, or disadvantaged subsections of communities, that haveexceeded the lead action level for public water systems in the last three years that know throughtheir lead mapping that they have, or are likely to have at least 30 percent of their water systemcontain lead service lines.

Addressing lead in drinking water by passing several provisions: Too often communitiesacross the country question whether they are providing safe, quality drinking water to theirchildren. One of the biggest sources of water contamination comes from lead, a dangerousneurotoxin that can permanently impact brain development. The Centers for Disease Control(CDC), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the American Association of Pediatricsand many others find that there is no safe level of lead exposure. For vulnerable populations likeyoung children, pregnant mothers and the elderly, exposure to lead can be life altering. Bills thataddress this issue and should be included in the stimulus are: S.1583 - Lead-Safe Housing for Kids Act of 2019 S. 2087- Get the Lead Out of Assisted Housing Act of 2019 S. 2086- National Opportunity for Lead Exposure Accountability and DeterrenceAct of 2019 S. 1613- CLEARR Drinking Water Act of 2019

4. Creating Economic Opportunity for all by:

Bring People of Color and Low Income People into New Environmental Careers $5 billionacross four programs: Significant new investment in climate resilient water infrastructure isneeded to address unsafe drinking water and climate-related flooding, sea level rise, and drought.To ensure that vulnerable communities receive these investments and technologies, it isimperative to engage workers and firms from vulnerable communities in the design,construction, operations and maintenance of these water infrastructure systems.

Four important programs could be expanded to contribute to bringing new workers and firmsinto the water sector: 1) the Environmental Protection Agency Brownfields EnvironmentalWorkforce Development and Job Training grants program; 2) the Environmental HealthSciences Environmental Career Worker Training program ; 3) WIOA investments directed atwater sector employment training and low income youth; and 4) set aside one percent of any newwater infrastructure investments to develop people of color workers and firms to participate in water infrastructure development. These programs, currently funded at very limited levels, couldbe expanded to bring these effective opportunities to scale.

Funding EPA's Diesel Emission Reduction Grant program at least at $100 million and theFederal Transit Administration's (FTA) Low or No Emission Vehicle Program at $500million: EPA administers grants to companies seeking to replace their old diesel engines forcleaner-burning models. Over the past 10 years, EPA has granted about $700 million worth ofDERA funds. The Agency estimated the program has upgraded 73,000 vehicles or pieces ofequipment and saved 450 million gallons of diesel. This program is especially important forenvironmental justice communities, who are often adjacent to major highways. The FTAadministers the successful Low or No Emission Vehicle Program. In 2019, the program had $85million in appropriations and received nearly $500 million in requests. This is a critical fundingsource for transit agencies nationwide to transition their fleets to zero emissions in order toreduce the impacts of harmful air pollution on communities.

If we can provide you with any more information, please feel free to contact staff supporting theEnvironmental Justice Caucus' work, Radha Adhar at (202) 224-2324 and Adam Zipkin at (202)228-3916. Thank you in advance for your attention and consideration of these importantrequests. 

Sincerely,