Protests


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, his name was George Floyd, and 7 days  ago he was killed on the streets of Minneapolis. He was not the first  African American to be the victim of racism and criminal misconduct by  the police. This has happened in our history many times, but this was  different. This was a killing which we watched in realtime. 

  In fewer than 9 minutes, a Minneapolis police officer, with his knee  on the neck of George Floyd, took his life away. Despite Mr. Floyd's  begging over and over again, his pleas that he couldn't breathe, even  invoking the name of his mother, it didn't stop what happened. That  photo is still emblazoned in my mind, as I am sure it is for all of  those who have seen it. 

  The look in that policeman's eyes, in the videotape that was being  taken of that incident, was cold, hard, distant and unmoved by George  Floyd's plea and the plea of those around him. What a tragic moment for  our country. What a tragic moment for that family. What does it say  about who we are in the United States of America that in the year 2020  this sort of thing can happen with such frequency? 

  The heartbreaking killing of George Floyd follows years of similar  tragedies and needless loss. In 2012, 17-year-old Trayvon Martin was  shot and killed by a vigilante as he walked home with a bag of Skittles  that he just bought from the local 7-Eleven. His crime? Black in  America. 

  In 2014, the words ``I can't breathe'' were seared into our minds  when we saw the video of Eric Garner struggling for his life and dying  as a police officer held him in a choke hold. His crime? Black in  America. 

  Weeks later, Michael Brown was shot and killed by a police officer in  Ferguson, MO, despite being unarmed. A couple of months later, on the  streets of Chicago, IL, Laquan McDonald was shot and killed by a police  officer. The next month, after he was killed, Tamir Rice was shot and  killed by a police officer while playing with a toy gun in a Cleveland  park. 

  The tragic list of Black individuals whom we have mourned and marched  for continues to grow: Walter Scott, Freddie Gray, Philando Castile,  Botham Jean, Atatiana Jefferson, and many more, including Sandra Bland,  another resident of Illinois whose life was taken when she drove down  to Texas to interview for a new job. I attended her funeral ceremony.  The loss of such a wonderful young woman is still unexplained. 

  Now we come together to mourn the lives of two Black men and a Black  woman--lives that were cut far too short in incidents of inexplicable  and inexcusable violence: Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and George  Floyd. Once again, those gut-wrenching words--``I can't breathe''--have  us to tears. 

  As activist Brittany Packnett Cunningham has pointed out, justice for  George, Breonna, and Ahmaud would mean that they would each still be  alive and breathing today. 

  What we must now seek is accountability. The arrest of former  Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin is a first step in that  direction, but there is so much more that must follow. 

  Too often, police officers have crossed the line from lawful  protection of our communities to baseless targeting, harming, and  killing of unarmed Americans of color. Perhaps an arrest of the officer  will be made, but our system of justice rarely leads to real  consequences that follow. How  many more names of Black men and women and children will be crying out  in protest before America finally acknowledges the obvious? 

  We cannot call ourselves a land of justice until we address those  fundamental issues of racial injustice. That will require an honest,  candid conversation with leaders in the law enforcement community about  training, inherent bias, the use of force, and the consequences for  their unjust action. It will require prosecutors in courts to commit to  pursuing true accountability when injustice occurs, and it will require  legislators like myself and those I serve with in the Senate and in the  House and in State legislatures around this country to continue to undo  the damage of a criminal justice system fraught with racial  disparities.  

  Most importantly, it will require those of us with privilege and  power to step back and listen to Black Americans as they tell us about  what a life affected by pervasive and systemic racism is like. If we  truly want to reach a new day in America, impacted communities must  lead the conversation, and allies must play an active and supporting  role in confronting and dismantling racism. 

  We know there are several steps the Federal Government can take right  now to begin the process of moving forward. A good place to start is  President Barack Obama's Task Force on 21st Century Policing. 

  In 2015, President Obama's Task Force released a report outlining  crucial reforms to strengthen community policing and to restore trust  between law enforcement and the communities they serve. Under President  Obama's leadership, the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division  investigated civil rights abuses in multiple police departments across  the country--Baltimore; Ferguson, MO; Cleveland; and, yes, Chicago, IL. 

  Unfortunately, the current President dismantled these efforts as soon  as he took control of the Department of Justice in 2017. In this  heartbreaking moment of crisis, America is pleading with us for  leadership. President Trump and Attorney General Barr could demonstrate  that leadership by implementing the recommendations of the Task Force  on 21st Century Policing and permitting the Civil Rights Division to do  its job and vigorously investigate police departments accused of  engaging in a pattern of practice of misconduct. 

  We have a role to play here too. We must immediately hold hearings on  systemic racism and police misconduct so we can discuss and pursue  solutions, including accountability and training. 

  Chairman Graham of the Senate Judiciary Committee has announced that  the committee will hold a hearing on police misconduct. I am glad that  he made that statement. I hope it is more than just one token hearing. 

  When I chaired the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution,  Civil Rights, and Human Rights, I held several hearings on race in  America, including my last hearing as chairman in December of 2014, on  the state of civil and human rights in the United States. I said then,  and I repeat it today, that it is important to recognize and say  clearly that there is still a problem with racism in America and we  still have so much more to do. We have got to acknowledge the obvious. 

  As one sign said in the demonstration yesterday, ``All Black people  are not criminals. All White people are not racists. All policemen are  not bad.'' We have to find the problems and solve them, but we cannot  ignore the obvious. 

  Since the Republicans took Senate majority control on January 2015,  the Senate Judiciary Committee rarely, if ever, addressed these issues  of systemic racism in America. In fact, the last hearing on policing  was almost 5 years ago. 

  In November of 2015, the junior Senator from Texas held a hearing  entitled: ``The War on Police: How the Federal Government Undermines  State and Local Law Enforcement.'' It was a thinly veiled attack on the  efforts of the Obama administration's Civil Rights Division to improve  police integrity, and 4\1/2\ years after that hearing, we still have so  much work to do. 

  I am committed to joining with my colleagues to listen to civil  rights leaders, activists, and affected communities to work with them  to improve life in my State and across the Nation. I hope we can honor  George, Breonna, Ahmaud, and all of the Black and Brown lives that have  been lost in brutal acts of racial injustice. We need to do this by  reforming the system that has permitted these atrocities to occur and  dedicate ourselves to bringing about justice and accountability. 

  It was many years ago when I was a law student in this city. The year  was 1968. I remember it well. It was a historic year, and much of  history was painful. I was sitting in the student library of Georgetown  Law School, and a professor opened the door and asked that all students  in their second and third year come out in the hallway. I went out in  the hallway, and he said: We need your help. As you know, the city of  Washington is ablaze with demonstrations in anger over the  assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King. The system of justice has  broken down in the city. They have run out of attorneys to even stand  with the accused defendants before the court. We are preparing to  empower you, even as law students, to walk across the street to the DC  court and play that role. We need you. 

  I did it, nervous as could be, uncertain of what I was actually doing  but realizing that the system of justice in this city had all but  broken down. 

  I think we have learned the hard way that to maintain order in a  democracy, you need a consensus--a consensus on what is the common good  and the belief that we all must stand together to make certain that it  is protected.  

  There will always be enemies and outliers, but ultimately, if we are  to move together as a democratic nation, we have to understand and work  together toward the common good and a common goal, and shouldn't the  beginning of that common good and common goal be the end of racism in  America? 

  I read so much history about the Civil War and the role of another  Illinoian, Abraham Lincoln, in bringing that war to a successful  conclusion. The constitutional amendments that followed and the  promises that followed as we emancipated slaves across the United  States--those promises, sadly, were not kept. The Reconstruction, Jim  Crow laws, and the discrimination that followed are still with us  today. 

  There was one moment--one shining moment in my political life--when I  stood just a few feet away from a new President of the United States by  the name of Barack Obama, an African American. I thought to myself,  finally, finally, Durbin, maybe we have reached that turning point in  America when it comes to race. If we can accept an African American as  the leader of our Nation, maybe, just maybe, we are moving toward the  day we all dreamed of. 

  I am afraid he moved us forward but not far enough, and he would be  the first to acknowledge it. We have work to do. 

  It used to be a bipartisan effort when it came to making certain that  minorities--especially African Americans--were not denied the right to  vote. That used to be bipartisan when I first came to Congress. Now it  has become another sad, divisive, partisan issue, and the efforts to  restore the Voting Rights Act failed because the Republicans no longer  joined the Democrats in that quest. 

  There are so many other areas that lie ahead that we have to address  beyond criminal justice. We have to address economic justice. We know  from the COVID-19 pandemic that those who are minorities in this  country--the Black and Brown--are dying at a much greater rate than  others. There are gross disparities--racial disparities and poverty  disparities--when it comes to healthcare in America, and the same is  true for education and housing and so many other aspects of what being  an American is all about. That agenda is before us. 

  If we think coming to the floor and making a speech, having a  hearing, and moving on will solve the problem, it will not. It will  not. We have to envision, moving forward, rethinking America, and we  have to acknowledge that the process will be far from perfect. 

  Just the last two nights in the city of Chicago and across the United  States, we have seen incidents occur that I thought I would never see  again. They harken back to that 1968 reaction to  the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King--burnings, looting,  confrontations, things that sadly look exactly like they did some 50  years ago. 

  The reality is this: In America, we are given a constitutional right  to express our feelings, our free speech, and our free assembly. Those  rights are important and should be valued and respected, but those  rights to march and demonstrate, as people are doing right outside this  building at this very moment, cannot be taken to the point where they  have reached an extreme and become destructive. Speaking, assembling,  exercising your constitutional right does not include looting. It  doesn't include arson, vandalism, or violence. In fact, those actions  detract from the underlying message that calls for positive change in  America. 

  I am glad that leaders like John Lewis, my dear friend and former  colleague from the House of Representatives, has made that point. His  voice on the subject is much more articulate and more convincing. He  has reminded us that if we are to move America to the place where it  must be, then we must do it in a nonviolent fashion within the law, not  breaking the law. 

  His name was George Floyd, a 46-year-old African American. He died in  the streets of Minneapolis with the knee of a police officer on his  neck for almost 9 minutes. He cannot be forgotten. And all the others I  have mentioned must also be remembered. It is time for us and it is  time for our generation to say: Enough. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT