PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL DISAPPROVAL UNDER CHAPTER 8 OF TITLE 5,      UNITED STATES CODE, OF THE RULE SUBMITTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF          EDUCATION RELATING TO ``BORROWER DEFENSE INSTITUTIONAL  ACCOUNTABILITY''--MOTION TO PROCEED


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, in just a few moments, we are going to be  considering the motion to proceed to the borrower CRA, and I would like  to say a few words, understanding that the Senators are expecting this  motion to come up in about 5 minutes. 

  This is a joint resolution that was passed on a bipartisan basis in  the House of Representatives to overturn the borrower defense rule that  has been promulgated by Department of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos.  I am pleased to be the Senate's sponsor. 

  Here is what it comes down to--hundreds of thousands of Federal  student loan borrowers having been defrauded by their schools. They  went to some of these for-profit schools that have gone out of  business, but many schools defrauded these students over the years. 

  We in Congress established what was known as the borrower defense. We  said, if you borrow money from the Federal Government and go to  colleges that we acknowledge as being accredited and they defraud you,  lie to you, misrepresent to you what your education is going to cost or  what it is going to give you, then, you don't have to be saddled with  the student debt for the rest of your life because of their lies,  because of their fraud. You have a chance to go to the Department of  Education and plead your case that you were defrauded, and you should  at least be relieved of some, if not all, of your student loan debt.  That is what it is all about. 

  There are 230,000 student borrowers who are waiting for the  Department of Education, under Betsy DeVos, to do something. The  Department has not done anything except to come up with a new rule that  says, at this point, it is going to be harder for these students to  prove fraud. It isn't enough that the States and other units of  government have found fraud by these schools. These students are  supposed to be their own lawyers and their own investigators and prove  the fraud and how it affected them personally. 

  Is it reasonable for a young student who has been defrauded and is  carrying student debt to have that responsibility? Secretary DeVos  thinks yes. I think no. That is what this vote is all about. 

  Who agrees with my position on this issue? Most of the advocates for  students do. In addition, the veterans organizations across America,  led by the American Legion, are supporting our effort now under this  Congressional Review Act to do away with the new rule by the Secretary  of the Department of Education. They say it is unfair to veterans--it  is--and unfair to student borrowers to hold them to this standard. 

  The American Legion's national commander, Bill Oxford, called the  rule, which we are going to get a chance to vote on after the debate,  ``fundamentally rigged against defrauded borrowers.'' He is speaking on  behalf of veterans. He could be speaking on behalf of young men and  women across America who have been misled by these schools over and  over again. The Bipartisan Policy Center Action, the NAACP, Third Way,  20 State attorneys general, and a host of others have joined me in  urging the Senate to overturn this unfair rule. 

  The Senate has a chance today to show the country that we can come  together and do the right thing for students and veterans. How many  times have we given speeches about how much we care about veterans?  Here is a chance to vote with the veterans, especially those who have  been defrauded out of their GI bill of rights and have ended up with  additional debt. 

  Secondly, how many times have people told us these student debts are  too much, are ruining kids' lives, and to give them a chance? I am not  for forgiving all loans to all students, but these students have been  defrauded. They should have an opportunity to start life again and not  be burdened with the debt that is going to make life impossible in  their futures.  

  I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will join me.  Regardless of what you think of the 2016 rule, we can certainly do  better than what Secretary DeVos has come up with. 

  I have been advised that we are not quite ready for my request of the  Chair. So I will say a couple of more words on the subject. I moved it  along quickly, but I didn't have to. 

  Under the new Betsy DeVos rule, it turns out that, of the 100 percent  of students who have been defrauded and are asking for relief, the  estimate is that 3 percent will be successful but that 97 percent of  these students will not have the opportunity to get this relief. 

  One of my colleagues whom I respect very much came to the floor here  and said: If your car is a lemon, you don't sue the bank; you sue the  dealer. A college can be a lemon just like a car can be. In his  scenario, the school is the dealer, and the Department of Education is  the bank. The case that he is making for a student who has been  defrauded by a school is that one has been sold a lemon of an education  and that we should go after the offending school. 

  Doesn't that sound right--that, if a school has defrauded you, you  would go after it? 

  It turns out that the rule that Secretary DeVos has promulgated ties  the hands of a student who is going after the school. It requires  forced, mandatory arbitration. So you can't take it to court. It  eliminates class actions so that students from the same school, like  the Corinthian Colleges, which went bankrupt, can't even come together  as a class. No, you have to lawyer up individually. You have to get  ready to fight in some room that has been set aside in which the for- profit school and the Department of Education are going to argue  against you. 

  Is that what we want to say to these students who have been through  bad college experiences and want to get on with their lives, who found  out that these credit hours from these for-profit colleges didn't  transfer anywhere, and who found out the courses that were supposed to  lead to jobs didn't lead to jobs? 

  These students were misled by these schools, and these schools are  notorious for it. The question is this: Are we going to stand up for  the students, many of whom are veterans, or are we going to stand up  for the schools that have been affected by this? 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I understand there is a discharge petition  at the desk for S.J. Res. 56 that has been signed by at least 30  Senators, which will cause the joint resolution to be discharged under  the Congressional Review Act; is that correct? 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN.  439,  S.J. Res. 56, a joint resolution providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Department of Education relating to ``Borrower Defense  Institutional Accountability''. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN.  Warren) are necessarily absent. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT