Senate Confirms John Kness To Serve As U.S. District Judge For The Northern District Of Illinois


U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) released the following statement after the Senate confirmed John Kness to serve as District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, based in Chicago.  The Kness nomination accompanies the previous nominations of Mary Rowland, Martha Pacold, and Steven Seeger to serve on the Northern District of Illinois bench:

"We are pleased that the Senate confirmed Mr. Kness to be a District Judge.  Mr. Kness was carefully reviewed by the nonpartisan screening committee we established to evaluate potential candidates, and we expect him to be a diligent, thoughtful, and principled District Judge."

Durbin and Duckworth established screening committees to assist them in evaluating candidates for vacant federal judgeship, U.S. Attorney, and U.S. Marshal positions in Illinois.  The task of the screening committees is to review and vet candidates for the vacancies and advise the senators regarding the candidates' qualifications and fitness for the position. 

Mr. Knees' bio from the White House is included below:

John Kness of Illinois will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.  John Kness is the General Counsel of the College of DuPage, where he oversees all legal matters at the second-largest institution of higher learning in the State of Illinois.  Prior to becoming General Counsel, Mr. Kness served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Northern District of Illinois, with stints in the National Security and Cybercrimes, Narcotics, and General Crimes Sections.  Mr. Kness served as a law clerk to Judge William H. Pryor, Jr., of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.  Mr. Kness earned his B.A. and J.D., cum laude, from Northwestern University.  Mr. Kness also has experience in law enforcement, having served as a patrol officer for the Oak Park Police Department prior to law school.