Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN.   

   3478  

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.  

       This Act may be cited as the ``Commission on America's       Medical Security Act''.       SEC. 2. NATIONAL ACADEMIES REPORT ON AMERICA'S MEDICAL                     PRODUCT SUPPLY CHAIN SECURITY.  

       (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human       Services shall enter into an agreement with the National       Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (referred to       in this section as the ``National Academies'') to examine,       and, in a manner that does not compromise national security,       report on, the security of the United States medical product       supply chain. 

       (b) Purposes.--The report developed under this section       shall-- 

       (1) assess and evaluate the dependence of the United       States, including the private commercial sector, States, and       the Federal Government, on critical drugs and devices that       are sourced or manufactured outside of the United States,       which may include an analysis of-- 

       (A) the supply chain of critical drugs and devices of       greatest priority to providing health care; 

       (B) any potential public health security or national       security risks associated with reliance on critical drugs and       devices sourced or manufactured outside of the United States,       which may include responses to previous or existing shortages       or public health emergencies, such as infectious disease       outbreaks, bioterror attacks, and other public health       threats; 

       (C) any existing supply chain information gaps, as       applicable; and 

       (D) potential economic impact of increased domestic       manufacturing; and 

       (2) provide recommendations, which may include a plan to       improve the resiliency of the supply chain for critical drugs       and devices as described in paragraph (1), and to address any       supply vulnerabilities or potential disruptions of such       products that would significantly affect or pose a threat to       public health security or national security, as appropriate,       which may include strategies to-- 

       (A) promote supply chain redundancy and contingency       planning; 

       (B) encourage domestic manufacturing, including       consideration of economic impacts, if any; 

       (C) improve supply chain information gaps; 

       (D) improve planning considerations for medical product       supply chain capacity during public health emergencies; and 

       (E) promote the accessibility of such drugs and devices. 

       (c) Input.--In conducting the study and developing the       report under subsection (b), the National Academies shall-- 

       (1) consider input from the Department of Health and Human       Services, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department       of Defense, the Department of Commerce, the Department of       State, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of       Justice, and any other Federal agencies as appropriate; and 

       (2) consult with relevant stakeholders, which may include       conducting public meetings and other forms of engagement, as       appropriate, with health care providers, medical professional       societies, State-based societies, public health experts,       State and local public health departments, State medical       boards, patient groups, medical product manufacturers, health       care distributors, wholesalers and group purchasing       organizations, pharmacists, and other entities with       experience in health care and public health, as appropriate. 

       (d) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``device'' and       ``drug'' have the meanings given such terms in section 201 of       the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).                                  ______                                   

      By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Ms. Stabenow): 

  S. 3479. A bill to amend the Federal Crop Insurance Act to encourage  the planting of cover crops following prevented planting, and for other  purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT