Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


   3634  

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.  

       This Act may be cited as the ``Health Heroes 2020 Act''.       SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR THE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM OF THE                     NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS.  

       (a) Additional Funding.--Section 10503(b) of the Patient       Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 254b-2(b)) is       amended-- 

       (1) in paragraph (1)(F), by striking ``and'' at the end; 

       (2) in paragraph (2)(H), by striking the period and       inserting ``; and''; and 

       (3) by adding at the end the following: 

       ``(3) to be transferred to the Secretary of Health and       Human Services-- 

       ``(A) $25,000,000,000 for fiscal year 2020, to provide       additional funding to carry out subsection (i) of section       338A of the Public Health Service Act and the National Health       Service Corps Loan Program under section 338B of such Act, of       which-- 

       ``(i) $15,000,000,000 shall be allocated to the program       under section 338A; and 

       ``(ii) $10,000,000,000 shall be allocated to the program       under such section 338B; and 

       ``(B) $690,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through       2026, to provide additional amounts to carry out the National       Health Service Corps Scholarship Program under section 338A       of the Public Health Service Act, the National Health Service       Corps Loan Repayment Program under section 338B of such Act,       and the reserve service program under section 338O of such       Act.''. 

       (b) Criteria for Use of Additional Funding for In-demand       Professionals.--Section 338A of the Public Health Service Act       (42 U.S.C. 254l) is amended by adding at the end the       following: 

       ``(i) Not less than 40 percent of the amounts made       available to carry out this section under 10503(b)(3)(A)(i)       of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act shall be       allocated to scholarships under this section for eligible       applicants who are members of groups that are historically       underrepresented in health care professions, including racial       and ethnic minorities and individuals from low-income urban       and rural communities. To carry out the requirements of this       subsection, the Secretary may coordinate with entities       receiving funding under section 739 to identify, recruit, and       select individuals to receive such scholarships.''. 

       (c) National Health Service Corps Reserve Demonstration       Project.-- 

       (1) In general.--Subpart III of part D of title III of the       Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254l et seq.) is amended       by adding at the end the following:       ``SEC. 338O. NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS RESERVE SERVICE                     DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.  

       ``(a) In General.--From the amounts made available under       section 10503(b)(3)(B) of the Patient Protection and       Affordable Care Act for each of fiscal years 2021 through       2024, the Secretary shall, to the extent permitted by, and       consistent with, the requirements of applicable State law,       use such sums as the Secretary determines necessary to       establish, as a demonstration project, a National Health       Service Corps Reserve Service (referred to in this section as       the `reserve service') under which a qualified individual       agrees to engage in service for a period specified in a       contract under this section in such reserve service under       this section. 

       ``(b) Reserve Service Requirements.--An individual whose       obligated service under a contract under section 338A is       provided, pursuant to a contract under subsection (a), as       reserve service, and any other participating individual       described in subparagraph (B) of subsection (c)(2) may       practice a health profession in any private capacity, subject       to the following requirements: 

       ``(1) In the event of a public health emergency declared       under section 319, a major disaster declared by the President       under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief       and Emergency Assistance Act, or an emergency declared by the       President under section 501 of the Robert T. Stafford       Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act or a national       emergency declared by the President under the National       Emergencies Act, for the duration of such emergency or       disaster, such individual shall be subject to serve in such       capacity as the Secretary shall determine appropriate to       carry out the purposes of this section, and in accordance       with the Secretary's plan to increase surge capacity in       response to public health emergencies or disasters. Such       service may be furnished in coordination with the Corps       described in section 204, a State, territorial, or local       public health department, or through the process described in       section 319(e). 

       ``(2) Not less frequently than 2 days each month, and for a       total of not fewer than 30 days each year, as directed by the       Secretary, such individual shall-- 

       ``(A) conduct trainings on public health preparedness and       response activities, which may be in coordination with the       State, territorial, or local health department; or 

       ``(B) furnish health care services to low-income       individuals in a health professional shortage area (as       defined under section 332(a)), a medically underserved       population (as defined under section 330(b)(3)), or a       medically underserved area or area at high risk of a public       health emergency as designated by the Secretary. 

       ``(c) Qualified Individuals.--An individual may be eligible       to participate in the reserve service under this section if       such individual meets one of the following criteria: 

       ``(1) An individual participating in the Scholarship       Program under section 338A may satisfy the obligated service       requirement under such program if the individual's contract       provides for such service. 

       ``(2) An individual who participated in the Loan Repayment       Program under section 338B and who satisfied the obligated       service requirements under such program, in accordance with       the individual's contract. 

       ``(3) An individual who-- 

       ``(A) did not participate in the Scholarship Program under       section 338A or the Loan Repayment Program under section       338B; 

       ``(B) has a graduate degree in medicine, osteopathic       medicine, dentistry, or another health profession, or an       appropriate graduate degree from a program of behavioral or       mental health, or is certified as a nurse midwife, nurse       practitioner, or physician assistant; 

       ``(C) holds a license issued by a State, the District of       Columbia, or a territory to practice the applicable       profession; 

       ``(D) is otherwise qualified to practice, and has       experience practicing, in a profession-- 

       ``(i) described in section 338B(a)(1); or 

       ``(ii) another high-demand health care field or specialty       that the Secretary identifies, through a process conducted       every 3 years, as a field or specialty of national priority,       based on relative workforce shortages, expected workforce       changes, or projected changes in patient needs; and 

       ``(E) satisfies any other eligibility or application       requirements specified by the Secretary in order to       demonstrate the individual's qualifications. 

       ``(d) Reserve Service Plan.--In carrying out this section,       the Secretary shall establish, in coordination with the       Surgeon General and State, tribal, and local health       departments, an action plan for the service commitments,       priority areas, coordination efforts, training requirements,       and such other considerations as the Secretary determines       appropriate, to ensure the complementary, additive capacity       of such individuals providing reserve service. 

       ``(e) Contracts for Certain Participating Individuals.--An       individual described in subparagraph (B) of subsection (c)(2)       who is participating in the reserve service program under       this section shall receive loan repayments in an amount equal       to 50 percent of the amount of payments that would be       required with respect to a participant of the       same clinical profession in the Loan Repayment Program       pursuant to a contract entered into at the same time under       section 338B(g), in a manner similar to the manner in which       payments are made under such section, pursuant to the terms       of a contract between the Secretary and such individual. The       Secretary shall establish a system of contracting for       purposes of this subsection which shall be similar to the       contract requirements and terms under subsections (c), (d),       and (f) of section 338B. 

       ``(f) Report.--Not later than 5 years after the date of       enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the       Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the       Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House       of Representatives a report that evaluates the demonstration       project established under this section, including-- 

       ``(1) the effects of such program on health care access,       public health emergency response capacity, and the provider       workforce pipeline; and 

       ``(2) any other considerations as the Secretary determines       appropriate.''. 

       (2) Conforming amendments.-- 

       (A) Scholarship program.--Section 338A of the Public Health       Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254l) is amended-- 

       (i) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting ``, or be eligible       for, or hold, an appointment in the reserve service under       section 338O'' before the semicolon; 

       (ii) in subsection (c)(2)(B), by inserting ``or through       reserve service under an agreement under section 338O'' after       ``section 338D''; and 

       (iii) in the flush text of subsection (f)(1)(B)(v), by       inserting ``, including service under the reserve service in       accordance with section 338O, as applicable'' before the       semicolon at the end. 

       (B) Obligated service.--Section 338C of the Public Health       Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254m) is amended-- 

       (i) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or 338O'' after       ``section 338D''; and 

       (ii) in subsection (c)--  

       (I) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, or'' and inserting a       semicolon; 

       (II) in paragraph (2), by striking ``agreement,'' and       inserting ``agreement; or''; and 

       (III) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:  

       ``(3) in the case of an individual who enters into an       agreement with the Secretary under section 338O, on the date       specified in such agreement,''.       SEC. 3. FUNDING FOR THE NURSE CORPS SCHOLARSHIP AND LOAN                     REPAYMENT PROGRAM.  

       (a) Funding.--There are hereby appropriated, out of amounts       in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000,000       for fiscal year 2020, for purposes of carrying out section       846 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 297n), to       remain available until expended, except that-- 

       (1) of the amount appropriated under this heading and made       available for scholarships, not less than 40 percent shall be       allocated to scholarships for eligible applicants who are       members of groups that are historically underrepresented in       health care professions, including racial and ethnic       minorities and individuals from low-income urban and rural       communities; and 

       (2) to carry out the requirements of paragraph (1), the       Secretary may coordinate with entities receiving funding       under section 821 to identify, recruit, and select       individuals to receive such scholarships. 

       (b) Emergency Designation.-- 

       (1) In general.--The amounts provided by this section are       designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section       4(g) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C.       933(g)). 

       (2) Designation in senate.--In the Senate, this section is       designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section       4112(a) of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress), the concurrent       resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018.       SEC. 4. FLEXIBILITY FOR MEMBERS OF NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE                     CORPS DURING EMERGENCY PERIODS.  

       Section 333 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.       254f) is amended by adding at the end the following: 

       ``(f) During any public health emergency declared by the       Secretary under section 319, the Secretary may,       notwithstanding any other provision of this section, assign       Corps members, with the voluntary agreement of such Corps       members, to provide such health services at such places, and       for such number of hours, as the Secretary determines       necessary to respond to such emergency, provided that the       total number of hours required are the same as were required       of such members prior to the change of assignment.''.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT