The State Journal-Register - Sen. Dick Durbin: Lessons learned so far on coronavirus


By Dick Durbin

The first reported U.S. death from coronavirus was Feb. 29. The president declared a national emergency on March 13. The United States passed China in confirmed coronavirus cases on March 26. And we have now surpassed the number of casualties from the terror attacks on 9/11. There is no quick end in sight.

The vortex of this maelstrom may not be the best venue for reflection, but there are several clear lessons learned even now.

First, we need to have a national policy to increase the number of medical professionals in our nation. There are critical shortages of doctors, nurses, mental health professionals, and dentists in normal times, and this pandemic threatens to overwhelm what is generally regarded as one of the most developed health care systems in the world.

Consider the economics of American medical education. If you are above average intellect; prove it in your college years; lucky enough to be admitted to medical or dental school; graduate and are accepted into a residency; work around the clock facing life and death choices for years; not to mention specialization, which may require even more classroom and residency years, we will license you to practice medicine on one condition. You have to assume a debt on average of $240,000. For most doctors, it will take 10 years or more to pay it off.

It's time to re-think this model. We need to expand the number of medical graduates. Doctors willing to serve rural and urban communities with health care shortages for two years in the National Health Service Corps and two years in a Reserve force available for national health emergencies--such as the one we currently find ourselves in -- should have their student debt forgiven. Similar programs should be augmented for nurses, dentists, and other critical health specialties. Expansion of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program should also be on the table.

Second, America's medical supply chain faces regular shortages and our national stockpile was clearly unable to respond to this emergency. A major factor has to do with our sheer reliance on countries like China and India for basic equipment used in every health setting across America. Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and I, together with Sens. Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Patty Murray (D-WA), added a provision in the recently passed stimulus package -- the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act -- that calls on the National Academy of Sciences to measure our nation's dependence upon foreign manufacturing, and proposes safeguards for our medical production of drugs, devices, and equipment, including the N95 masks and ventilators in scarce supply now.

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) historically tests drugs and devices for their safety and efficacy. We need to add the availability of domestic access. We live in a world where one stray virus, or one malicious terrorist, can interrupt the normal channels of commerce. We need to make sure there is an adequate stockpile or domestic production source to protect Americans.

Third, public health is national security. The National Security Council should reflect this reality and integrate their work with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Funding this effort should not be debated and shortchanged when the political winds shift, it must be as automatic as our spending for the Pentagon. For years, we have under-funded and under-appreciated the CDC. The time for that to change is now.

Fourth, research is key to ending this crisis and countless other health challenges. The same bipartisan quartet of Senators I mentioned earlier has increased appropriations for the National Institutes of Health by nearly 40% since 2015. These NIH investments have made it possible for our nation's researchers to rapidly test and develop new drugs and treatments, such as those being examined for the coronavirus.

I have also worked with Sens. Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to increase funding for the Department of Energy's Office of Science by 38% over the last five years. The Office of Science funding has allowed scientists at Argonne National Lab to map the virus and identify molecules targeted for drug interventions. There is no doubt we need this expertise to be expanded in the future.

Finally, successful public health campaigns require more than educated and licensed professionals. Health care workers, teachers, first responders, child care providers, workers at grocery stores and pharmacies are all integral to the success of surviving a national health challenge. They need to be trained, compensated, and protected as part of the network of services essential to our nation.

Someday, and I pray it will be soon, this crisis will end. There will be an Opening Day. Let's be sure that by then, we have prepared ourselves so that we can avoid or manage more effectively the next health challenge we face.

U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin is a Democrat from Illinois.