Unanimous Consent Request


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. First, let me say to my friend and colleague from Idaho,  thank you. The tone of your remarks are positive, constructive,  bipartisan. That is exactly what the American people are looking for,  at least in Illinois, and I will bet you in Idaho as well. 

  This national emergency, this public health crisis, should bring out  the best in us and not the most political side of our nature. Thank you  because I think your remarks were offered in that respect. 

  We have been here now 3 weeks. This is the third week since returning  from a break where most of us were at home. I think this is the longest  period of debate on the coronavirus we have witnessed on the floor of  the Senate in 3 weeks. 

  I thought this 3-week period would be all about COVID-19, all about  the vaccine. It hasn't. We have taken up many other things that have  nothing to do with it. What we have talked about here this morning is  encouraging to me. If bringing this resolution up with a unanimous  consent request is going to lead to the Senate Foreign Relations and  other committees moving forward on important policy questions that you  raised, and I hope I raised as well, then it was not time wasted. It  was time well spent. 

  We do agree on so much more than we disagree, I am sure of it, when  it comes to this. I invite you, I encourage you, I beg you, as soon as  we return from next week's recess, the sooner we can bring a hearing  before your committee and others the better. 

  I would like to address the unanimous consent request of my colleague  from Indiana as well. 

  It has been my good fortune in the House and Senate to work with the  Food and Drug Administration. It is probably one of the most underrated  agencies of our Federal Government. They make decisions, literally,  life-and-death decisions, every single day of things unimaginable to  us. It is hard to look at all of the things they regulate and inspect  and not be impressed. I have been impressed over the years with the  Food and Drug Administration. But the gold standard of the Food and  Drug Administration, which was established at least 60 years ago with  the Thalidomide scandal, was that this agency was to take a look at  drugs that were about to go on the market in America and conduct tests,  ask questions, do their own research to determine two things: Are they  safe, and are they effective? Safe and effective. That is it. But it is  a lot. 

  Over the years, for 60 years or more, they have used this standard to  judge drugs, clinical trials, which carefully measure the impacts of a  drug on the human body over a period of time and the like. It is  frustrating because, at times, it takes longer than we wish. There are  exceptions that have been created at the Food and Drug Administration  for extraordinary circumstances wherein it can accelerate the process,  but by and large, it has to judge drugs as being safe and effective.  

  Nearly three-quarters of drugs today are approved in the United  States by the Food and Drug Administration before they are approved in  any other country around the world. The FDA is considered the gold  standard. I have been told that so many times. Many countries look to  the Food and Drug Administration in the United States to see if it has  approved of a drug's being safe and effective before they move forward.  This demonstrates that the Food and Drug Administration has an awesome  responsibility but is doing a good job in ensuring Americans have  timely access to the same drugs as have patients in other countries. 

  The ADAPT Act, which Senator Braun brings to the floor, is a  solution, I believe, in search of a problem. Sadly, it runs a real  risk. This notion that we are somehow going to open up the possibility  of a drug's having been approved in another country being approved in  the United States quickly, without any review, I think is a dangerous  thing to do. 

  To date, we know what the coronavirus has done to us, and we also  know that this bill would completely change how drugs would be approved  for sale in the United States of America. It is not a minor bill. It is  a major change. Under current law, if a pharmaceutical company wants to  sell a drug, it needs the approval of the FDA. It tests it to be sure  it is safe and effective. It is the gold standard. 

  The Senator's proposal would abolish this method. That is  significant. Instead, the Senator's proposal says, if a drug has been  approved by another developed country--I am not sure of his definition  of a ``developed country''--it can bypass standard U.S. regulation and  come to market without going through the Food and Drug Administration's  study, review, and approval. 

  It is worth noting that many Members of the House and Senate have  criticized the pharmaceutical industry for charging Americans the  highest drug prices in the world. I have been in that chorus from time  to time and have suggested that drug prices in the United States should  be the same as they are in Canada and Europe for the same drugs. Many  times, people on the Senator's side of the aisle have resisted that  suggestion. They have called it socialism and have said we shouldn't  let other countries dictate what America has to pay for drugs. Yet,  now, apparently, Senator Braun is comfortable with letting other  countries dictate whether our drugs are safe and effective. 

  This bill is not a targeted response to the coronavirus; it is an  open-ended giveaway to some pharmaceutical operation. More importantly,  it is putting our safety at risk in America, which we never ever want  to do. Instead of approving the resolution I introduced that simply  expresses the support for global coordination, Senator Braun wants to  completely overturn our Nation's drug approval process. 

  This bill was introduced more than a year ago. It is still in search  of a cosponsor, and it hasn't been consented  by the Republican Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions,  which oversees the FDA. Now is the time for the best and the brightest  from all nations to work together toward the shared goal of ending this  pandemic and finding a safe and effective vaccine. It is not the time  to completely upend our Nation's drug approval process to make it easy  for some countries to flood our market with unsafe and ineffective  drugs. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I believe there is a unanimous consent  request pending. Has there been an objection to my original unanimous  consent request? BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT