Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 1


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, last year, I was proud to stand with my  colleagues as we introduced the For the People Act in the Senate just  weeks after it passed the House of Representatives. This measure has  already passed the House of Representatives. 

  If you took civics 101, they explain that after the House took action  on a measure, it came here. So the obvious question is, What happened  to it? It has been a year. It must be here somewhere. Well, we know  exactly where it is. It is in Senator McConnell's office. He is the  Republican Leader of the U.S. Senate, and he has made a conscious  decision that hundreds of bills just like this one will not even be  considered on the floor of the Senate. It isn't that he doesn't have a  majority; he does. But he doesn't want us to even debate or discuss  these bills before the American people. 

  This U.S. Senate once enjoyed its reputation as the world's most  deliberative body, which means we came here, debated, argued, and voted  on things like amendments and bills like this one. Last year in the  U.S. Senate, the calendar year 2019, we considered exactly 22  amendments in the entire year--22 amendments in 1 year in this Senate.  Six of them were offered by Senator Paul, who, with a gun to our heads,  said: If you don't give me a vote on my amendment, you can't go home.  All six of his amendments were defeated, but that just gives you an  example of why there is so little activity and why this floor is so  empty so many times. 

  In fact, this floor has become a museum piece where bystanders,  witnesses, and spectators can come in, sit in the Galleries, and look  down on the desks that used to be occupied by Senators who debated and  voted. We don't do that anymore. Instead, we consider one after the  other after the other of judicial nominations. I am not going to get  into that issue because it has been touched on already. 

  My contribution to this For the People Act goes to the heart of  political campaigns. If you don't think American political campaigns  are long enough, if you would like us to be on television a few more  months each year, hang on tight because it is coming. If you don't  think enough money is being spent on American political campaigns, hang  on tight because more is coming. If you want to reach the point where  we have no idea where most of the money is coming from that funds these  campaigns, hang on. The Citizens United decision by the Supreme Court  across the street has set the stage for that, and that is where we are  headed in America today. 

  My proposal for fair elections now moves in exactly the opposite  directions--shorter campaigns, smaller contributions, more  confrontation between candidates over issues than to have this battle  of television ads that goes on now. 

  My act would create a voluntary, small-donor, public financing system  for Senate candidates who agree to raise only small-dollar  contributions. I know it is a dream, but think about what it would do  to change American politics. Here is how it would work: Qualified  Senate candidates would receive grants based on their State's  population, 6-to-1 matching grants for contributions they get of $200  or less--smaller contributors--and vouchers for purchasing television  advertising other than social media. Once candidates reach the maximum  amount of matching funds they receive, they continue to raise an  unlimited amount of contributions of $200 or less--a $200 cap on  contributions. They can also raise money from small-donor political  action committees, known as People PACs, which allow citizens to make  their voices heard by aggregating just small contributions--no big  hitters. 

  The fair elections public financing system would elevate the views  and interests of a diverse group of Americans, rather than the  traditional wealthy class, and we would pay for it without spending a  dime in taxpayer dollars. Our system would be financed with assessments  on wealthy bad actors and industry law breakers. In the 2018 midterm  elections, the price of victory for a successful House congressional  candidate averaged about $2 million, and 35 Senate candidates who won  in 2018 spent an average of $15.7 million apiece.  

  If we don't rein in the cost and length of campaigns, shame on us. We  have to reclaim the reputation of this great Congress and the U.S.  Senate, and it starts with the way we finance our campaigns.  

  In addition to the Fair Elections Now Act, this bill has measures to  increase access to the ballot box, to strengthen election security, to  improve oversight in our campaign finances, and to remove corruption  from office. 

  I think it is outrageous that we live in an America in which people  are dreaming up ways to restrict and restrain people's right to vote.  If there is anything fundamental to a democracy, it is the vote of  those who are legally entitled in America. I have been in this business  for a while. I started off by losing a few elections. I didn't enjoy a  moment of that, but there was a notion that at least the American  people had spoken in those elections, and I accepted the verdicts of  those people. They have come back and given me a few chances since to  be in public service. 

  Let's make sure the American people have the voice--the most  important voice in this process--through their right to vote. Keep  foreigners out of the process, and put Americans into them. Don't make  it hard to vote. Make it easy for those who are legally entitled to  vote. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT