United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the majority leader, Senator McConnell,  also addressed the USMCA. This is characterized as the NAFTA-2 or ``the  new trade agreement'' between the United States, Canada, and Mexico. As  he noted, trade among our three countries is critically important to  all of us and, certainly, to the American economy and to my home State  of Illinois. Our trade with Mexico and Canada eclipses all the other  trade around the world and is important, especially, to our  agricultural sector. 

  Just last weekend, in my hometown of Springfield, IL, I held a  historic press conference. I brought together the President of the  Illinois State AFL-CIO, Tim Drea of Christian County in Central  Illinois, and Dick Guebert, who is the president of the Illinois Farm  Bureau, both of whom, through their organizations, support the USMCA  trade agreement that is about to come before Congress. There were a lot  of smiles and laughter in the room as these two friends of mine noted  that it is the very first time they have ever come together at a press  conference: organized labor and the farmers of the State of Illinois.  They both agree that this USMCA trade agreement is a step forward, an  improvement over the original NAFTA. They both endorse it, and I do  too. 

  I also want to add that the suggestion that somehow Speaker Pelosi,  in the words of the majority leader, slow-walked the USMCA really, in a  way, ignores the obvious. In the period of time between the original  submission of the USMCA and the vote that will take place soon in the  U.S. Senate, changes have been made to the trade agreement which the  President submitted to Congress--important changes. For example, there  was a provision in the trade agreement submitted by the President to  Congress that was a dream come true for the pharmaceutical industry of  the United States. It extended the period of time of exclusivity for  certain biological drugs in that treaty. What it meant was that these  pharmaceutical companies could continue to charge the highest prices on  Earth to American consumers while delaying any competition from generic  drugs. 

  That was a deal-breaker, as far as I was concerned. I told everyone  involved I would not support the President's original USMCA with that  sweetheart deal for the pharmaceutical industry. Thank goodness,  because of Speaker Pelosi; our leader on the Senate side, Senator  Schumer; and many others, we had that provision removed. Now the  majority leader is criticizing Speaker Pelosi for slow-walking. I don't  see it as slow-walking. I see it as bargaining, negotiating, and coming  up with the result which made this trade agreement more acceptable to  people on both sides of the aisle. 

  There was also language which the Democrats insisted on ultimately  included in the USMCA, which provides additional protection for workers  in the United States when it comes to the competition with workers in  Mexico and Canada, which provides for additional inspections of  production facilities in those other countries if there is a suspicion  that they are engaging in the treatment of workers in an unacceptable  manner. In other words, we put more enforcement provisions in the  treaty over the last year while it has been before Congress, as we  should--exactly what the American people want. For the Senator to come  to the floor and criticize this as somehow negative and political and  slow-walking--I think those two things I have just mentioned are  substantive and important and go to the heart of why this agreement now  has strong bipartisan support, which it should have had. I think we  have added to this process by making it truly bipartisan.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT