Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protecting Access for Hunters and Anglers Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Deporting Fraudsters Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Bill to Outlaw Wounding of Official Working Animals Act of and Relating to Consideration of Motions to Suspend the Rules


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700837/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-protecting-access-for-hunters-and-anglers-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-deporting-fraudsters-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-bill-to-outlaw-wounding-of-official-working-animals-act-of-and-relating-to-consideration-of-motions-to-suspend-the-rules


Mr. McDOWELL. Mr. Speaker, from the massive fraud uncovered in  Minnesota to schemes across this country, criminal networks are  targeting American programs and treating taxpayers like an ATM.

These are hard-earned American tax dollars. These are the earned  benefits of our seniors. These are young families' grocery budgets.

My colleague across the aisle has said that we don't have money for  these programs. We don't have money for these programs because you let  fraudsters take all of it.

Yet, we are watching criminal aliens exploit our neighbors and the  programs meant to help our communities, draining billions from the  American people.

Every dollar stolen by a foreign fraudster is a dollar that is taken  from an American family who actually needs these programs and their  hard-earned money where it belongs, with them.

The Deporting Fraudsters Act puts the American taxpayer back in the  driver's seat. This bill makes non-U.S. citizens who steal from Federal  programs deportable. It is crazy that that wasn't already the case. It  makes sure that far-left prosecutors do not sidestep Federal law by  dragging out a case to avoid a conviction.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation is really just common sense. If you  come here to scam the American people, you will be held accountable,  and you will go home.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''