Providing for Consideration of H.R. Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women and Families Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Pregnant Students' Rights Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to Public Land Order No. 7917 for Withdrawal of Federal Lands; Cook, Lake, and Saint Louis Counties, Mn


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699217/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-supporting-pregnant-and-parenting-women-and-families-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-pregnant-students-rights-act-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-public-land-order-no-7917-for-withdrawal-of-federal-lands-cook-lake-and-saint-louis-counties-mn


Mr. McDOWELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of two commonsense,  profamily bills before the House today.

This week, as thousands gather in Washington for the March for Life,  we are reminded that being pro-life means standing with mothers,  children, and families.

The Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women and Families Act allows  States to better partner with pregnancy centers who are providing real  help to new mothers who are taking the journey of parenthood. These  centers are a pillar for nearly 2 million families every year, making  it easier to provide and foster a loving bond throughout communities  just like mine in North Carolina.

No longer will political discrimination keep compassion at the  doorway. No longer will bureaucrats in Washington prevent pregnant  mothers from accessing services and assistance from faith-based  pregnancy centers, which help their families grow and thrive.

Mr. Speaker, we need to be a country that affirms life.

In tandem, the Pregnant Students' Rights Act communicates a simple  truth to young women: The birth of your child is not an ultimatum of  choosing to grow your family or continuing your education. If you are a  young woman who gets pregnant and is getting your education, this bill  strengthens Title IX protections to make sure that your school clearly  informs you of your rights and ensures accountability if those rights  are violated.

For too long, young women have felt isolated, pressured, and  unsupported. That is unacceptable, and it needs to stop.

Mr. Speaker, these bills reflect what the pro-life movement has  always stood for: dignity, opportunity, and hope. I urge my colleagues  to support the rule, support these families, and stand on the side of  life.