Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendment to H.R. Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696677/providing-for-consideration-of-senate-amendment-to-hr-continuing-appropriations-and-extensions-act-2026


Mr. McDOWELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today as we are in the process of  ending the longest government shutdown in our Nation's history and to  affirm that this Congress will get back to leading America into her  next golden age.

Over 40 days, that is how long the government has been closed. For  over 40 days, Democrats here in this body and in the Senate have chosen  chaos over our country. They chose to shut the government down because  politics demanded it, not policy.

The elites who dominate their party's decisionmaking are the ones  least impacted by its decisions.

Were the far-left activists and Democrats here in this body the ones  not getting paychecks? No, Mr. Speaker. That was the air traffic  controllers, our troops, and our Capitol Police officers.

When these same people passed ObamaCare, were they the ones impacted  by the law, or was it the middle-class teacher in North Carolina who  could no longer keep their doctor? We all know the answer to that, Mr.  Speaker.

Across the Nation, Federal workers are working two and three jobs  just to stay afloat, all so Democrats could champion illegal aliens who  exploit our compassion as they poison our communities with deadly  fentanyl.

That is not governing. That was extortion of the American taxpayer.  That ends today.

Today, we are in the process of finally reopening the government,  returning to the business of the people, and further implementing the  mandate our constituents sent us here to deliver on.

Democrats chose to have a month of political theater, but political  shows don't do one thing to help make the costs of everyday items more  affordable. It is time to govern and to focus on making America more  affordable for the middle class.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote on this rule.