Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Gas-Fired Instantaneous Water Heaters''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''; and Providing for Consideration of H. Con. Res. Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688089/providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-consumer-gas-fired-instantaneous-water-heaters-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-waste-emissions-charge-for-petroleum-and-natural-gas-systems-procedures-for-facilitating-compliance-including-netting-and-exemptions-and-providing-for-consideration-of-h-con-res-concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I  call up House Resolution 161 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 161

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J.       Res. 20) providing for congressional disapproval under       chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule       submitted by the Department of Energy relating to ``Energy       Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for       Consumer Gas-fired Instantaneous Water Heaters''. All points       of order against consideration of the joint resolution are       waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All       points of order against provisions in the joint resolution       are waived. The previous question shall be considered as       ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto       to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one       hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair       and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and       Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to       recommit.

Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J.       Res. 35) providing for congressional disapproval under       chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule       submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to       ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas       Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including       Netting and Exemptions''. All points of order against       consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint       resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint       resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage       without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate       equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking       minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 3.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the       Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare       the House resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on       the state of the Union for consideration of the concurrent       resolution (H. Con. Res. 14) establishing the congressional       budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2025       and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal       years 2026 through 2034. The first reading of the concurrent       resolution shall be dispensed with. All points of order       against consideration of the concurrent resolution are       waived. General debate shall not exceed three hours, with two       hours of general debate confined to the congressional budget       equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking       minority member of the Committee on the Budget or their       respective designees and one hour of general debate on the       subject of economic goals and policies equally divided and       controlled by Representative Schweikert of Arizona and       Representative Beyer of Virginia or their respective       designees. The amendment printed in the report of the       Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be       considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of       the Whole. The concurrent resolution, as amended, shall be       considered as read. After general debate the Committee shall       rise and report the concurrent resolution, as amended, to the       House. The previous question shall be considered as ordered       on the concurrent resolution and amendments thereto to       adoption without intervening motion except amendments offered       by the chair of the Committee on the Budget pursuant to       section 305(a)(5) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to       achieve mathematical consistency. The concurrent resolution       shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question       of its adoption.

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this rule and in  support of the underlying legislation.

Last night, the Rules Committee met and produced a rule, House  Resolution 161, providing for the House's consideration of several  pieces of legislation, including a closed rule for H. Con. Res. 14, the  budget resolution.

The rule provides for 2 hours of debate for the Committee on the  Budget or their respective designees to debate the congressional budget  and an additional hour equally divided and controlled by Representative  Schweikert of Arizona and Representative Beyer of Virginia or their  respective designees to debate economic goals and policies.

The rule further permits the chair of the Committee on the Budget to  offer amendments in the House to achieve mathematical consistency and  provides that the concurrent resolution shall not be subject to a  demand for division of the question at its adoption.

Additionally, the rule provides for consideration of H.J. Res. 20, a  CRA relating to the DOE's water heater rule, under a closed rule. The  rule provides for 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by  the chair and ranking member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or  their respective designees and provides for one motion to recommit.

Finally, the rule provides for consideration of H.J. Res. 35, a CRA  relating to EPA's methane tax, under a closed rule. The rule provides  for 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and  ranking member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their  respective designees and provides for one motion to recommit.

Mr. Speaker, notable among the bills this rule provides for is the  House budget resolution, H. Con. Res. 14. This budget resolution marks  the first step for House Republicans to advance President Trump's  America First agenda.

We have heard plenty of fear-mongering and flatout dishonesty from  Democrats and their liberal media allies about what is included in this  resolution. To be clear, this resolution unlocks the path forward to  deliver on our promises to the American people.

Over the next hour, Members are going to hear all of the identity  groups  the Democrats want my colleagues to believe this bill hurts. Members  will hear them say that Republicans are abandoning the middle class and  cutting benefits. None of that is true.

The truth is, there is not one single cut in this bill to any  specific program or benefit. The truth is the Democratic Party  abandoned the middle class for the liberal elite class a long time ago.  The election last November should have been a wake-up call that the  American people don't believe them anymore, nor should they.

The Democrats are desperate for attention and for power. Don't give  it to them.

Let's set the record straight about what this budget resolution  actually accomplishes.

It will provide funding for border security, provide for our national  defense, and restore American energy independence. It will provide tax  relief for working families.

On border security, Biden's open-border policies resulted in over 8.5  million encounters at the southern border since 2021, a 500 percent  increase in illegal crossings, and over $115 billion in costs to State  and local governments. Most tragically, Biden's border crisis allowed  unprecedented amounts of deadly fentanyl into our communities, killing  over 100,000 Americans.

Next, this bill enables us to permanently protect tax relief.  President Trump's Tax Cuts and Jobs Act provided critical relief to  middle-class families and small businesses. Americans are still  experiencing high prices because we are still recovering from  Bidenomics.

Prices are up 21 percent. Real wages have declined by more than 3  percent. Mortgage rates have skyrocketed. Credit card delinquencies  have risen by over 50 percent. Bidenomics cost American families more  than $11,000 every year for the last 4 years.

Next, this budget resolution prioritizes energy independence. Under  President Trump's first administration, the United States was energy  independent for the first time in 40 years. That stopped the day Joe  Biden took office, and American families have been hurting ever since.

Under President Biden, the American energy production was severely  restricted. Federal lands were blocked from responsible energy  development, and the Strategic Petroleum Reserve was drained.

Simply put, again, the budget resolution is a framework that will  allow us to deliver on the demands of the American people to secure the  border, eliminate wasteful spending, revitalize Biden's broken economy,  and safeguard our economic prosperity by providing permanent tax relief  for working families. I hope our Democratic colleagues will join us in  those efforts.

This budget resolution kicks off the reconciliation process and  allows our work to begin. Once adopted, our committees and the entire  House will begin detailed work to achieve these important goals for the  American people.

Mr. Speaker, this rule also provides for consideration of two  Congressional Review Act measures: H.J. Res. 20 and H.J. Res. 35.

H.J. Res. 20 provides for congressional disapproval of the rule  submitted by the Department of Energy relating to energy conservation  standards for consumer gas-fired instantaneous water heaters.

The rule we seek to overturn with this legislation effectively bans  certain natural gas water heaters from the market, placing unnecessary  financial burdens on consumers, especially seniors and low-income  households.

H.J. Res. 35 provides for congressional disapproval of the rule  submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to natural  gas facilities. The EPA's rule imposes a significant fee on methane  emissions from oil and natural gas facilities. The fee is essentially a  pass-through cost to consumers that will raise prices, harm domestic  energy production, and increase our reliance on other countries to meet  our own energy needs.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to the consideration of these important  pieces of legislation. I urge the passage of this rule, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I commend the other side for finally saying that some of  these things that they have been harping on for the last several hours  and 24-  hour segments is not true. There is nothing in this budget resolution  that presumes cuts to specific programs. Our Democratic colleagues  admitted this much themselves last night.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation simply provides flexible spending  targets for authorizing committees to best determine what is feasible  within their jurisdiction.

I remind my Democratic colleagues that this resolution is the first  step in a process to let reconciliation begin, when the real work will  happen in the committees. If my colleagues have concerns about  potential cuts being proposed once the authorizing committees begin  their work, there will be ample opportunity to debate, provide  amendment, and find opportunities in the reconciliation instructions  for common ground.

Unlike my friends on the other side, we don't view the Rules  Committee as the first stop in the legislative process, but, rather,  the last. We should let the committees do their work and not prejudge  the outcomes or make baseless accusations and presumptions.

Mrs. HOUCHIN.  Foxx), chairwoman of the Rules Committee.

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, the ranking member has discussed a number of votes  taken at the Rules Committee markup last night. Once again, the budget  is the first step in the process, not the last. Many of these  amendments will have the opportunity to be debated thoughtfully and ad  nauseam, I have no doubt, in the authorizing committees.

The Democrats are speaking fear, not facts. Saying something that is  false over and over again does not make it true. These amendments can  be given consideration in the committees of jurisdiction. That is the  process of regular order.

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Madam Speaker, I will reiterate that saying something  false over and over again doesn't make it true.

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Madam Speaker, I am prepared to close.

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Madam Speaker, despite what Democrats may claim, the  American people know the Biden-Harris administration caused enormous  damage to our economy, weakened our national security, allowed millions  of illegal immigrants and deadly fentanyl to flood across our southern  border, and crippled American energy independence. That is exactly why  voters rejected their failed leadership in the last election.

Once again, this resolution does not cut a single specific program or  benefit. The Democrats are speaking fear, not facts, and saying  something over and over again that is false does not make it true.  Democrats have told these lies before and were proven wrong.

The Democrats want to continue 4 more years of Bidenomics. We want to  put us on a path to prosperity. These are the same people claiming that  there is no waste, fraud, or abuse in Washington.

This resolution will begin a process that sets a fiscal framework to  meet the agenda the American people demanded in November.

Let's talk about some of their claims, that this is a handout to  billionaires. It is their party that abandoned the middle class by  spending like crazy. Not extending the 2017 Trump tax cuts would be the  ultimate betrayal of the middle class. The average taxpayer in my  district, in the Ninth District of Indiana, would see a 26 percent tax  hike if the tax cuts the Democrats oppose expire.

A family of four making $67,000, the median income in my district,  would be a $1,289 tax increase. More than 6 million people were lifted  out of poverty under Republican tax reform, dropping the poverty rate  to 10.5 percent, the lowest in U.S. history.

They claim this budget slashes food assistance. This resolution makes  no changes to current law, no cuts in benefits, zero.

They claim costs will go up. We will reverse Biden's spending spree  and bend the curve on mandatory spending that is driving our debt.

Inflation skyrocketed 21 percent under the Biden administration. That  is why 77 million Americans voted for President Trump, to fix the  economy and rein in Washington's waste, fraud, abuse, and reckless  spending.

Let's go with facts, not fear. This resolution doesn't say the words  ``SNAP'' or ``Medicaid'' or ``school lunch'' once.

We are cutting waste, fraud, and abuse for people who are here  legally. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act helped people get off SNAP, which is  a good thing. A GAO report last year showed improper payments could be  costing the Federal Government more than $500 billion annually.

I am not here to fight with my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle. I am here to fight on behalf of the American people, and that is  exactly what we are going to continue to do.

In the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, my friends want to scare the American  people into thinking that this is a tax cut for billionaires to detract  from the fact that the 2017 tax cuts under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act  have been extremely successful.

Let's look at what has made it a success. By every conceivable  measure, American workers and the economy were better off. Americans  earned bigger paychecks, unemployment for every group was at a historic  low, and poverty dropped to its lowest level in history.

The 2017 Trump tax cuts lowered tax rates for all Americans. In fact,  the lowest earning individuals gained the most benefit. The bottom 20  percent of earners, those with incomes up to $26,000, saw their Federal  tax rate fall to the lowest point in 40 years.

Earnings under $100,000 received an average cut of 16 percent, while  the share of taxes paid by the top 1 percent increased. This is not  simply a tax cut for the rich.

Finally, if these tax cuts expire, it will devastate our Nation's  families, workers, and small business owners. The average taxpayer  would see a 22 percent tax hike, meaning on average they will pay  $1,695 more in taxes; 40 million families will see their child tax  credit cut in half; and 26 million small businesses would be hit with a  43.4 percent top tax rate. This is over 20 points higher than what  businesses pay in Communist China.

Because of House Republicans and President Trump, American workers  enjoyed the fastest wage growth in a decade. This spread to Americans  across the income distribution with lower-wage workers experiencing 50  percent higher wage growth than high-income workers. Higher wages led  to a rapid growth in household income. Just 2 years after enactment of  the tax cuts, real median household income rose by over $5,000.

In total, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act's pro-growth policies helped  contribute to 3 percent growth in 2018 and 2.6 percent growth in 2019,  well above CBO's pre-Tax Cuts and Jobs Act projections of 2.2 percent  and 1.7 percent respectively.

Meanwhile, we have seen what Bidenflation has cost American families.

Again, this budget resolution does not cut a single specific program  or benefit. The budget resolution sets a framework. It is a first step  toward delivering on the America First agenda and getting our country  back on track.

We will secure our border. We will rebuild the American economy. We  will unleash American energy and safeguard our financial future.

Madam Speaker, 77 million Americans voted for this agenda, and it is  our job to deliver on those promises.

I look forward to moving these bills out of the House this week. I  ask my colleagues to join me in voting ``yes'' on the previous question  and ``yes'' on the rule.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment to H. Res. 161 Offered By Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

Strike all after Sec. 2 and insert the following:

Sec. 3. At any time after adoption of this resolution the       Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare       the House resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on       the state of the Union for consideration of the concurrent       resolution (H. Con. Res. 14) establishing the congressional       budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2025       and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal       years 2026 through 2034. The first reading of the concurrent       resolution shall be dispensed with. All points of order       against consideration of the concurrent resolution are       waived. General debate shall not exceed three hours, with two       hours of general debate confined to the congressional budget       equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking       minority member of the Committee on the Budget or their       respective designees and one hour of general debate on the       subject of economic goals and policies equally divided and       controlled by Representative Schweikert of Arizona and       Representative Beyer of Virginia or their respective       designees. After general debate the concurrent resolution       shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule.       The amendment specified in the report of the Committee on       Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as       adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. The       concurrent resolution, as amended, shall be considered as       read. No further amendment shall be in order except the       amendment specified in section 4 of this resolution. Such       amendment may be offered only by Representative Gray of       California or a designee, shall be considered as read, shall       be debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by       the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to       amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division       of the question in the House or in the Committee of the       Whole. All points of order against the amendment in section 4       are waived. After the conclusion of       consideration of the concurrent resolution for further       amendment, the Committee shall rise and report the concurrent       resolution, as amended, to the House with such further       amendment as may have been adopted. The previous question       shall be considered as ordered on the concurrent resolution       and amendments thereto to adoption without intervening motion       except amendments offered by the chairman of the Committee on       the Budget pursuant to section 305(a)(5) of the Congressional       Budget Act of 1974 to achieve mathematical consistency. The       concurrent resolution shall not be subject to a demand for       division of the question of its adoption.

Sec. 4.The amendment referred to in section 3 is as       follows:

Add at the end of title V the following:       SEC.___.POINT OF ORDER AGAINST MEDICAID CUTS TO FUND TAX                     BREAKS FOR THE WEALTHY.

It shall not be in order in the House of Representatives to       consider any bill or joint resolution, or amendment thereto       or conference report thereon, that would--

(1) reduce tax liability for any taxable year beginning       after 2025, compared to taxable years beginning during 2025,       for any individual taxpayer whose net worth exceeds       $1,000,000,000; and

(2) reduce coverage for individuals enrolled under the       Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act,       shift the responsibility for funding such program or for       coverage under such program to States, or include a net       reduction in Federal funding for such program.

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time, and  I move the previous question on the resolution.