Providing for Consideration of H.R. Saving Homeowners From Overregulation with Exceptional Rinsing Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Affordable Housing Over Mandating Efficiency Standards Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698637/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-saving-homeowners-from-overregulation-with-exceptional-rinsing-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-affordable-housing-over-mandating-efficiency-standards-act-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I  call up House Resolution 977 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution as follows:                                     H. Res. 977

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 4593) to       amend the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to revise the       definition of showerhead. All points of order against       consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be       considered as read. All points of order against provisions in       the bill are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment       thereto to final passage without intervening motion except:       (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the       chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy       and Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one       motion to recommit.

Sec. 2. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5184) to       prohibit the Secretary of Energy from enforcing energy       efficiency standards applicable to manufactured housing, and       for other purposes. All points of order against consideration       of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a       substitute recommended by the Committee on Energy and       Commerce now printed in the bill shall be considered as       adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the bill, as       amended, are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their       respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 3. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 6938) making       consolidated appropriations for the fiscal year ending       September 30, 2026, and for other purposes. All points of       order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill       shall be considered as read. All points of order against       provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question       shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any       amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion       except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled       by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Appropriations or their respective designees; (2) proceedings       under section 4 of this resolution; and (3) one motion to       recommit.

Sec. 4. The proceedings referred to in section 3 of this       resolution are as follows:

(a) after debate pursuant to section 3 of this resolution,       the Chair shall, in the order specified by the Chair, put the       question on (1) retaining Division A and (2) retaining       Divisions B and C;

(b) the yeas and nays shall be considered as ordered on       each of the questions under subsection (a); and

(c) after disposition of the questions under subsection       (a), the Chair shall put the question on engrossment and       third reading of the text comprising those portions of the       bill retained pursuant to subsection (a).

Sec. 5. In the engrossment of H.R. 6938, the Clerk shall       conform division and section numbers and make related       corrections to cross-references in the event a portion of the       bill is not retained pursuant to section 4 of this       resolution.

Sec. 6. The chair of the Committee on Appropriations may       insert in the Congressional Record not later than January 9,       2026, such material as he may deem explanatory of H.R. 6938.

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, earlier this morning, the Rules Committee  met to produce a rule, H. Res. 977, providing for the House's  consideration on the following three bills:

First, the rule provides for H.R. 4593, the SHOWER Act, to be  considered under a closed rule. It provides 1 hour of debate equally  divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the  Committee on Energy and Commerce, or their respective designees, and  provides for one motion to recommit.

Second, the rule provides for H.R. 5184, the Affordable HOMES Act.  H.R. 5184 would be considered under a closed rule. It also provides for  1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and  ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, or  their respective designees, and provides for one motion to recommit.

Third, the rule provides for H.R. 6938, Commerce, Justice, Science;  Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment  Appropriations Act, 2026. H.R. 6938 would be considered under a closed  rule, and it also provides 1 hour of debate equally divided and  controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on  Appropriations, or their designees, and provides for one motion to  recommit.

The rule provides for separate votes on division A and divisions B  and C.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this rule and in support of the  underlying legislation. These bills reflect a simple governing  philosophy: freedom of choice, fiscal responsibility, regulatory  clarity, and a government that focuses on the American people, not  bureaucracy.

Let me begin with the appropriations package. Beginning with H.R.  6938, the Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and  Interior and Environment Appropriations Act of 2026, these bills make  targeted, disciplined investments to strengthen American energy  dominance, reinforce our nuclear deterrent capabilities, support law  enforcement, and expand access to critical minerals. These policy  priorities are shared by President Trump, congressional Republicans,  and millions of Americans. Importantly, this appropriations package  ends Biden-era policies enacting a more conservative vision, all while  cutting fiscal year 2026 spending by nearly $2 billion, delivering  significant savings for taxpayers. Let me repeat that: Passing full  year appropriations ensures we are not defaulting to Biden-era spending  levels or radical priorities. It allows Congress to reset funding  levels in support of the conservative policies aligned with President  Trump's agenda.

The Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and  Interior and Environment Appropriations Act of 2026 provides $78  billion in discretionary funding, including resources to stop the flow  of fentanyl, and provides critical funding to support State and local  law enforcement. It increases funding for the Drug Enforcement  Administration to combat the fentanyl crisis, supports the Department  of Justice grant programs that target opioids and child exploitation,  and facilitates immigration enforcement. It protects the Second  Amendment by keeping long-standing safeguards in place that prevent  Federal agencies from restricting lawful firearms, ammunition, and  sporting equipment without congressional approval, and decreases  funding for the ATF. It also maintains pro-life Hyde protections to  ensure taxpayer dollars are not used to fund abortions.

The Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations  Act directs $58 billion towards national security and strengthens  America's energy independence. These investments are essential to  restoring American leadership in nuclear energy and achieving the  administration's goal of dramatically expanding nuclear capacity by  mid-century. At the same time, they eliminate wasteful Biden-era  offices that prioritize ideology over outcomes.

The Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Act  provides $38 billion to expand access to public lands, reverse harmful  regulatory overreach, and rein in agency budgets. It increases funding  for responsible onshore and offshore energy development in oil and gas,  exempts farmers and ranchers from burdensome greenhouse gas emissions  reporting schemes, and reduces funding for the EPA.

In addition to these wins for the American people, I am proud that my  office was able to secure $8 million in community project funding for  Indiana's Ninth Congressional District. This funding will support  projects, including a riverbank stabilization plan for the Ohio River  shoreline in Clarksville, Indiana, and support booster pump stations  that are needed to increase water capacity to serve constituents in  Bloomington, Monroe County, and the home of Indiana University football  and students at Indiana University.

Funding in this package will also provide residents and businesses in  Brown County with long, and greatly needed, sewer services and support  for  the city of Madison's stormwater mitigation project to reduce flooding  and improve water quality.

These investments will support critical infrastructure and local  priorities that communities themselves identified, bringing  improvements from shoreline protection, to water systems, to supporting  economic development that will directly benefit residents across the  Ninth District.

Together, these bills reflect a disciplined approach to governing by  investing in community priorities, cutting unnecessary spending, and  reducing good governance.

Turning next to H.R. 4593, the SHOWER Act, this is a simple bill with  a simple goal: end the regulatory whiplash and return consumer choice  and common sense to a basic household product. A showerhead should not  require extensive regulation. Yet, under the Obama and Biden  administrations, bureaucrats redefined a clear term to advance an  ideological agenda creating confusion for manufacturers and frustration  for consumers.

This was the status quo under the leadership of Democrats--regulate  everything in our lives right down to our showerheads. It is incredible  if you think about it. This may seem like a ridiculous bill to be  considering by our Democrat counterparts. Believe me, it is ridiculous  that their policies would require legislation to prevent this kind of  government intrusion, but here we are.

The Biden administration regulated every nozzle in every American  home individually, reducing water pressure and frustrating homeowners,  all while increasing costs for compliance. Ending this rule will  permanently save Americans billions of dollars, reduce regulatory  bloat, and restore a workable standard.

The Department of Energy estimates that eliminating this rule, along  with dozens of related inflationary standards, will save consumers $11  billion and will cut more than 125,000 words from the Code of Federal  Regulations.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, I turn to H.R. 5184, the Affordable HOMES Act,  which I was proud to author with Congressman  Mike Flood. This bill  addresses a real problem in the housing market, one that affects our  most vulnerable homebuyers. It reduces the upfront costs of buying a  home, making it easier for Americans to achieve the dream of  homeownership. The Affordable HOMES Act restores clarity by placing  manufactured housing standards back under the Office of Housing and  Urban Development where they belong and eliminating duplicative  regulatory authority by the Department of Energy.

It overturns a 2022 Biden administration rule that increased  manufactured housing costs, again, without regard for what consumers  want or how the market actually works prioritizing energy efficiency  under the Green New Deal and directly contributing to the housing  affordability issues we see today.

The objective here is clarity so manufacturers can build more homes  and families can afford them.

Mr. Speaker, this rule moves legislation that reflects fiscal  discipline, regulatory sanity, consumer choice, and a commitment to  affordability and growth. I urge my colleagues to support the rule and  the underlying bills.

I am not sure if the gentleman from Massachusetts heard my opening,  but this is about housing. We literally have a bill called the  Affordable HOMES Act, and it addresses the cost of housing.

He also commented that we are only appropriating and considering our  appropriations bills yet today, but we weren't the ones who shut down  the government for 41 days, preventing us from doing our appropriations  work. They did this. The Democrats shut down the government to fight  for taxpayer-funded healthcare subsidies that would go to the  wealthiest ObamaCare enrollees across the Nation.

Think about that, Mr. Speaker. They shut down the functioning of the  government, preventing us from appropriating on the very good things  that we talked about in the opening comments, meaning millionaires  would be eligible to receive tens of thousands of dollars of taxpayer- funded subsidies for their ObamaCare plans. This would give $350  billion in taxpayer bailouts not to the American people, but to big  health insurance companies, all while they are receiving record  profits.

This incentivizes bad actors to manipulate individuals to sign up for  coverage through the ACA marketplace, oftentimes without people even  realizing that they had been enrolled.

This is government waste, fraud, and abuse at its worst, and I am  proud the House Republicans stood up against that.

The gentleman from Massachusetts also referenced the SHOWER Act that  we have here today. I would just like to say that I will stand up here  every day of every week to restore freedom of choice and freedom of  movement back to the American people.

You have to start somewhere, Mr. Speaker, from electric vehicle  mandates to prohibitions on gas stoves and heaters. Showerhead  efficiency and efficiency standards in affordable homes and  manufactured housing will cause the cost of homeownership to go up and  void American Dream opportunities for millions of Americans, but that  is business as usual with Democrats in Congress. Closing businesses and  demanding quarantine is Big Brother knows best, and that is what the  Democrats are best at.

House Republicans are going to fight back to restore that personal  choice, all while ensuring fiscal responsibility.

Mr. Speaker, I remind my colleague on the other side of the aisle  that House Republicans did pass a funding mechanism out of the House of  Representatives to the Senate, and because of the 60-vote rule in the  Senate we did need the help of Democrats in the Senate to fund the  government. They held out, again, for the purpose of funding taxpayer- funded healthcare subsidies to benefit the wealthiest ObamaCare  enrollees in the Nation and fat cat insurance companies.

I would also note that much of what the gentleman has been referring  to, the deflection is like a magic trick. You can say words, just like  he accused me of saying many words, but the facts outweigh the  deflection, which is that it took much of 2025 to rid ourselves of the  sleepy Joe, America last, Biden economic hangover, but Republicans in  Congress and President Trump have delivered. America is now reaching  new milestones under Republican leadership, turning the tide back to  American greatness.

Let's just look at the economy. Quarter three GDP growth was a  roaring 4.3 percent, the fastest growth in years. The deficit is being  addressed. The Federal Government's cumulative deficit for fiscal year  2026 at the end of November was 19 percent lower than the same time  last year. Core inflation is at 2.6 percent, the lowest we have seen in  4 years.

Rents are falling month after month, and shelter inflation is at a 4- year low. Gas prices are down to their lowest levels in 4 years. Stocks  were at near highs by the end of the year, with the S&P climbing by 17  percent in 2025.

All of this occurred before the gains of the Working Families Tax Cut  Act are realized, and we are just getting started.

It will take us a while to recover from the years of inflationary  policies of the Biden administration, but the facts show that House  Republicans under President Trump's leadership are delivering on  promises to reduce costs for American families.

Let's just review some of the wins in the Working Families Tax Cut  Act because taxpayers are expected to take home an additional $91  billion in refunds and keep an additional $30 billion in their  paychecks from reduced withholdings.

Taxpayers are set to continue to receive support in tax years to come  through a double standard deduction and lower tax rates, making the  2017 tax cuts permanent, an increase in the standard deduction by up to  $1,500 per family in 2025, no tax on tips, no tax on overtime, no tax  on Social Security, a boost to the child tax credit of $2,200 while  indexing its value to inflation, expanding access to childcare and paid  leave tax credit permanently, expanding the 529 savings accounts to  help families choose education that best fits their needs, and expanded  health savings accounts so American families can control their own  healthcare. That doesn't sound like benefits to millionaires and  billionaires. It sounds like benefits to hardworking American families.

Also, I note that the subsidies that the gentleman from Massachusetts  so wants to support, the American people would not see a dime of that.  It would go directly to insurance companies who, again, are seeing  record profits.

The one thing we can do is continue to support health savings  accounts, continue the Trump-era tax cuts from 2017, making them  permanent, and continue to promote the tax provisions in the Working  Families Tax Cut Act that received no Democratic support, by the way,  that really will help American families.

Mrs. HOUCHIN.  Maloy).

Mr. Speaker, this rule is very straightforward. We are here to cut  burdensome red tape and regulatory overreach that leads to higher  energy costs for Americans. Commonsense reforms like these are simple  and long overdue.

We are also here to move an appropriations package that provides  critical funding and returns us to more responsible spending levels  while delivering for the American people.

One thing we have noted is that there is fraud in government  programs, including in Medicaid and SNAP. Republicans have sounded the  clarion call to try to eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse, while  Democrats want to minimize it.

We have known about it for decades, even when we went after some of  the waste, fraud, and abuse in ObamaCare, and guess what. After we  passed the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, the CBO stated that healthcare  premiums would go down as a result of our work.

We went after Medicaid fraud, especially involving illegal  immigrants. By the way, a Federal court recently ordered officials to  turn over Medicaid information to ICE enforcement. If illegal  immigrants weren't accessing Medicaid on Democrats' watch, as they  tirelessly asserted, then why would a Federal court provide such an  order?

We went after waste, fraud, and abuse through our rescissions  package, and once again, Democrats refused to acknowledge that that  premise ever existed.

Mr. Speaker, we are cutting out waste, fraud, and abuse. We are  becoming fiscally responsible. We are putting the American family first  by reducing burdensome regulations that increase costs.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to moving these bills out of the House  this week. I ask my colleagues to join me in voting ``yes'' on the  previous question and ``yes'' on the rule.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment to H. Res. 977 Offered By Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 7. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 33) directing the       Architect of the Capitol to install at a permanent location       on the western front of the United States Capitol an       honorific plaque listing the names of all of the officers of       the United States Capitol Police, the Metropolitan Police       Department of the District of Columbia, and other Federal,       State, and local law enforcement agencies and protective       entities who responded to the violence that occurred at the       United States Capitol on January 6, 2021. All points of order       against consideration of the concurrent resolution are       waived. The concurrent resolution shall be considered as       read. All points of order against provisions in the       concurrent resolution are waived. The previous question shall       be considered as ordered on the concurrent resolution to       adoption without intervening motion except one hour of debate       equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking       minority member of the Committee on House Administration or       their respective designees.

Sec. 8. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the       consideration of H. Con. Res. 33.

Sec. 9. The Clerk shall transmit to the Senate a message       that the House has adopted H. Con Res. 33 no later than one       calendar day after adoption.