Providing for Consideration of H.R. Pay Our Homeland Defenders Act; Providing for Consideration of H. Res. Expressing the Support of the House of Representatives for the Department of Homeland Security; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Make the District of Columbia Safe and Beautiful Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Defending American Property Abroad Act of and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701263/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-pay-our-homeland-defenders-act-providing-for-consideration-of-h-res-expressing-the-support-of-the-house-of-representatives-for-the-department-of-homeland-security-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-make-the-district-of-columbia-safe-and-beautiful-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-defending-american-property-abroad-act-of-and-for-other-purposes


Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I  call up House Resolution 1131 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 1131

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 8029) making       appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for       the fiscal year ending September 30, 2026, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All       points of order against provisions in the bill are waived.       The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the       bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order without intervention of any point of order to consider       in the House the resolution (H. Res. 1128) expressing the       support of the House of Representatives for the Department of       Homeland Security. The amendments to the resolution and the       preamble printed in the report of the Committee on Rules       accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted.       The resolution, as amended, shall be considered as read. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the       resolution and preamble, as amended, to adoption without       intervening motion or demand for division of the question       except one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by       the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Homeland Security or their respective designees.

Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5103) to       establish a program to Beautify the District of Columbia and       establish the District of Columbia Safe and Beautiful       Commission. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committee on Oversight and Government       Reform now printed in the bill shall be considered as       adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the bill, as       amended, are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 4.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 7084) to amend       title 46, United States Code, with respect to the types of       vessels that may enter or operate in navigable waters of the       United States or transfer cargo in any port or place under       the jurisdiction of the United States, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committee on Transportation and       Infrastructure now printed in the bill shall be considered as       adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the bill, as       amended, are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to       recommit.

Sec. 5.  Section 8 of House Resolution 707, agreed to       September 16, 2025, is amended by striking ``March 31, 2026''       and inserting ``the remainder of the One Hundred Nineteenth       Congress''.

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, last night, the Rules Committee met and  produced a rule, House Resolution 1131, providing for the House's  consideration of four pieces of legislation.

First, the rule provides for H.R. 8029, the Pay Our Homeland  Defenders Act, to be considered under a closed rule. It provides 1 hour  of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking  minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective  designees, and provides for one motion to recommit.

Second, the rule provides for H. Res. 1128, expressing support of the  House of Representatives for the Department of Homeland Security, to be  considered under a closed rule. It provides for 1 hour of debate  equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member  of the Committee on Homeland Security or their respective designees.

Third, the rule provides for H.R. 7084, the Defending American  Property Abroad Act to be considered under a closed rule. It also  provides for 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the  chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Transportation  and Infrastructure, or their designees, and provides for one motion to  recommit.

Last, the rule provides for consideration of H.R. 5103, the Make the  District of Columbia Safe and Beautiful Act of 2026, under a closed  rule. It provides 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by  the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight and  Government Reform, or their designees, and provides for one motion to  recommit.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this rule and in support of the  underlying legislation.

At a fundamental level, this rule addresses our core  responsibilities: maintaining public safety at home, defending American  interests abroad, and ensuring the continuity of essential national  security operations.

The underlying bills represent a consistent theme: America First.  This White House and Republicans in Congress have never wavered from  that ideal.

Let me begin with the Department of Homeland Security funding bill.  We are now more than 1 month into the Democrats' shutdown of one of the  most critical Departments in the Federal Government, the second longest  shutdown in history. The consequences are real, and they are growing.

During the State of the Union Address, President Trump challenged  Members of Congress to stand if they support the principle that the  first duty of American Government is to protect American citizens, not  illegal aliens. The majority of Democrats remained seated.

Let's be clear about what the Democrat shutdown means for the  American people. It means Democrats are putting the interests of  illegal aliens over our own citizens, and they, unbelievably, do this  again and again. It is clear their policies are wildly unpopular, with  not even 66 percent support from Democratic voters. It is no wonder  they want illegal aliens to count in the Census and vote.

House and Senate Democrats have voted seven times--seven times-- against funding DHS, and already the shutdown has resulted in $2.5  billion in economic losses.

Across the country, essential workers are continuing to report for  duty without pay. These individuals are responsible for airport  security, disaster response, cybersecurity, and a range of other  missions that affect public safety. At the same time, other employees  have been furloughed, delaying important work and placing additional  strain on those who remain on the job.

In total, over 100,000 DHS employees, including TSA officers at our  airports, Coast Guard personnel, and FEMA staff, have been directly  impacted by the Democrats' shutdown. That is roughly $1 billion in  unpaid wages every month, and thousands of DHS personnel who, thanks to  the Democrats, have worked with no pay for 49 percent of this fiscal  year.

The ripple effects extend far beyond the workforce itself. Travelers  are encountering longer and longer wait times, with some airports  reporting 4- to 6-hour lines to clear security. Staffing shortages are  becoming more and more pronounced. Experienced personnel are leaving,  including 450 TSA agents, and replacing them is neither quick nor easy.

Meanwhile, agencies tasked with responding to emergencies are being  forced to scale back planning and recovery efforts. All of this is  happening while uncertainty continues, with no clear resolution in  sight.

The burden of the Democrats' stunt continues to fall on Federal  employees and the American public. That is not how critical national  security functions should be managed.

Regardless of political differences, there should be a shared  understanding that maintaining the operations of agencies responsible  for protecting this country is essential. That includes our border  security and our ICE agents. Delays and disruptions of these functions  carry real risks--risks to efficiency, to morale, and, most  importantly, to safety.

It is irresponsible and easily reversed. Democrats should vote to  fully fund DHS when they have the opportunity to do so for the eighth  time this week.

This rule also provides for consideration of a resolution expressing  support for the Department of Homeland Security, led by my good friend  from Pennsylvania, Congressman Ryan Mackenzie.

Now more than ever, we need to stand with the men and women carrying  out the mission of DHS. While our military is engaged abroad, Democrats  have shut down the agency responsible for securing the homeland, and  Americans are less safe because of it. Ending this shutdown and passing  this resolution makes clear we stand with those who protect this  country, not the politics that undermine them.

I turn now to the Defending American Property Abroad Act. For  generations, the United States has stood for the principle based in  liberty that individuals and businesses should be able to invest,  operate, and compete under the protection of clear and predictable  rules. Respect for private property is essential to that system. It is  what allows markets to function, innovation to thrive, and economic  relationships to grow. However, those principles are not always honored  beyond our borders.

There have been repeated instances where American companies have seen  their assets seized or undermined in ways that are inconsistent with  international commitments. When that happens without consequence, it  doesn't just harm a single business. It sends a signal that these  agreements can be ignored. When there are no meaningful consequences,  the problem grows.

Existing agreements establish expectations, but expectations alone  are not enough. They must be backed by credible enforcement.

This legislation is designed to fill that gap, and I thank  Representative Pfluger for his work on it. It creates a more structured  and timely way for the United States to respond when American-owned  property is treated unfairly abroad. It strengthens our ability to  deter such actions before they happen and to respond more effectively  when they do.

It also reinforces the basic idea that access to the benefits of  economic engagement with the United States comes with responsibilities.  If foreign actors expect to participate in our markets, then they must  also respect the rules that govern fair treatment of American  businesses.

Failing to respond when these standards are violated doesn't preserve  stability. It undermines it. This bill represents a measured and  necessary step toward protecting American interests and reinforcing the  integrity of the global economic system.

Lastly, Mr. Speaker, I want to turn to the Make the District of  Columbia Safe and Beautiful Act. Washington, D.C., is where Americans  come to connect with their history, where visitors from around the  world come to understand our values, and where we, as elected  Representatives, carry out the work of the people.

Because of that, the condition and safety of our Capital matters, not  just to those who live there, but to the country as a whole. Yet, for  too long, too many people have experienced a different reality when  they visit Washington. Concerns about public safety, disorder in public  spaces, and the condition of key landmarks became more and more visible  and pressing.

When we take public safety seriously and stop being soft on crime, we  see results. After President Trump deployed the National Guard, crime  dropped significantly. In the first 30 days alone, total crime fell by  roughly 18 percent compared to the same period the year before. Violent  crime dropped by nearly 50 percent. Carjackings fell by more than 80  percent.

Those trends have continued. This year, thanks to President Trump,  violent crime is down more than 30 percent; robberies have been cut by  more than one-half; and homicides are down sharply compared to last  year. That is what happens when we support law enforcement and restore  order.

Addressing these challenges requires more than temporary measures. It  requires a sustained, coordinated effort that brings together relevant  agencies and ensures that responsibility doesn't fall through the  cracks.

That is what this bill is intended to do.

Public safety should not be a partisan issue. The majority of  Americans want safer streets, cleaner public spaces, and a Capital that  reflects the strength and beauty of this country, especially on her  250th birthday.

Mr. Speaker, I will remind my colleague that they can stop all of  this pain at our airports by voting this week for our bill, the Pay Our  Homeland Defenders Act.

Let us remind the American people that the Democrats have voted seven  times against funding TSA. Seven times they have had an opportunity to  fund TSA, and seven times they have voted against funding TSA.

This causes the second longest shutdown in history. 100,000 DHS  workers are going without pay, 450 TSA agents have quit, and 49 percent  of the fiscal year 2026 TSA agents have worked without pay. Seven times  the Democrats have voted against funding TSA. They have an eighth  opportunity to fund it this week. I hope they will vote in favor of the  Pay Our Homeland Defenders Act.

Mr. Speaker, I will remind my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle that they, too, can vote to fully fund DHS. They have an eighth  opportunity to do that today. They have declined funding DHS seven  previous times.

I remind my colleagues that there are real reforms in this bill that  were negotiated with the other side: reforms including mandates for  body cameras and de-escalation training for Immigration and Customs  Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection personnel. They are  asking us to not fund ICE and to not fund CBP. That is just not  something that we are going to do.

They are choosing, again and again, illegal aliens over American  citizens.

I understand that they have put forward this idea that we could  piecemeal funding for DHS, but we are just not going to do that. It is  a critical time and public safety is a factor, but also so is  protecting our American citizens from violent criminal aliens and  removing them from the country after Joe Biden and the Democrats let  them in with a wide-open southern border.

Mr. Speaker, apparently the only people the Democrats want to mandate  that they not wear masks is ICE and CBP.

These are very challenging times, but the gentleman from  Massachusetts said it himself: We have already funded ICE and CBP in  the One Big, Beautiful Bill Act, which makes their vote against fully  funding DHS as an entire Department entirely performative. They are not  standing on anything. This is political theater, and the American  people are suffering from it.

Mr. Speaker, I would remind my colleagues again they will have an  eighth opportunity to vote in favor of funding our TSA agents, FEMA,  Coast Guard, and cybersecurity. They will have an eighth opportunity to  do that this week. I hope they will vote in favor of the Pay Our  Homeland Defenders Act when it comes to the floor.

Mr. Speaker, I will clarify a few things. The gentleman from  Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern) made a claim about ICE raids in schools.  Contrary to fear-mongering by the media and sanctuary politicians, ICE  does not target schools or children. Media is force-feeding the public  stories, causing people to be scared, but there are no raids occurring  at schools and no raids targeting schools.

My colleagues across the aisle also want to decry the tolling of days  for resolutions of inquiry, but when the roles were reversed, they  seemed completely content with then-Speaker Pelosi's iron grip on floor  procedure. For over 600 days in the 116th and 117th Congresses,  resolutions of inquiry were blocked from coming to the floor by the  Democratic majority.

In fact, every Democratic member of the Rules Committee voted to  extend such provisions, despite protests from Republicans. While they  may contend that this was during the COVID pandemic, the reality is  that committees were working and operating for quite some time. We have  operated this Congress without the use of resolutions of inquiry, and  it has had no impact on the minority's ability to conduct oversight of  the administration.

What is good for the goose is good for the gander. As was done under  the Democratic majority, we will utilize this tool as necessary.

Mr. Speaker, I note that the Department of Homeland Security is  composed of several agencies, not just TSA, not just FEMA, not just the  Coast Guard, and not just ICE and CBP.

When my colleagues on the left are defunding or not funding, refusing  to fund the Department of Homeland Security, they are refusing to fund  the agency in its entirety, which includes U.S. Customs and Border  Protection, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the  Transportation Security Administration, the Federal Emergency  Management Agency, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency  protecting our critical infrastructure from cyber and physical threats,  U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, U.S. Secret Service, Federal  Law Enforcement Training Centers, and the Federal Protective Service to  protect our Federal buildings and our employees.

Those are just some of the things under the Department of Homeland  Security. Yes, Mr. Speaker, it is true, we don't want to partially fund  the Department of Homeland Security. We want to fully fund every part  of it. That is why we are not going to do this in piecemeal. The people  who are working at the Department of Homeland Security, whether they  are working for ICE to try to rid this country of criminal illegal  aliens, or they are working for TSA to protect our airports, or they  are engaging in protections for the cybersecurity of our homeland, they  deserve to be paid for their work.

I hope that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will again,  this week, have the opportunity to vote an eighth time to fully fund  DHS, and I hope they will join us on behalf of all of the Federal  workers that work under that agency.

Mr. Speaker, these four bills that we are going to consider in the  rule have a common thread. They protect Americans at home and abroad.  They stand behind the personnel who keep this country safe. They  enforce agreements we have made and defend the values we have built.  They reflect a simple principle: the United States Government exists to  serve the American people.

I look forward to moving these bills out of the House this week, and  I ask my colleagues to join me in voting ``yes'' on the previous  question and ``yes'' on the rule.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:   An Amendment To H. Res. 1131 Offered By Mr. McGOVERN of Massachusetts

After the resolved clause strike the first section, insert       the following, and renumber the subsequent sections       accordingly:

That immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 8029) making appropriations for the Department of       Homeland Security for the fiscal year ending September 30,       2026, and for other purposes. All points of order against       consideration of the bill are waived. An amendment in the       nature of a substitute consisting of the text of H.R. 7481,       as introduced, shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as       amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill,       as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 2. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX and clause 8 of rule XX       shall not apply to the consideration of H.R. 8029.

Sec. 3. The Clerk shall transmit to the Senate a message       that the House has passed H.R. 8029 no later than three       calendar days passage.