Recognizing the Career of Skokie Mayor George Van Dusen


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  accomplishments and long career of my dear friend, George Van Dusen.  George is retiring after serving as an excellent Mayor of Skokie for 25  years. I have had the privilege of representing the Village of Skokie  for the entirety of my congressional career, and George Van Dusen has  been a fierce and effective advocate for his community throughout my  tenure. George was a partner who I knew I could rely upon, and my staff  and I took every possible opportunity to work with him and his team.

Mayor Van Dusen has dedicated 52 years of his life to public  service--41 of those years serving as an elected official with the  Village of Skokie. Mayor Van Dusen has been a proud Skokie resident  since 1974, and it comes as no surprise that his engagement in the  community led him to serve as both a trustee and eventually mayor.

Mayor Van Dusen served as my predecessor, Congressman Sydney Yates'  Director of Suburban Operations from 1973 until Representative Yates'  retirement in 1999. This experience as a congressional staffer provided  George with invaluable knowledge about how a legislative office works  and how to best collaborate with me and my staff to improve the lives  of Skokie residents.

While serving in his capacity as Director of Suburban Operations, Van  Dusen was elected to the Skokie Village Board as a Trustee in 1984 and  was appointed mayor in 1999. Thanks to Mayor Van Dusen's 26 years of  leadership, the Village of Skokie is in very good shape. Skokie has  seen significant growth and prosperity under his stewardship. Thanks to  Mayor Van Dusen's steady hand, the Village has seen significant  economic development and Skokie's population has consistently grown.  George has been a leader on everything from infrastructure investment  to promoting affordable housing to ensuring that sustainability issues  are front and center for the Village. Mayor Van Dusen was a key  supporter of the Illinois Holocaust Museum and Education Center, which  opened in Skokie under his tenure. This institution is now a landmark  that has received national acclaim as it combats hatred and bigotry.

Skokie is a wonderfully diverse community where more than 90  languages are spoken, and has long been a village that welcomes,  respects and values all residents. Mayor Van Dusen has lifted up and  celebrated the cultural richness of Skokie, through events like the  Festival of Cultures and by ensuring respect and access to village  services for everyone.

I am grateful to have had Mayor Van Dusen as a partner within the 9th  Congressional District of Illinois these past 26 years, and I am even  more grateful to be able to call him a friend.

On behalf of the residents of the 9th Congressional District of  Illinois, I thank Mayor Van Dusen for his service and wish he and wife  Susan all the best. He leaves shoes that will be very hard to fill. I  hope Skokie's future leaders have the same skill and compassion that he  showed throughout his career. I wish him nothing but the best in future  endeavors.