Amendment No. 1 Offered By Mr. Massie


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699290/amendment-no-1-offered-by-mr-massie


Mr. MASSIE. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of our amendment. This is  cosponsored by the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Perry) and the  gentleman from Texas (Mr. Roy). I regret that we have to offer this  amendment.

What I am going to describe will probably sound like a bad science  fiction movie, but that is what is written into law. Right now, in law  that is going to be implemented, it says, for 2026 and beyond--now, the  reality is that technology doesn't exist, but that doesn't keep  legislators from imagining things that they would like to do to  infringe on civil liberties. However, there is a law that states that  every vehicle manufactured is going to have to have a kill switch in  it.

The car itself will monitor your driving, and if the car thinks that  you are not doing a good job driving, it will disable itself, so the  car dashboard becomes your judge, your jury, and your executioner.

Imagine this: We have a snowstorm coming. A mom takes her kids out to  go to the grocery store. It is snowing, and they are trying to get some  groceries before the big storm hits. She swerves for a pothole. The  neighbor's pet gets in the way, and she swerves for that. A first  responder goes by. She pulls over.

Her car says: You have one more swerve, and then we are going to  ground you. There it is, the next thing she has to avoid, an icy patch  in the road. The car has adjudicated her as unsuitable for driving. It  disables the vehicle, and there she is stranded.

My question is, how do you appeal your sentence once the technology  in your car has judged you to be incapable of driving? Once it has  disabled you and your children at the side of the road, how do you  appeal that? Do you press a button on the dashboard? Do you start  talking to an AI?

What if it really was somebody who was drunk? Are you really going to  send a police car after this disabled vehicle? Do we have the resources  to do that? There are going to be so many false positives.

The technology is unworkable, which is why the DOT is still in the  rulemaking process, asking for feedback on how this thing could even  exist. It is just a bad idea, but it is in law, so our amendment would  defund that.

Mr. MASSIE. Mr. Chairman, drunk driving is a serious problem, but 31  States already have the technology to keep drunk drivers off the road  with ignition interlock devices that they can mandate. This technology  that is in the law is not going to fix the drunk driving problem.

Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Pennsylvania  (Mr. Perry), my friend.

Mr. MASSIE. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire as to how much time I have  remaining.

Mr. MASSIE. Mr. Chair, I would inquire whether the gentleman is  prepared to close.

Mr. MASSIE. Mr. Chair, the last time we offered this amendment, it  had bipartisan support.

I urge my colleagues to vote for this amendment. It would defund an  unconstitutional and unworkable mandate that has already missed the  deadlines.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. MASSIE. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.