Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700506/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. MASSIE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New York for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, James Madison wrote to Thomas Jefferson in 1789: ``The  Constitution supposes, what the history of all governments  demonstrates, that the executive is the branch of power most interested  in war, and most prone to it. It has accordingly with studied care  vested the question of war in the legislature.''

The Constitution is clear. Article I, Section 8, Clause 11 of our  Constitution provides Congress initiatory powers for war.

Article II, Section 2, Clause 1 of our Constitution gives the  President operational powers of war to wage that war.

Even if this body were to pretend that the 1973 War Powers Resolution  supersedes the clear language of the Constitution, the President still  has not met the conditions required by that law itself.

The 1973 War Powers Resolution states plainly that the President may  only introduce U.S. Armed Forces into hostilities pursuant to three  conditions: one, a declaration of war; two, specific statutory  authorization; or, three, a national emergency created by an attack  upon the United States.

None of those conditions exist today.

Iran has not attacked the United States, Congress has not declared  war, and Congress has not granted specific statutory authorization.

Beyond the constitutional question here lies an even more important  one: Why are we going to war with Iran?

We owe our military servicemembers a clear mission.

American families in my district want to know: How is this going to  help them pay for groceries?

How does this make them any safer in their schools or in their  neighborhoods?

How does this help them pay for housing?

Have we learned nothing from the laundry list of wars and regime- change experiments we sparked across the Middle East that have racked  up at  least $8 trillion in debt in Iraq, Libya, Syria, and Afghanistan?

A sustained war with Iran will not stabilize the region. It has  already ignited the region. It will radicalize new generations of  terrorists, and it will send more swarms of refugees into Europe and  the United States.

Iran is not Venezuela. The ayatollah was not a president. He was a  religious leader from a region notorious for radical Islamists, and the  United States and Israel turned him into a martyr. In the process of  doing so, we have already expended billions of dollars, and, more  solemnly, six American families must now lay to rest their sons and  daughters.

For what?

This administration can't even give us a straight answer as to why we  launched this preemptive war. The President says we had to strike first  because an Iranian strike was imminent. Meanwhile the Department of  Defense conceded there was no evidence of an imminent Iranian strike.

Some told us this war is about nuclear weapons, but 6 months ago, we  were assured our last strike on Iran decimated their nuclear program.

So which is it?

I think the most candid answer came from the Secretary of State who  told the press that Israel forced our hand and dragged us into this war  again. That truth is the very reason why it is Congress that must  decide war.

If American lives are to be risked and American blood is to be shed,  that decision must be debated and voted on by the Representatives and  the American people, and that debate is meant to be arduous and long.  That vote is meant to be hard.

I have a theory. I think my colleagues don't want to go on record  because we have a terrible track record of meddling in the Middle East.  They don't want their name associated with this when it doesn't turn  out well. However, Congress cannot be bothered with its constitutional  duty because for many in this Chamber it is easier to simply allow  someone else's sons and daughters to be sent to combat without their  vote.

To be clear, we aren't even here to declare war today. All we are  voting on is a War Powers Resolution to reassert the Constitution,  which is that Congress must decide questions of war, and if Congress  wants war, then the Speaker should hold a vote to declare it.

Some say Congress authorizes war when we pay for it when we pass the  budget bill. Here is the problem: We haven't taken on the hard work of  defining the mission for our sons and daughters who are going to fight.  That is not in the budget bill. It never is.

To the men and women who are engaged in combat, I sincerely thank  you, and I pray for your safety. It is for you that I wrote this  resolution. It is for you that all of us are here on this floor working  so hard to force this vote so that you will have the clear mission that  you deserve and so that you will know that when you achieve it, you can  come home.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support for this resolution.