Justice for Epstein Victims


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700177/justice-for-epstein-victims


Mr. MASSIE. Madam Speaker, Congress created the Department of  Justice. Congress funds the Department of Justice. Congress is  responsible for the oversight of the Department of Justice.

When will we see justice? I will tell you what I have not seen. I  have not seen any arrests from the revelations in the Epstein files,  over 3 million documents describing horrible things, describing  unspeakable things, much of it redacted.

Over two dozen people have resigned, including CEOs and members of  government worldwide, but I haven't seen any arrests or investigations  here in the United States from this Department of Justice.

Prince Andrew, Duke of York, who has since been stripped of his royal  titles due to his affiliation with Jeffrey Epstein, has been arrested.

Peter Mandelson, who previously served as the U.K. Ambassador to the  United States, resigned in disgrace from the United Kingdom's House of  Lords and the Labour Party, and he has been arrested.

Former Prime Minister of Norway Thorbjorn Jagland has been charged.

Yet, we don't see any charges, arrests, or investigations in the  United States. What do we see? We see our FBI Director celebrating in  the locker room at the Olympics overseas.

It is fine to be proud of this country, but we should be proud of  this country because we have a system of justice that works. Yet, we do  not.

Who are the men who should be investigated? I will name them right  here:

Leon Black: You don't even have to see past the redactions to see  that this man needs to be investigated.

Jes Staley: Accused of terrible things. It is right there in the  files. Why is he not being investigated?

Leslie Wexner: Why did the FBI list him as a co-conspirator in their  own documents in a child sex trafficking case and then tell him,  according to him, that they had no questions for him? Why is that?

The Epstein Files Transparency Act requires the DOJ and FBI to  disclose to us their internal memos and emails about how they made  those decisions, whether to prosecute or not prosecute. Yet, they have  not delivered those memos.

We still don't have the memos, documents, and emails from 2008 to  explain why Jeffrey Epstein was given such a light sentence in what  would have been an open-and-shut case of child sex trafficking, which  allowed him to go back and recommit these terrible crimes, create  hundreds more victims, and ensnare so many other people in his  conspiracy. Where are those documents that describe those decisions?

We need justice. We want the Department of Justice to get to work.  That is what they need to do, and now.                     united states government under siege

Mr. MASSIE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to let the American people  know that this government is under siege.

All three branches of this government are under siege by lobbyists  and lawyers from a German company named Bayer. They spent over $9  million lobbying the executive branch and the legislative branch so  that they don't have to be liable for any damages that their herbicide  causes, otherwise known as Roundup.

They are having some success. They haven't had any success yet in  this Chamber to get that immunity. They have had some success in the  State legislatures, which are also under siege, to get this immunity  from liability.

Madam Speaker, the Constitution guarantees people a trial if they  have been harmed. Why are we contemplating going against the  Constitution?

The Attorney General has opined favorably for this German company in  front of the Supreme Court, about getting rid of any liability that  they should have for any damages.

The most recent thing that we have seen is within the executive  branch. By the way, the President's Chief of Staff  and the President's Attorney General worked for one of the biggest  lobbying firms, which has received hundreds of thousands and millions  of dollars from Bayer.

Maybe that is why we have seen an executive order that says that the  production of this chemical from this German company is a national  defense priority. We know why they are doing that. It is to keep them  from having any liability.

Everybody in this country deserves their day in court. This is wrong.  We shouldn't succumb to the lobbyists--not in the executive branch, not  in the judicial branch, certainly not here in Congress, and not in the  State legislatures--but there is a lot of money at play. I implore my  colleagues to resist it and to not give them immunity.