Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Buffalo Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H. Con. Res. Denouncing the Horrors of Socialism; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Unlocking Our Domestic Lng Potential Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Researching Efficient Federal Improvements for Necessary Energy Refining Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of and for Other Purposes


Mr. MASSIE. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. Speaker, today is an extraordinary day in this Chamber.

If my colleagues will vote for this measure, then we will see justice  triumph over politics. Truth will triumph over deception and  obfuscation. Transparency will triumph over dark money. Partisanship  will fall away to bipartisanship, and grass-roots, the people, will  reclaim the people's House with this vote.

It is going to be a victory for survivors; not just survivors of the  Epstein sex trafficking scandal, but the 1,000 survivors who exist.  Some of them are victims. They are no longer alive, and some have  committed suicide. They share one thing in common: Their youth was  robbed from them, and much of their lives were robbed from them. But  they are claiming it back. We are going to help them claim that back.

However, it is not just a victory today if this vote prevails for  those survivors. It is a victory for every person, man or woman, boy or  girl, who has been victimized sexually in this country. Anybody who has  been a victim of sexual assault, or maybe they have been victimized by  a family member, maybe it is not a billionaire, but they are all  waiting and watching to see what we do today.

They are wondering: If I go to mom or dad, will anything happen?

If I go to the sheriff, will anything happen?

We have a chance today to make something happen, something that has  not happened, something that should have happened decades ago, and that  is to get justice for these victims and survivors, and transparency for  America.

That is what this vote is about today.

Greene).

Mr. Speaker, I thank the generosity of Representative  Jim McGovern  for granting us this time.

I am embarrassed for my own party today. I am embarrassed we withheld  swearing in a duly-elected Representative of the people for 49 days  just to avoid this vote that is finally going to happen today.

I am embarrassed that my own party isn't going to yield me time to  debate this. Even though they say they support it and I authored it,  they don't even want to yield me time to debate this during the bill  debate.

However, Mr. Speaker, let me tell you whom I am thankful to: these  three brave women, Marjorie Taylor Greene, Nancy Mace, and Lauren  Boebert. They have been threatened, and they have been intimidated  physically and politically--it is disgusting--not by the far left. They  have been intimidated by people in our own party.

For what?

It is for seeking justice for these victims.

So my hat is off. I congratulate them for standing strong.

I have always wondered: Where were the Republican men during this  battle?

We have taken 5 months. These three women and I have had to drag our  party to this floor today to even vote on this.

Ro Khanna is the most to be thanked here. In an extraordinary display  of bipartisanship, he did not hesitate when I asked if we wanted to  bring this bill to the floor together, if he would stand in the  trenches with me. He said yes.

Mr. MASSIE.  Mace).

Mr. MASSIE. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. Speaker, all that is necessary for evil to prevail is for good  men to do nothing, and we have had a lot of good men doing a lot of  nothing on the other side of the aisle until we did something. Three  brave women, myself, and the Democratic Caucus, we did something. Then,  what did they do? They have opposed us every step of the way. They have  lied about the legislation.

Let me tell you some of the lies they have told. They have said that  it doesn't protect victims. Well, if that is so, why were dozens of  victims with us today at a press conference, urging this body to pass  this legislation? It is because this legislation specifically protects  victims.

They have said this legislation does not prevent the release of child  pornography. Of course it does. We have a specific provision in our  legislation to prevent that.

They have said so many falsehoods about this legislation, but now  they are going to vote for it--hopefully enthusiastically. Really, they  have been drug to this.

Our judicial system is broken. If it were working, there wouldn't be  a thousand victims who haven't seen justice yet. They are victims of  the Epstein class.

I begrudge nobody's success if they become a billionaire, but if you  think being a billionaire or buying politicians keeps you out of the  judicial system, lets you rape young women, lets you traffic women, you  have another thing coming when this bill passes.

Do not let the Senate muck this up. There have already been efforts  to derail our discharge petition. The Oversight Committee has released  thousands, tens of thousands of documents. That is fine. Keep working.  How many names have they released? Zero.

They are still protecting, or the DOJ is protecting, pedophiles and  sex traffickers. The time for that to stop is now.

Our Speaker says: Oh, this bill needs to be amended in the Senate,  and specifically, he is trying to create a loophole. He is trying to  categorize the pedophiles as victims. He is saying: Oh, we don't want  to embarrass the people who went to the rape island. We should protect  those names against unreliable accusations. Is he calling all of these  victims unreliable?

They have testified to the FBI. The FBI has these names in their  possession.

I asked the FBI Director in a hearing: Have you looked at the  documents?

No. He trusts everybody who has been there for decades.

That is wrong. Do not let the Senate muck this bill up. If Senators  are a party to that in the Senate, they are part of this coverup that  we are trying to expose. I am sorry if one of their billionaire donors  is going to get embarrassed because he went to rape island.

That is what they have coming. In fact, they need to be on the other  side of bars, a lot of them. Some of them will be embarrassed, but some  of them need to go to prison, and the survivors know that.

Mr. Speaker, how will we know if this bill has been successful? We  will know when there are men, rich men, in handcuffs being perp-walked  to the jail. Until then, this is still a coverup.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my Senate colleagues: Do not muck up this bill.

The President has already said that he will sign it. That means that  he will sign the bill that we have here today.

Do not change this bill. He is ready to sign it. Give it to him. Put  it on his desk. Let's get justice for these victims.