Capito, Manchin Announce More Than $3.2 Million in Brownfield Grant Funding Across West Virginia


U.S. Senators Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) and Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), members of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced $3,254,910 through the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Brownfields Grant Program. This funding will help provide assessments to previously developed land that may be contaminated with hazardous waste, clean-up projects, environmental job training, technical assistance, and research.

"It's great to see this funding coming to West Virginia to help support clean-up projects and assessments of our state's Brownfield sites," Senator Capito said. "West Virginia is known for the natural beauty of our landscape, making it even more important that we preserve our land for future generations. Maintaining the splendor of the Mountain State is a top priority through my work in both the Senate Appropriations and Environment and Public Works Committees. I have been a strong supporter of the EPA Brownfields Program and other initiatives that give our state the resources to protect West Virginians' health and clean up contaminated sites for future development."

"Every West Virginian deserves fresh air to breathe and clean water to drink. This funding will be used on projects across the Mountain State that are vital to rebuilding our communities and growing the state economy. I am pleased the EPA is investing in our state and I look forward to seeing the progress made across West Virginia. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I will continue to fight for funding that helps communities in West Virginia rebuild and thrive," said Senator Manchin.

West Virginia Brownfield Grant recipients:

Brooke-Hancock Region XI Regional Planning and Development Council (Weirton W.Va. & Wellsburg W.Va.) -- $600,000West Virginia Land Stewardship Corporation (Morgantown, W.Va.) -- $500,000Cornerstone Community Development Corporation (Huntington, W.Va.) -- $462,590New River Gorge Regional Development Authority (Hinton, W.Va.) -- $442,320Huntington, W.Va. -- $350,000West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection (Central Kanawha River Valley, W.Va.) -- $300,000West Virginia University Research Corporation (Grafton, W.Va.) -- $300,000Braxton County Development Authority (Gassaway, W.Va. & Sutton, W.Va.) -- $300,000