Capito Joins President Trump at the White House for the Signing of the U.S.-China Phase One Trade Agreement


U.S. Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) today joined President Donald J. Trump at the White House as he signed the U.S.-China Phase One Trade Agreement. Senator Capito released the below statement following the event:

"Fair trade rules and policies are needed to protect U.S. jobs and promote economic growth in our country. China has been ripping us off for far too long and we want them to play by the rules, which is why I've been very involved in making sure these unfair trade practices are addressed. This preliminary deal is a step in the right direction. I'm particularly glad to see that provisions were included that will address metallurgical coal and hardwood exports, which will promote business certainty in West Virginia and help them plan ahead. I've worked closely with U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Robert Lighthizer throughout this entire process--speaking with him directly multiple times--to make sure West Virginia priorities were addressed. I'm glad my conversations with Ambassador Lighthizer and administration officials have paid off, and I was glad to stand by President Trump's side today at the White House as he signed this important agreement."

BACKGROUND:

Since the announcement of Chinese tariffs on American goods, Senator Capito has worked to protect jobs and the West Virginia economy, particularly the hardwood and metallurgical coal industries. Senator Capito has worked closely with Ambassador Lighthizer to ensure West Virginia priorities were addressed in the deal with China. Specifically, she encouraged Ambassador Lighthizer to include hardwoods in China's commitment to purchase $40-50 billion of U.S. agricultural products. Additionally, Senator Capito sent several letters to federal agencies, including the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR), United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) requesting tariff relief. Senator Capito also arranged meetings between industry stakeholders and USTR representatives.