Capito Participates in Investiture Ceremony for Frank Volk


U.S. Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) today delivered remarks at the Investiture Ceremony for Frank W. Volk. Senator Capito recommended Volk to President Trump who announced the decision to nominate him in April 2019 for a judgeship on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia.

"Frank has the experience and temperament needed for this position, which is one of the many reasons I recommended his nomination to President Trump," Senator Capito said. "I have been proud to stand along Frank's side every step of the way during his confirmation process, and I was even prouder to stand with him today on this important day as he begins his new role on the District Court bench. There is no question in my mind that Frank will continue to serve West Virginia honorably."

In May 2019, Senator Capito introduced Frank Volk at his Senate Confirmation hearing, and in October 2019, she voted to confirm him to serve as a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia.

BACKGROUND:

Senator Capito recommended Volk's nomination to President Trump. Volk was confirmed by the U.S. Senate in October 2019 to serve as a Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia, filling the vacancy created when Judge John T. Copenhaver, Jr., took senior status.   

Volk previously served as Chief Judge of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of West Virginia. He was appointed to the position as a bankruptcy judge by the Judges of the U.S Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.

Volk is an alumnus of the West Virginia University (WVU) College of Law, where he attained the Order of the Coif and served as editor-in-chief of the West Virginia Law Review. Volk clerked for several highly regarded West Virginia judges, including the late U.S. Circuit Judge M. Blane Michael, the late Chief U.S. District Judge Charles H. Haden, U.S. District Judge John T. Copenhaver, Jr., and West Virginia Supreme Court Justice Margaret L. Workman. He has also served for over a decade as an instructor at the WVU College of Law, teaching classes in federal civil rights and bankruptcy.