Capito Co-Sponsors Lawful Interstate Transportation of Firearms Act


U.S. Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) announced today that she has co-sponsored the Lawful Interstate Transportation of Firearms Act. The legislation strengthens federal protection for gun owners who travel through jurisdictions that have more stringent firearm laws as they transport firearms across state lines.

"I am proud to support legislation like the Lawful Interstate Transportation of Firearms Act and the Constitutional Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act that recognize the fundamental right of law-abiding citizens to own and carry firearms for hunting, for sport, and for self-defense," Senator Capito said. "I will continue advocating for the passage of these two bills consistent with my support for the protection that the Second Amendment provides to the people of West Virginia."

Specifically, the bill will improve current law to: 

Clarify the term "transport" as to include, "staying in temporary lodging overnight, stopping for food, fuel, vehicle maintenance, an emergency, medical treatment, and any other activity incidental."Ensure that law-abiding gun owners may not be arrested for violation of local laws relating to "the possession, transportation, or carrying of firearms" unless there is probable cause.Put the burden of proof clearly on the states to prove that the traveler beyond a reasonable doubt, did not meet the requirements of ยง 926A.Clarify that transportation of firearms, their magazines, and ammunition is federally protected.Make clear that violation of the right to transport firearms is judicially enforceable as a federal civil right.The Lawful Interstate Transportation of Firearms Act is also co-sponsored by Senators Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Kelly Loeffler (R-Ga.), and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.). The legislation is also supported by the National Rifle Association (NRA).

A strong supporter of Second Amendment freedoms, Senator Capito is also an original co-sponsor of the Constitutional Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, S. 69, introduced by Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas). This bill, co-sponsored by 38 Senators, would allow an individual with a concealed weapons permit in their home state to carry a concealed weapon in all other states with concealed carry laws while complying with that state's laws.