Capito Applauds Administration Implementation Plans for Women, Peace, and Security Act


U.S. Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) today applauded the announcement of several implementation plans for the Women, Peace, and Security Act, which was authored by Senators Capito and Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) and signed into law by President Trump in October 2017. The bill bolsters the role of women in peace negotiations and conflict resolution around the world. Implementation plans were released from the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD), the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the U.S. Department of State (DOS), and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).

"Senator Shaheen and I introduced this legislation to help promote women's inclusion in peace processes. By giving women the same tools and same opportunities to participate in the global promotion of peace, I believe we can accomplish three critical goals: improving the diplomatic and peacemaking process, helping to promote stability abroad, and laying the groundwork for a more secure future here at home," Senator Capito said. "I appreciate the administration's efforts to carefully create an implementation strategy that will help accomplish these goals--which Senator Shaheen and I laid out in the Women, Peace, and Security Act. With these implementation plans complete, we can now see this legislation make a meaningful impact by allowing the United States to help pave the way for women across the world to join peace negotiations and other diplomatic efforts in ways they haven't been able to in the past."

The Women, Peace and Security Act advances the priorities outlined in the United States' National Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security, and ensures the country continues to advocate for women's inclusion and engagement in the peace-building process to prevent, moderate and resolve violent conflict. Last year, Senator Capito, along with her colleagues Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), and Jim Risch (R-Idaho), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, hosted a roundtable discussion with Ivanka Trump, advisor to President Donald Trump, on the U.S. strategy for implementation of the legislation.