Capito, Markey, Collins, Van Hollen applaud continued sales of Alzheimer's stamp


U.S. Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), along with Senators Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), and Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) applauded the inclusion of language in final the Fiscal Year 2020 spending package that directs the United States Postal Service (USPS) to continue selling the Alzheimer's semipostal fundraising stamp.

In November, Senator Capito joined with her Senate colleagues and other members of the House of Representatives calling on the Postmaster General to continue selling these stamps instead of destroying them. Approximately 5.8 million Americans live with Alzheimer's disease, and Alzheimer's and other dementias are anticipated to cost $290 billion in 2019 alone.

"As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I was happy to work with my colleagues to ensure this important language was included in the recently passed F2020 spending package," Senator Capito said. "Not only will this stamp continue a source of funding for critically important Alzheimer's research, but it will also help honor the memory and courage of those who have battled this heartbreaking disease."

"The Alzheimer's semipostal research stamp has played an important role in raising awareness and funding for Alzheimer's research," Senator Markey said. "Sending a letter with the Alzheimer's stamp it sending hope to all the families praying for a cure. I'm pleased that the USPS will continue to offer the Alzheimer's semipostal research stamp and raise funds to help commit this devastating disease to the history books."

"Every 65 seconds, someone in the U.S. develops Alzheimer's disease.  By 2050, this rate will double to every 33 seconds unless we take action," Senator Collins said. "As a founder of the Alzheimer's Task Force in the Senate and a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, I recently helped secure a $350 million increase for Alzheimer's research, bringing the total to $2.8 billion.  By allowing Americans to continue to purchase Alzheimer's research stamps, our legislation will build on this funding to support the NIH's efforts to combat this devastating disease."

"Alzheimer's has impacted countless families in Maryland and across our country. That's why I've fought to increase investment in critical research on this disease," Senator Van Hollen said. "Thanks to the work of Marylander Kathy Siggins and many other advocates, the Alzheimer's semi-postal stamp has already raised significant funds towards these efforts, and I'm pleased that we were able to protect the stamp in the year-end funding agreement. Whether it's sending holiday packages or mailing a letter to a friend, every dollar we put towards research can help make a difference. I will keep fighting to maintain the stamp's availability for years to come."

In June, Senators Capito, Markey, Collins, and Van Hollen reintroduced legislation to authorize the current USPS Alzheimer's research stamp for an additional six years, providing more time to raise additional Alzheimer's research funds for the National Institutes of Health (NIH).