Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I am very pleased to join my colleague  from Iowa to highlight the need to responsibly reopen America and our  economy as we continue to fight this COVID pandemic.                                   Protests  

  Mr. President, before I talk about reopening America, I would like to  address a deep tragedy--the brutal death of George Floyd. 

  It is clear that our entire country is united in horror and  opposition to the violent killing. Racial discrimination has absolutely  no place in this country whatsoever. This senseless murder is  unacceptable, and those responsible should be held accountable. I am  anguished at the death of George Floyd. I am anguished at the violence  we are seeing all across our streets today. There is no question that  we must do our part to change racist attitudes that, unfortunately,  exist today, and this must be done in a peaceful way. Looting and  violent riots are not the way to do this, and it is not the way to  honor George Floyd or those who are protesting peacefully, which is the  great majority of people. 

  The other day, George's brother encouraged all of us to peacefully  protest. He said that violence will not bring his brother back. No, it  will not bring his brother back. 

  It makes me sad to see businesses and monuments that honor some of  our bravest heroes destroyed and violence happening in cities across  the Nation. In my State of West Virginia, there have been protests.  However, they have been peaceful. I commend my West Virginians for  peacefully protesting, and I encourage them to continue this. Instead  of violence, we need to come together as a nation, to listen to one  another, and to learn from one another. This is how real change can  happen. 

  President George W. Bush and Mrs. Laura Bush published a statement  yesterday, and I would like to read the last paragraph because I found  it really quite moving as to how we are going to address this issue.  

       The rule of law ultimately depends on the fairness and       legitimacy of the legal system. And achieving justice for all       is the duty of all. This will require a consistent,       courageous, and creative effort. We serve our neighbors best       when we try to understand their experience. We love our       neighbors as ourselves when we treat them as equals, in both       protection and compassion. There is a better way--the way of       empathy, and shared commitment, and bold action, and a peace       rooted in justice. I am confident that together, Americans       will choose the better way.  

  I appreciate so much the entire statement. Those last several words,  as I said, really touched me. 

  On the matter before us today, many communities in our country are  beginning to open, including in my State of West Virginia. As  everywhere, COVID has had a terrible impact on many of our communities  all across the country. The disease has affected every part of our  lives. More than 105,000 of our fellow Americans have lost their lives  because of this terrible virus. That includes 78 West Virginians. The  unofficial unemployment rate is 14 percent in this country, but in my  State of West Virginia, it is a shade over 15 percent, and we expect  those numbers to rise when the May numbers are published later this  week. 

  State and local officials across the country closed much of our  economy in order to slow the disease. Our goal as a nation was to bend  the curve in order to prevent our hospitals and other medical providers  from being overrun. In West Virginia, as in most of the country, we  have been successful in bending the curve and reducing the spread of  this terrible disease. It is important, as we move now to responsibly  reopening our economy, to continue to follow the guidelines that have  been prepared by our public health experts--washing our hands, social  distancing, avoiding touching your face, and wearing your mask.  Following these guidelines will help to make America's reopening  successful. It will protect your health and the health of your  community. Hindering the spread of the disease while allowing  businesses to remain open as they follow the guidelines will aid in our  economic recovery as well. 

  Most Americans understand there is no way to choose between public  health and a strong economy because you cannot have one without the  other. We can't have a strong economy if we are not protecting people  from becoming sick, and we will not be able to make the necessary long- term investments in public health if we don't have a strong economy.  That is why a responsible, step-by-step approach to reopening the  economy that is driven by the data in States and local communities is  so very important. 

  West Virginia's cumulative percentage of positive tests now stands at  2 percent, which is less than one-fifth of the national average. As of  this morning, our daily positive test percentage was 0.88 percent. This  is despite the fact that West Virginia has tested a higher percentage  of our residents than the national average and all of our neighboring  States. Even more encouraging is that, even as we began reopening our  businesses in May, our cumulative percent of positive tests has  remained below 3 percent since April 25. 

  Yet we have faced challenges. Outbreaks at our long-term care  facilities in Monongalia County, Wayne County, Jackson County, and  Kanawha County have resulted in 43 deaths, but do you know what? Our  State responded quickly and tested every resident and every staff  member in the nursing homes in our State. We were the first State in  our Nation to do this and set the example that many have followed. Just  last week, we had an outbreak at one of our prisons, where we had 118  positive tests. So we know that this is still there and that it still  presents a danger, but I am really proud of the way we have pulled  together during this crisis and addressed these challenges. 

  The progress reflected by the statistics is only possible because our  State's residents have followed the guidelines. I thank all of the  medical professionals, the first responders, and the frontline workers  who have gone beyond the call of duty to protect public health and keep  our communities running during this most difficult time. 

  Opening our economy is paramount, and opening it responsibly must be  done. Even though the COVID is still with us, we must continue working  together and following the guidelines so we can protect both our  economy and our health. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT