Letter to the Hon. Elaine Chao, Secretary of the U.S. Dept. of Transportation - Manchin, Capito show support for emerging technologies in letter to DOT Secretary Chao


Dear Secretary Chao:

We write to applaud the establishment of the Non-Traditional and Emerging Transportation Technology (NETT) Council and respond to the Federal Register notice seeking comments on regulatory models it should consider for implementing new technologies. We applaud your establishment of the NETT Council as well as your collaborative approach to addressing gaps in oversight and regulation of these technologies, and we welcome the opportunity to provide comments.

We believe that strong leadership -- within the Administration and in Congress -- is important for maintaining U.S. leadership in transportation around the world. The time to act is now.  Emerging technologies like hyperloop represent a giant leap forward for the future of transportation, but it is critical that the Department of Transportation (Department) provides a regulatory framework that will encourage investment, ensure adequate testing, and support innovation across the U.S. to improve mobility. That's why, as members of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, we were pleased to support $2 million in funding for Fiscal Year 2020 for the NETT Council to conduct a study, including research on the safety and regulatory needs and technical assistance to local and State governments, on new and emerging cross-modal transportation technologies, including hyperloop technology.

The NETT Council is a welcome step toward resolving issues around new technologies that do not fit into existing regulatory or oversight structures. While it is important to ensuring that a wealth of ideas are welcomed and incorporated into the work of the NETT Council, it is also imperative to move expeditiously on technologies that are more advanced, such as hyperloop.  As representatives of the great state of West Virginia, we believe that our state can benefit from emerging technologies like hyperloop, and as legislators, we are committed to ensuring that the Department has the tools and funding it needs to encourage these new technologies and move quickly to implement new policies.

We look forward to working closely with you and your team throughout this essential process