Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I thank my friend from North Dakota. It  is great to hear stories from his great State and to see how they are  helping each other and how they are coming to each other's benefit.  Really, as somebody who represents a State who has agriculture but not  in the dimensions that Senator Hoeven has, it is wonderful to see how  the ag community has stepped up not only in his State but in the rest  of the country, and we are very, very grateful for that. 

  We have seen so many people across this country step up in so many  major ways. I often describe my State of West Virginia as one big small  town. We always help each other in times of need, whether we know the  person or not. The floods of 2016, I think, were a very good example of  that. I call it our West Virginia spirit, and there is no question it  has helped us through some very difficult times, like the time we are  facing right now. Every day, each of us--and I am certainly no  exception--hears stories about how someone or some group has stepped up  to the plate and has gone above and beyond to help one's community, not  to get attention and not because one is forced to, but because one  genuinely, genuinely wants to help and make a difference. I join my  colleagues today in highlighting some of those unsung heroes. 

  Many of us have been able to telework. Here we are, serving in the  Senate. We are here at our jobs. Yet most people who are on the  frontlines don't have a choice. They are getting up every day and  facing the challenges of this pandemic head on, but it does not come  without some sacrifice. 

  Kristin Schneider, who is a nurse in the cardiopulmonary intensive  care unit at CAMC in Charleston, said that she quarantined herself from  her family and friends due to the fear of giving the coronavirus to  them since she cares for patients who have been affected by the  disease. We forget sometimes that our nurses and doctors and those who  care for folks who are afflicted have families too. 

  Another nurse in the same unit said:  

       No one felt like a hero when we gowned up or put our       goggles on. We felt privileged. We got to hold the hands of       our patients and to be their support, their friends, their       family, and advocates because their loved ones were not       allowed to be with them at this very difficult time.  

  She goes on to say:  

       I love my job. I love my team. I was never scared to go to       work.  

  Aspen Saunders, another emergency room nurse, said:  

       The most moving gesture I witnessed was the prayer circle       at the hospital's cancer center. That is a moment in my       career that I will never forget. I was very overwhelmed with       the power and volume echoed from those who came to pray. It       was an inspirational depiction of community strength. During       this time, I found that I am now more grateful for the things       that I usually take for granted, such as my family being       healthy.  

  I thank these brave nurses, and I thank them for their great  comments. 

  I have also heard from teachers who have gone above and beyond the  duty in making sure their students aren't falling behind, and they are  creating programs for the students in their offering support for the  communities across our State. 

  Take, for example, Christy, who is a fourth grade teacher at Warm  Springs Intermediate School in the Eastern Panhandle. She coordinated  an effort with her fourth grade students to adopt a senior from the  Berkeley County Senior Center, and through this program, they wrote  letters. A lot of our seniors are living alone and are lonely and  haven't been able to get out to connect with those seniors. 

  Many students, like those at Ripley High School in Jackson County,  are writing encouraging letters to healthcare workers to show them  their support. 

  Our first responders are also stepping up. I heard a very touching  story about those at the Gilmer County Volunteer Fire Department--right  in the heart of our State--and how they are driving around to different  houses to celebrate the birthdays that are happening during this time.  You can imagine what that could mean to a 4- or 5-year-old child to see  a fire engine coming by in celebration of his birthday. 

  Another inspiring story I heard was from a constituent in Wirt  County. Her name is Deb. Deb realized the need for masks very early on,  and she started an initiative called ``Sewing Faith.'' She has donated  materials, and she and the women have sewn over 2,500 masks. They leave  these masks on her front porch, in a sanitized container, for their  healthcare workers. That makes it easy for them to pick them up. 

  I have heard of businesses donating money to pay for the gas of  healthcare workers. Our car dealerships are donating masks, and  neighbors are donating food to the hospitals and to others who are not  able to get to the store. Over the weekend, I heard of one of my  neighbor's children. I asked: Where is he? They said he was across the  street, talking to Sue. Sue was widowed recently. She is by herself,  and he went in and had a cup of coffee with her. 

  I have heard of West Virginians taking to the streets during this  stay-at-home period and singing songs to brighten the days of their  neighbors, and I have seen Facebook posts of young people who have  offered to run errands for seniors or for those who are more vulnerable  to this virus. 

  This is the spirit of our country, and this is the spirit of my  State, the West Virginia spirit. I could go on and on because there are  1,000 more stories like this, but do you know what? Just a few stories  can give us hope, stories that help to shed some positivity on what is  a very difficult, stressful, and lonely time. 

  I have said on this floor many times that I am an optimist, and I  know we will get through this because our country is strong, because  our States are strong, and because my West Virginians are strong. We  have heard some very inspiring stories this afternoon, and they are  examples of kindnesses happening all across this country. This is the  kind of kindness that we need today. We need it every day, but we  really need it today. 

  Think about all of these unsung heroes. Thank them, but also learn  from them. Let's all learn a lesson here and spread some kindness  throughout our communities. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT