-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689730/9999


Mr. SWALWELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and celebrate  the remarkable achievements of Michelle Smith-McDonald, who has been  elected to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as a recipient  of the 2025 Curt Gowdy Media Award. Her induction into the Hall of Fame  stands as a testament to her decades-long commitment to advancing  women's sports journalism and her influential voice within the world of  basketball.

A trailblazer in her field, Michelle Smith-McDonald became ESPN.com's  first-ever regular women's basketball columnist in the 1990's. Over her  distinguished career, she has covered women's professional and  collegiate sports for some of the Nation's most prominent outlets,  including ESPN, the San Francisco Chronicle, AOL Fanhouse, and espnW.  Her dedication to elevating women's sports through insightful reporting  and compelling storytelling has spotlighted generations of athletes,  coaches, and programs, contributing to the growth and visibility of  women's sports nationwide.

Michelle's contributions extend beyond her work as a journalist. She  also has demonstrated her leadership and service in public relations at  San Jose State University and the Alameda County Office of Education.  Her dedication to public service further includes her tenure as an  elected official on the Zone 7 Water Agency Board of Directors.

The Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame has rightly recognized Michelle  Smith-McDonald as a trailblazer and visionary whose work has broadened  opportunities and raised the profile of women's sports. As a resident  of the Bay Area for over three decades, Michelle also has celebrated  and supported the talent emerging from local programs like Stanford,  Cal, and the newly launched Golden State Valkyries of the WNBA.

It is my honor to acknowledge Michelle Smith-McDonald's induction  into the Basketball Hall of Fame and to commend her for her lifelong  dedication to sports journalism, advocacy, and service. She has left an  indelible mark on the world of basketball and inspired countless  individuals along the way. We join her friends, family, colleagues, and  admirers in celebrating this extraordinary achievement.