District of Columbia Judicial Nominations Reform Act


Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose this bill, which would eliminate the  D.C. Judicial Nomination Commission and give a President, any  President, the sole power to make nominations for D.C. local courts,  which deal with municipal issues.

Right now, under the Home Rule Act, the D.C. Judicial Nomination  Commission submits a list of three candidates for each judicial  vacancy. Of course, then it is considered by the President. This bill  would wipe away the commission, and it would allow the President to  directly appoint and have full control over the selection of these  judges.

This is an absurd level of Federal control over local judges. Every  State and territory in the United States selects its own judges. Only  in D.C. do Republicans think that President Trump should decide who the  local judges are.

Let's also be honest about what the bill is really about. This has  nothing to do with public safety. It is a power grab to take away power  and authority from over 700,000 residents of this district.

Let's be clear. D.C. does face a judicial vacancy crisis. There are  currently 15 open seats across the Superior Court of D.C. and D.C.  Court of Appeals. There are 13 on the superior court side and two on  the court of appeals. Why do those vacancies actually exist? The  commission has submitted names for every single one of those open  seats.

The bottleneck is not the commission. It is the slow pace of  nominations by the President and confirmations by this Senate. The  Senate can solve this tomorrow, and we know who controls the Senate. It  is the Republicans.

Let's be honest about what this bill is really about. It is not about  the Constitution. It is about partisanship. The House majority wants to  give Donald Trump the ability to select judges for local municipal  matters for Washington, D.C., and bypass the current commission process  that exists.

This is another attempt for Republicans to try to gut D.C.'s  nonpartisan judiciary and replace it with partisan rightwing judges.

The legislation does nothing to improve the judicial system. It  strips away one of the few tools D.C. residents have to shape their  courts, and it erodes judicial independence. The bill isn't necessary.  It is undemocratic. It really goes to the independence of our courts.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of our colleagues to oppose it, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. GARCIA of California. Mr. Speaker, I just want to remind my good  friend that in Texas local judges are elected by Texas citizens, not  chosen directly by the President. In this case, in this bill, they want  to bypass any sort of local control of the selection of judges and have  these appointees be chosen directly by Donald Trump. That is wrong, and  Members should oppose this bill.

Norton).

Mr. Speaker, I just will clarify for the gentleman from Texas that  these are not Federal circuit judges. They have the same jurisdiction  as State and local judges. That is what actually the bill presented  says. These are local judges. They are not circuit judges. They are not  Federal judges.

Let's be clear what this is about. This is about allowing Donald  Trump to select local judges for D.C. and bypass a commission system  that is currently in place where the President still has an ability to  select from a panel of different judges. There is no State in the  United States, in our country, that allows the President to directly  select local judges. This is an outrageous attempt to take away power  from 700,000 residents and to hurt our independent judiciary system  here in the District.

This bill is not about safety. It is not about the Constitution. It  has nothing to do with Federal Circuit court judges. It is a power grab  for Donald Trump to self-select judges.

Finally, as I close, I remind all our friends that all of these D.C.  bills in front of us are about Donald Trump trying to play Mayor of  Washington, D.C. If he wants to be mayor, he should resign from  President and run for mayor himself.

Mr. GARCIA of California. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.