Protect America's Workforce Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the Protecting America's  Workforce Act, which will restore collective bargaining rights for more  than 1 million Federal workers.

I thank Congressman Golden for all his work to bring this bipartisan  bill to the floor and so many Members across our caucus who are  supportive.

We know this bill is a historic win which overcame opposition from  Speaker Johnson and certainly antiworker allies across the government.

In March, President Trump signed an executive order terminating  collective bargaining rights for Federal police officers, firefighters,  nurses, food safety inspectors, and so many more.

The nurses who care for our veterans, the flight safety inspectors at  the FAA, nuclear power plant safety workers, and countless others lost  their right to have representation in the workplace. This is unfair,  and it is wrong. Workers deserve the right to make their voices heard  with a union.

Mr. Speaker, I was the mayor of my city of Long Beach, California,  before I came to Congress. I am so proud to partner with our city  unions, always making sure that the city and services ran effectively.  Our Federal unions are the same. They make sure that our civil service  is independent and nonpartisan, serving the citizens and not whichever  party is currently in power.

They make sure we attract and retain highly talented workers, and  they make sure our agencies follow the law.

President Trump is targeting Federal unions to further his power grab  and to continue to push an agenda which leaves working families behind  and, instead, supports billionaires.

Unions make our middle class stronger. They make our government  stronger, and they make our economy stronger. We should be working  every day to strengthen the right to organize and not to undermine it.  This bill is a historic victory.

Mr. GARCIA of California.  Randall).

Mr. GARCIA of California.  Titus).

Mr. GARCIA of California.  Tokuda).

Mr. Speaker, like Chairman Comer, I also agree, and I hope that the  American public is watching this debate right now. Certainly, what they  would see if they are watching this debate is not just Democrats  advocating for passage, but Republicans advocating for passage. In  fact, this is a bipartisan effort to protect Federal workers in this  country.

We have heard now from multiple Republicans from the chairman's party  who have actually advocated with Democrats to ensure that our President  doesn't strip basic protections from our Federal workers. We are  talking about our Federal nurses, our firefighters, law enforcement,  medical professionals, the men and women who are working across our  airports, that are taking care of our nuclear reactors in this country.  They deserve the right to organize.

I do agree. I hope the American public is watching and listening to  our Republican colleagues and our Democrats support our Federal  workers.

Tlaib).

Mr. GARCIA of California. I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from  Michigan (Mrs. Dingell).

Mr. Speaker, I will be brief.

Congress should be fighting hard for working people all over this  country. We should be tackling the cost of living. We should be  fighting to provide world-class government services, and we should be  fighting for the unions which make all that possible. We should be  working hard to expand the right to organize, not turning back the  clock on working families. This bill is a huge win for the American  people.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Golden for his work, and I yield  back the balance of my time.

Mr. GARCIA of California. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 231,  nays 195, not voting 7, as follows:                               [Roll No. 332]                                 YEAS--231       Adams      Aguilar      Amo      Ansari      Auchincloss      Bacon      Balint      Barragan      Beatty      Bell      Bera      Beyer      Bishop      Bonamici      Bost      Boyle (PA)      Bresnahan      Brown      Brownley      Budzinski      Bynum      Carbajal      Carson      Carter (LA)      Casar      Case      Casten      Castor (FL)      Castro (TX)      Cherfilus-McCormick      Chu      Cisneros      Clark (MA)      Clarke (NY)      Cleaver      Clyburn      Cohen      Conaway      Correa      Costa      Courtney      Craig      Crockett      Crow      Cuellar      Davids (KS)      Davis (IL)      Davis (NC)      Dean (PA)      DeGette      DeLauro      DelBene      Deluzio      DeSaulnier      Dexter      Dingell      Doggett      Elfreth      Escobar      Espaillat      Evans (CO)      Evans (PA)      Fields      Figures      Fitzpatrick      Fletcher      Foster      Foushee      Frankel, Lois      Friedman      Frost        Garamendi      Garbarino      Garcia (CA)      Garcia (IL)      Garcia (TX)      Gillen      Golden (ME)      Goldman (NY)      Gomez      Gonzalez, V.      Goodlander      Gottheimer      Gray      Green, Al (TX)      Grijalva      Harder (CA)      Hayes      Himes      Horsford      Houlahan      Hoyer      Hoyle (OR)      Huffman      Ivey      Jackson (IL)      Jacobs      Jayapal      Jeffries      Johnson (GA)      Johnson (TX)      Joyce (OH)      Kamlager-Dove      Kaptur      Kean      Keating      Kelly (IL)      Kennedy (NY)      Khanna      Krishnamoorthi      LaLota      Landsman      Larsen (WA)      Larson (CT)      Latimer      Lawler      Lee (NV)      Lee (PA)      Leger Fernandez      Levin      Liccardo      Lieu      Lofgren      Lynch      Mackenzie      Magaziner      Malliotakis      Mannion      Matsui      McBath      McBride      McClain Delaney      McClellan      McCollum      McDonald Rivet      McGarvey      McGovern      McIver      Meeks      Menendez      Meng      Mfume      Miller-Meeks      Min      Moore (WI)      Morelle      Morrison      Moskowitz      Moulton      Mrvan      Mullin      Neal      Neguse      Norcross      Nunn (IA)      Ocasio-Cortez      Olszewski      Omar      Pallone      Panetta      Pappas      Pelosi      Perez      Peters      Pettersen      Pingree      Pocan      Pou      Pressley      Quigley      Ramirez      Randall      Raskin      Riley (NY)      Rivas      Ross      Ruiz      Ryan      Salinas      Sanchez      Scanlon      Schakowsky      Schneider      Scholten      Schrier      Scott (VA)      Scott, David      Sewell      Sherman      Simon      Smith (NJ)      Smith (WA)      Sorensen      Soto      Stansbury      Stanton      Stauber      Stevens      Strickland      Subramanyam      Suozzi      Sykes      Takano      Thanedar      Thompson (CA)      Thompson (MS)      Titus      Tlaib      Tokuda      Tonko      Torres (CA)      Torres (NY)      Trahan      Tran      Turner (OH)      Underwood      Valadao      Van Drew      Van Orden      Vargas      Vasquez      Veasey      Velazquez      Vindman      Walkinshaw      Wasserman Schultz      Waters      Watson Coleman      Whitesides      Williams (GA)      Wilson (FL)                                 NAYS--195       Aderholt      Alford      Allen      Amodei (NV)      Arrington      Babin      Baird      Balderson      Barr      Barrett      Baumgartner      Bean (FL)      Begich      Bentz      Bergman      Bice      Biggs (AZ)      Biggs (SC)      Bilirakis      Boebert      Brecheen      Buchanan      Burchett      Burlison      Calvert      Cammack      Carey      Carter (GA)      Carter (TX)      Ciscomani      Cline      Cloud      Clyde      Cole      Collins      Comer      Crane      Crank      Crawford      Crenshaw      Davidson      De La Cruz      DesJarlais      Downing      Dunn (FL)      Edwards      Ellzey      Emmer      Estes      Ezell      Fallon      Fedorchak      Feenstra      Fine      Finstad      Fischbach      Fitzgerald      Fleischmann      Flood      Fong      Foxx      Franklin, Scott      Fry      Fulcher      Gill (TX)      Goldman (TX)      Gonzales, Tony      Gooden      Gosar      Graves      Greene (GA)      Griffith      Grothman      Guest      Guthrie      Hageman      Hamadeh (AZ)      Haridopolos      Harrigan      Harris (MD)      Harris (NC)      Harshbarger      Hern (OK)      Higgins (LA)      Hill (AR)      Hinson      Houchin      Hudson      Huizenga      Hunt      Hurd (CO)      Issa      Jack      Jackson (TX)      James      Johnson (LA)      Johnson (SD)      Jordan      Joyce (PA)      Kelly (MS)      Kelly (PA)      Kennedy (UT)      Kiggans (VA)      Kiley (CA)      Kim      Knott      Kustoff      LaHood      LaMalfa      Langworthy      Latta      Lee (FL)      Letlow      Loudermilk      Lucas      Luna      Luttrell      Mace      Maloy      Mann      Massie      Mast      McCaul      McClain      McClintock      McCormick      McDowell      McGuire      Messmer      Meuser      Miller (IL)      Miller (OH)      Miller (WV)      Mills      Moolenaar      Moore (AL)      Moore (NC)      Moore (UT)      Moore (WV)      Moran      Murphy      Nehls      Newhouse      Norman      Obernolte      Ogles      Onder      Owens      Palmer      Patronis      Perry      Pfluger      Reschenthaler      Rogers (AL)      Rogers (KY)      Rose      Rouzer      Roy      Rulli      Scalise      Schmidt      Schweikert      Scott, Austin      Self      Sessions      Shreve      Simpson      Smith (MO)      Smith (NE)      Smucker      Spartz      Stefanik      Steil      Steube      Strong      Stutzman      Taylor      Tenney      Thompson (PA)      Tiffany      Timmons      Van Duyne      Van Epps      Wagner      Walberg      Weber (TX)      Webster (FL)      Westerman      Wied      Williams (TX)      Wilson (SC)      Wittman      Womack      Yakym      Zinke                               NOT VOTING--7       Diaz-Balart      Donalds      Gimenez      Nadler      Rutherford      Salazar      Swalwell

Messrs. ALLEN, WEBSTER of Florida, CRAWFORD, STUTZMAN, RESCHENTHALER,  EMMER, WALBERG, DAVIDSON, COLE, BABIN, ROUZER, CRANE, and GOSAR changed  their vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''

Mses. PRESSLEY, SCHAKOWSKY, OMAR, and Mr. DAVIS of Illinois changed  their vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.''

So the bill was passed.

The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.