National Gun Violence Awareness Month


Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative McClellan  and Representative Carter for inviting me to speak tonight.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today because there is a gun violence epidemic in  America.

I have spoken loudly and clearly on gun safety again and again and  again, shooting after shooting. Moments of silence have never been  enough.  Thoughts and prayers have never been enough.

Americans need real action by Congress to end gun violence. That  means universal background checks, funding and support for community  violence intervention organizations, safe storage laws to prevent  unintentional shootings, and an assault weapons ban.

We know the solution is to end gun violence, and yet the Trump  administration and this legislative body refuses to act. Instead,  President Trump and Republicans reversed the progress we have made  these past few years.

On day one in the Oval Office, President Trump shut the doors of the  White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention. Since then, he continues  to pour salt into injury after injury.

The Department of Justice terminated over $66 million in grants that  were already designated by Congress to community violence intervention  programs.

CVI organizations are led by trusted community members who offer job  training, mental health resources, de-escalation tactics, and more to  keep our neighborhoods safe.

CVI strategies are proven, evidence-based solutions to gun violence,  and yet the Trump administration decided they are inefficient.

House Republicans are complicit in the Trump agenda to endanger  public safety. In the dead of night, Republicans added a provision to  their budget that would deregulate gun silencers, allowing any and all  private sales of silencers. The deregulation of gun silencers is  reckless and outrageous. Silencers are not something out of a movie.  They cause real pain in our communities.

In 2019, a gunman attached a silencer to a handgun that he used to  kill 12 people in Virginia Beach. Survivors of the shooting said they  did not flee because they didn't identify the muffled sounds as  gunshots.

If the cost of American lives does not move my colleagues across the  aisle, then perhaps they will be attentive to the fact that the  deregulation of silencers will cost American taxpayers nearly $3  billion. Americans cannot afford the cost of gun violence, not in  dollars, in pain, or in grief. Black Americans, in particular, bear a  disproportionate weight of that grief.

This past weekend, I joined survivors of gun violence in an  environmentally-friendly balloon release to honor the 46,000 lives lost  to gun violence every year. They have lost daughters and sons, nephews  and nieces, siblings, mothers and fathers to gun violence.

One daughter's name is Hadiya Pendleton. Hadiya was a bright student  involved in marching band and volleyball. She was on top of the world  when she led her marching band in President Obama's second  inauguration. Just one week later, she was shot and killed in a park  in Chicago.

Hadiya should have turned 28 years old yesterday. Hadiya's friends  and family started the Wear Orange movement to raise awareness of gun  violence. Now the orange color has become a beacon for activity and  advocacy against gun violence.

Since they started the Wear Orange movement in 2015, I have  introduced the Wear Orange Resolution every year to honor Hadiya.

I ran for office because I couldn't stand by and watch as Congress  did nothing as children like Hadiya were ripped away from families.  While gun violence became the leading cause of death for all children  and teenagers in 2020, it has been the leading cause of death for Black  children since 2006.

I swore my first oath of office just 3 months after Hadiya was shot  in the Second District. Since then, I have never, ever stopped fighting  for her, and I will never stop until we end gun violence once and for  all.