Congress Must Take Action on Tariffs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696749/congress-must-take-action-on-tariffs


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, after months and months of President Trump  insisting that his tariffs are not paid by Americans, insisting that  tariffs don't drive up prices, insisting that there will be no  exclusions on exemptions from his liberation day tariffs that he  imposed back in April, on Friday afternoon the White House very quietly  released a statement that they, in fact, are exempting and carving out  tariffs for a number of goods, which were blindingly obvious were going  to be costing more because we do not produce any of those goods here in  this country.

Included in his order are coffee, tea, fruit juices, tropical fruits,  spices, bananas, oranges, and tomatoes. Obviously, if you talk to  anybody who has been in a grocery store lately, the prices for all of  those products have gone up by large margins, again, in the wake of the  April tariffs that were put into place.

Coffee is up 19 percent. Bananas are up 7 percent. Oranges and  lettuce are up 3 and 4 percent.

Again, it was so clear to anyone who was actually connected to the  real world that grocery prices were going up and that we had to take  steps to carve out exemptions for the sake of American consumers, our  working families, and the middle class.

It was amazing to see how the President, in October, was actually  giving speeches where he said prices have come way down and that we  have gotten prices way down for groceries. That is the mentality which  is in that White House. Again, these were tariffs that he imposed  unilaterally without consulting Congress.

The question, though, is whether it is good that again there is going  to be some price relief for some of these items, which never should  have been tariffed to begin with. It begs the question about the rest  of the economy that is getting harmed by tariffs.

The National Association of Home Builders announced after the tariffs  were announced that it would raise the average cost of a new home by  $11,000 because of the fact that so many parts and pieces that go into  new home construction are imported. That is just a reality in our  economy.

When we talk about the cost of living and affordability, if anything  is close to maybe groceries, it is the cost of housing in terms of  rents and getting new construction restarted.

What about that, Mr. President? Why don't we also look at what is  clearly happening in our economy right now and provide relief for the  American people who are groaning under the high cost of living?

The President has to look no further than the conservative Tax  Foundation, which again is a right-of-center economic think tank. Its  analysis is that, by October, tariffs have raised retail prices on all  goods by nearly 5 percent relative to their pretariff trend line.

Instead of solving high inflation, the Trump tariffs have continued  it and, in some instances, increased it. This includes a 6 percent  increase for imported goods and 4.3 percent for domestic goods because  a lot of our domestic goods incorporate items that, again, are imported  from overseas.

The fundamental problem here is that this President believed in his  mind that he himself had the power to impose these tariffs. Let's be  very clear. A tariff is a tax on imported goods. It is a tax.

I am from New England. Remember the Boston Tea Party? It was about a  tariff on tea that the British Government was trying to force the  American colonists to pay.

A case was argued just a couple of weeks ago before the U.S. Supreme  Court, where, again, the plaintiffs powerfully stated that the  President did not have the authority to impose those taxes back in  April. That is an Article I, Section 9 authority in the Constitution  for the Congress.

For the sake of reestablishing the checks and balances in our country  and for the sake of the American economy, where issues like tariffs,  which require a lot of analysis, are very complex, and require Congress  to be part of that decisionmaking--in fact, we are the decisionmakers,  according to the Constitution--those tariffs should be struck down. We  should go back to basics, which is that when we deal with tax policy,  it is the power of Congress that prevails in terms of making those  kinds of decisions.

The harm that has been done to the economy, the middle class, and  working families because of the Trump tariffs, which, again, were just  unilaterally and indiscriminately imposed against some countries that  we actually have trade surpluses with, has to be rolled back.

There was an admission on Friday by the administration that their  tariff policy has failed, and it is time for Congress to stand up and  do its job to rebalance our economy.