Congratulating Uconn Women's Basketball Stars


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate a stunning,  dominant victory by the UConn women's basketball team yesterday over a  very good University of South Carolina team by a margin of 23 points,  which actually is lower than really where it was for most of the second  half.

It is an amazing group of women student athletes who, again, rose to  the occasion to take the UConn women's basketball program into further  heights with its 12th national title. All records are made to be  broken, but it is hard to even imagine any other school's team that  could come close to 12 national titles.

They were led by Paige Bueckers who is going to be one of the greats  in the history of college basketball. She scored 17 points and had  numerous rebounds, steals, and blocks. She has had every award  imaginable for a college basketball player: ESPY Award, John R. Wooden  Award, and Naismith Awards, but winning that trophy which so far had  eluded her is just a storybook way for her career at the University of  Connecticut to finish.

She was joined by Azzi Fudd, who is a junior, 24 points, 6 rebounds,  and 3 assists. She was named the Most Outstanding Player of the Final  Four, which is really saying something when we have a teammate like  Paige Bueckers.

Lastly, a freshman, Sarah Strong, had 24 points and 15 rebounds. Over  the course of the season watching her grow as a player playing with  poise and maturity that defied someone of her young age was something  quite striking and amazing.

Their starting line-up was rounded out by Jana El Alfy and Kaitlyn  Chen, a portal transfer from Princeton University, with a really deep  bench. KK Arnold came out and provided lots of energy during the game.

It was just an amazing team led by an amazing coach, Geno Auriemma.  In 2006, which is a long time ago, he already was named to the Hall of  Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts, which usually is reserved for  coaches after they have retired. However, Geno just kind of keeps going  on. Their last win was in 2009, and there were a lot of naysayers out  there that while the UConn program has hit its peak, in 2023 in USA  Today there was a headline: ``UConn's dynasty is officially dead. That  is good news for women's college basketball.''

That is probably the ultimate bulletin board material for someone  like Geno Auriemma, if you know him.

What is so striking about Geno is just the loyalty of his players. He  had all these former stars of the UConn program who have gone on to be  at the WNBA who were all there yesterday in Tampa, Florida, rooting  them on. The same for the bench. He is an amazing leader and a really  talented coach.

John Wooden, the legendary coach, never got 12 national titles during  his time. I congratulate Coach Auriemma and the team.

We have here the college basketball capital of the world. If we add  on the six national titles that the men's program has actually  accumulated since 1999, its total is 18. I was there for the first one.  It was like a religious experience as a UConn fan and a UConn Law  School graduate. That is the same as the Boston Celtics have in the  NBA. The Los Angeles Lakers have 18 titles, as well.

Eighteen titles for a land-grant university in rural Connecticut  defies any conventional wisdom about big, high-paying university  programs. They just keep getting it done.

Coach Hurley, who coaches the men's team, was rooting on Geno and the  women as loudly as anyone. It is a great university sports program that  brings everybody together. We are so proud of them, particularly in the  Second Congressional District. I have the honor to represent the  amazing university campus and stores and also Avery Point.

Well done, bravo, and kudos to all of them. Just watching them  celebrate on the court last night was really so exciting for all of us  from Connecticut and from all across the country where many of these  players come from.

I was texting with the Governor of Minnesota, Tim Walz, which is the  home of Paige Bueckers, and he was as happy as anyone in Connecticut to  see her great victory.