Groton, Connecticut: Submarine Capital of the World


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701940/groton-connecticut-submarine-capital-of-the-world


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise to draw the attention of the House  to another milestone in the extraordinary history of the Submarine  Capital of the World, Groton, Connecticut, where this Saturday, USS  Idaho (SSN-799) will be commissioned. Idaho is the 26th Virginia-class  attack submarine delivered to the U.S. Navy, and the seventh such  vessel built by the U.S. submarine industrial base in the last 4 years.

It is a technological marvel, weighing 7,800 tons, and the product of  a workforce at the Electric Boat shipyard that has 26,000 hardworking,  talented people.

Building a submarine is an extremely complex enterprise. Submarines  operate in an environment that does not support human life, with a crew  of 135 sailors. The boat is powered by a nuclear reactor and is armed  with an arsenal to carry out its mission of deterrence. This is so  important to our national security. Needless to say, there is no margin  of error in its construction.

The good news is as the output of the Virginia-class program has  grown, the proficiency of a new generation of shipyard workers has  accelerated over the last 10 years, and the submarine quality scores by  the Navy during submarine sea trials have steadily improved. In the  case of USS Idaho, the Navy recorded the highest test scores in the  history of the Virginia program.

Mr. Speaker, this successful commissioning is happening at a time  when the volume of production is also hitting historic highs and hiring  has been growing over the last 10 years.

This poster, produced by the U.S. Navy, depicts the volume of  submarine construction tonnage in the U.S. starting in 1952, to my far  right, through the present and into the future of 2054.

The orange bar represents tonnage in 2026, which is on par with the  peak of high-rate production in the midst of the Cold War. There is no  question, Mr. Speaker, that Groton, Connecticut, is the Submarine  Capital of the World, full stop, period. It is not, as some are trying  to say, trying to reclaim its title.

Indeed, after Idaho's commissioning on Saturday, EB and its teaming  partner, Huntington Ingalls Industries, are hard at work delivering USS  Arkansas (SSN-800), which is now in the water performing sea trials,  and USS Utah (SSN-801), which I visited in Groton with Chief of Naval  Operations Admiral Daryl Caudle a few days ago, and soon to be floated  off to join Arkansas for at-sea testing. They will be the 27th and the  28th Virginia-class submarines to be delivered to the fleet as soon as  the end of this calendar year.

At the same time, Mr. Speaker, Groton is the yard where the first  Columbia-class SSBNs, the USS District of Columbia, is in the final  stage of production and assembly. Columbia submarines weigh 21,000  tons, 2\1/2\ times the size of a Virginia. Once again, the EB workforce  defied the skeptics and naysayers when the Navy announced that delivery  of that boat is being moved up to calendar year 2028 from 2029, which  was the Navy's prior plan.

As ranking member of the Seapower Subcommittee on the House Committee  on House Armed Services, I cannot overstate how extraordinary it is to  have a first-in-class of a program's delivery date moved forward rather  than back.

The strong momentum at the Groton yard and its sister shipyard at  Quonset Point, Rhode Island, received another round of good news when  EB recently announced its hiring goal for 2026. The overall goal is  8,000 new workers in 2026: 3,400 in Rhode Island and 4,600 in Groton.  The plan will take the workforce from 26,000 to over 30,000 for the  first time since the 1980s.

Once again, the skeptics and naysayers are scoffing at this goal, but  as someone who has been directly involved in the adult job training  programs and helping equip career and technical schools, as well as  regular comprehensive high schools, with apparatus to run metal trades  curricula, I have no doubt that Groton will meet its goal.

Indeed, 1 week ago, EB held a job fair in Waterford, Connecticut,  expecting perhaps a few hundred visits. Instead, 1,800 people showed  up. They had to cut off the line a few hours into the event because the  H.R. staff was so overwhelmed.

Mr. Speaker, on Saturday at the USS Idaho commissioning, the head of  Naval Reactors Admiral Bill Houston, the successor to the Father of the  Nuclear Navy, Hyman Rickover, will deliver keynote remarks, and it will  be a proud moment for the ship's commanding officer, Commander Chad  Guillerault, his crew, and their families.

It will also be a strong reaffirmation at the Groton Submarine Base,  America's oldest submarine base, that the men and women who work at  Electric Boat have, once again, demonstrated to our Nation and the  world that Groton is still and always will be the Submarine Capital of  the World.