Muhammad Ali American Boxing Revival Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701212/muhammad-ali-american-boxing-revival-act-of-2026


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 4624,  which I also opposed in committee along with three other members who  opposed the Muhammad Ali American Boxing Revival Act, a bill which  radically amends the existing Muhammad Ali Act that was passed in 2000.  That law established statutory protections for boxers from exploitative  and unethical business practices.

The committee received expert testimony from witnesses with deep  experience in the legal landscape in the boxing world and warned us  that this bill will strip away many of those hard-fought reforms.

H.R. 4624 creates a new parallel legal structure, the so-called  unified boxing organizations, which can engage in promotion, rule  setting, match organization, and creation of their own titles and  rankings. Under the existing law negotiated and spearheaded by the late  John McCain, these functions have been required to remain separate to  protect against conflicts of interest and coercive contract terms for  boxers.

The UBOs proposed under H.R. 4624 will replicate a model that has  been extremely lucrative in other nonboxing, mixed martial arts sports  worlds that operate with few legal and economic protections for  fighters, leading to a long history of litigation and allegations of  coercive and anticompetitive practices.

This includes the use of long-term contracts, including forced  arbitration, blocking fighters from bringing a lawsuit for breach of  contract, and class action waivers that waive a fighter's right to be  awarded damages in settlement on behalf of a group.

One of the crowning achievements of the original Muhammad Ali law was  the establishment of a boxer's right to a private cause of action to  assert their rights, which all Americans enjoy, to seek legal redress  for unlawful injuries. H.R. 4624 fails to protect these protections  within UBOs.

Mr. Speaker, there has been a narrative that this is something that  has unified the boxing world in terms of support for this bill.

I include in the Record a letter dated just a few weeks ago, February  27, 2026, from USA Boxing, the largest amateur boxing organization in  America withdrawing their endorsement that they gave the bill last  January.                                                  February 27, 2026.      Re Withdrawal and Clarification of January 18, 2026,           Correspondence.       Hon. Tim Walberg,      Chairman, Committee on Education and the Workforce,      House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Robert C. ``Bobby'' Scott,      Ranking Member, Committee on Education and the Workforce,      House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Walberg and Ranking Member Scott: On January       18, 2026, correspondence was transmitted to your offices       regarding the Muhammad Ali American Boxing Revival Act (H.R.       4624).

Following review, the USA Boxing Board of Directors       determined that the January 18, 2026, correspondence did not       reflect a formally adopted Board position at the time of       submission and was not authorized by a vote of the Board.       Accordingly, the Board issues this clarification and confirms       that the January 18 correspondence does not represent an       official position at USA Boxing.

Accordingly, the Board hereby withdraws that letter.

After discussion, the Board has determined that USA Boxing       will not take a position on H.R. 4624.

We appreciate the Committee's attention to matters       affecting the sport of boxing.            Respectfully,                                                         Tyson Lee,                                           President of USA Boxing.                                                       Mike McAtee,                              Executive Director/CEO of USA Boxing.

Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, I also include in the Record a letter from  Top Rank boxing CEO Robert Arum, who again criticized this bill for the  damage it is going to do to boxers' legal rights, and states that a UBO  is deemed in compliance with such provisions simply by virtue of being  recognized as a UBO.                                                December 3, 2025.       Re Muhammad Ali American Boxing Revival Act.

House Education and the Workforce Committee.      Washington, D.C.

Dear Committee Members: My name is Bob Arum and I am the       chairman and founder of Top Rank, Inc., a leading boxing       promoter operating since 1966. I am writing to you all       regarding the proposed Muhammad Ali American Boxing Revival       Act (the ``Amendment'').

The Professional Boxing Safety Act of 1996 and the       subsequent Muhammad Ali Act amendment (collectively the ``Ali       Act'') instituted a series of regulations intended to protect       fighters from exploitative and unethical business practices.       By way of example, the Ali Act in its current form:

(1) Prohibits promoters from entering into coercive       contracts with fighters (See Ali Act Section 10(a)), which       serves to prevent a fighter from being forced to sign a long-      term contract with a particular promoter as a condition       precedent to securing a fight with an opponent under contract       to that same promoter;

(2) Creates strict disclosure rules that compel promoters       to disclose to fighters the compensation they have contracted       to receive from the fighter's match, which provides fighters       with transparency regarding the revenue generated from their       bouts and serves as a tool that allows fighters to negotiate       fair market value for subsequent bouts (See Ali Act Section       13(b)(1) of the Ali Act); and

(3) Establishes a firewall between promoters and managers,       which helps ensure that managers represent the interests of       their fighters and do not serve as agents of promoters at       their fighters' expense (See Ali Act Section 17(b)).

The Amendment strips away these and other protections for       fighters set forth in the Ali Act for any fighter that signs       with a newly created Unified Boxing Organization (``UBO'').       Specifically, the proposed Section 24(a) of the Amendment       states that a UBO is ``deemed to be in compliance with the       requirements of this Act if the UBO meets the conditions of       this section with respect to--(1) each boxer under contract       with the UBO; and (2) each professional boxing match       organized by the UBO.''

As presently drafted, the conditions required for an entity       to qualify as a UBO do not include the protections for       fighters set forth above. A UBO is not prohibited from       entering coercive contracts with fighters, is not required to       provide financial disclosures to fighters, and is not subject       to the rule establishing a firewall between managers and       promoters. It is not subject to any of the protections       created for fighters in the Ali Act. Instead, a UBO is deemed       in compliance with such provisions simply by virtue of being       recognized as a UBO and complying with the requirements for       UBOs. This is incredibly problematic and entirely       unjustifiable. Put simply, there is no reason for Congress to       actively remove these protections for those fighters who       choose to sign with a UBO, and there is no reason for a UBO       to be exempt from complying with these protective measures.

Proponents of the Amendment have hailed that it will create       greater opportunities for fighters outside the current       sanctioning body system, enhance health and safety benefits,       and improve fighter pay. The Amendments can achieve those       ends without exempting UBOs from the protections for fighters       set forth in the Ali Act. Proponents have also stated that       the bill does not change the existing provisions of the       original Ali Act. This is misleading at best. As stated       above, the Amendment exempts UBO's from the existing       provisions of the original Ali Act by deeming the UBO in       compliance with such provisions so long as it adheres to all       UBO requirements. Fighters who benefited from those       protective provisions will no longer do so if they       participate in the UBO system. That is a fundamental change       to the underlying Ali Act and to the many protections granted       to fighters therein.

There is likely a version of this bill that achieves the       stated aims of its proponents without harming fighters who       participate in the alternative UBO system. Indeed, such a       change to the presently drafted Amendment could be easily       accomplished--UBOs should be forced to comply with those       portions of the underlying Ali Act that protect fighters to       be deemed in compliance with the overall Act and to maintain       their standing as a UBO. There is no sound reason to reject       such a proposed change, which serves only to ensure that       previous protections for fighters carry over into the new       alternative system the Amendment seeks to create.

Please do not hesitate to reach out to me if you have any       further questions or if Top Rank can provide any additional       information.            Sincerely,                                                       Robert Arum,                            Chief Executive Officer, Top Rank, Inc.

Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, this is incredibly problematic and  entirely unjustifiable. Put simply, there is no reason for Congress to  actively remove these protections for those fighters who choose to sign  with the UBO, and there is no reason for a UBO to be exempt from  complying with these protective measures.

Mr. Speaker, lastly, Patrick English, who testified before the  committee, rebutted the myth that boxing is dying.

Mr. Speaker, cable is dying, but boxing is signing very lucrative  contracts with streaming services.

Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, this bill does not have consensus support  from those its proponents claim. Again, as has been stated by Ms. Omar,  I join with her in calling on the Senate to continue to work on this  bill and focus on the achievements of Senator McCain in terms of  protecting boxers' rights that are at risk with this legislation.  Again, I would ask for Members to oppose this bill when the time comes  up for a vote.