New Source of Energy for New England


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700697/new-source-of-energy-for-new-england


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, as this headline on the whiteboard  proclaims, we in New England received welcomed news on Friday that,  after years of hard work and massive investments by both the private  sector and the government, a new, reliable source of energy for our  electrical grid was officially turned on.

This project, known as Revolution Wind, will add 700 megawatts that  will power over 350,000 homes in Rhode Island and Connecticut. At a  time of tight supply and rising energy costs, adding hundreds of  megawatts and electrical capacity is an obvious way to reduce costs,  rather than just offloading the burden onto energy users.

This project is locked into a 20-year contract price of 9 cents per  kilowatt-hours at a time when the average price from other sources to  the region's grid is 30 cents per kilowatt-hour. Obviously, this is a  beneficial response and solid solution to addressing New England's and  our Nation's high-cost economy.

Even more significant is the fact that this power source is not at  the mercy of the global fossil fuel markets that  have skyrocketed the cost of home heating oil and gas at the pumps  since the start of the war in Iran 16 days ago.

Today, home heating oil in Connecticut is $5.10 per gallon, up from  $4.28 per gallon just last week and $3.74 per gallon a year ago. Gas at  the pump is going for $3.65 per gallon. It was $2.90 per gallon 1 month  ago.

Mr. Speaker, the men and women who have been hard at work at the  State pier in New London, Connecticut, for the last 6 years,  transforming a decrepit, underutilized dock into a state-of-the-art  port that can handle massive cargo carriers, delivering enormous  towers, blades, and the nacelles that connect the towers and the  blades. Sensors are mounted on the nacelles to detect wind speed, which  then moves blades into the wind to maximize output. It is ingenious.

Union operating engineers, electricians, and laborers kept this  project moving forward, despite the persistent, hostile obstruction of  the Trump administration's Department of the Interior, which issued two  illegal halt work orders in 2025. The Department's orders were soundly  rejected by Federal district courts in Washington, D.C., and Virginia.

The Department's unfounded claims that Revolution Wind posed a  national security threat were decisively and swiftly dismissed given  the fact that the Department of Defense, in consultation with the Air  Force, Navy, and Coast Guard, thoroughly examined this project and  issued a permit in December 2024.

Mr. Speaker, I think all of New England and the mid- Atlantic States owe a huge thanks to Judge Royce Lambeth, the Reagan  appointee who lived up to his oath and twice asserted the power of the  judiciary, a coequal branch of government, to rein in the  administration's ludicrous, harmful abuse of executive power.

As our economy is reeling today from the oil and gas aftershock of  the war in Iran, the news this weekend that offshore wind can provide a  reliable, affordable source of energy that is produced in America and  for American energy consumers is hopefully going to force a  reconsideration of the attack on renewable energy by this  administration and, unfortunately, my colleagues in the House who have  legislatively crushed this industry, depriving American consumers of an  affordable source of home-grown energy.

Wind power alone will not solve our energy demands, but 700 new  megawatts surging into New England is undeniable proof that our  Nation's innovators, our building trades union, and the merchant  mariners are up to the job to power our country in the 21st century.