Nursing Excluded As ``professional'' Degree By Department of Education


Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, as this headline from Newsweek magazine  reports, a few weeks ago, the U.S. Department of Education issued  probably the most out-of-touch, offensive new rule in the history of  the Department, excluding nursing from its definition of ``professional  occupations,'' part of its new graduate student loan program, which was  created by the one big, ugly bill.

For the 4.7 million actively registered nurses and the 250,000  students enrolled in bachelor's, master's, and doctoral nursing  programs across the United States, this decree that they are not  professionals is both a disgraceful insult that shocks the conscience  and an order which will condemn America's nurses into second-class  status for Federal graduate student loan assistance.

Madam Speaker, this legal demotion is happening at a time when our  country is experiencing a nursing shortage. The Bureau of Labor  Statistics reports that we have 195,000 unfilled nursing positions in  this country. The Department of Health and Human Services goes even  higher. It says that it is 280,000. McKinsey & Company, a respected  think tank, predicts that the shortage will grow to 400,000 by the end  of this decade.

Madam Speaker, Members of this House don't really need to spend much  time reading these reports to know that that shortage is real. Just go  to any hospital, nursing home, or health clinic in your district, and  you will hear the same thing: they are short-staffed in ERs, exam  rooms, operating rooms, and on the floors. Short-staffing is bad for  patients, and it is bad for nursing burnout.

Despite this blindingly obvious reality, the Education Department's  designation is putting a hard cap of $100,000, with no indexing, on  graduate student loans for nurses, all part of the One Big Beautiful  Bill Act, which my Republican colleagues passed in June. It is a  healthcare monstrosity, which cut $1 trillion from Medicaid, cut out  premium subsidies for 22 million Americans for their healthcare  exchange plans, and now will suffocate the growth of our Nation's  caring professions.

If you doubt my words, then maybe you will listen to the president of  the American Nursing Association, the largest nursing professional  organization in America. Jennifer Mensik Kennedy, the president,  states: ``Nurses make up the largest segment of the healthcare  workforce and [are] the backbone of our Nation's health system. At a  time when healthcare in our country faces a historic nurse shortage and  rising demands, limiting nurses' access to funding for graduate school  threatens the very foundation of patient care.''

Well said.

Madam Speaker, ANA is doing more. They have organized a petition  drive because this rule goes into effect next July. As of the middle of  last week, they had 180,000 signatures, and that will grow.

Madam Speaker, it definitely will grow in the coming days. Every  Member of this House--and I will be one of them--should write to the  Department of Education saying that this rule makes no sense in terms  of the healthcare system today and, also, is an insult to the people  who go through extensive training, testing, and certification before  they are allowed to practice their caring profession.

While we are at it, we should also help the other professions which  were excluded by the Department of Education: physician assistants,  physical therapists, audiologists, speech-language pathologists,  architects, accountants, advanced degree educators, social workers,  dental hygienists, and occupational therapists.

This proposal by the Department of Education is madness, and Congress  should actually do more than just support the regulatory process in  terms of reversing these rules. We should also go back and revisit the  One Big Beautiful Bill Act and recognize, again, what our healthcare  sector is telling us: We are risking the financial solvency of  institutions all across America, and, again, we are damaging our  future in terms of getting young, motivated people to join the  healthcare professions.