Prohibiting Voting By Noncitizens in District of Columbia Elections


Ms. MALLIOTAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to ask the question: Why are the  Democrats so obsessed with allowing noncitizens to vote in our  election? Why do they go out of their way to dilute the voices of  American citizens, the very American citizens who elected them to  represent them?

It is incredibly frustrating to hear that they continue to double  down or triple down on giving rights to people who are not citizens of  this country at American taxpayers' and citizens' expense.

The lead debater on the other side of the aisle said that it is not  just Washington, D.C., that is looking to allow noncitizens to vote in  our elections. Mr. Speaker, 20 municipalities--and guess what? They are  all run by Democrats.

In New York City, we had the same problem when the New York City  Council passed legislation to allow noncitizens to vote in municipal  elections. We had to sue to stop it, and we successfully did. It took  not just one round in court, not just two rounds in court, but three  rounds in court, where the city council and the mayor of New York used  taxpayer money to continue to fight this each and every round despite  being voted down in the New York State Supreme Court, the New York  State Appellate Court, and, lastly, the New York Court of Appeals.

By the way, all were Democrat appointees on that panel of judges. We  still won because it is illegal. It is not constitutional for  noncitizens to vote in our elections.

Just like we fought this in New York City and prevailed, we will do  the same here in Washington, D.C. We will make sure that they stop  allowing and don't allow noncitizens to vote in their municipal  elections because we are exercising our constitutional responsibility  to protect our elections.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to continue to be strong and vote  in support of this because we know that it passed overwhelmingly with  bipartisan support last year. Fifty-two Democrats sided with  Republicans.

Those who continue to push for noncitizens to vote in our elections  to dilute citizenship and dilute the voice of citizens in our elections  should be ashamed of themselves. They should think about who actually  elected them to represent their interests here today and why they  continue to push to the contrary.