Recovery of Stolen Checks Act


Ms. MALLIOTAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman and the Ways and  Means Committee staff for working with me on this legislation to combat  mail theft and fraud.

A few months ago, I raised the issue of stolen checks to the Ways and  Means Committee after my office had been slammed with constituent cases  from taxpayers who have seen their hard-earned money stolen from them  via check fraud.

I, alongside my colleagues, Congresswoman Terri Sewell and  Congressman David Kustoff, introduced H.R. 1155, the Recovery of Stolen  Checks Act, a bipartisan bill that would allow taxpayers whose tax  refunds were stolen in the mail to receive a replacement payment via  direct deposit. This legislation passed out of the Ways and Means  Committee last month on a bipartisan basis, and it was unanimous.

In my district alone, we have seen 376 constituents who have had  stolen IRS checks. The amount is staggering: $5.4 million, and that is  in my district alone.

Out of these 376 cases, 50 times checks were stolen twice, 7 times  they were stolen 3 times, and in some cases, checks were even stolen 4  times in a row from the same constituent.

It has been reported that for IRS checks alone, approximately 40,000  were stolen nationally in 2024 and that is up from 100 checks in 2022.

The value stolen has been approximately $1 billion, and this has  become a real business for criminal organizations and enterprises and  the fraudsters who are preying upon American citizens.

It is very unfortunate that we are seeing this hardship and stress  placed on the intended recipients who have had to endure seeing their  checks being stolen and then they have to wait months to sometimes see  their replacement check also stolen.

This is not just happening with IRS tax refunds. It is also happening  with Social Security and other benefits that our constituents rely on.

Approximately 10 percent of American taxpayers receive their tax  refunds via paper checks, equating to about 10 million paper checks  issued annually. While the majority of taxpayers opt for direct  deposit, a significant number still receive refunds through traditional  mail.

The IRS plays a critical role in ensuring taxpayers receive their  hard-earned refund securely and efficiently. However, outdated IT  infrastructure and delivery systems have left many vulnerable to fraud  and stolen tax reimbursement checks.

Modernizing these systems is no longer optional. It is necessary to  protect taxpayers, to enhance efficiency, and to reduce fraud.  Obviously, there is still more work to be done. We still need the DOJ  and our law enforcement partners to continue their investigations to  find and prosecute these fraudsters. We are hearing of arrests and  prosecutions on a regular basis, but we urge them to continue their  good work.

This is an essential first step in addressing the increasing  frequency of mail theft. I am encouraged by President Trump's executive  order last week titled, ``Modernizing Payments to and From America's  Bank Account,'' which intends to phase out most paper checks by  September of this year and modernize other government payment systems.

I thank President Trump and Secretary Bessent for their quick and  decisive actions here to address this matter. It was within weeks of me  speaking with the Secretary that they issued this executive order.

My legislation here today will ensure that in those cases where there  are exceptions or accommodations, a direct deposit option will be  available for the intended recipient if those physical checks are  stolen--that was something the IRS had given us such a hard time  about--so taxpayers can receive their payments via direct deposit when  they needed replacement.

I was also pleased to learn that the Bureau of Fiscal Service  recently launched a pilot program to leverage existing technology and  services offered by the U.S. Postal Service to track the transmittal of  checks. I look forward to reviewing the results of this pilot program  and working with the administration to modernize delivery systems  across the Federal Government and ensure stronger safeguards against  mail fraud in the future.

Mr. Speaker, again, I thank the chairman and my colleagues for their  work on this bill. I look forward to seeing this bill pass unanimously  on the floor today as well. Let's protect American taxpayers and make  sure they are no longer victims of this type of check fraud.