Promises Made, Promises Kept


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694790/promises-made-promises-kept


Mr. OWENS. Madam Speaker, after meeting with farmers, ranchers, small  businesses, teachers, students, and community leaders across Utah's  Fourth District, I am here to report the One Big Beautiful Bill Act is  a win for Utahns.

In Manti, I met with small business owners at a Sanpete County  Chamber of Commerce to talk about what this bill means to Main Street.  From making the small business tax deductions permanent to doubling  expensing for equipment, this bill gives Utah entrepreneurs the freedom  to grow, hire, and thrive.

Over 70,000 small businesses stand to benefit. With our Rural  Advisory Council, I heard directly from Utah farmers and ranchers, the  backbone of our State. The bill raises the death tax exemption,  protects family farms, and strengthens food security for generations to  come.

In Fairview, I heard from rural Utahns who rely on affordable energy  to power their homes, farms, and businesses, and they are tired of red  tape.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act streamlines permitting, unleashes  Utah's energy potential, and helps providers deliver.

From Payson to West Jordan to Murray, I visited Utah manufacturers to  see firsthand how the One Big Beautiful Bill Act supports manufacturers  by doubling expensing and boosting investment and made-in-America  production.

For working families, the results are just as clear. The typical Utah  family with two kids will take home close to $12,000 more under this  law. It is real tax relief for groceries, gas, savings, and peace of  mind.

For the first time, we are on the path to permanent school choice.  This bill empowers parents, not bureaucrats; funds students, not  systems; and ends the ZIP Code lottery.

It even helps families build for the future, establishing newborn  investment accounts to grow generational wealth from day one.

The American Dream is alive and well in Utah, and the One Big  Beautiful Bill Act is how we keep it that way.