Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Buffalo Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H. Con. Res. Denouncing the Horrors of Socialism; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Unlocking Our Domestic Lng Potential Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Researching Efficient Federal Improvements for Necessary Energy Refining Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696902/providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-national-petroleum-reserve-in-alaska-integrated-activity-plan-record-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-buffalo-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-amendment-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-coastal-plain-oil-and-gas-leasing-program-record-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-h-con-res-denouncing-the-horrors-of-socialism-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-unlocking-our-domestic-lng-potential-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-researching-efficient-federal-improvements-for-necessary-energy-refining-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-common-sense-law-enforcement-and-accountability-now-in-dc-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-district-of-columbia-cash-bail-reform-act-of-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. OWENS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Chairwoman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, after blatant obstruction and prolonged delay on the  part of congressional Democrats for over 40 days, the House has  returned to regular order. It is good to be back, and it is about time.

Today, we are here to advance eight separate measures that meet the  demands of the American people and strengthen President Trump's  successful America First agenda.

My constituents voted for the dissolution of the Biden bureaucratic  barrage and for safety in their communities. From bolstering American  energy dominance to upholding law and order, strengthening the criminal  justice system in our Nation's Capital to rejecting the failed ideology  of socialism, House Republicans continue to deliver measurable and  substantive progress.

I urge my colleagues to support the rule and the eight underlying  pieces of legislation. Let's continue delivering wins for the American  people.