Agoa Extension Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698904/agoa-extension-act


Mr. MEEKS. Madam Speaker, as a longtime proponent of the African  Growth and Opportunity Extension Act, I rise today in support of this  bipartisan bill, H.R. 6500, the AGOA Extension Act.

Let me first thank Ways and Means Committee Chairman Smith, Chairman  Smith of the Trade Subcommittee, Ranking Member Neal, and Ranking  Member Linda Sanchez for working on this in a bipartisan way and  getting it over the hurdle.

Madam Speaker, I also have to think about an individual who mentored  me. I cannot think about AGOA without thinking about the former  chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, the  Honorable late Charles B. Rangel. He always spoke and thought of doing  what he could for the continent of Africa.

The African Growth and Opportunity Extension Act delivers significant  economic benefit to the United States. In removing barriers to trade  between the United States and Africa, AGOA has enabled approximately  $1.8 billion in salaries for American workers each year.

AGOA also provides approximately $1 billion in annual benefits to  American consumers. The program has resulted in millions of American  households enjoying lower prices for cocoa, coffee, and other goods  that the United States cannot produce at home.

American businesses understand the value of supporting robust U.S.- Africa trade, which supports more than 450,000 jobs across the United  States.

For this reason, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the American Apparel &  Footwear Association, and countless other business associations are  calling for AGOA's reauthorization by Congress.

Put simply, this bill offers clear advantages for millions of  American workers. AGOA is essential to also protecting U.S. foreign  policy interests in Africa.

As we speak, China and other U.S. adversaries are trying to undermine  the African Continent to do this kind of work. In fact, Chinese  officials seek to deepen China's commercial ties with African  countries, prevent American businesses from competing in local markets,  and redirect trade away from the United States.

Africa is the continent with the world's fastest growing population.  China recognizes the critical role that Africa will play in the future  and its economy and wants to exploit that, particularly as global  demand for critical minerals and rare earth elements increases. China  understands its own economy will benefit by making trade with Africa  easier, not harder, and that is why China is rooting for AGOA's demise  while offering zero-trade deals that mimic this vital U.S. program.

Mr. MEEKS. Madam Speaker, there are certainly improvements we can  make in terms of encouraging countries to better utilize the trade  preferences offered under AGOA and to maximize their government  strategies to take full advantage of those benefits. I look forward to  working with my colleagues to improve AGOA over the next 3 years, but  extending the legislation is a first critical step.

Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to vote for this program.