Designation of Haiti for Temporary Protected Status


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701860/designation-of-haiti-for-temporary-protected-status


Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of  Representative Gillen's bill to extend temporary protective status for  Haitians until 2029. In fact, to me, it is outrageous that it actually  took Representative Pressley's bipartisan discharge petition to force  this consequential vote.

It seems to me that the administration and the Speaker should have  acted, but they failed to. Today, we have a chance to make this right.

I thank my Republican colleagues who signed the motion to discharge  and worked in a bipartisan way to make this happen because the American  people recognize that our Haitian neighbors, whether they are from  Miami, whether they are from Boston, whether they are in Westchester,  New York, or whether they are in Queens, New York, are not strangers,  but they are integral parts of our communities, our churches, and our  families.

The American people recognize that the conditions in Haiti don't just  meet, but they surpass the threshold for TPS. We are talking about one  of the worst humanitarian crises in the world, where armed gangs  control 90 percent of the capital, a public health system that is  nearing collapse, a justice system which is almost nonexistent, and 1.4  million people who are internally displaced by fleeing from violence  and hunger.

You don't have to take my word for it. Look at the United States  Department of State's own travel advisory issued under this  administration. It says plainly to not travel to Haiti due to  kidnapping, crime, terrorist activity, civil unrest, and limited  healthcare.

We must do everything in our power to prevent further harm during  this humanitarian crisis, and we can start today. We can start by  passing this bill.

When I think about this country being established, it was people from  other parts of the world--in the beginning, especially from Europe--who  were trying to find a place to come to in order to get away from  dangerous conditions. That is the reason that the words at the base of  the Statue of Liberty read: ``Give me your tired, your poor, your  huddled masses yearning to breathe free.''

It is because America is the strongest when we stand for humanity  here at home.