Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697809/disinterment-of-remains-of-fernando-v-cota-from-fort-sam-houston-national-cemetery-texas


Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I want to first thank Chairman Rogers and  Ranking Member Smith for the manner in which they worked together in a  bipartisan way. It is an example of what has taken place here for  almost 60 years, where we come together for this legislation. I will  just add, though, that I would love the day when the State  authorization bill stands on its own, so I look for and long for that  day.

Let me just start with what I believe is good in the bill that was  negotiated. The Iraq war ended more than a decade ago, yet Presidents  from both parties have cited the 2002 Authorization for Use of Military  Force, or AUMF, to justify military actions completely unrelated to  Iraq. Leaving it on the books invites future Presidents to drag us into  reckless foreign wars. The American people do not want those wars, and  Congress has not yet authorized those wars, nor will it. They will have  to come to Congress for that power.

I am honored to take the baton from former Congresswoman Barbara Lee  in  carrying this legislation forward. I thank the lead across the aisle,  Representative Roy, for getting this past the finish line.

This bill also includes legislation like the Haiti Criminal Collusion  Transparency Act, which would curb the flow of illegal arms fueling  Haiti's crises and hold accountable those elites enabling it. They will  be put in check. It restores the State Department's Office of Haitian  Affairs in a bipartisan way. The NDAA preserves bipartisan initiatives  like the Payne, Pickering, and Rangel Fellowships and the Veterans  Innovation Partnership Fellowship at the State Department.

There are, of course, some things in here that I don't agree with and  that I wish we could have gotten in. I wanted a stronger DFC, which is  dealing with this core development mission and not giving those things  away.

All in all, I have decided to vote ``yes'' in that spirit. I know you  don't get everything that you want, but as members of the Foreign  Affairs Committee, where we try to do things also in a bipartisan way,  I appreciate what the two gentlemen are doing in a bipartisan way.