Enhancing Multi-Class Share Disclosures Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693912/enhancing-multi-class-share-disclosures-act


Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, H.R.  3357, the Enhancing Multi-Class Share Disclosures Act.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Hill and Ranking Member Waters for  their leadership and efforts to bring my bill to the floor today.

Publicly traded companies are critical to this country's economic  dynamism and wealth creation. Their shareholders, including everyday  American families, believe in the potential of these companies and  demonstrate this faith by investing in their equities. This flood of  new capital allows companies to do research and development, hire  Americans, and innovate for the greater good.

My legislation strengthens our capital markets by requiring more  transparency around multiclass shareholder companies.

For annual shareholder meetings, companies will have to disclose the  true distribution of voting power of insiders, like directors or  executives, who hold more voting rights than their ownership share  would suggest.

An imbalanced power structure could limit other investors' abilities  to direct strategy or hold boards accountable. Basically, this bill  gives Main Street investors the complete and full picture and the  necessary information to make smart and informed decisions.

Let me be clear: I very much understand the benefit of multiclass  share structures and think they have a place in corporate governance.  Major companies from outside of the United States have chosen to list  in New York City precisely because we have more flexible multiclass  structures. Yet, our advantage over other financial hubs, like Hong  Kong and Shanghai, is not just one set of regulations. It is the  transparency and openness of our capital markets, and transparency  strengthens markets.

By doubling down on our strengths, this bill will further cement our  competitive lead and aid investors along the way.

Mr. Speaker, I call on my colleagues to support my legislation.