Haiti Criminal Collusion Transparency Act of 2025


Mr. MEEKS.  2643.

This legislation would require the State Department to develop a  report detailing the ties between the political and economic elite in  Haiti and the criminal gangs that have run roughshod over the majority  of the capital.

Each day, the situation in Haiti gets worse. Approximately 1.3  million Haitians, including more than 700,000 children, have now been  forced out of their homes by gang violence. Just since last October,  gangs have killed more than 5,600 innocent Haitians.

Gang activity is no longer confined to the outskirts of Port-au- Prince, expanding into cities once free from violence. Gangs, able to  outgun the Haitian National Police, continue to launch heavily armed  attacks on ports, highways, critical infrastructure, police stations,  courthouses, prisons, hospitals, businesses, and neighborhoods. They  have committed gruesome massacres against senior citizens and, for more  than a year now, have dictated Haiti's security and political tempo.

Not everyone in Haiti has suffered at the hands of gangs. Members of  the political and economic elite who have enabled, armed, and benefited  from the unrest in Haiti are also to blame for the ongoing crises.

Should the State Department find criminal collusion between members  of Haiti's political and economic elite and  the gangs, the legislation requires that the administration place  sanctions on those individuals. It would deny entry to the United  States to those who are found to support gang activity, who use  kidnappings and rape to control and silence communities, and who use  coercion to bring youth in and around Port-au-Prince into the service  of criminal activity.

Mr. Speaker, we ignore the ongoing crisis in Haiti at our own peril.  We have a duty to make sure that we identify and hold accountable those  who perpetuate chaos.

I thank my colleagues for working in a bipartisan manner because this  is the right thing to do, and I encourage my colleagues to join me in  supporting this bipartisan measure.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot allow the criminal gangs in Haiti and those  powerful political and economic elites who have enabled and empowered  them to inflict violence and chaos on Haiti with impunity. Impunity  must stop.

The people of Haiti must believe that they have the opportunity to  chart a path to a secure, stable, and democratic future and that gangs  will not be allowed to rule and dictate the reality on the ground.

The people of Haiti are waiting. They want to hear our voices and to  know that those who are committing the crimes or have enabled them to  be committed cannot just continue to go back and forth from Haiti to  the United States and move around with impunity. This will send a  message to them that they will be held accountable for what and how  they are destroying the lives, livelihoods, and opportunities for the  hardworking people of Haiti.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this bill and encourage my colleagues  to support it, as well.