Increasing Investor Opportunities Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697829/increasing-investor-opportunities-act


Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Chair, I thank Chairwoman Wagner, Chairman French  Hill, Mr. Gottheimer, and to my dear friend and person that I respect  and admire, the Ranking Member Maxine Waters, for their leadership.

Mr. Chair, I am here today to say why I support this bill and why it  was important for me to be a cosponsor.

I support this bill because I believe it is a meaningful step for  working families. At a time when families continue to feel the  pressures of rising costs and financial uncertainty, the INVEST Act  represents a meaningful, commonsense step to help Americans secure  their financial futures.

Mr. Chair, 62 percent of Americans are invested in the stock market  and the vast majority are not day traders or wealthy investors. There  are millions of everyday workers who participate through mutual funds,  pensions, and retirement plans like the 401(k)'s and IRAs.

I support this bill because it expands access to capital for  underserved and under-networked entrepreneurs. This bill modernizes  outdated rules that have made it especially hard for Black and Brown  founders and minority-owned small businesses to meet investors, to  participate in community investment events, and raise early capital.

The INVEST Act broadens who can responsibly participate in private  markets. It preserves investor protections and strengthens oversight  while recognizing that these opportunities for wealth building  shouldn't just be for the super rich. It makes it easier for small  businesses by reducing regulatory friction and compliance burdens that  disproportionately impact them.

This package of 22 bills is fundamentally really a pro small business  bill focused on addressing the affordability crisis and not a Wall  Street deregulatory bill.

Mr. Chair, 16 of these bills have passed the House nearly unanimously  in this Congress, and I supported every individual bill when we  considered them before the Financial Services Committee, as did many of  my committee colleagues.

I sponsored three of the bills in this package that I have worked on  for multiple Congresses. These bills increase transparency in  multiclass stock structures, protect against activist investors in  closed-end funds, and encourage startups to test the waters when  considering an IPO.

These issues aren't just a flash in the pan. These bills have come  together after long thought and deliberation with partners like the  U.S. Black Chambers, like minority banks, institutional investor  advocates, and nonprofits. They are about closing the wealth gap of  which I have been focused on my entire career.

Mr. MEEKS. That is why I support this bill. That is one of the main  reasons why I am here in the United States Congress.

Strengthening our capital markets is not about helping the big guys.  It is about improving the financial security of working families.  Supporting the INVEST Act will give Americans more opportunities to  grow their retirement savings and build long-term economic stability.

Mr. Chair, I support this bill and urge my colleagues to do the same.