International Traffic in Arms Regulations Licensing Reform Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4215. This bill would  institute clearer timeframes for the licensing decisions made by the  State Department for direct sales of defense items by private firms to  foreign buyers.

While large systems, such as aircraft, ships, tanks, and missiles,  are principally provided via the foreign military sales, or FMS,  process, a number of important items, such as small arms, vehicles,  radars, and other equipment, are transferred via direct commercial  sales.

These items are often vital for our partners and allies to replenish  their military stocks and defensive capabilities. While the vast  majority of these sales are processed and licensed in an expeditious  manner, foreign partners often seek greater speed and clarity regarding  the process.

This bill simply institutes reasonable timeframes of up to 60 days  for a licensing decision to be made. This does not preordain an  outcome. The State Department can still either return such licenses for  adjustment or modification due to additional revisions or controls  determined necessary or reject the requested license outright.  Crucially, the bill also does not alter or undermine congressional  oversight over direct commercial sales.

In short, while I have strong concerns about the arms sales and  security assistance policies of the Trump administration, I support  efforts to provide our allies and partners with improved timelines and  processing for defense articles that they need for our shared national  security goals.

Mr. Speaker, the time period limitations on direct foreign commercial  sales set forth in this bill will, in fact, provide greater clarity for  our allies and a more rapid delivery of necessary items to our partners  around the world. Moreover, the bill does so without undermining  congressional oversight or predetermining any decisions.

Mr. Speaker, I support this legislation, and I yield back the balance  of my time.