Made-In-America Defense Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694810/made-in-america-defense-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4216. This bill directs the  Department of State to conduct an annual review in consultation with  the Department of Defense of what weapons and technologies can be moved  from the FMS-only list to be eligible for direct commercial sales.

It also requires helpful reporting to Congress on the process and  evaluation of these changes. Importantly, it does not modify or  undermine Congress' oversight or visibility into the proposed arms  transfers.

The context behind this bill is very important. Our country provides  defense articles and services to our allies and partners via foreign  military sales, often abbreviated to ``FMS.'' U.S. FMS cases offer a  unique approach, which include not only the most capable military  platforms to our friends but what historically has been known as the  total-package approach.

This refers to the fact that the United States, via FMS sales,  provides not only the military hardware itself, but a total package  that includes training, repairs, and maintenance support, as well as  capacity building for that nation's military.

Our adversaries, quite simply, do not and often cannot provide both  such exquisite technologies but also the whole suite of support that  comes with them. The advanced technology, as well as the total-package  approach and our diplomatic influence, values, and position sets us  apart.

While FMS transfers are fit for many cases and situations, some  foreign partners have sought to expand their defense purchases via  greater direct commercial sales from U.S. firms. While these steps need  to be taken carefully, the review required by this bill is a smart step  in the right direction which I support.

This legislation provides a useful directive while maintaining  congressional prerogatives and oversight over armed sales. I hope that  all of my colleagues will join me and support this bill.