Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act; and for Other Purposes


Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Neguse for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, it is Groundhog Day again in Washington, D.C. You know,  this week is an opportunity to drive down electricity costs, create  jobs at home by bolstering our exports of goods made in America. It is  an opportunity to lower the cost of groceries and healthcare for  families around our great country. But this Republican majority never  misses an opportunity to do the opposite of addressing affordability  for the American people.

After all of the majority's procedural shenanigans last year, my  resolutions ending President Trump's harmful tariffs on Canada and  Mexico are due for a vote this week. But the Republicans couldn't let  that stand. They are trying to change the rules again and again and  again and again to do what? They are trying to change the rules again  to avoid voting on ending Trump's tariffs.

Just this week, new research from the nonpartisan Tax Foundation  showed that the President's tariffs cost the average American well over  $1,000. It will cost them even more now. That is what it cost them last  year. It will be even more this year.

President Trump brags about the money generated from tariffs, but it  is money ripped right out of the wallets of working families. Will this  body listen to the affordability concerns of our constituents and  retake our responsibility over Congress' Article I powers to tax and  trade? No, they won't. Will they lower the cost of utilities and  groceries or medical devices around the United States that Americans  need? No, they won't.

What we are witnessing is one of the most astounding displays of  cowardice in the modern history of Congress. It is truly a spectacle.  In all my years, I have never seen a group of Members so deeply afraid  of just doing their job.

The American people sent us here to address their affordability  concerns. I had to say to one member of the administration just last  week: Do not continue to be a flunky of the President. Don't be a  flunky of the President. Don't block for the President if he is not  doing the right thing. Work for the American people. Don't be flunkies  for the President when you know he is wrong. Work for the American  people. Let's vote on this. Let's have the bravery to vote on this.