Providing for Consideration of H.R. Consolidated Appropriations Act, and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699308/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-consolidated-appropriations-act-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, we should vote today to end these tariffs and  lower costs for everyday Americans. Instead, this House majority is  paralyzed by fear, making it one of the least effective in modern  American history.

The American people sent us to Washington to address affordability  and to lower the cost of healthcare, housing, and groceries. Yet, this  Congress has taken fewer votes in 2025 than in any nonpandemic year  this century.

Apparently, the majority doesn't think affordability is important  enough to vote on. Instead of focusing on prices, the White House has  spent the past week talking about invading Greenland or using our  taxpayer dollars to buy an island that isn't for sale.

To advance this fantasy, President Trump threatened yet another round  of tariffs that would raise prices even further, only to walk back the  threats after the stock market tanked yesterday.

Regardless of what the President does, we are a coequal branch of  government. We should be addressing affordability right now by passing  the resolutions I have offered and resolutions that have already passed  the Senate to terminate these tariffs.

When asked to explain why we are not doing everything we can to lower  costs for American families, the Speaker responded that the President  is exercising Article II powers to impose tariffs. There is only one  problem. The President has no Article II powers to tax or tariff. Those  powers are explicitly assigned to the United States Congress under  Article I of the Constitution.

The Republican majority is more interested in providing cover for  Donald Trump than honoring their oath to the Constitution of the United  States and deliberately avoiding doing its job to lower costs for  Americans.

Mr. Speaker, the American people are watching. The camera of history  is recording. I urge my colleagues to defeat the previous question and  demand a vote on terminating the tariffs.