Reaffirming Iran Remains the Largest State Sponsor of Terrorism


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700431/reaffirming-iran-remains-the-largest-state-sponsor-of-terrorism


Mr. Speaker, let me begin by saying something that should not be  controversial at all in this House. In fact, it has been the position  of this House throughout. The Iranian regime is a malign, nefarious,  and deadly actor. It has appointed terrorist groups on militias across  the Middle East, slaughtered its own people, quashed dissent, and  threatened Americans and our interests for decades.

Members of both sides of the aisle know this. Congress has said it  many times before. In fact, during my years in Congress, this body has  passed dozens of resolutions and laws recognizing Iran as the world's  leading state sponsor of terrorism. There is no dispute there. This is  not a dispute.

Let us be honest about what this resolution is. It is not new policy.  It is not new information. It does nothing to protect a single  American, servicemember, or ally. I think it is about politics. Maybe  it is a stunt because of what Members are going to debate right after  this. I don't think this accomplishes what Chairman Mast or the  Republicans think it does, because in no way does this have any effect  on the War Powers Resolution debate later today.

People can agree--and we all do--and we all know that Iran is bad.  People also should agree that the President should come to Congress if  he wants to make the case for war. These two truths are not  incompatible.

For decades, Republicans and Democrats have worked together to  counter Iran's dangerous behavior. Congress has imposed layer after  layer of sanctions, disrupted terrorist financing networks,  strengthened regional partnerships, and worked with our allies to  constrain Iran's nuclear program.

Unfortunately, President Donald Trump has often upended or ignored  bipartisan work: for example, when he pardoned the founder of Binance,  an enabler of the Iran regime that allowed his company to be used to  fund Iran's terror proxies.

Past efforts were designed to contain and deter Iran's threats while  protecting Americans' interests in avoiding a broader regional war.

Today, Americans find ourselves in a very different situation. At  President Trump's own behest, the United States is now engaged in  direct military conflict with Iran, a conflict that was initiated  without congressional authorization and without a clear explanation to  the American people for what the endgame is.

To be clear: No one in this Chamber doubts the danger posed by the  Iranian regime. Recognizing that threat does not mean abandoning our  Constitution. It does not mean Congress should surrender its  responsibility to debate and authorize war. It certainly does not mean  we should walk blindly into a conflict with a deadly serious adversary  without our own serious or clear strategy for what comes next.

The stakes here are not symbolic. They aren't talking points.

American servicemembers are in harm's way. The Middle East is on the  brink of a wider conflict. The consequences of a war with Iran could  shape the region--and American security--for decades.

Instead of debating yet another resolution stating something that we  all already know, this body should be asking some real questions: What  are the objectives of this war? What is the strategy for preventing  regional escalation? What is the plan for the day after? What will this  cost the American people? The American people deserve those answers,  and Congress deserves a vote. Our constituents are waiting to hear.

Mr. Speaker, I made very clear that there is no disagreement in  Congress that Iran is a bad actor. It is a state sponsor of terror.

I have said it over and over again in my career, and I think every  Member of Congress has said it over and over again. That is really not  what this concurrent resolution is really about. This resolution really  is a stunt meant to try to cast a shadow on the imminent Iran War  Powers Resolution debate that is going to follow this. This came up  today, just at the last minute, to try to throw it in specifically  because of the debate.

Both things can be true, Mr. Speaker. Congress can recognize that  Iran is a bad actor, as we have done multiple times, and the President  of the United States cannot unilaterally drag our country into war  without congressional deliberation, debate, and authorization.

The Constitution of the United States of America says that only  Congress can declare war. So that is what the next debate will be all  about.

Do we want to live up to what we took an oath of office and take a  vote for the American people to see where everyone stands and to be  sure that we are not giving away our power to the executive branch of  government and that we in Congress are going to do our job that the  Constitution states that we should do?

If the Constitution wanted one person to make that decision, then it  would have so stated.

Yes, I will be voting for this resolution, absolutely, 100 percent. I  have voted for so many other similar resolutions over the years.  However, I plan to also do my constitutional duty to take my  responsibility, not to give it away to the executive branch of  government and not to shrink from my responsibilities. I plan also on  voting for the War Powers Resolution on Iran in the debate immediately  following this resolution which we have passed numerous times in this  House.

It is a stunt, but, unfortunately, that is where we are, as opposed  to doing real business.