Resolution, to Remove United States Armed Forces From Hostilities with Presidentially Designated Terrorist Organizations in the Western Hemisphere


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698248/resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-with-presidentially-designated-terrorist-organizations-in-the-western-hemisphere


Mr. MEEKS.  Con. Res. 61.

Mr. Speaker, I will get to the chairman's remarks later about his  incorrect statements. What I want to point out is, since September 2,  the administration has carried out 25 known strikes, killing 95 people.  Among these was a so-called double-tap strike where U.S. Forces killed  two survivors clinging to the wreckage of a destroyed vessel in open  sea.

The administration now refuses to release the video of this strike,  denying the American people the ability to see for themselves what is  being done in their names. In fact, they are denying Members of this  House, including me and I believe the chairman himself, from seeing  that video. Many believe this strike may constitute a war crime.

Following another strike, on October 16, the Department of Defense  repatriated two survivors to their home countries rather than prosecute  them in the United States courts, as we would expect if these  individuals were, in fact, dangerous drug traffickers bound for the  United States.

The fact of the matter is a number of the individuals that he talked  about, if they were in the United States, they would have been tried in  our courts. That decision raises serious questions about the  administration's own assessment of threat, necessity, and purpose.

These strikes have not been authorized by Congress, and the  administration has not sought congressional authorization to use lethal  military force to address alleged criminal activity that under the  United States law--and we are a country of laws--does not carry the  death penalty.

That is a profound escalation, and one Congress has neither debated  nor proved. They openly covet Venezuelan oil. That is what this is  about. The President is coveting Venezuelan oil.

Despite promises to end wars, this President is threatening military  invasions not just in Venezuela but across the Western Hemisphere.

Just last night, President Trump declared: ``Venezuela is completely  surrounded by the largest armada ever assembled in the history of South  America,'' and that ``the shock . . . will be like nothing they have  ever seen. . . .''

This is not a strategy. This is a game, and the President is playing  it with the lives of American servicemembers, threatening a regime- change war with no plan for what would happen next.

This President wants to be the judge, the jury, and the executioner.  However, this Congress--Congress is not a part of the executive branch.  We are a coequal branch of government. The Constitution vests this body  with authority over matters of war and peace. That power has too often  been ceded to the executive branch.

Earlier this month, on a bipartisan and bicameral basis, we repealed  outdated authorizations for use of military force to prevent Presidents  of either party from abusing it. We cannot now abandon our  constitutional duty over these strikes in the Western Hemisphere.

Even if you happen to disagree with me when I say these strikes--and  they are--not about making Americans safer, that these strikes are  about oil, that they are about another reckless foreign war or  stretching Presidential power toward that of a would-be king--all of  those things happen to be true, by the way--this vote is ultimately not  about whether you agree with the administration's policy. It is not  about whether any President can take these actions. It is about, and  what it should be about, is whether this President can take these  actions without congressional approval.

Every Member of Congress should want to do their job. Congress must  make clear--all of us--that no President can unilaterally draw the  United States into a conflict that the American people do not want.

Democrats and Republicans, those of us who were elected by the  people, are the closest to the people. We should not shirk our  responsibility. We should make sure that, right here, we do what the  Constitution tells us to do and have debate and vote on the House floor  so that all of America knows where we stand on matters of going to war  or not. That is what they elected us to do.

For us to just give away that power to the executive branch is not  doing our job. We should have a vote because it is the rule of law. We  are the United States of America. We are not part of the Duma or have a  Putin who just does what they want with getting around and not dealing  with the people's Representatives. We should stand for the power that  was vested in us. That is what this is really all about.

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I just say that the President said yesterday  that  that oil was the United States' oil, not the Venezuelan people.

I thank the gentlewoman for her passion, though. I only wish she had  the same passion to speak out against the Trump administration's mass  deportation of Venezuelans legally in the United States of America.

Mr. Speaker, if this truly was about addressing drugs, then tell me  why the administration pardoned Ross Ulbricht, who ran one of the  largest online drug marketplaces in history and was serving a double  life sentence.

Why did the President pardon the former President of Honduras, whom a  U.S. court convicted and sentenced for flooding the U.S. with 400 tons  of cocaine and bragged?

He said: `` . . . shove the drugs right up the noses of the  gringos,'' and he was pardoned by the President of the United States  into our districts.

I am a former special narcotics prosecutor, and I know this to be a  fact. You don't run a serious counternarcotics strategy by carrying out  the death penalty for those who are at the bottom of the drug trade  while freeing those who are the very top and ordering them to come.

At the same time, the administration asks us to believe that  deploying fighter jets, an aircraft carrier, and more than 15,000  troops to the Caribbean is merely a counterdrug mission. This is the  largest U.S. military buildup in the region since the Cuban Missile  Crisis.

If this were really about drugs, why are the United States forces  seizing oil tankers? The stated mission, the scale of buildup, and the  actions taken simply do not align.

The administration can't keep its story straight, and it is no longer  trying to hide its real motivations. Senior officials, including the  President himself, have made it clear that the real objective is  provoking a conflict with Venezuela to oust Maduro.

Mr. Speaker, I am still waiting for the chairman to tell me why the  President of the United States decided to let convicted drug pushers,  convicted in  United States courts and in jail, be pardoned if this is about drugs. I  am waiting for an answer. I haven't heard that yet.

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I am still waiting to hear why major drug  dealers, two major drug dealers, were pardoned by the President of the  United States. I will wait.

Nothing?

Kamlager-Dove), the ranking member on the Subcommittee  on South and Central Asia.

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, maybe the gentleman from the National  Security Subcommittee can tell me, since the  chairman can't, why the President of the United States pardoned a  narcoterrorist and the former President of Honduras. Maybe he can tell  me why. I am trying to get an answer.

Nothing? Walking out? Does he have an answer for me? Why would the  President of the United States pardon a convicted drug dealer, over 400  million tons, killing Americans? I got nothing.

Jayapal), an esteemed member of the House Foreign  Affairs Committee.

Again, I offer the chairman, Mr. Rogers, the opportunity to tell me  why the President pardoned these drug dealers.

I am proud of this institution and who we are. I am a Member of the  House of Representatives, a former chairman of the committee.

I would also ask the chairman: Why don't we do hearings?

Why can't we bring the administration into the Foreign Affairs  Committee and have them answer questions of Members of Congress on what  they are doing and why they are doing it?

That is our job. That is our responsibility.

Have we had one hearing on Venezuela on drugs coming in? Not a one.  Have we brought anybody in from the administration?

That is our job.

Why don't we do our job?

That is why we were elected. I would hope that the chairman would  have some hearings so that we can discuss this as Members of Congress.

Omar), who is an original cosponsor of this important resolution.

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman can use my time if he can  answer why the President of the United States pardoned major drug  dealers who were convicted and doing time. It was the little guys. I  will wait.

Also, if this is about drugs, the fact is, the drugs come from China,  the fentanyl. The mainstay of fentanyl is from China. I haven't heard  China in this debate at all.

In fact, the President runs around and says some of those--we are  back selling chips or whatever he wants to do with China, which is a  danger to our national security, killing our people. The number one  drug that is killing Americans is fentanyl. There are no ships there.

My main focus is, as I said earlier, even if you disagree with me,  why don't we do our work as Members of Congress? Why aren't we having  hearings, open, public hearings with members of the administration  coming to testify before us and the American people so that they can  hear for themselves?

In prior Congresses, when I was the chair, even when Mr. McCaul was  the chair, and there was a Democrat in the office, they were bringing  in the Secretary of State on a consistent basis, subpoenaing them,  having them come in to address certain things, and they came in.

I make judgments now to go to hearings when I see someone from the  administration is going to be there, and, boy, that is very rare.  Generally, it is just somebody on the other side, from the private  sector or something of that nature on foreign affairs. The diplomats  and representatives from the State Department and people directly from  the administration don't come before our committee.

No matter what your position is, this is about the United States  House of Representatives doing its duty and responsibility.

Let me tell you, when it comes to drugs, I had a career in fighting  drugs as a prosecutor. No one, to this day, fights harder and wants to  make sure that we lock up and bring to justice those who bring in and  those who sell narcotics in our communities. We still have laws because  when we did, we didn't execute them. We tried them in a court of law.

That is who we are. That is not who Vladimir Putin is and who some of  these other authoritarian governments are. That is what they do. That  is not what we do here.

We have values, and we have a job to do, as Members of the United  States House of Representatives, for the people. I am saying to my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle: Let's do our jobs. Let's  bring in the administration and members of the administration. Let them  testify and talk to us, where we can question them, and talk to the  American people because, ultimately, this is about them.

The American people should be able to see what took place in those  waters when those two individuals were hanging on the boat. There was  no problem showing all the others. What are we hiding from the American  people? We, as Members of Congress, should be demanding that the  administration be accountable to the American people, and the best way  to do that is for them to come to Congress because that is our job.

Ultimately, I am saying we should do our jobs as Members of Congress  and not give away our power to someone who would like to just be an  authoritarian. We don't have that kind of government.

That is why the United States of America was created in the first  place, to make sure that one man or woman couldn't make unilateral  decisions around the United States Congress.

Mr. Speaker, this War Powers Resolution would immediately end  President Trump's extrajudicial boat strikes in the Western Hemisphere,  which have never been approved by Congress and far exceed the  President's authority.

We are a country of laws. Individuals in the streets have to abide by  our laws. The President of the United States should be abiding by our  laws.

In our laws, you convict somebody in court. You can't just go out and  kill them. What I had to do was build a case in public, try that case,  and convince a jury to unanimously convict someone so that they would  go to jail. That was my job.

I think that the President of the United States cannot summarily  determine that he is going to go kill someone without coming and  getting authorization from this Congress.

The worst criminals have had to go to court. The fact of the matter  is, we know of two such people, the worst of the worst. They sold drugs  and said they were going to shove it up their noses. He wasn't killed.  He shouldn't have been killed. He was tried. He was from another  country. In fact, he was the President of another country.

He was tried in a court of law, and he was convicted by a unanimous  jury. He is on the streets today. Why? Because the President of the  United States said he deserved the pardon. No matter how many people he  killed, no matter how many drugs he brought in, the President of the  United States said it is okay, we are going to send him back on the  streets.

There is another individual who sold drugs over the internet, killing  Americans. He was not executed. He was tried and convicted unanimously  in a court. He is back on the streets.

As a prosecutor, I would have been--and the family members of the  victims, of those two, in particular, and others like them, for them to  be convicted and then released by the President of the United States of  America, is that justice? Is that protecting us? What kind of message  is that sending to just go after the little guy in a boat who was  instructed by others?

How many of the big kingpins have been brought to justice? Who is  going after and building a case to prosecute them and have them locked  up in jail?

This administration wants to say these strikes are about stopping  drugs from entering the country. Putting aside the fact that drug  smuggling is not a crime punishable by death, or that these boats could  have, per the law, been intercepted by the Coast Guard and suspected  traffickers questioned and prosecuted in a U.S. court, this is not a  counternarcotics operation.

The administration's actions, whether the largest military deployment  to the region since the Cuban Missile Crisis, the seizure of a  Venezuelan oil tanker, ordering a blockade of Venezuela, or the many  public statements issued by U.S. officials, including President Trump--

Mr. MEEKS. Let me just say, I see him putting up a picture.

Mr. MEEKS. Let me tell you about that picture. That is diplomacy  before he was the President of the United States. He was a member--

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.