Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695262/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chair, I rise in strong support of my amendment to the NDAA,  which would finally repeal both the 2002 and the 1991 Authorizations  for Use of Military Force, or AUMFs. These AUMFs are long obsolete.

By remaining on the books, these AUMFs only risk abuse by  administrations of either party to sanction military force that  Congress has not considered or approved.

It is time for Congress to reclaim its constitutional authority over  matters of war and peace, its Article I war powers, by removing these  open-ended AUMFs once and for all.

I am thankful to my colleagues who have worked to pass these repeals,  having nearly passed both Chambers in the 117th and 118th Congress. I  am particularly thankful to Representatives Roy  and Massie, along with many cosponsors who have joined this bipartisan  effort.

This amendment is going to pass because a clear majority of this  House agree it is time to close these chapters of endless wars. I am  prepared to fight in conference to get this over the finish line.

It is time to once and for all end these forever wars.

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Chair, in response to the chairman, I will say that we  asked those questions in the 117th and the 118th Congress. We  continually ask the same questions. We have gotten the answers, and I  think it is time to move on and to get this done.

Mr. Chair, I am pleased to yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from  Texas (Mr. Roy).

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from  California (Ms. Jacobs).

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Chairman, I yield the balance of my time to the  gentleman from Florida (Mr. Mills).