Improving Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691319/improving-law-enforcement-officer-safety-and-wellness-through-data-act


Mr. FRY. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 405, I call up the  bill (H.R. 2240) to require the Attorney General to develop reports  relating to violent attacks against law enforcement officers, and for  other purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. FRY.  2240.

Mr. Speaker, police officers risk their lives every day to protect  our communities. I extend my sincere gratitude to all law enforcement  officers and their families for their service and sacrifice.

Unfortunately, law enforcement officers face the continued threat of  unprovoked and ambush-style attacks. The bill before us, the Improving  Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act, would  require the Attorney General to develop a series of reports related to  violent attacks on law enforcement officers.

The left's defund the police movement continues to have ripple  effects throughout the country, as violent crime remains high and  criminals have become more brazen in their attacks against police  officers.

In addition, rogue prosecutors and leftwing bail reform policies  continue to allow more criminals on the street with no accountability.

Let me be clear: The threat to officer safety is very real, and we  must take a stand against any defund the police rhetoric.

In 2024, 342 officers were killed in the line of duty, with 79 of  them shot in 61 ambush-style attacks. As of May 1, 2025, 109 officers  have been shot in the line of duty just this year.

This violence against law enforcement is unacceptable and underscores  the importance of this legislation.

While the government collects basic information on these attacks,  such as when the attack occurred and what types of weapons are used,  more information is needed to help law enforcement officers prepare  for, identify, and prevent future anti-police activity.

This legislation would also shed light on the mental health  consequences of the attacks on law enforcement and other trauma law  enforcement deals with on a daily basis. Mental health resources are  another critical need for law enforcement officers, as they continue to  risk their lives every day to keep their communities safe.

We must take care of those who do so much to take care of us.

This legislation is common sense. It will gather more information to  help Congress explore the best possible solutions for our law  enforcement officers.

I would like to mention that 146 of my colleagues across the aisle  voted in favor of this legislation last Congress. It is incredibly  bipartisan.

Let's all work together to stand against attacks on law enforcement  and support our men and women in blue.

Mr. MOORE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for  yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2240, the Improving Law  Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act, a bill that I  introduced in response to the deeply troubling rise in targeted  violence against our Nation's law enforcement.

Every day, officers across this great Nation put their lives on the  line to keep our communities safe. Far too often, they, in fact, become  the targets of violence simply for wearing the badge. This year alone-- this year alone, again--we are only in May--there have been 109  officers shot in the line of duty, 12 of whom tragically lost their  lives.

Mr. Speaker, even more alarming is there have been 21 ambush-style  attacks on law enforcement officers this year, resulting in 25 officers  shot, 5 of whom were killed. These numbers do not account, though, even  for the many instances where officers were fired upon but, fortunately,  were not struck.

Mr. Speaker, ambush-style attacks are some of the most dangerous.  They are calculated and often deadly, leading to higher rates of both  injuries and fatalities. That is why I introduced this legislation to  ensure that we are doing all that we can at the Federal level to  understand, prevent, and respond to these targeted attacks.

The Improving Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through  Data Act enhances our ability to collect and, more importantly, to  analyze data on violent acts against officers. This will empower  agencies around the country with the information that they need to  strengthen their responses and better protect their personnel.

Importantly, H.R. 2240 also calls for a comprehensive assessment of  availability and use of mental health resources within law enforcement  because protecting those who protect us must include supporting their  mental well-being. We need to make sure that we get away from any shame  that can sometimes happen when a law enforcement officer needs to reach  out for some kind of mental health counseling.

If the Speaker would think about it, these men and women oftentimes  see the worst of folks. They see folks who are in their worst state.  They see the tragedies that hopefully most of us will go through life  and never have to see, and they do it every day, day in and day out,  because it is their job that they have chosen to do to keep us safe.

Mr. Speaker, these officers answer the call, day or night. They don't  have a choice as to what they respond to. They run toward danger to  safeguard our neighborhoods, and far too often, they pay a heavy price.  We owe them more than our gratitude. We owe them action.

Mr. Speaker, I say this: There were a couple of comments about past  events, some which happened before I came here as a new Member. Yet, I  do remember very well the spring of 2020, when we saw many of our  cities burned, looted, and destroyed. Some of them have not yet even  recovered. Instead of law enforcement being supported by some in those  local governments, they were vilified when they were out doing what  they could to try to help. They were told to stand down and allow mobs  to go in and destroy property.

I saw that firsthand, Mr. Speaker, in Raleigh. I literally watched  folks roaming around and destroying windows, burning vehicles,  shooting, all this kind of mayhem. I won't mention names, but I saw  some colleagues on the other side who would kind of give cover and say:  Well, it was understandable. It was a peaceful protest.

It is not a peaceful protest if you are destroying buildings. It is  not a peaceful protest if you are attacking someone. It is not a  peaceful protest if you are burning buildings, burning cars, and  engaging in violent conduct.

Then we saw from that some of this antipolice that came about, the  calls to defund the police. I am glad to see that I don't hear that  very much anymore. I hope that foolish idea never gets raised again in  this great Chamber because if it were not for the men and women in law  enforcement, it would be a society of disorder and random violence. We  owe these men and women all that we can do for them. We owe it to them  to make sure that their jobs are safe.

Mr. Speaker, I think about a situation that happened in Wake County,  North Carolina, in 2022, where a sheriff's deputy was ambushed and  killed by an illegal immigrant. I am not trying to open up the debate  on illegal immigration. Fortunately, this body has taken action, along  with our President, to secure the border and to stop gang members from  coming into this country.

Yet, someone who was in this country who shouldn't have even been  here attacked and ambushed a Wake County deputy and killed him. These  stories happen around the country.

This is one more piece--one more piece--in finally bringing some  sanity, bringing some protection and providing protection for the  American people, to make sure that they are not having to worry about  gang members being allowed into the country, that we are not allowing  illegal immigration to run amuck, and that we are not downing the  police and somehow lifting up the criminals.

The American people were tired of that. They were tired of it. And  guess what? They are getting results. This is one more piece to try to  do this to help these men and women in law enforcement.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the body's support. I encourage all of the  Members to vote for it.

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, a little over 1 year ago,  four law enforcement heroes in North Carolina lost their lives  protecting the public from an armed and highly dangerous felon. They  showed up to work that morning like it was just another day. They gave  the ultimate sacrifice for the Charlotte, North Carolina, community.

However, instead of acknowledging the danger that police officers  willingly put themselves in every day and standing behind our men and  women in blue, some radical progressives on the left would rather  defund the police or even abolish them entirely, but not me and not my  colleagues that are here with me today.

This National Police Week, I am honored to stand behind our law  enforcement as they keep our communities safe. I am especially proud to  stand  today and speak on behalf of H.R. 2240, the Improving Law Enforcement  Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act.

As I read this bill, one disturbing fact caught my eye: In 2022, 30  percent of the murders of police officers were unprovoked ambushes.  This is unconscionable. As a pastor at First Baptist Church, Charlotte,  North Carolina, I actually witnessed and saw families suffering and  hurting of police officers that were murdered in just this way.

Police officers are community leaders and public servants who deserve  the respect of the country. Instead, it seems coldblooded killers have  been deliberately targeting our law enforcement heroes, and it is now  more important than ever not to just talk but to act.

I am confident that Congressman Moore's bill will accomplish just  that. Our Nation's police are under constant attack and they need  Congress' steadfast support. This bill will shine a light on the  threats that law enforcement face, threats that have steeply risen in  number ever since the left began its dangerous defund the police  rhetoric, and it will begin the process of expanding the resources  available to law enforcement officials.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues today to join me in supporting the  Improving Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act,  and let's ensure that our Nation's police forces know that we have  their back.

Mr. FRY. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. FRY. Mr. Speaker, before I close, I yield 2 minutes to the  gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Moore).

Mr. MOORE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, there is certainly no  shortage of us who are attorneys or at least former attorneys on this  floor. One of the things, of course, is when we hear information, we  want to run it down and sometimes correct the record.

My good friend from Maryland pointed out about some sort of cuts from  DOGE that would affect law enforcement, so I immediately wanted to look  and see what he possibly could be talking about. I think what the  gentleman was talking about were a couple things.

One was getting rid of a $250,000 grant, funding for jailed trans  inmates working with incarcerated transgender individuals providing  gender-affirming care to include housing in gender-appropriate  facilities. Actually, I think that is a pretty good thing to get rid of  so we can put more resources in to helping law enforcement.

Next is $2 million for some sort of national listening session for,  as I understand it, criminal defendants.

Then we have $695,000 for a parallel convergent mixed-methods case  study. I don't even know what that means, a parallel convergent mixed- methods case study research designed to assess the efficacy of police  departments' LGBTQ liaison services.

I think one of the things with this reconciliation bill and with the  actions of President Trump is to get rid of the waste and to put the  resources to helping our men and women in law enforcement.

During National Police Week, as we are honoring police, while we have  a few differences of opinion and may disagree on a few other matters, I  am at least comforted by the fact of knowing that we all, on both sides  of the aisle, do support law enforcement.

This is an incredibly commonsense and bipartisan piece of  legislation. I urge all of my colleagues to support it. Law enforcement  has been demonized and attacked. They have been defunded in leftwing  jurisdictions many years ago.

I hope that that movement is forever in the dustbin of our history  because we owe it to law enforcement to support them in any number of  ways that we can as policymakers. One of the easiest ways, in my mind,  is this bill. Data is incredibly important, Mr. Speaker. You know this  firsthand. Data is incredibly important. Understanding these attacks on  our law enforcement, how it is affected by the officer, how these  things occur, where they occur, these data points are incredibly  important to understand and protect our law enforcement.

Last year, I think all of the Republicans and the vast majority of my  Democratic colleagues supported this very measure. I hope that this  year even more Democrats will support it and that it will be signed  into law because this data is incredibly important to make sure that we  protect our law enforcement officers. This is just a small way that we  can advance that initiative forward.