Recognizing Coastal Carolina University Baseball Team


Mr. FRY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the incredible season  of the Coastal Carolina University baseball team. With grit, heart, and  determination, these young men made the Chanticleer Nation, the Grand  Strand, and all of South Carolina incredibly proud.

They battled their way into the College World Series final and left  it all on the field. From the first pitch to the final out, they  represented South Carolina with strength and skill.

I congratulate Coach Schnall and all of the players on a season to  remember. Their run inspired fans across the Nation and reminded us why  we love this game. We look forward to their continued success in the  years to come. Chants Up.                     Honoring Robert Franklin Childs III

Mr. FRY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and legacy of a  dear friend of mine and a fixture in the Surfside Beach community, Mr.  Robert Franklin Childs III, known to most as Bob.

Originally born in Washington, D.C., he spent 37 years working on  Capitol Hill, starting in the electrical engineering department under  the Architect of the Capitol.

After retiring from the Hill, Bob and his wife, Nancy, moved to  Surfside Beach. There he continued his career in public service as the  mayor of Surfside Beach from 2016 to 2020. He also served  on the Surfside Beach Town Council, the board of directors for the  Horry County Council on Aging and the Waccamaw Regional Council of  Governments. He brought honesty and common sense to local government  and was loved by all.

When you look at the iconic Surfside Beach pier, know that it was  Bob's tireless efforts, advocacy, and grit that rebuilt it after  devastating hurricanes impacted our region.

Bob was an incredibly hard worker, and his passion for improving the  lives of those around him always remained constant. Bob was an  incredible person, too. He believed in passing the baton, in helping  people, people who wanted to serve their community. Bob was a constant  voice in their ear for good public service.

He was the kind of man who lived his values, not just in words, but  in the way he treated others. May his memory leave a lasting legacy for  all those who knew him.