Saving Homeowners From Overregulation with Exceptional Rinsing Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698562/saving-homeowners-from-overregulation-with-exceptional-rinsing-act


Mr. FRY. Mr. Speaker, I think it is important to set the scene in  contrast to some of the revisionist history that Democrats seem to be  talking about today.

The definition of a showerhead was outlined very clearly in a 1975  act that Congress passed, not some bureaucrat and not some  administration. Congress actually got together and said we are going to  have some efficiency standards on showerheads and a number of other  things. We are going to pass this bill, in 1975, and for over 30 years  that was the national standard.

Even the American Association for Mechanical Engineers, this is their  definition that is in this bill. Along comes the Obama administration,  and rather than take the very simple, easy-to-understand,  congressionally mandated standard of what a showerhead is, the Obama  administration, in some closet somewhere, decided we are going to  reinvent the definition of a showerhead.

Now, why is this important? Because this is exactly why people have a  problem with Washington, D.C. They make rules that are not  congressionally driven, that the people elect their representatives to  be their voice in Washington. No, it is some unelected, unaccountable  bureaucrat that decides to create a problem and then solve the problem  that they created.

This is a microcosm to a much larger problem. That is overregulation.  I think the ranking member said Trump changed the definition. No, he  changed it back. He changed it back to what Congress intended to begin  with.

Now, we have the Biden administration that comes in and pulls it back  again. We have this ping-pong effect of regulations that are creating  uncertainty for manufacturers and creating uncertainty for consumers.  You can take showerheads, but the Biden administration also did this on  home appliances, gas stoves, any number of things. The degree of  regulation that Democrats and their bureaucratic allies are willing to  do even, as something as small as a showerhead, that should send alarm  bells. Why are we not empowering people to make choices about what they  want in their own homes?

If they want a nozzle that dribbles on their head, then go get one of  those. If you want something that slices an orange, then go get one of  those. That should be your choice as a consumer. But we find ourselves  in this endless game of whack-a-mole in Washington, D.C., because  bureaucrats create problems and then solve them like they have done  something meritorious for the country. It is total BS.

This bill is quite simple: It restores the definition of a showerhead  to what Congress originally intended in 1975. It was a law for 32 years  before the problem was created by the Obama administration. Then they  solved the problem.

The President is absolutely right not just on showerheads but on home  appliances. The Democrats want to talk about energy costs. For a  second, by the way, I think it is really rich coming from them because  I think eight of the top ten States with the highest energy costs are  blue States that are run by Democrat State legislators and Democrat  governors. They want to talk about the rising cost of energy. It  disproportionately affects blue States. Why? Because they have terrible  policies.

This bill is quite simple: It restores the definition that Congress  originally intended. If an administration, any future administration,  wants to change policy, rather than that coming from the bureaucrats,  it should come before Congress. Congress set the efficiency standards  in 1975, and if Congress wants to address those, that is Congress'  prerogative, not some unelected, unaccountable bureaucrat in  Washington, D.C.