Successful Operation to Arrest Nicolas Maduro


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to stand on the floor  with my colleague from Arkansas, our distinguished chair of the House  Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and our colleagues to give  the American people some perspective on the important action that  President Trump has taken that reasserts America's leadership in the  Western Hemisphere, counters our rivals for that Western Hemisphere  influence, Russia, Iran, China, and keep America safer by taking this  action.

The communist, authoritarian government in Caracas has long been an  adversary of the United States.

In the early 2000s, our relationship with Venezuela was strained when  they named strongman Hugo Chavez as their leader. Maduro was a leader  in the Chavez government, Mr. Speaker, and was a full partner in the  anti-American policies and the growing partnership with Cuba, China,  and Russia.

In 2013, Maduro became the president of Venezuela after Chavez'  death. He continued those communist partnerships, compounded the anti- American rhetoric and strategy by adding the goal of becoming a  narcostate.

From 2014 to 2015, the United States began to sanction Venezuelan  officials for drug trafficking.

In 2017, the United States escalated sanctions against the Maduro  government for its links to the illicit drug trade.

In 2019, the United States no longer recognized Maduro as Venezuela's  legitimate president. As a result, the United States officially cut  diplomatic ties with the Maduro regime.

In 2020, the Department of Justice charged Maduro with  narcoterrorism, and the United States offered a $15 million reward for  his capture.

In 2024, in my view, Mr. Speaker, was the last straw when Maduro lost  the national election and annulled the results.

He simply is a cheap, drug-dealing, election fraudster.

Don't take Republicans on this side of the aisle's word for it, Mr.  Speaker. The European Union, the United States Government under the  Biden and the Trump administrations, the Organization of American  States, his neighbors, they all agree Maduro stole the election in 2024  and compounded it by annulling the results.

The regime was one long string of repression and human rights abuses.  Over 8 million Venezuelans have fled Venezuela, their home country,  because of Maduro.

Republicans and Democrats have acknowledged that Maduro has been a  national security threat to the United States, and that is why I have  to call out the hypocrisy that I have witnessed in recent days from my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle.

The Western Hemisphere is America's backyard. It is also why I am  pleased that the recently released National Security Strategy reasserts  the Monroe Doctrine with current American security interests.

Under the National Security Strategy, the United States will enlist  allies in the Western Hemisphere to partner in controlling migration,  halting drug trafficking, and mutually strengthening stability and  security.

Also, under the Trump National Security Strategy, the United States  will expand our goals and partners in the Western Hemisphere by  bringing in new countries, building new relationships, bolstering  America as the top choice as a security and an economic partner.

The strength of the Trump administration, combined with the  exceptional execution by our law enforcement and military operators,  showcases, Mr. Speaker, how serious the United States is to keep our  country safe, keep our people safe, keep our streets safe, and secure  our allied economic and security interests from the tip of Argentina  and Chile to Canada.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Arkansas for his leadership.