Taiwan Conflict Deterrence Act of 2025


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 1716) to deter Chinese aggression towards Taiwan by  requiring the Secretary of the Treasury to publish a report on  financial institutions and accounts connected to senior officials of  the People's Republic of China, to restrict financial services for  certain immediate family of such officials, and for other purposes, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1716

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Taiwan Conflict Deterrence       Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. REPORT ON FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND ACCOUNTS                     CONNECTED TO CERTAIN CHINESE GOVERNMENT                     OFFICIALS.

(a) Financial Institutions Report.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date that       the President, pursuant to section 3(c) of the Taiwan       Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3302(c)), informs the Congress of a       threat resulting from actions of the People's Republic of       China and any danger to the interests of the United States       arising therefrom, and annually thereafter for 3 years, the       Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a report to the       appropriate Members of Congress containing the following:

(A) With respect to each of at least 10 natural persons       described under subsection (b), at least 1 of whom is a       natural person listed under paragraph (1) of such subsection       (b) and at least 1 of whom is a natural person listed under       paragraph (2) of such subsection (b), the estimated total       funds that are held in financial institutions and are under       direct or indirect control by such natural person and a       description of such funds.

(B) A list of any financial institutions that--

(i) maintain an account in connection with significant       funds described in subparagraph (A); or

(ii) otherwise provide significant financial services to a       natural person covered by the report.

(2) Briefing required.--Not later than 30 days after       submitting a report described under paragraph (1), the       Secretary of the Treasury, or a designee of the Secretary,       shall provide to the appropriate Members of Congress an       unclassified or classified briefing (as determined       appropriate by the Secretary) on the funds covered by the       report, including a description of how the funds were       acquired, and any illicit or corrupt means employed to       acquire or use the funds.

(3) Exemptions.--The requirements described under paragraph       (1) may not be applied with respect to a natural person or a       financial institution, as the case may be, if the President       determines:

(A) The funds described under paragraph (1)(A) were       primarily acquired through legal and noncorrupt means.

(B) The natural person has agreed to provide significant       cooperation to the United States for an important national       security purpose with respect to China.

(C) A financial institution has agreed to--

(i) no longer maintain an account described under paragraph       (1)(B)(i);

(ii) no longer provide significant financial services to a       natural person covered by the report; or

(iii) provide significant cooperation to the United States       for an important national security purpose with respect to       China.

(4) Waiver.--The President may waive any requirement       described under paragraph (1) with respect to a natural       person or a financial institution upon reporting to the       appropriate Members of Congress that--

(A) the waiver would substantially promote the objective of       ending the threat described under paragraph (1);

(B) the threat described under paragraph (1) is no longer       present; or

(C) the waiver is essential to the national security       interests of the United States.

(b) Natural Persons Described.--The natural persons       described in this subsection are persons who, at the time of       a report, are the following:

(1) A member of the Politburo Standing Committee of the       Chinese Communist Party.

(2) A member of the Politburo of the Chinese Communist       Party that is not described under paragraph (1).

(3) A member of the Central Committee of the Chinese       Communist Party that--

(A) is none of the foregoing; and

(B) performs any official duty that directly or indirectly       affects Taiwan.

(c) Form of Reports; Public Availability.--

(1) Form of reports.--The reports required under paragraphs       (1) and (4) of subsection (a) shall be submitted in       unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.

(2) Public availability.--The Secretary of the Treasury       shall make the unclassified portion of the report required       under subsection (a)(1) available to the public on the       website and social media accounts of the Department of the       Treasury--

(A) in English, Chinese, and any other language that the       Secretary finds appropriate; and

(B) in precompressed, easily downloadable versions that are       made available in all appropriate formats.       SEC. 3. PROHIBITION ON FINANCIAL SERVICES FOR CERTAIN                     IMMEDIATE FAMILY.

(a) In General.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall       prohibit a United States financial institution, and any       person owned or controlled by a United States financial       institution, from engaging in a significant transaction       with--

(1) a natural person covered by a report made under section       2(a); and

(2) the immediate family of a person described under       paragraph (1), if the Secretary finds that such immediate       family benefits from funds described in the report.

(b) Exceptions.--

(1) Exception for intelligence, law enforcement, and       national security activities.--Subsection (a) shall not apply       with respect to any intelligence, law enforcement, or       national security activity of the United States.

(2) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of       subsection (a) with respect to a person upon reporting to the       appropriate Members of Congress that--

(A) the waiver would substantially promote the objective of       ending the threat described under section 2(a)(1);

(B) the threat described under section 2(a)(1) is no longer       present; or

(C) the waiver is essential to the national security       interests of the United States.

(3) Form of reports.--The reports required under paragraph       (2) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a       classified annex.

(4) Exception relating to importation of goods.--

(A) In general.--The authorities and requirements       authorized under this section shall not include the authority       or requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of       goods.

(B) Good defined.--In this section, the term ``good'' means       any article, natural or man-made substance, material, supply       or manufactured product, including inspection and test       equipment, and excluding technical data.

(c) Implementation; Penalties.--

(1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all       authorities provided to the President under sections 203 and       205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50       U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out this section. Not later       than 60 days after issuing a license pursuant to this       section, the President shall submit a copy of the license to       the appropriate Members of Congress.

(2) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to       violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this       section or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry       out this section shall be subject to the penalties set forth       in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the       International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705)       to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act       described in subsection (a) of that section 206.

(d) Termination.--This section shall have no force or       effect on the earlier of--

(1) the date that is 30 days after the date that the       President reports to the appropriate Members of Congress that       the threat described under section 2(a)(1) is no longer       present; or

(2) the date that is 25 years after the date that the       Secretary of the Treasury submits the final report required       under section 2(a)(1).       SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

For purposes of this Act:

(1) Appropriate members of congress.--The term       ``appropriate Members of Congress'' means the Speaker and       minority leader of the House of Representatives, the majority       leader and minority leader of the Senate, the Chairman and       Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services of the       House of Representatives, and the Chairman and Ranking Member       of the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of       the Senate.

(2) Financial institution.--The term ``financial       institution'' means a United States financial institution or       a foreign financial institution.

(3) Foreign financial institution.--The term ``foreign       financial institution'' has the meaning given that term in       section 561.308 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations.

(4) Funds.--The term ``funds'' has the meaning given to       such term by the Secretary of the Treasury.

(5) Immediate family.--The term ``immediate family'' of any       natural person means the following (whether by the full or       half blood or by adoption):

(A) Such person's spouse, father, mother, children,       brothers, sisters, and grandchildren.

(B) The father, mother, brothers, and sisters of such       person's spouse.

(C) The spouse of a child, brother, or sister of such       person.

(6) United states financial institution.--The term ``United       States financial institution'' has the meaning given the term       ``U.S. financial institution'' under section 561.309 of title       31, Code of Federal Regulations.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1716, the Taiwan  Conflict Deterrence Act of 2025.

This excellent bill, introduced by our Conference chair, Mrs.  McClain, demonstrates that the United States is a vital partner in  supporting Taiwan. We must remain committed to supporting Taiwan as  China continues to increase its military presence across the Taiwan  Strait.

The U.S. and Taiwan have maintained a firm stance against any  forceful efforts to change Taiwan's status for nearly five decades.  That posture is as important now as ever.

A component of the Taiwan Relations Act mandates that the President  inform Congress when China makes any attempt to threaten Taiwan's  national security. Once that notification is made to Congress,  Conference Chair McClain's bill would require the Secretary of the  Treasury to disclose the estimated illicit funds of China's top  officials in Beijing.

This bill is modeled after the Holding Iranian Leaders Accountable  Act, a bipartisan bill that I was pleased to sponsor, which became law  last year.

Congresswoman McClain's bill does exactly what the title says. It  seeks to deter China from making a terrible mistake and promises  financial penalties for senior Chinese officials should they make the  wrong decision and choose to attack Taiwan.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the CBO  estimate on this bill.   H.R. 1716, TAIWAN CONFLICT DETERRENCE ACT OF 2025, AS ORDERED REPORTED      BY THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES ON MARCH 27, 2025 ------------------------------------------------------------------------                                            By fiscal year, millions  of                                                      dollars--                                          -------------------------------                                             2025    2025-2030  2025-2035 ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Direct Spending (Outlays)...............        *          *          * Revenues................................        *          *          * Increase or Decrease (-) in the Deficit.        *          *          * Spending Subject to Appropriation               *          *         **  (Outlays).............................. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ * = between -$500,000 and $500,000. ** = not estimated.

Increases net direct spending in any of the four       consecutive 10-year periods beginning in 2036? No.

Increases on-budget deficits in any of the four consecutive       10-year periods beginning in 2036? No.

Statutory pay-as-you-go procedures apply? Yes.

Mandate Effects:

Contains intergovernmental mandate? No.

Contains private-sector mandate? Yes, Under Threshold.

H.R. 1716 would require the Department of the Treasury to       publish a report listing estimated total funds held by       certain Chinese leaders and the financial institutions where       significant portions of the funds are held. The report would       be due within 90 days of the Congress receiving a notice from       the President concerning a threat to Taiwan by China. That       list would be updated every three years unless the threat is       deemed no longer present. The bill also would direct the       department to prohibit the listed Chinese leaders or their       families from using any U.S. financial services. That       requirement would terminate either 30 days after the       President deems that Taiwan is no longer under threat or 25       years after the department submits a final report.

The 1979 Taiwan Relations Act directs the President to       promptly inform the Congress of any threat to the security or       the social or economic systems of the people of Taiwan and of       any danger to the interests of the United States that arises       from that threat. CBO cannot determine when actions by China       could result in the President providing such notice and thus       invoking the bill's reporting requirements. In the event of       such a notice, CBO estimates that the required report and       other actions would cost less than $500,000 over the 2025-      2030 period; any related spending would be subject to the       availability of appropriated funds.

The Department of the Treasury would need information from       the federal financial regulatory agencies, including the       Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of the       Comptroller of the Currency, among others, to carry out the       bill's requirements. H.R. 1716 could affect direct spending       by those agencies, some of which are allowed to use fees to       cover their operating costs. CBO estimates that the net       change in direct spending by federal financial regulatory       agencies would be less than $500,000 over the 2025-2035       period.

Administrative costs incurred by the Federal Reserve,       another federal financial regulatory agency, would reduce       remittances to the Treasury; such remittances are recorded in       the budget as revenues. CBO estimates that the cost to the       Federal Reserve would be insignificant.

The bill also would establish civil and criminal penalties       for failure to comply with the new authorities. Civil fines       are recorded in the budget as revenues. Criminal fines are       recorded as revenues, deposited in the Crime Victims Fund,       and subsequently spent without further appropriation. CBO       estimates that any additional collections and associated       spending would be insignificant because of the relatively       small number of additional cases likely to occur over the       2025-2035 period.

H.R. 1716 would impose a private-sector mandate as defined       in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act (UMRA) on U.S. financial       institutions if the Treasury prohibits transactions between       them and certain Chinese leaders or their families. The cost       of the mandate would include the forgone revenue that would       be attributable to those transactions. Because the       restriction would apply only in a small number of cases, CBO       estimates that the cost of the mandate would not exceed the       private-sector threshold established in UMRA ($206 million in       2025, adjusted annually for inflation).

The bill would not impose intergovernmental mandates.

The CBO staff contacts for this estimate are Matthew       Pickford (for federal costs), Nathaniel Frentz (for the       Federal Reserve), and Andrew Laughlin (for mandates). The       estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy Director       of Budget Analysis.                                                 Phillip L. Swagel,                             Director, Congressional Budget Office.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote on this  important bill to deter China, and I yield back the balance of my time.