Warmth of Collectivism


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, America recently witnessed the new  mayor of America's largest city share his democratic socialism vision  with New Yorkers. He pledged to ``replace the frigidity of rugged  individualism with the warmth of collectivism.''

Here in our Nation's semiquincentennial, 250 years of liberty, the  new mayor rejected the fundamentals of American hard work and the  extraordinary benefits of markets that have freed billions from hunger  and poverty around the globe.

Anyone with even a basic knowledge of history knows that government- enforced collectivism always ends in poverty, death, and despair.

Mr. Speaker, look at Cuba, where the warmth of communism has left  people with no rights, no freedom, and driving cars from the 1940s and  1950s; or Xinjiang, China, where the Uyghurs are imprisoned and  enslaved to labor; or certainly no modest case, the Korean Peninsula,  North Korea, where people are in darkness for 12 months a year and  where people are stunted by malnutrition and oppression and live in  darkness, literally and figuratively.

Compare that to South Korea, Mr. Speaker. In less than three  generations since the end of the Korean conflict, the average South  Korean is three inches taller, lives 12 years longer, and earns 18  times more than their northern struggling counterpart. Same people;  same peninsula. One system embraced the individual; the other, the  collective.

Of course, there are the millions starved to death and thrown into  the gulags by Mao's China and Stalin's Soviet Union.

These aren't abstract failures, Mr. Speaker. They are graveyards  built on broken bodies. What starts as hope ends in tyranny and death  every time.                          Coptic Christians in Egypt

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to shed light on the  discrimination faced by Coptic Christians in Egypt.

Coptic Christians face restrictions on building churches, have  limited representation in government, and, tragically, have been  targets of violence and persecution. They are attacked in the streets,  held as political prisoners, and have little recourse.

The discrimination they face not only violates their basic human  rights, but also undermines Egypt's rich cultural diversity and  history, as well as Egypt's own legal commitments to its citizens.

It is critical for the international community to encourage the  Egyptian government to further embrace religious tolerance, effectively  protect minority rights, and ensure equality under the law for all of  its citizens.

It is important for us to bring to light these issues and do all we  can to promote our values: that no matter what race or religion, all  people deserve dignity and respect.

As the Coptic Pope Tawadros II told me: ``All Egyptians take their  water from the Nile.'' In that spirit, Egypt has work to do.                        Recognizing Dr. Cam Patterson

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  leadership of Dr. Cam Patterson, our former chancellor of the  University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences.

Last year, Dr. Patterson announced his decision to step down from his  leadership position after 7 years of focused, dedicated service to the  university, the medical school, and the people of Arkansas.

Under his leadership, UAMS continued its commitment to excellence. As  UAMS faced the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, Dr. Patterson  helped expand access to care across the State and navigated the  pandemic while strengthening the university's reputation for excellence  and research, patient care, and medical education.

As he remains at UAMS as a professor of cardiovascular medicine, Dr.  Patterson will continue to advance his spirit of innovation,  compassion, and service.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Dr. Patterson for his leadership and for always  putting Arkansas families first.                  Condolences to the Family of Doug LaMalfa

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in condolence to Jill  LaMalfa and the LaMalfa family of northern California, that beautiful  area north of Sacramento, deep in the wilderness, home to Mt. Shasta.  There was no better representation of the people of California than  Doug LaMalfa.

He was a gentle giant. I had so much fun with him over the years. He  was such a committed person to his constituents, to the State of  California, to public service, to his relationships on both sides of  the aisle. He had deep respect. From the most liberal Democrat in  California to the most conservative Republican down in Texas, they all  loved Doug LaMalfa. He will be missed.

Mr. Speaker, Martha and I share our condolences. We pray for the  family at this tragic loss, but we are grateful for our friendship and  service with Doug LaMalfa.