Ill-Conceived Budget Resolution


Ms. STRICKLAND. Madam Speaker, this week House Republicans are  bringing forth their ill-conceived, cruel budget resolution. This  resolution will set the stage across the board for cuts on the basic  services our constituents depend on the most. These constituents, by  the way, live in both red States and blue States.

As the majority brings up their budget resolution, they have already  said what they plan to do because they told us. They want to take away  Head Start  school lunches. They want to take away food assistance from children  and needy families. They want to take away Medicaid and Affordable Care  Act premium assistance. Instead of strengthening the social safety net,  the MAGA majority has decided to strip Medicaid coverage from almost  65,000 children in my district alone.

Almost 40 percent of children in Washington State get their  healthcare through Medicaid, 35 percent of moms giving birth and their  newborn babies rely on Medicaid for their healthcare, and the MAGA  majority wants to strip away their healthcare.

If any of my colleagues vote for this, they have forfeited the right  to claim they are pro-life ever again. It is not pro-life to take away  a newborn baby's healthcare. It is not pro-life to take away healthcare  from 65,000 children in my district. It is not pro-life to take away  food from hungry children.

We were promised that president Musk and the MAGA majority would  lower costs for the American people from day one. This does none of  that. Instead, they are trying to take away healthcare and food from  our kids.

I urge everyone to vote ``no'' on this resolution and stop the  Republican rip-off.                   Unprecedented Firing of Military Leaders

Ms. STRICKLAND. Madam Speaker, I rise today to speak out against the  unprecedented firing of some of our most qualified and senior military  leadership, including General CQ Brown, the eminently qualified  Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

General Brown is an exceptional leader, a dedicated servicemember,  and an American hero. His firing, the dismissal of Admiral Franchetti,  and the judge advocate generals for the services is a travesty. When  nominated, General Brown had logged in over 3,000 flying hours,  including 130 combat hours and command of the Pacific Air Forces for  the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command. His service and dedication are  impeccable.

Most galling is that the person President Trump nominated is  affirmatively less qualified than General Brown was when he was  nominated. This person has not even met the most basic qualifications  to be chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

What does this tell our servicemembers and their families and our  future recruits that expect to be promoted on merit and ability?

President Trump has decided to prioritize nominating people who will  make us less safe and less secure because his only requirement is blind  loyalty.

As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, we constantly hear  the drumbeat of needing to prepare for the threats that we face both  today and tomorrow, both here at home and abroad. President Trump's  abrupt dismissal has created chaos, will degrade our readiness, hurt  recruitment, and empower our enemies.                   Life and Legacy of Ernest Charles Tanner

Ms. STRICKLAND. Madam Speaker, I rise today, as we celebrate Black  History Month, to recognize the life and legacy of Ernest ``Ernie''  Charles Tanner.

Ernie Tanner was born in Indianapolis, Indiana, on June 5, 1889. His  family moved to Tacoma, Washington, my hometown, in 1900, where he  attended Tacoma High School, which is now known as Stadium High School.  At Whitworth College, he was the first African American to play  football at the college level in the entire Pacific Northwest.

After college, Mr. Tanner worked as a Tacoma elevator operator, and  in 1918 he joined the Tacoma chapter of the International  Longshoremen's Association, then known as ILA. He remained a member  until he died.

In 1934, Mr. Tanner was the only Black member of the Tacoma strike  committee during the big strike that shut down every single Pacific  Coast port. Mr. Tanner worked closely with San Francisco leader, Harry  Bridges, to keep Black and White workers united during the strike so  employers could not break the union.

He was a trustee of Local 2897 from 1934 to 1936, where he pressured  leaders to pay Black dockworkers the same wages as their White  counterparts.

Ernest Charles Tanner passed away in 1956 at the age of 66. He  achieved what many seek when they join a union, the recognition of the  dignity of all work, to rise out of poverty, and to provide a better  life for his family. This was exemplified when Mr. Tanner's son, Jack  Tanner, became the Pacific Northwest's first Black Federal judge in  1978. This is generational success and wealth.

Ernie Tanner broke barriers in sports and labor. On behalf of his  community, it is appropriate that we recognize his life and legacy  today. Happy Black History Month to everyone.