Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Commercial Refrigerators, Freezers, and Refrigerator- Freezers''


Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for giving me this  opportunity to speak.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.J. Res. 75. Once again, I join my  House colleagues in working to overturn another last-minute, so-called  energy efficiency standard from the previous administration.

In reality, the Biden administration imposed standards that are  nearly impossible for commercial refrigeration equipment manufacturers  to meet. According to estimates from the Biden Department of Energy,  the final rule will cost approximately $8 billion. This will be borne  by those purchasing equipment, many of whom are small businesses. The  payback period for certain commercial refrigeration equipment under  these standards is up to 93.9 years. That is right, nearly 94 years.

To make matters worse, the Department of Energy's test procedures do  not align with real-world conditions. The DOE's estimate of the CRE  door openings in an hour often undercounts the real number of door  openings. This means the appliance's interior temperature may rise  above safe food-storage conditions, jeopardizing food safety.

Once again, the left's pro-Big Government, Green New Deal agenda  harms the little guy. The Biden Department of Energy implemented a  policy that threatens small businesses, harms consumers, and drives up  costs, even as many Americans continue to struggle under the long-term  effects of the Biden administration's inflationary economic policies.

That ends now. I am proud to join my House Republican colleagues in  standing up for America's consumers and small business owners across  the country. With this bill, we are continuing to deliver on the  mandate of the American people to cut burdensome red tape and ensure  American consumers and small businesses can thrive.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this underlying bill.