Recognizing the Life and Legacy of Sepi Saidi


Ms. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and legacy of  my dear friend, Sepi Saidi, who passed away on March 24, 2025. Sepi was  a trailblazer and beloved member of the Wake County community who  nurtured her company from the ground-up in a male-dominated field. Her  contributions to our community will live on for years to come in her  children, friends. and the many members of our community she touched  throughout her life.

Born on October 10, 1962, Sepi spent the first 15 years of her life  in Tehran, Iran, where she was raised in a household with both a  college-educated mother and grandmother. She moved to Raleigh as a high  school transfer student in 1978 as the Iranian Revolution was unfolding  in her home country, graduating from North Carolina State University  with degrees in Civil & Agricultural Engineering. Sepi embraced  opportunity, leaving a position at the North Carolina Department of  Transportation in 2001 to found SEPI Engineering and Construction with  a home equity loan, three employees, and two contracts. Within two  decades, she grew SEPI Engineering and Construction to employ 300  workers and $40 million in revenue, becoming one of the top 500 private  engineering firms in the country.

Sepi was well-known as an energetic, innovative leader in the  Triangle, Beyond the success of SEPI Engineering and Construction, she  held leadership positions at several important nonprofits and  government organizations. Her wisdom and insights were valued at the  Raleigh-Durham Airport Authority and the North Carolina Chamber of  Commerce, earning her recognition as a Top Entrepreneur, Career Woman  of the Year, and Top CEO. She was inducted into the North Carolina  Business Hall of Fame in 2016 and the North Carolina Women Business  Owners Hall of Fame in 2022.

However, more than any of these prestigious accolades, Sepi will be  remembered for living life with intention and compassion. She always  took the time to learn everything she could about her employees and was  a conscientious friend and mentor to many who aspired to follow in her  footsteps. She was also a fierce advocate for women's equality in the  workplace and in society. She credited her mother and grandmother for  encouraging her and her sister to pursue an education and pursue  careers they could be passionate about.

I have known Sepi for more than 20 years, both personally and  professionally. We collaborated on transportation, immigration, and  women's issues. Together, we tried our best to make North Carolina a  more prosperous and welcoming place. I will miss her as a dear friend  and as an inspiring leader. Her son, Bardia, has been a valuable and  trusted member of my team since I first ran for Congress. Every day, I  see that he embodies her spirit, determination, and grace.

Sepi was an extraordinary woman who lived a remarkable life, and I  will always be grateful that I had the immense privilege of knowing  her. She was a devoted mother, compassionate friend, visionary thinker,  and dear friend. She will be forever missed by her children Nakisa  Asefnia and Bardia Asefnia, her siblings Sofey Saidi and Taher Saidi,  and her many friends and colleagues. She left an immeasurable mark on  our community, and her legacy will live on for generations to come.