Horrific Ice Abuses


Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to forcefully speak against  the Trump administration's horrific ICE  abuses and to demand accountability for the deaths of 45 individuals  who have died within the custody of DHS since the start of 2025.

Mr. Speaker, 2025 was the deadliest year for ICE detention in two  decades with 37 total deaths. Already in 2026, eight more individuals  have died, including the murders of Renee Nicole Good and Alex Pretti.  The American public is outraged at the brutality of ICE, and they  demand accountability.

According to polls, 76 percent of Americans, including 79 percent of  Latinos, have seen the video footage of the murder of Renee Nicole  Good. Mr. Speaker, 57 percent of Americans, both Democrats and  Republicans, disapprove of the way ICE is enforcing immigration laws.

Put simply, ICE is out of control. The number of people with no  criminal records being detained is 16 times greater than in previous  administrations. Mr. Speaker, 92 percent of individuals recently held  in ICE detention have no criminal conviction whatsoever.

More than 170 U.S. citizens have been wrongfully detained at raids  and protests. More than 20 of them were held incommunicado for a  specific period of time without being able to call their loved ones or  an attorney.

DHS is now claiming they can enter anyone's home without a warrant  signed by a judge, clearly ignoring the Fourth Amendment of our  Constitution. A recent memo distorting the truth was circulated to our  offices.

Still, congressional Republicans continue to fund this rogue agency  without restraint. Congress already gave ICE $75 billion through the  2025 reconciliation bill.

They paid for the slush fund by cutting healthcare and nutrition  assistance while giving tax cuts to rich millionaires and billionaires.  This Chamber has decided to continue funding for ICE without any  accountability whatsoever.

As we begin negotiating to fund DHS for the rest of the year, the  Congressional Hispanic Caucus is unified in demanding real  accountability provisions, including requiring ICE agents to identify  themselves, prohibiting agents from wearing masks during enforcement,  restricting the use of deadly force, strengthening hiring and training  standards, enforcing humanitarian standards in ICE custody, and  protecting sensitive locations.

Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the Congressional  Progressive Caucus stand united in opposition to giving ICE one more  cent without meaningful reform. In fact, I think ICE should be  dismantled altogether. We are finalizing a bill that would do just  that. It would rescind the agency's funding and rebuild it from the  ground up.

Omar).

Mr. ESPAILLAT.  Garcia).

Mr. ESPAILLAT.  Clarke).

Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New  York, Mr. Adriano Espaillat, for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise on this day in opposition to ICE, CBP, and any  others that are added to this Federal militia that is supposed to be  part of the administration of immigration in the United States of  America. I also rise in remembrance of all those innocent lives its  agents and enforcers have stolen.

For 1 painful year under the Trump administration, this rogue agency  has engaged in an unrestrained crusade of cruelty against our migrant  neighbors and the places they call home, all powered by the $85 billion  and counting hand-delivered to them by Republicans in Congress and  their overlord in the White House, all conducted with immunity granted  not by law but by lawlessness.

ICE agents are in our streets, where they are out every day  kidnapping, trafficking, torturing, and, indeed, even murdering  immigrant Americans and American citizens in the cold and hidden  recesses of their detention centers, where atrocities beyond our  wildest nightmares are occurring without cessation.

I am speaking of atrocities like the death of Jean Wilson Brutus at  the Delaney Hall Detention Center, who passed away from a medical event  while under the careless and unconcerned watch of ICE.

The title of ICE's press release following the tragedy?

``Criminal illegal alien passes away at University Hospital following  medical emergency at Delaney Hall Detention Facility.''

How callous. How sick.

In one sentence, these twisted individuals reveal the systemic rot  and culture of inhumanity that is inherent in ICE operations.

It is heartbreaking to know that Mr. Brutus' death was not an  isolated tragedy. There have been 45 deaths and counting under Donald  Trump's tyranny.

In what moral nation would the penalty for seeking a better life for  yourself or your neighbors be a terrible death?

In what decent society would the government deploy propaganda to  convince the masses that its victims deserved their fate?

Catching an ICE agent in a bad mood should not warrant capital  punishment. Being undocumented should not be a death sentence.

Hear me when I say that ICE is a rogue entity incapable of doing its  duty and incapable of re-earning the public trust that it has betrayed.  It is an existential danger to public safety, American decency, and the  American Dream.

Mr. Speaker, if there is a single revelation to emerge from this  abyss of wickedness, let it be that our immigration apparatus needs  bold and systemic change, and may that change be a system centered in  compassion, not cruelty; entrusted to competent officers, not  kidnapping traffickers and killer thugs, and bent toward justice, not  broken by ICE.

Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. ESPAILLAT.  Morrison).

Mr. ESPAILLAT.  Randall).

Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentleman from  California (Mr. Takano).

Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentlewoman from  Vermont, Becca Balint.

Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentlewoman from  Oregon, Val Hoyle.

Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentleman from Texas,  Joaquin Castro.

Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentlewoman from  Illinois, Delia Ramirez.

Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentlewoman from  Michigan, Rashida Tlaib.

Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, you have heard from many of our  colleagues, members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, members of  the Congressional Progressive Caucus, and other Members representing  the State of Minnesota, the State of Illinois, the State of Michigan,  and others.

The Congressional Hispanic Caucus has presented a policy position on  DHS. The Members voted on that position, approved it, and it is the  following:

We propose to suspend ICE and CBP immigration enforcement actions in  Minnesota. We also propose to end warrantless stops. We also want to  suspend indiscriminate arrests and militarized tactics against  civilians nationwide.

Allow the agency to continue legitimate statutory enforcement,  focused on serious public safety threats. This includes, obviously, the  immediate protections against the detention and targeting of U.S.  citizens. That is right, Mr. Speaker. This agency has been rampantly  arresting not just green card holders, TPS recipients, Dreamers, moms,  and dads, but also U.S. citizens.

We also call to redirect the $75 billion OBBB enforcement funding  away from mass detention and quota-driven arrests toward humane  community safety and affordability concerns.

This includes independent investigations into the deaths in DHS  detention. As I said earlier, many people have died while in DHS  custody.

We want to deliver accountability by advancing comprehensive  legislation to unmask ICE agents. No ICE agent should be anonymous,  without a first name, a last name, and a shield number. We want to  mandate body cameras with strong protocols; protect sensitive  locations, including houses of worship, schools, and hospitals; and  restrict the use of deadly force.

We also want to enforce humanitarian standards in ICE and CBP  custody, ban military-grade equipment, strengthen civil rights, and the  inspector general's oversight.

We want to protect whistleblowers and return Border Patrol where they  should be, at the border. These are the proposals that have been  adopted by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.

Again, Mr. Speaker, the country is alarmed. Our citizenship is  imperiled with these aggressive actions by ICE.  Our citizens are being hurt. Green card holders have gone underground.  Our economy is suffering because of these brutal practices.

Let's dismantle ICE. Let's take a look at these best practices, and  let's move forward as one United States of America.