Protecting the Legal Community


Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, the legal community has a longstanding  tradition of representing historically underrepresented communities in  important constitutional and historic landmark cases. Right now, the  President and his cronies are shaking down the legal world in an  unprecedented manner. These law firms have provided services to our  underrepresented communities in a pro bono manner for decades.

In the past few weeks, the President has targeted law firms that he  has deemed a threat against his goals to impose an illegal agenda.  Through his executive orders, he has threatened the revocation of  government security clearances and prohibitions on entering Federal  buildings to these law firms.

Two of the law firms--Skadden; and Paul, Weiss--immediately settled  to avoid sanctions and committed a collective $140 million in pro bono  work to support the Trump administration's agenda.

Other targeted law firms--WilmerHale; Jenner & Block; and Perkins  Coie--continue to challenge these orders in court. These law firms have  been responsible for providing free pro bono work in support of  disenfranchised communities for decades.

Mr. Speaker, Trump is doing this to stop them from successfully  arguing against his executive orders and the harms and effects they may  have on America.

In addition, many of our colleagues across the aisle have introduced  at least seven bills to impeach Federal judges who have ruled against  the Trump agenda.

They attempt to cripple our judicial branch of government which  guaranties a delicate balance in our democracy and in our Republic.  Many of these judges have been instrumental in pausing Trump's attack  on birthright citizenship, and preventing ICE from going into sensitive  locations such as churches, synagogues, funeral homes, schools, and  emergency rooms.

This is what they are trying to do. They are trying to impose this  very aggressive agenda against protections from the Consumer Financial  Protection Bureau, and, of course, they are attempting to dismantle the  one system that has given us all the ability to rise together, the  public education system.

House Republicans are carrying out Trump's attack by insisting that  we take up legislation that would severely limit the judicial system's  ability to  issue rulings that have a nationwide, positive effect on communities.

Mr. Speaker, there has been a longstanding tradition of unrepresented  communities resorting to the judicial system when all else has failed.  When all else has failed, communities go to the court to get relief.  When it has been extremely hard to fight against larger, richer, and  more powerful entities and to hold them accountable, communities go to  the courts.

Rulings like Brown v. Board of Education, Obergefell v. Hodges, and  Roe v. Wade have been instrumental in ensuring that all communities  have equality and protection under the law.

Mr. Speaker, these are dangerous times. The chapters of history have  told us time and time again that when fascism sticks its ugly head out  the window, it is the courts that they go after so that it will prevent  common folks from entering that institution and getting relief and  justice.

We must fight to stop the administration's attack. To not do so would  mean to damage the balance of power and to permanently fracture our  democracy.