Providing for Consideration of H.R. Improving Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Leosa Reform Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Federal Law Enforcement Officer Service Weapon Purchase Act of 2025


Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, both Democrats and Republicans should be  forever grateful to the police officers who protected this Capitol as  an angry, racist, violent mob came in. We will forever remember the 140  officers who were injured and the five officers who lost their lives as  a result, including Brian Sicknick, a Capitol Police Officer; Howard  Liebengood, a Capitol Police Officer; and Metropolitan Police  Department Officers Jeffrey Smith, Gunther Hashida, and Kyle DeFreytag.

I am also grateful to those officers that testified in front of the  January 6th Committee, including Michael Fanone, Officer Harry Dunn,  Police Sergeant Aquilino Gonell, and Officer Daniel Hodges.

It has been more than 2 years, Mr. Speaker--take a look at this  plaque--that the other side has failed to properly honor police  officers. Yet, they stand here and want to dictate to us how supportive  they are of the men and women in police departments across this  country. They have failed to put this plaque up to properly honor those  men and women that protected our lives as an angry, racist mob came  into this building and chanted: ``hang Mike Pence.'' Let's kill Nancy  Pelosi. That is what they intended to do, and you failed to recognize  the police officers that protected all of us, Democrat and Republican.

As the ranking member of the Legislative Branch Subcommittee, I am  more than willing to work with the Architect of the Capitol and  Republican leadership to make sure that we honor our police officers,  and this Police Week it is important that we do that.

What do we get from the White House? We get a pardon of very violent  people that wanted to hurt all of us.

Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I am compelled to say to the Republican  leadership that they must honor police officers in the proper way,  particularly those of them that gave their lives for us and the  American public. Let's do this. It has been years now since they  refused to do this, and yet they call themselves the party of law and  order.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, a vote on the previous question is  a vote to protect the police.