Republican Budget Betrayal


Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, today the Congressional Hispanic Caucus  comes to the floor united as one unit against this Republican budget  resolution that slashes at least 1 trillion--that is right, 1 trillion  with a capital T--dollars from Medicaid and other essential programs to  the American people, to working-class families, to seniors, and to  children, threatening 80 million individuals.

This is a matter of life and death, Mr. Speaker. It is a matter of  life and death for our communities. At the very least, 20 million  Latinos, about one-third of our folks, rely on Medicaid. More than one- half of the Latinos on Medicaid are children. They depend on it.

Many of them are Hispanic, and they will now have to face a  precarious situation where they may get an asthma attack at school and  maybe that school-based clinic is not open for those critical first  minutes of aid.

Many of them are diabetics, and they rely heavily on insulin, and  they may not have the Medicaid coverage for insulin to save their  lives.

So this is a matter of life and death, Mr. Speaker. This is not just  a regular bill that we do in this august body to feel good or to maybe  take care of a specific issue in a particular State. This is a matter  of life and death.

You have Latinos with renal problems, and cardiovascular problems.  High blood pressure is at epidemic levels in the Latino community. This  bill, again, presents a situation of life or death for many  constituents across the country and the ones whom I represent in New  York's 13th Congressional District, where over 500,000 residents of  that district rely on Medicaid and over 100,000 rely on Medicare. So  over 600,000 of the 780,000 people I represent are either on Medicaid  or Medicare. This bill presents a clear and present threat to their  health and to their lives.

In addition to that, Mr. Speaker, Republicans also seek to cut $230  billion in nutritional programs like SNAP and food stamps. That is  right. Food stamps are being cut that currently aid 10 million Latinos,  including 5 million kids. These nutritional programs are essential to  their health and growth. So we are here pushing back on the cuts to  food stamps.

In my district, Mr. Speaker, there are over 200,000 households that  rely on food stamps. If we multiply that by an average of three people  per household, we can do the math, and we can see that it will  devastate that community. This budget proposal by Republicans seeks to  cut, again, $230 billion in nutritional programs.

The $200 billion in this budget also seeks to supercharge Trump's  massive deportation plan which will decimate the agricultural workforce  by 16 percent and lead to increased food prices. Mr. Speaker, you can  expect food prices at the cash register in the supermarket to go  dramatically up. This is egregious.

We are united in opposition to this betrayal, the Republican budget  betrayal. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus stands at once and together  in opposition to this Republican budget betrayal.

CHC is committed to protecting Dreamers. Those are young people on  average that have been in our Nation for over 20 years. They are nurses  and teachers. They are bus drivers. They are members of the Armed  Forces. They own their own small businesses, they own their own homes,  and yet we cannot regularize their status. We support Dreamers.

We are in support of farmworkers. They have to pick the crops and the  fruits that come to our dinner table, and many of them are staying home  in fear of being deported. Mr. Speaker, you can expect food prices to  go up.

Of course, we are in support of keeping families together. A family  that is divided, when a mom or a dad is split from his or her children,  that family is a weak family. They become vulnerable, and that  translates into a weak nation and a vulnerable nation.

So CHC, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, is in support of Dreamers,  farmworkers, and keeping families together.

Latinos voted in favor of lowering costs and increasing wages. The  budget passed last night only gives billionaires tax cuts and funds  indiscriminate raids in our city, all paid for by working-class  families.

Again, Mr. Speaker, CHC stands with our community and rejects the  Republican budget betrayal.

Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, we stood here tonight to warn the  American people of these massive cuts in vital programs like the  Medicaid program, SNAP, and the Food Stamp program, which provides  nutritional assistance to our families, as the Republican majority  perpetrates a scam to provide the very wealthiest of Americans a $4.5  trillion tax cut at the expense of the health of the American people by  cutting Medicaid.

Medicaid is a vital program for Americans all over the United States.  It is not just urban areas, but rural areas and suburban areas from the  North, the South, the East, and the West of the country.

Americans will be dramatically impacted by these cuts. This is not a  Republican cut or a Democratic cut. It will impact people across the  aisle. Republican Members have many constituents who are on Medicaid  and Medicare and who receive SNAP benefits. Yet, the savings will go to  the fat-cat executives and shareholders, the wealthiest in America.

Mr. Speaker, we are asking for the American people to be alert of the  Republican budget betrayal, that it is a life-or-death matter and puts  their lives in danger by denying them the basic healthcare benefits  that they are entitled to.

Mr. Speaker, we stand here as one, members of the Congressional  Hispanic Caucus, to say ``no'' to this plan and to tell the American  people that they are not alone and that we are with them in good times  and in bad times.