Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


Mr. HARRIS of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the  Senate amendment to H.R. 5371, which will finally put an end to the  Democrat-led government shutdown.

Millions of Americans have suffered because Democrats have refused to  reopen the government, harming those who depend on SNAP benefits,  Federal workers, Border Patrol agents, and our troops, who were  uncertain about their next paycheck.

This legislation extends government funding to the end of January  2026, thereby blocking attempts to force a budget-busting omnibus at  the last minute before Christmas. It also includes the FY 2026  Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and  Related Agencies Appropriations Act.

Republicans have effectively locked in disciplined, flat spending  levels while supporting the Trump administration's policy priorities.

The Agriculture bill provides $26.65 billion in discretionary  spending, which is level with the current amounts while also including  community project funding.

This bill provides critical funding support to America's farmers,  ranchers, and rural communities. It ensures both USDA and FDA can  safeguard our Nation's food and drug supply and fully fund nutrition  programs, including SNAP and WIC.

Additionally, the bill closes the hemp loophole that has resulted in  the spread of unregulated, intoxicating hemp-derived products that are  being sold online and in gas stations and corner stores across the  country. Many of these products are accessible and attractive to  children, resulting in thousands of calls to U.S. poison control  centers, with more than 30 percent involving children aged 5 years and  younger. This provision is supported by 39 State attorneys general and  over 81 national and State public health, medical, law enforcement, and  other organizations.

It is beyond disappointing that our colleagues on the other side of  the aisle will soon be voting to continue the chaos and uncertainty of  a government shutdown.

This is what responsible Republican governance looks like. We stared  down the radical Democrats' outrageous, budget-busting demands and held  the line for hardworking American taxpayers.

Mr. HARRIS of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I thank Appropriations Committee  Chairman Cole for his leadership throughout this process, and I  strongly encourage my colleagues to support this legislation.