Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695919/continuing-appropriations-and-extensions-act-2026


Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, we are just a few hours away from the start  of a government shutdown that could have been prevented by Washington  Republicans just talking to us, but Donald Trump and Washington  Republicans chose to, once again, put politics ahead of the American  people. They won't come and talk to us.

After slashing Medicaid and taking healthcare away from families who  need it the most, Donald Trump and Washington Republicans are now  shutting down the government because they refuse to come to the table,  they refuse to have a conversation, and they refuse to work in a  bipartisan way to stop a massive spike in healthcare costs for hard- working families--for all of you. And that is it. That is it. This is  why Trump is about to shut down the entire Federal Government.

You know, my dad often said: If you don't have your health, you don't  have  anything. And it is clear that Donald Trump and Washington Republicans  want you to have nothing--nothing--because they are doing everything  they can to take away healthcare from as many Americans as possible.  And for every American, everyone out there: Your healthcare premiums  are about to double--about to double--for everybody, across the board.

So while Republicans, those folks here in Washington, fight for  billionaires, Democrats are here fighting for you--for your healthcare,  for your ability to see a doctor, to see a doctor and get your  prescriptions without breaking the bank.

In my State of Nevada, over 110,000 Nevadans get their healthcare  coverage through the Affordable Care Act's marketplace. We know it as  Nevada Health Link. Nearly 95,000 of those families are able to afford  their premiums using Nevada Health Link thanks to what we call the  enhanced premium tax credits.

So I want to be clear because there is a lot of misunderstanding  here. It is not a handout. It isn't welfare. It is just a tax break  that helps lower the costs for nearly 95,000 Nevadans so they can  afford to buy an insurance policy, so they can go to the doctor when  they are sick and have a copay and go to the pharmacy to get their  medication for a copay, so they can just afford their insurance. And we  are talking about hard-working families, small business owners, and  workers who don't get healthcare through their jobs--so many of them.

And these enhanced tax credits, they are about to expire. They are  about to expire this year. And if Congress fails to act, healthcare  costs across the board will double for everyone--everyone. So when  premium costs go up, many families won't be able to afford it any  longer, meaning they will lose their care. And for the ones who can  afford it, their deductible is going to be so high they are never going  to meet it, and they are still going to be paying out of pocket in ways  they can't afford.

You know, more than 38,000 people in my State alone are probably  going to lose their coverage right away, all because Washington  Republicans just refuse to extend this tax credit allowing them to  purchase their own insurance.

Families, sadly, are going to be forced to make impossible choices.  They will be forced to delay care. They will skip doctor visits. They  will cut their medications in half. They will cut those pills or give  themselves half a shot of insulin to make ends meet. These choices are  real. They are real for these families, and sometimes they have tragic  consequences.

Since the beginning of this year, Democrats have been trying to work  in good faith with Washington Republicans to extend these ACA enhanced  premium tax credits and protect Americans' healthcare coverage. We have  even introduced bills to extend the tax credits. We have tried to pass  them right here on the floor. And at every turn, Washington Republicans  have refused. They have refused to hear your voice, refused to listen  to you.

My phone is ringing off the hook about people scared to death about  losing their health insurance. And earlier today, when given an  opportunity to keep the government open and extend the credits, every  Republican voted no.

Instead of working with Democrats to keep healthcare affordable,  Washington Republicans are holding the government and the American  people's health hostage to score political points.

So I am going to be clear here. We will not be bullied by Donald  Trump, and we will not be bullied by Washington Republicans into  sacrificing your healthcare--the healthcare of American families, of  our children, of our seniors, of our friends and neighbors--not now,  not ever. Trump can't bully us into taking away your healthcare.

Nevadans sent me here to fight for them, not to cave and let  Washington Republicans and Donald Trump take away your ability to go to  the doctor and get your medication.

Everyone--everyone--should have access to affordable, quality care.  Healthcare is not a bargaining chip. It is not a political weapon. It  is a lifeline. And Washington Republicans have the power--they have the  power--to prevent this shutdown today. Just come and talk with us.

So I urge them to do their jobs: Come to the table. Have a  discussion. Have a negotiation. Extend the ACA premium tax credits. Put  people over politics. The time is now.