Following Mother's Day, Rosen Statement Recognizing National Women's Health Week


Today, U.S. Senator Jacky Rosen (D-NV), a member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP), released the following statement in recognition of National Women's Health Week:

"During the COVID-19 pandemic, women have been serving on the frontlines of this crisis, as caregivers, health care professionals, and essential workers; tirelessly putting their health at risk in order to keep our country moving forward. The recent Mother's Day weekend also marks the start of National Women's Health Week, an opportunity to recognize the incredible life-saving work that women are doing as health care professionals, and also to reflect on the important, and often overlooked, topic of health management for women and girls across the country," said Senator Rosen. "National Women's Health Week is a good reminder, especially during the outbreak of COVID-19, for women to prioritize physical and mental health by having regular checkups and prevention screenings, as well as keeping healthy habits like staying active and eating well. Maintaining and even improving your health is not something to put on hold, even during a pandemic, and many health care providers are offering new options, like telemedicine, to help keep patients healthy. I will continue working in Congress to support our health care workers, to protect the well-being of all Nevadans, and to address the many factors that can impact our health."

 

BACKGROUND:  According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), 13.4 percent of women aged 18 and over are in fair or poor health.

According to the U.S. Census Bureau, women hold 76 percent of all health care related jobs. 

Earlier this year, Senator Rosen introduced the Data Mapping to Save Moms' Lives Act, which would require the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to track high maternal mortality rates in conjunction with lack of broadband service access in order to identify areas where improving access to telehealth would be most beneficial.

Additionally, Senator Rosen has co-sponsored the Maternal Care Access and Reducing Emergencies (Maternal CARE) Act, which would create grant programs to lower the maternal mortality rate, especially focusing on racial disparities, as well as the Healthy Maternity and Obstetrics Medicine (Healthy MOM) Act that would create a special health care enrollment period for pregnant women to help ensure coverage during pregnancy and postpartum.