Letter to the Hon. Mitch McConnell, Majority Leader and to the Hon. Chuck Schumer, Minority Leader and to the Hon. Richard Shelby, Chairman of Appropriations Committee and to the Hon. Patrick Leahy, Vice Chairman of the Appropriations Committee - Rosen, Cortez Masto Join Bipartisan Calls for Additional Funding for School Districts on Federal Land in Upcoming Coronavirus Relief Package


Dear Leader McConnell, Leader Schumer, Chairman Shelby, and Vice Chairman Leahy:As Congress continues to consider emergency relief funding to respond to the continuing publichealth emergency caused by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19 or the virus), we urge you torecognize the importance of the Federal Impact Aid Program and provide a one-timesupplemental investment to assist federally impacted school districts during the pandemic.School districts who receive funding from the Impact Aid program, educate some of our mostvulnerable student populations, including Native American and military connected children andchildren living in federal low-rent housing, are less resourced than non-federally impacted schooldistricts to respond to the challenges caused by this pandemic.Congress created the Impact Aid program in 1950 in recognition that the federal governmentneeded to accept responsibility in areas impacted by a federal presence and help meet the localresponsibility of financing public education. Impact Aid provides a payment in lieu of taxes tolocal school districts for lost revenue that is a result of tax-exempt federal property and actionsthat have increased expenditures due to the enrollment of federally connected children. Theprogram provides direct, flexible funding to over 1,200 school districts. Impact Aid funds arange of programs, including facilities renovation, efforts to retain highly qualified teachers,adequate technology, and maintenance of transportation fleets. For many districts, this fundingrepresents the very lifeblood that allows their school system to operate.Federally impacted school districts depend on Impact Aid due to a limited local tax base causedby the presence of certain federal land in their districts, including national parks and grasslands,national laboratories, Army Corps of Engineers projects, and property that encompasses themilitary academies. In some of these communities, the federal government is the largestlandowner, which significantly diminishes a school district's revenue base. The next COVID-19 response legislation should prioritize this funding stream in order to help alleviate expected statefunding cuts to avoid lay-offs and spur the economic recovery in their communities. The fundswill also ensure that these school districts have the help they need as they transition to onlinelearning, meet the social and emotional needs of students, provide wrap-around services, andreplace failing infrastructure. Specifically, funding for Impact Aid should include robust fundingfor: Section 7003 --to fully fund the Basic Support Program to ensure that federally impacteddistricts are able cover the gaps in funding compared to non-federally impacted districtsand enable them to respond to costs associated with the virus; Section 7003(d) -- to support children with disabilities during the pandemic by increasingpayments for students with an active Individualized Education Program (IEP); and Section 7002 -- Federal Property to support districts with non-taxable federal landsrespond and recover from the virus and mitigate potential state and local funding gaps.We must not forget about our most vulnerable student populations during this pandemic. Thankyou for your thoughtful consideration of this request.