Letter to the Hon. Mitch McConnell, Majority Leader, to the Hon. Chuck Schumer, Minority Leader, to the Hon. Richard Shelby, Chairman of Senate Appropriations Committee, and to the Hon. Patrick Leahy, Vice Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee - Cortez Masto, Rosen Urge Senate Leadership, Appropriators to Support Minority Serving Institutions in Next Stimulus Package


Dear Leader McConnell, Leader Schumer, Chairman Shelby, and Vice Chairman Leahy,As the Senate anticipates consideration of a fourth supplemental appropriations packagein response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we respectfully request that specific provisionsand funds are added to support our nation's Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs),including Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Tribal Colleges andUniversities (TCUs) under Title III, Part A and B, Title V, and Title VII of the HigherEducation Act.The $1.046 billion designated for MSIs, including HBCUs and TCUs, and theinstitutional and emergency financial aid funds, included in the Higher EducationEmergency Relief Fund of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES)Act, were important first steps in providing these institutions with the resources necessaryto respond to the unanticipated costs and challenges of COVID-19. However, as MSIsenroll a high number of low-income, first-generation college students and are consistentlyunder-resourced due to smaller endowments and lower levels of federal and stateinvestment, they need additional support to continue to respond and recover from theCOVID-19 pandemic.As the research has shown, the COVID-19 pandemic is disproportionately affecting theAfrican American and Latino communities. This disease has exposed persistentdisparities in our society, and requires Congress to have a robust response. MSIs,																																									including HBCUs and TCUs, are already starting to feel the strain of preparing for thefall semester as their students are faced with the choice of withdrawing from college tosupport their families economically in light of the pandemic or never enrolling in the firstplace. We are asking you to include the following provisions and funding in the fourthstimulus package to support these institutions that continue to do the transformative workof educating the underserved:1. Increase the Maximum Pell Grant Award and provide substantial newinvestments in need-based financial aidThe federal Pell Grant program is the primary form of financial assistance for low- andmoderate-income families. However, today the Pell Grant covers only around 30 percentof the average costs of tuition, fees, room, and board at public four-year colleges, whichis far below the 79 percent it covered over 40 years ago. HBCUs serve a high percentageof Pell Grant recipients. Increasing the maximum Pell Grant award by at least inflationarylevels would boost college enrollment, reduce drop-out rates, and improve studentoutcomes for students who rely on the program to receive a postsecondary degree.Additionally, the Pell Grant should be placed on a path to double over the next 10 years.It is also important to provide substantial new investments in need-based financial aid,like the Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG), to help students meetbasic needs and navigate the new costs they are facing during COVID-19 with uncertainaccess to campus housing and meal plans, laptops and internet connections at home, andhealth insurance and health care for themselves and their families. Additional funding forSEOG would help to provide larger awards to each of the current 1.7 million recipientsand also increase the total number students that MSIs, including HBCUs and TCUs, canassist with these funds. While SEOG prioritizes supplemental assistance to Pell Grantrecipients, it can be flexibly awarded by colleges to both undergraduate and graduatestudents. SEOG can be awarded according to the student's specific needs by taking otherfactors beyond the federal formula and "expected family contribution" intoconsideration--such as students who are providing for their children or family memberswho are unable to work.2. Invest an additional $1 billion in emergency funding for HBCUs, TCUs,HSIs, and other Minority Serving Institutions and $ 25 million for HowardUniversity, and strengthen protections against any state or local cuts to theseinstitutions.Given the ongoing uncertainty around the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and theimpacts this situation will have on institutions of higher education and their students, werespectfully request that an additional $1 billion be invested in these vital institutionsunder the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund. These additional funds will allowMSIs and HBCUs to access the resources necessary to continue to provide qualityacademic instruction and learning experiences to their students, in light of thesechallenging circumstances. These institutions anticipate that the negative side effects ofthe health emergency, such as declines in enrollment and auxiliary revenues, will continue to impact them long after it has been resolved, decreasing their ability to providetheir students with the support and resources they need. In effect, we are asking that $1billion be appropriated to continue to aid these institutions in their response to COVID19.It is also important to ensure that MSIs, including HBCUs and TCUs, and the studentsthey serve, are not targeted for cuts as a result of a decline in state and local revenues.The next package should strengthen the "maintenance of effort" (MOE) provisions of theCARES Act. A strong MOE is essential for low-income and first-generation students, asstate and local funding cuts to higher education, including state-based financial aidprograms that serve both public and non-profit institutions, have historically had adisproportionate impact on the students and families with the greatest financial need. Thenext package should lengthen the MOE requirement through FY 2023 and narrow anywaiver authority to those states with extreme and unique financial exigency who commitnot to cut education funding disproportionately or reduce available tax revenues tosupport education.3. Provide an MSI investment of at least $6.5 billion in research, teaching,extension and development funding.Academic research is the cornerstone for the advancement of our nation's economy andstability. In light of the current crisis, it is imperative that we have leading academics andpractioners at the front lines conducting the needed research to combat future pandemicsand solve for other potential health crises. For example, Howard University located inWashington D.C. owns a hospital that serves as a COVID response hospital for thenation's capital. It is a premier institution capable of managing the type of research thatwill be needed to fight coronavirus and future pandemics.The current pandemic has laid bare the glaring health care disparities in communities ofcolor. There are a number of MSIs that have baccalaureate and graduate degree programsin the health professions, many of which receive financial support from the HigherEducation Act in Titles III Part A and B, Title V, and Title VII and other federalprograms. These programs in nursing, physician assistants and health care technicians areaddressing staffing shortages. However, a major federal investment to provide greatersupport to these programs will be beneficial to the country. And, as we plan for thefuture, utilizing the current regional University partnerships among some MSIs and thecurrent HBCU medical schools and hospitals to include starting new programs inmedicine, dental, nursing, and other health care fields should be top national priorities.Further, according to the most recent data, all institutions of higher education received afunding total of $79.436 billion dollars of research and development (R&D) funding in2018 with $42.018 billion coming from the federal government. Of these institutions,MSIs received significantly less funding. For instance, HBCUs received a total of$534.045 million dollars in overall R&D funding with $400.349 million coming from thefederal government, equating to only 0.67 percent of total funding. TCUs received $13.8million of overall funding from the National Science Foundation (NSF), or less than one-quarter of one percent, compared to $5.558 billion awarded by NSF in research andeducation funding to the nation's higher education institutions. We ask for a specific newinvestment of $6.5 billion total for MSIs in federal agencies and institutes such as NSFand the National Institutes of Health, including but not limited to the National Institute ofMinority Health Disparities, to support groundbreaking research into COVID-relatedhealth disparities for minority communities, and the Department of Health and HumanServices (HHS) Title VII health professions training programs, which help produce thediverse health professionals our country sorely needs.4. Include a waiver of the allowable uses in the Minority Science Engineeringand Improvement Program (MSEIP).While the CARES Act allows the Secretary of Education to waive allowable uses forgrants awarded under Part A or B of Title III, Chapter I or II of Subpart 2 of Part A ofTitle IV, Title V, or Subpart 4 of Part A of Title VII of the HEA, the MSEIP is crucial inallowing MSIs to increase the participation of underrepresented students in fields thatwill drive economic mobility and crucial progress and health research. In order to grantmaximum flexibility to respond to the ever-changing circumstances of this pandemic, awaiver in the MSEIP is essential.5. Include a technology fund to allow students to access broadband.In the CARES Act, MSIs were given the ability to utilize resources to purchasetechnological equipment for their students to complete their assignments online;participate in virtual counseling; receive virtual mentoring and tutoring services; andcomplete other required tasks in relation to their academic program through distanceeducation. While access to equipment is important, so is access to broadband. Accordingto an article released by the Pew Research Center, "roughly three-in- ten adults withhousehold incomes below $30,000 a year (29%) don't own a smartphone... and [m]orethan four-in-ten [adults] don't have home broadband services (44%) or a traditionalcomputer (46%)."2 As the ongoing uncertainty of COVID-19 disrupts in-class learning, itis imperative that MSI students have the ability to access broadband to allow them tocontinue their academic program and complete their education.Thank you for your consideration of this request and your continued attention to thisimportant priority.