McAdams suicide prevention bill introduced in the Senate


Congressman Ben McAdams' and Congressman Anthony Gonzalez' (R-OH) bill --Advancing Research to Prevent Suicide Act-- has been introduced in the Senate. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and Senator Jacky Rosen (D-NV) are the bipartisan sponsors. The House passed McAdams' bill last month. The measure directs the National Science Foundation to fund competitive research grants across a range of disciplines with the goal of understanding why the rate of Americans dying by suicide is on the rise.

"We need to better understand the risk factors of someone dying by suicide so that we develop a better response to prevent this tragedy. Encouraging more fundamental research on the biological, social and cultural and environmental factors related to why suicide occurs is a critical step towards saving lives," said McAdams.

"Suicide is a growing epidemic in the United States, and it is vital that we take action to better understand mental illness and the root causes of suicide across the country," said Congressman Gonzalez. "I am encouraged to see our legislation introduced in the Senate and I look forward to working with my colleagues to bring this important bill to the President's desk."

The legislation introduced in the Senate --as the House-passed bill does--supports the work of early career researchers working in fields relevant to understanding and preventing suicide."Suicide is the second-leading cause of death for young Texans and is on the rise nationally," said Sen. Cornyn. "This legislation would help us understand the factors that contribute to someone making this decision and help identify how we can best support individuals in crisis."

"We must take action to confront the rising rate of suicide occurring across our nation," said Sen. Rosen. "Countless families and communities in Nevada and throughout our country have experienced this tragedy. This bipartisan bill will help us better understand how to help those suffering."

The Advancing Research to Prevent Suicide Act is supported by the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention and the American Psychological Association.

If you or someone you know is experiencing suicidal crisis or emotional distress, the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (1-800-273-8255) provides 24/7 confidential support.