Nomination of Christopher Hanson


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the nomination of  David Wright to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for 5  more years. Amidst a global pandemic that has caused the greatest  public health crisis in a century and the worst economic catastrophe  since the Great Depression, we are spending our time in the United  States voting on a nominee for the NRC who will likely take actions  that put the lives and livelihoods of Nevadans at even further risk. 

  David Wright has a long history of working to advance the failed and  fiscally irresponsible proposal to dump our Nation's nuclear waste at  the Yucca Mountain site. In his previous work as chairman of the Public  Service Commission of South Carolina, he supported continuing licensing  of Yucca Mountain. Additionally, in 2005 he founded the Yucca Mountain  Task Force and criticized local opposition to the project, calling it  ``myopic resistance.'' That is how he characterizes the people of  Nevada fighting back against the injustice of having no say in whether  or not we are to become the Nation's nuclear dumping ground. 

  For these reasons, in August 2018, the State of Nevada filed a formal  petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia  Circuit challenging now-Commissioner Wright's refusal to disqualify  himself from participating in NRC Yucca Mountain licensing decisions.  According to the State of Nevada at the time, Wright's participation in  any licensing decisions would violate Nevada's constitutional right to  unbiased decision makers at the NRC. 

  Numerous studies have since shown that Yucca Mountain, only 90 miles  from Las Vegas, is a physically unsuitable site that would threaten the  health and safety of Nevadans and would take half a century to  complete. Notably, Yucca Mountain is located above an aquifer in an  area of moderate to high seismic activity and is subject to oxidizing  and corrosive elements. In fact, just this week, only days before we  have been asked to vote on this pro-Yucca nominee, two earthquakes--one  of which was of 6.5 magnitude--struck Nevada less than 150 miles from  Yucca Mountain and less than a dozen miles from one of the proposed  transportation routes for shipping nuclear waste to Yucca. In addition  to threatening the health and safety of Nevadans, transporting all of  our Nation's nuclear waste to Yucca Mountain would threaten our  national security, as the site is directly adjacent to the Nevada Test  and Training Range, NTTR, the largest air and ground military training  space in the contiguous United States. Establishing a nuclear waste  repository in such close proximity to NTTR could therefore directly  jeopardize the readiness of our Air Force. 

  Most importantly, Nevadans have never consented to storing other  States' waste at Yucca Mountain. With thousands of Nevadans dying of  COVID-19 and jobless claims in the State at unprecedented levels,  today, among the numerous actions this Senate could have chosen to  take, we are voting on the confirmation of an individual who wants to  add insult to injury by proceeding with an ill-advised plan for nuclear  waste storage that ignores the voices of Nevadans. 

  I will not stand for this. I, therefore, cast my vote against the  nomination of David Wright to serve on the Nuclear Regulatory  Commission. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT