Rosen Appointed to White House Task Force on Re-Opening the Economy


Today, U.S. Senator Jacky Rosen (D-NV) announced that she has accepted an appointment to serve on a bipartisan White House task force, comprised of Senators and Members of the House of Representatives, with the purpose of providing counsel to the President on the re-opening of America in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic:

 

"Nevada is one of the states whose economy has been hit hardest by the coronavirus crisis," said Senator Rosen."We must work together, not only to overcome this pandemic, but to plan for what comes next. Our small business owners and workers are facing unprecedented challenges and we must work to alleviate the incredible financial strains they are experiencing. In the Senate, I have worked time and time again for commonsense, bipartisan solutions that put working families first. As a member of this Task Force, I will bring Nevada's voice to the table as we work to protect the health and well-being of our country."

 

"We've seen families lose their loved ones, businesses shuttered, and workers file unemployment claims at record rates," Senator Rosen continued. "In order to successfully chart our path forward, we need to effectively increase our nation's testing capability for both acute cases and immune response, expand and improve contact tracing, and provide much-needed medical supplies to health care workers and our medical institutions. Any plans to re-open states must comply with guidance from medical experts and state and local government officials. These are trying times, but we are a resilient nation, and together we will forge a path forward."

 

BACKGROUND:  Rosen serves on the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP), the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, the Senate Special Committee on Aging, and the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.