Rosen Addresses AIPAC Policy Conference, Highlights Need to Protect Israel's Security, Extend UN Arms Embargo on Iran


Today, U.S. Senator Jacky Rosen (D-NV) spoke at AIPAC Policy Conference alongside Senator Rick Scott (R-FL). Senator Rosen discussed a wide range of topics, including: her support for a strong US-Israel relationship and the State of Israel's right to self-defense; a bipartisan resolution she recently helped introduce that calls on the United Nations to extend the arms embargo on Iran, and her bipartisan work to combat anti-Semitism. "As the third female Jewish Senator in U.S. history and the first former synagogue president to serve in the Senate, the U.S.-Israel relationship issue is deeply personal to me and always has been," said Senator Rosen. "With mounting threats in the region, the bonds between the United States and Israel are more important now than they have ever been. I look forward to continuing my bipartisan efforts in Congress to strengthen the U.S.-Israel alliance and hold Iran accountable for its destabilizing behavior." BACKGROUND: Senator Rosen holds the distinction of being the third female Jewish Senator in U.S. history, as well as the first former synagogue president to serve in the United States Senate Senator Rosen has a long history of supporting the U.S.-Israel relationship. In September, Senator Rosen participated in a seven-day official visit to Israel. The Senator engaged in high-level policy briefings and meetings with renowned experts on Israel's security, U.S.-Israel cybersecurity cooperation, clean energy, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Holocaust education, international law, and Israel's vibrant democracy, diverse society, and regional challenges.

Last month, Senator Rosen introduced a bipartisan resolution calling on the United Nations (UN) to extend its arms embargo on Iran. The UN arms embargo, which restricts Iran's conventional weapons imports and exports, expires in October 2020. Last October, Rosen launched the Senate Bipartisan Task Force for Combating Anti-Semitism with co-chair Senator James Lankford (R-OK). The collaboration is the first of its kind in the United States Senate, serving as a corollary to the House of Representative's Bipartisan Task Force for Combating Anti-Semitism, of which Rosen was a member when she served in that chamber. Last July, Rosen introduced the US-Israel Cybersecurity Center of Excellence Act, S. 2309, bipartisan legislation that would require the State Department to investigate potential benefits of establishing a joint U.S.-Israel cybersecurity center.