Rosen, Blackburn Unveil Slate of Endorsements for their Bipartisan Advanced Manufacturing Jobs in America Act


Today, U.S. Senators Jacky Rosen (D-NV) and Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), members of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, announced that the American Small Manufacturers Coalition, The Software Alliance, CompTIA, and the Tennessee Chamber of Commerce & Industry are new endorsers of their Advanced Manufacturing Jobs in America Act. The Senators' bipartisan bill would help to fill the gap between the growth of advanced manufacturing jobs and individuals qualified with the unique skill set to fill those positions.

"I'm proud to see so many organizations and businesses announce their support for my bipartisan legislation to increase job opportunities for Nevadans," said Senator Rosen. "Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, the need for trained candidates for manufacturing jobs had been on the rise and still continues. As we begin to reopen our country and our state's economy, this bill would assist Nevada workers by helping to close the skills gap in advanced manufacturing jobs through education and job training. I will continue working on commonsense legislation that best prepares Nevada's workers for success."

"In the wake of this pandemic, growing American manufacturing is more important than ever," said Senator Blackburn. "It is essential that we continue to educate our workforce in order to decrease our dependency on foreign imports. The Advanced Manufacturing Jobs in America Act will assist our employers in increasing the number of advanced manufacturing training programs and encourage collaboration to grow our workforce. Let's make America manufacture again."

BACKGROUND: Earlier this year, Senators Rosen and Blackburn introduced the bipartisan Advanced Manufacturing Jobs in America Act, S. 3188. This bill would help to fill in the gap between advanced manufacturing job growth and qualified individuals that are capable of filling these positions. The bill would direct the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) to begin pilot projects between local community colleges, state and tribal colleges, local boards, advanced manufacturers, and Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) centers, in order to facilitate education and training programs in the field of advanced manufacturing.

The bipartisan Advanced Manufacturing Jobs in America Act is also supported by Nevada Industry Excellence and the Tennessee Center for Industrial Services.