Rosen Condemns Administration for Attempting to Eliminate Americans' Access to Health Care During Public Health Crisis


U.S. Senator Jacky Rosen (D-NV), a member of the Senate Committee on Health Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP), released the following statement in response to news that the Trump Administration has formally urged the U.S. Supreme Court to overturn the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act and strike down the law in its entirety.

"Access to quality, affordable health care is needed now more than ever," said Senator Rosen. "The Affordable Care Act has helped many individuals and families in Nevada and across our country with its health protections, including coverage guarantees for those with pre-existing conditions. The idea that this Administration would actively try to demolish our nation's health law, especially during a public health crisis such as the coronavirus pandemic, is deeply reckless and shameful. We must work together to protect our care and build upon its beneficial programs."

BACKGROUND: 282,000 Nevadans are at risk of losing their health care coverage, along with millions of Americans across the country, if the Affordable Care Act is overturned.

In March, Senator Rosen joined Senate colleagues in sending a letter to President Trump urging him to reverse his policy of refusing to defend the constitutionality of the ACA in the Texas vs. United States lawsuit, and cease all other attempts to undermine our nation's health care law.

As her first action in the Senate, Senator Rosen joined Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) in introducing a resolution that would authorize Senate Legal Counsel to intervene in Texas v. United States -- a pending lawsuit in federal court, on behalf of the U.S. Senate, in order to defend the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act and its coverage protections for people with pre-existing conditions. Just last week, the Trump Administration filed a brief, in this case, calling for the courts to strike down the ACA in its entirety.

Last year, Senator Rosen also helped introduce a resolution that would provide the sense of the Senate that the Justice Department should reverse its policy of refusing to defend the constitutionality of the ACA, including the law's coverage protections for those with pre-existing conditions, in Texas v. United States.