Rosen Highlights 2019 Nevada Women in STEM Honorees, Encourages Submissions for Candidates for 2020


Today, U.S. Senator Jacky Rosen (D-NV) released the following statement highlighting last year's Nevada Women in STEM honorees, women role-models who are making progress in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math. "I'm proud to highlight these incredible, barrier-breaking women who are making strides in the fields of STEM," said Senator Rosen. "Having female role models succeed in science and tech gives young women the opportunity to see future success in themselves. I will continue working to make STEM an area where all can take part and succeed." BACKGROUND: Before serving in Congress, Senator Jacky Rosen built her career as a computer programmer and systems analyst. She is passionate about mentoring women and girls who are interested in pursuing STEM careers. Since coming to Congress, she has introduced several bills to invest in STEM education, including her bipartisan Building Blocks of STEM Act, which was signed into law on December 24th, 2019.

Senator Rosen believes that highlighting female role-models can help combat negative stereotypes that hold women back from pursuing careers in STEM.Every month, Rosen highlights a Nevada Woman in STEM to help raise profiles and break gender stereotypes so that we can inspire young girls everywhere. Visit www.rosen.senate.gov/nevada-women-in-stem to nominate a Nevada Woman in STEM. 

2019 Women in STEM Honorees include:*    Dr. Christianne Yung, MD,*    Karen G. Wayland, Ph.D geochemistry,*    Emily Carter, Pre-Medical Biology student UNLV,*    Dr. Erica Marti, Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering UNLV,*    Debra Thomas, Ph.D., Dean of University of Nevada Reno Orvis School of Nursing,*    Stephanie Maddocks, technology and business consultant,*    Gayle Porterfield, Vice President of Network Construction, Cox Communications,*    Jericha Mendoza, Energy Engineer,*    Dr. Fatma Nasoz, Assistant Professor at the Department of Computer Science and the Director of Information Technology at The Lincy Institute at UNLV*    Dr. Mira Han, Assistant Professor in the School of Life Sciences at UNLV