Rosen Helps Introduce Bicameral Relaunching America's Workforce Act


U.S. Senator Jacky Rosen (D-NV), a member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, announced her original co-sponsorship of the Relaunching America's Workforce Act, legislation that would invest $15 billion in America's workforce training infrastructure and career and technical education. Companion legislation was introduced in the U.S House of Representatives by Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA).

"Workers across our country have experienced job loss as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. As states begin to move toward plans for a safe re-opening, we must also ensure that our nation's workers are given the tools they need during this difficult time," said Senator Rosen. "This legislation would help to reinvigorate our economy by providing key resources that invest in our workers. As we relaunch America's economy, we must continue to take steps that support our workers."

BACKGROUND: The Relaunching America's Workforce Act would:

 

Provide over $10 billion to the state and local public workforce system by supporting dislocated workers, employers, youth and adults seeking jobs. These funds will support workforce training activities, including career navigation services, access to online skills training and employment services, while prioritizing short-term training to health care and essential frontline workers;Invest $1 billion in expanding the capacity of adult education providers across the U.S. to prioritize serving adults with low-literacy levels negatively impacted by the economic consequences of the COVID-19 national emergency;Invest $1 billion in career and technical education to prepare students for careers in in-demand industry sectors and occupations;And invest $2 billion to restart Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College Career Training (TAACCCT) -- a grant program created during the 2008 recession to support partnerships with community colleges and businesses, and provide individuals pathways to high-skill, high-wage and in-demand employment opportunities.Last month, Senator Rosen sent a letter to Senate Leadership requesting $15.1 billion in funding for U.S. workforce development in the next COVID-19 relief package

Recently, Rosen helped introduce the Health Force and Resilience Force Act of 2020, legislation which would recruit, train, and employ hundreds of thousands of Americans to expand our nation's public health workforce in response to COVID-19.