Rosen-Led Bipartisan Bill to Foster Collaboration, Innovation in Cybersecurity Passes out of Senate Committee


Today, U.S. Senator Jacky Rosen (D-NV) released the following statement applauding the news that the CYBER LEAP Act has been voted out of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, of which she is a member. Senator Rosen is an original co-sponsor of the CYBER LEAP Act, bipartisan legislation she introduced last week alongside Senators Roger Wicker (R-MS) and Cory Gardner (R-CO).

 

"Investing in cybersecurity innovation is vital for our national security and our economic future," said Senator Rosen. "That's why I'm glad to see the CYBER LEAP Act move out of committee and head to the Senate floor. This bipartisan legislation will help spark innovation and put Americans to work finding solutions to our nation's greatest cybersecurity challenges. I will continue to support forward-thinking legislation that improves America's digital infrastructure."

 

BACKGROUND: The bipartisan CYBER LEAP Act would direct the Secretary of Commerce, in coordination with relevant agencies, to leverage open innovation authorities, such as prize competitions, to solve cybersecurity grand challenges that include: economics of a cyber-attack; cyber workforce; emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence, quantum, and 5G; digital identity; and federal government security. Addressing these grand challenges would support collaboration between the public and private sectors, support the workforce, and is a way to improve the attention around research and development through grants/prize competitions.

 

Senator Rosen's dedication to workforce development is further demonstrated by the introduction of:

The Cyber Ready Workforce Act, bipartisan legislation she introduced last year alongside Senator Kevin Cramer (R-ND). This bill would direct the U.S. Department of Labor to award grants to workforce intermediaries to support the creation, implementation, and expansion of registered apprenticeship programs in cybersecurity and; The Advanced Manufacturing Jobs in America Act (AMJA) bipartisan legislation she introduced in January alongside Senator Marsha Blackburn (R-TN). This bill would direct the U.S. Department of Labor to begin pilot projects between local community colleges, state and tribal colleges, local boards, advanced manufacturers, and Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) centers, in order to facilitate education and training programs in the field of advanced manufacturing.