Rosen-Backed Bipartisan Bill to Elevate State Department Anti-Semitism Envoy Passes out of Senate Committee


Today, U.S. Senator Jacky Rosen (D-NV), co-chair of the Senate Bipartisan Task Force for Combating Anti-Semitism, released the following statement applauding the Senate Foreign Relations Committee's unanimous passage of the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism Act of 2019, legislation she helped introduce. 

"Anti-Semitism continues to rise at an alarming rate around the world. It is important now, more than ever, that we equip our Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism with the tools and resources needed to best help put a stop to this disturbing trend," said Senator Rosen. "I thank Senators Rubio and Gillibrand for their leadership on this bipartisan legislation. I am glad to see my Senate colleagues on both sides of the aisle recognize the seriousness of this issue and to have their support in countering anti-Semitism in the United States and worldwide. I will continue working across the aisle to ensure we make meaningful progress in putting a stop to hate and bigotry in all their forms."

BACKGROUND: In January 2019, S.238, the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism Act of 2019, was introduced by Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). This legislation would elevate the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism to the rank of Ambassador, reporting directly to the Secretary of State and enabling sufficient seniority and access inside the U.S. government and when engaging foreign governments. The bill also would require the President to nominate a candidate no later than 90 days after the bill becomes law and no later than 120 thereafter whenever the position is empty. It also mandates the Special Envoy to be the primary advisor to the U.S. government on monitoring and combating anti-Semitism. The House of Representatives passed this legislation last year.

Last month, Senator Rosen led an appropriations letter calling for the Office of the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism to receive additional resources.

Senator Rosen was the only Member of Congress to attend the swearing-in ceremony for U.S. Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism Elan Carr.

Senator Rosen holds the distinction of being the third female Jewish Senator in U.S. history, as well as the first former synagogue president to serve in the United States Senate. As such, Senator Rosen has been an outspoken advocate of combating anti-Semitism in the United States, the Middle East, Europe, and around the world.