Rosen Statement on Asian Pacific American Heritage Month


Today, U.S. Senator Jacky Rosen (D-NV) released the following statement commemorating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month.

"Nevada's AAPI community is part of the diverse fabric that makes up our state great," said Senator Rosen. "During Asian Pacific American Heritage Month we celebrate Nevada's AAPI communities by honoring the many contributions they've made over the years to our state's  culture and economy. In the wake of COVID-19, AAPI communities are experiencing fear and anxiety as more and more hate crimes against their community are reported. It is critical that we stand together as one Nevada, now, more than ever. I will continue to proudly serve as a voice for all Nevadans in the Senate."

BACKGROUND: Nevada is home to the nation's fastest-growing AAPI community.

In April, Senator Rosen joined Senate colleagues in sending a letter to President Trump, raising concerns about the increased harassment and violence against members of the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community during the COVID-19 pandemic. Senator Rosen also joined Senate colleagues in a letter urging the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights (USCCR) to issue guidance to federal agencies on preventing and addressing anti-Asian racism and xenophobia related to the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Rosen also joined a letter to the U.S. Department of Justice regarding concern about the surge in discrimination and hate crimes against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (AAPIs) related to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Rosen also joined a resolution condemning discrimination against Asian-Americans and Asian immigrants caused by the COVID-19 outbreak. Recent reports show anti-Asian sentiment has increased since the COVID-19 crisis began. According to an FBI intelligence report, hate crimes against Asian American & Pacific Islander (AAPI) communities are likely to surge as COVID-19 continues to spread.

Rosen is a proud Senate Associate Member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC).