Senators Lankford, Rosen Applaud Senate Commemorating 75th Anniversary of Liberation of Auschwitz


Senators James Lankford (R-OK) and Jacky Rosen (D-NV) today applauded Senate passage of their bipartisan resolution commemorating the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz concentration camp by Allied Forces during World War II. The anniversary took place on January 27th, designated by the United Nations as International Holocaust Remembrance Day. Lankford and Rosen introduced the resolution last month alongside Senators Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), and Ben Cardin (D-MD).  "Honoring the 75th anniversary of the triumphant liberation of Auschwitz ensures our nation remembers again the atrocities of the Holocaust and its somber impact on the world," said Lankford. "The liberation 75 years ago is a testament to our nation's resolve to end genocide, root out anti-Semitism wherever it hides, and bring freedom to the most oppressed. I stand proudly with Senator Rosen to honor the victims and their families and the brave soldiers who liberated Auschwitz. We have not forgotten you."

"Three-quarters of a century after the liberation of Auschwitz, we must never forget what can happen when evil and hatred are allowed to go unchecked," said Rosen. "The suffering of millions of innocent men, women, and children during the Holocaust is a constant reminder of the importance of combating anti-Semitism--and hate in all its forms--today. With this legislation, we honor the survivors of Nazi terror, the millions lost, and those who helped to liberate survivors by making a pledge that we will never allow an event like the Holocaust to occur again. I'm proud to see that my bipartisan resolution with Senator Lankford has unanimously passed the Senate, the first of many actions we will take to ensure that Never Again means never again for anyone." Background

Lankford and Rosen's resolution has garnered over 50 bipartisan co-sponsors. Organizations supporting S. Res. 481 include the Jewish Federations of North America, the American Jewish Committee, the Simon Wiesenthal Center, the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, Agudath Israel of America, Hadassah, B'nai B'rith International, and the Anti-Defamation League. Text of the bipartisan resolution can be found here.

Last year, Lankford and Rosen launched the first-ever Senate Bipartisan Task Force for Combating Anti-Semitism.