Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE.  3259  and the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration. I further ask  that the bill be considered read a third time and passed and that the  motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Madam President, it is disappointing that when we take a  look at something that is controversial like abortion and we peel it  back a layer further, we make it noncontroversial  by making the discussion about something that most Americans--the  overwhelming majority of Americans--agree about, which is, regardless  of how you feel about abortion, you don't necessarily want your  government taking your taxpayer dollars and the taxpayer dollars of a  whole lot of people who have very strong feelings against abortion and  using those to fund organizations that either perform abortions or that  engage in promoting or lobbying or counseling or referring in order to  encourage abortions. The overwhelming majority of Americans don't want  that regardless of how they feel about life. 

  This shouldn't be a controversial issue. It is a non sequitur. It is  a straw man argument to suggest that this somehow limits anyone's  options. It doesn't. In fact, it expands options of individuals by  saying: We are not going to take your money at the point of a gun,  which is what governments do at the end of the day when they take  money, in order to spend it on something that--depending on how you  phrase the question and which pollster you are talking to, it is either  a sizable majority or a bare majority of Americans who find that  morally problematic. But an overwhelming majority of Americans say  that, no matter what, you shouldn't be taking all taxpayer money and  then using that to fund abortion or abortion-related advocacy. 

  Last week, the Senate had a chance to adopt some measures that would  protect the dignity of human life--not just unborn human life but also  born human life, including babies who had been born alive following a  failed abortion attempt. Unfortunately, due to a minority of this body,  we lost the opportunity to enact those reforms. 

  Those colleagues opposed to these measures did so largely on the  claims that they were, as they put them, anti-woman or anti-healthcare.  They claim somehow that these measures interfered with what should be  considered personal--the personal nature of healthcare between women  and their doctors. 

  I could not agree more that healthcare is personal. It is, after all,  about healing, preserving, and prolonging the life of a human being,  the life of a person. In the case of a pregnant woman, it is about two  persons, sometimes three. If it is a woman who is pregnant with a  single baby, it is two persons with two beating hearts, two distinct  sets of DNA, and two unique and eternally valuable, unrepeatable  souls--two persons with equal dignity and worth. We ought to value both  of them and provide opportunity and care and rights and protection to  both. 

  In the spirit of our founding, we ought to affirm through our laws  and through our taxpayer dollars the truth that every member of our  society--every woman, every man, every unborn child--is entitled to the  right to life and to the full protection of that right under the laws  of the United States. Our healthcare ought to heal, preserve, and  protect those lives. Unfortunately, many of our laws themselves permit  and subsidize exactly the opposite of life in our country and even,  tragically, abroad. 

  Congress allows and helps fund the most radical abortion policy in  the Western world, enabling procedures that impose barbaric violence  upon women and unborn children and ending the lives of hundreds of  thousands of innocent babies in our Nation every single year. It allows  our foreign aid money to go to organizations that fund and promote  abortions overseas, taking the lives of thousands of innocent babies  across the globe--especially, by the way, baby girls. 

  In some of these countries, abortions happen in much higher numbers  to female babies precisely because they are female. Abortion is, in  many cases, the knife's edge of sexism--the exact tool they use to  denigrate women's equal dignity and value and worth and right to  breathe. 

  In some of these countries, women don't even want the abortions. In  some cases, these organizations force their own so-called enlightened  values on them, pressuring these women to take their own children's  lives whether or not they really want to. This form of cultural and  imperialism is not pro-woman, it is not pro-child, and it is certainly  not pro-healthcare. It is pro-sexism and pro-violence. And we must end  it. Today, we can, through the passage of the Protecting Life in  Foreign Assistance Act. This bill would permanently stop the use of our  foreign aid money for funding or promoting abortions overseas. 

  We ought to uphold the equal dignity of women, whether born or  unborn, in America and across the world, and we should treat their  bodies with reverence and dignity and respect, the respect they  deserve, not because any government decided to confer that respect upon  them but because they exist. Today, we can choose that, too, through  Senator Braun's bill, the Dignity for Aborted Children Act. That  measure, as Senator Braun has explained, will ensure that aborted  children's bodies are not treated simply as medical waste to be crudely  disposed of and that they should instead receive a proper burial or  cremation, just as we accord to all other human beings. 

  We have to support and value women and babies everywhere. In our laws  and for our lives, we ought to uphold the dignity of each and every  human person, regardless of race, sex, appearance, abilities, or age.  The measures before us today--those I have outlined and those that have  been proposed by Senator Braun--do just that, and we should support  them for the very same reasons that we should pass them. They shouldn't  be objectionable. 

  It is tragic that they have drawn an objection today. It is tragic  that any American, much less any Member of the Senate, which calls  itself the world's greatest deliberative legislative body, would object  to these measures. After all, it is difficult to fathom how someone  wouldn't want to protect babies. It is difficult to fathom why someone  wouldn't be in favor of something at least protecting the conscience  rights of U.S. taxpayers who don't want to see their hard-earned  taxpayer dollars going to fund an operation, a procedure that they know  is designed to end a human life--a human life that in many cases is  deliberately ended because of the sex of the person whose life is being  taken. This is tragic, it is unacceptable, and it shouldn't happen--not  here, not on this soil, not on our watch. 

  We are not going to give up. The fact that we have endured these  setbacks today, the fact that these well-conceived, non-objectionable  pieces of legislation have drawn an objection today, doesn't mean this  issue is going to go away. It doesn't mean these proposals are going to  go away. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT