Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, the Constitution of the United States  contains a number of constitutional protections for the citizens of our  great Republic. Among the many provisions that it contains, in addition  to the structural safeguards of federalism and the separation of  powers, separating out power along two axes--one vertical, which we  call federalism, and the other horizontal, which we call the separation  of powers--the Constitution also includes a number of substantive  restrictions. These are things that the government may not do, and  there are penalties attached to the government's doing those things. 

  Among those many protections can be found the provisions of the Bill  of Rights, including the Fourth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. The  Fourth Amendment reminds us that it is our right--a fundamental,  inalienable right--as citizens in a free republic, to be free from  unreasonable searches and seizures, and that any warrants issued under  government authority have to be backed by probable cause, and any  probable cause-based warrant has to include with particularity a  description of the places and persons to be searched and to be seized. 

  This is a tradition that reaches not just back a couple of centuries,  but it reaches back much farther than that and has its origins not only  in our own country but in our mother country, in the United Kingdom. By  the time John Wilkes was serving in Parliament in the 1760s, there had  been a long-established tradition and understanding. In fact, there had  been a series of laws enacted to make sure that warrants were not  abused and to make sure the rights of the English subjects would not be  infringed. Among other things, there was an understanding and a set of  laws in place that would make clear that those conducting searches and  seizures would be subject to a warrant requirement. In other words,  they would lose any immunity that they would otherwise have as  government officials if they didn't obtain a warrant and if that  warrant were not valid. 

  In 1763, the home of John Wilkes was searched aggressively. John  Wilkes, while serving as a Member of Parliament, had become critical of  the administration of King George, and he had participated in the  publication of a weekly circular known as the North Briton. Although  the North Briton was not one likely to engage in excessive, fawning  praise of the reigning Monarch, it wasn't until the publication of  North Briton No. 45 in 1763 that the administration of King George  decided to go after John Wilkes. His home was searched, and it was  searched pursuant to a general warrant. 

  A general warrant was something that basically said, in that  instance: Find out who had anything to do with the authorship and  publication of North Briton No. 45. You see, North Briton No. 45  accused, among other things, King George and those who served in his  government of laying aggressive taxes on the people--taxes that they  knew couldn't adequately be enforced or collected without intrusive  measures that would involve kicking open people's doors, rummaging  through their drawers, and doing things that couldn't be justified for  the use of a warrant laid out with particularity. 

  John Wilkes, in that circumstance, was arrested within a matter of a  few weeks. He won his freedom, albeit on something of a technicality at  the moment. He asserted parliamentary privilege and was released.  Eventually, after becoming subjected to multiple searches using general  warrants, Wilkes sued Lord Halifax and those who participated in the  searches and seizures in question. He was able to obtain a large award,  a large judgment consisting of money damages. 

  John Wilkes, at the time, became famous, really, on both sides of the  Atlantic. The name of John Wilkes was celebrated in taverns, saloons,  and other public places in England and in the nascent United States of  America, the colonies in North America that would later become the  world's greatest Republic. John Wilkes' example was something that  helped to solidify a long-standing legal tradition, one that would in  time make its way into our Constitution through the Fourth Amendment. 

  We have to remember that government is simply force. It is the  organized collective official use of force. When John Wilkes and those  who worked with him on the North Briton, culminating in North Briton  No. 45, criticized the King too much, questioned excessively, in their  judgment, the collection and imposition of taxes, the administration of  King George decided they had gone too far and that it was time for John  Wilkes to pay a price. 

  Fortunately for John Wilkes and for people on both sides of the  Atlantic, John Wilkes emerged victoriously. Today, we don't have  general warrants, at least nothing masquerading under that title in the  United States. The fact that we have a First Amendment is a test to his  vigorous defense of the rights of English subjects. 

  What we do have is something that ought to concern every American. We  have the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which we know has been  abused, and we have known for a long time is ripe for opportunities for  abuse among government officials. 

  In fact, what we have seen is that the current President of the  United States has, himself, become the target of abuse under FISA. Back  in 2016 when this started being abused and when we saw the emergence of  things like Operation Crossfire Hurricane, you had the campaign of a  man who would become the 45th President of the United States targeted  and singled out, quite unfairly, using these practices--these  procedures that were designed originally for use in detecting and  thwarting the efforts of agents of foreign powers. 

  As the name of the law implies, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance  Act is not something that is intended to go after American citizens. It  is certainly not something that is intended to be used as a tool for  bullying a Presidential candidate. Now that it has been used to bully  and incorrectly surveil the 45th President of the United States, we  need to do something about it. That is what the Lee-Leahy amendment  does.  

  First, for a bit of background on this particular law, we have three  provisions of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act that expired on  March 15, 2020, just a few weeks ago. We have one provision known as  section 215, another provision known as lone wolf, and another  provision known as roving wiretaps. 

  On March 16, the Senate passed a bill to reauthorize those provisions  through May 30, 2020, which would give us a few weeks to debate and  discuss reforms that need to happen under FISA. In order to pass this  bill, the Senate entered into a unanimous consent agreement for votes  on three amendments to the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff bill passed by the  House of Representatives a few weeks ago. One of those amendments is  the one that I referred to a moment ago, the Lee-Leahy amendment,  introduced by myself and Senator Leahy from Vermont. 

  Unfortunately, however, the House of Representatives never passed  that short-term extension measure, so that the three authorities that I  mentioned--lone wolf, roving wiretaps, and 215--have been expired now  for almost 2 months. 

  Now, this is not for lack of trying on the part of us--the part of  those of us who really want to see meaningful FISA reform. In fact,  just a few days before these authorities were set to expire, I came  down here to the Senate floor and I asked a series of unanimous consent  requests to consider the House-passed reauthorization bill with a  handful of relevant and, I believe, very necessary amendments.  Unfortunately, my friend, a distinguished colleague, Senator Burr,  objected. 

  The Department of Justice Inspector General Horowitz's December  report on Crossfire Hurricane proved what many of us reformers have  been saying now for years. In my case, I have been working on this and  trying to call out the dangers inherent in provisions of FISA now for a  decade. But what the Horowitz report in December demonstrated was that  FISA really is ripe for opportunities for abuse. Inspector General  Horowitz not only found evidence that the FISA process was abused to  target President Trump's campaign. He found evidence that basic  procedures meant to protect the rights of U.S. persons--that is to say,  U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents of the United States--were  not being followed. 

  And so, just as we see that John Wilkes, through his publication of  North Briton No. 45, solidified a preexisting set of rights available  to all English subjects, we now see that President No. 45, Donald John  Trump, has the opportunity to strengthen this right protected in our  Fourth Amendment, harkening back to the example of John Wilkes in the  publication of North Briton No. 45. 

  My amendment with Senator Leahy would make reforms to applications  for surveillance across the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act,  including both section 215, the authority that recently expired, and  under title I, which happens to be the authority that was abused in  order to surveil President Trump's campaign. 

  First, the amendment would strengthen the role of the friend-of-the- court provisions--the amicus curiae provisions that we adopted in 2015  in connection with the USA FREEDOM Act, which was introduced by Senator  Leahy and myself back then. It would strength these amicus curiae or  friend-of-the-court provisions and make them applicable in  circumstances in which there are sensitivities inherently in play. 

  Now, these amici curiae, or friends of the court, are people who, as  contemplated under the proposed legislation, would primarily be experts  and would have at least some knowledge or expertise of FISA and of  privacy, civil liberties, secure communications, and other fields that  are important to the FISA Court. They would also be people who would  have clearance to review matters of concern from a national security  standpoint. 

  These amici are essential because, you see, the FISA Court is a  secret court which, by its very design, operates on an ex parte basis,  meaning without the presence of opposing counsel. You have government  counsel and the judges themselves, and that is it. 

  The friend-of-the-court provisions, the amici curiae I am describing,  provide the opportunity for the FISA Court to hear from a fresh  perspective--a neutral, trusted perspective--one that comes with some  expertise in national security clearance but without presenting the  threat to upending the national security investigations entrusted to  the FISA Court. 

  So that is why the amici are so necessary and so important. In the  absence of opposing counsel, we have to strengthen the provisions that  provide for these amici to ensure that there is some advocate somewhere  in front of the court who is in a position to say: Wait a minute. What  happens if we do this? Wait a minute. Is this really what the law  authorizes? Wait a minute. Isn't there a constitutional concern  implicated here, especially where they are dealing with the rights of  American citizens. 

  The December 2019 inspector general report on the surveillance of  President Trump's campaign staffer Carter Page demonstrates the  significant need for an outside expert legal advocate, especially when  a FISA application involves a sensitive investigative matter, like the  surveillance of a candidate for public office or an elected official or  that official's staff.  

  If the Lee-Leahy amendment were in statute, it would have required  the FISA Court to appoint an amicus in the Carter Page case. If an  amicus had been appointed in that case, would she have raised some of  the issues that we now see regarding the credibility of the Steele  dossier? Well, it is quite possible. In fact, I think it is quite  likely. I think it is almost unimaginable that had there been an amicus  curiae present in the FISA Court at that moment, somebody--likely, the  amicus--would have said: Wait a minute. We have got a problem. Wait a  minute. You have got evidence that is unreliable. Wait a minute. You  have got huge credibility problems with the evidence that is backing up  what you are asking for. 

  Our amendment would require the FISA Court to appoint an amicus when  an application involves ``sensitive investigative matter,'' such as the  surveillance of candidates and elected officials or their staff,  political organizations, religious organizations, prominent individuals  within those organizations, and domestic news media. 

  One of the arguments made by those who oppose FISA reform is that the  appointment of an amicus would somehow slow down the surveillance and  the FISA order application process, which, so the argument goes, could  then harm our national security in those instances where there could be  an imminent attack. Anytime this argument is made, it is important for  the American people to listen and listen carefully. It is an important  argument. It is not one that we want to treat lightly. At the same  time, we have to remember the immense harm that has been inflicted, not  only on our own society but elsewhere, when people simply suggest:  Don't worry about this; it is a matter of national security. Don't  worry about it; we have the experts covering it. Don't worry about it;  your liberty is not to concern you. 

  We know the risk. We know that we have to ask the difficult  questions, and that is what we are doing here. 

  In any event, the argument doesn't work here. The argument falls  apart under its own weight here, you see, because our amendment allows  for the FISA Court to have flexibility. In fact, the FISA Court, under  the amendment, may decline to appoint an amicus if the court concludes  it would be inappropriate to do so under the circumstances. All it has  to do is make that finding. 

  Is this too great an intrusion on the ability of the U.S. Government  to collect information on U.S. citizens? I think not, especially as  here we are dealing with this sensitive investigative matter, one  involving an elected official or a candidate for elected office or  religious officials or media organizations. 

  We know in our hearts that these are areas where our foreign  intelligence surveillance authority ought to give way, ought to at  least recognize the rights of individual Americans.  

  Our amendment also provides the amicus with more access to  information regarding applications and requires the government to make  available the supporting documentation underlying assertions made in  applications if requested by the amicus or by the FISA Court itself. 

  Now, this information is, to be sure, required by the FBI's internal  operating procedures, including its so-called Woods procedures, to be  maintained in a series of documents known collectively as the Woods  files. 

  But the FBI's failure to correctly maintain the supporting  documentation or, in some cases, even to assemble it in the first  place--the documentation underlying these FISA applications to surveil  U.S. persons, that is--was itself the subject of the inspector  general's most recent memorandum to FBI Director Christopher Wray. That  memorandum proved, among other things, that the government's failure to  provide all of the evidence, especially evidence that undermined the  government's case before the FISA Court, when considering the  application to surveil Trump campaign adviser Carter Page, was not an  isolated accident. Quite to the contrary, after sampling 29 FBI  applications for FISA surveillance of U.S. persons, the inspector  general, Mr. Horowitz, found an average of 20 errors per application,  with most applications having either missing or inadequate Woods files,  leading the inspector general to conclude: ``We do not have confidence  that the FBI has executed its Woods procedures in compliance with FBI  policy.'' 

  This is absolutely unacceptable in any free republic, but especially  in ours, with the existence of the Fourth Amendment. 

  We are not talking about the failure to create or maintain some  obsolete piece of paperwork just for the sake of having it. No, no, no,  this is much more than that. And we are not talking here about  exculpatory evidence being withheld as to suspected foreign terrorists.  These are applications to surveil U.S. citizens and lawful permanent  residents, who themselves have constitutional rights and also have  an expectation that their government will not secretly spy on them, in  violation of that which is rightfully theirs under the Constitution of  the United States.  

  So you can't look at this and credibly, reliably, say: It is OK. Let  the FBI take care of it. The FBI is working on it. 

  We have been hearing that for years. I have been hearing that for 10  years--the entire decade that I have been at this business. And what  has happened? Well, what has happened is that we have seen time and  again that there have been abuses of the very sort that many of us have  been predicting for a long time would inevitably and repeatedly arise  in the absence of reform. 

  This doesn't require us to undertake a dismal view of humanity. No,  it is not that at all. It is simply that government is best understood  as the organized, official collective use of force, officially  sanctioned as part of a government. And, as James Madison explained in  Federalist 51, if men were angels we wouldn't need government. If we  had access to angels to run our government, we wouldn't need rules  about government. 

  But we are not angels, and we don't have access to them. So, instead,  we have to rely on humans. Humans are flawed. They make mistakes, and  they also sometimes decide for nefarious or political or other reasons  to flout the law--hence the need for the night watchman, hence the need  for rules that restricts their ability to do that. 

  So I find it entirely unsatisfactory when people say: Just let the  FBI deal with this, because, first of all, they haven't dealt with it.  They haven't dealt with it even as abuses have become more and more  known under various provisions of FISA and even as we are still coming  to terms with language that was adopted nearly two decades ago that  itself was overly broad at the time and has been abused since then. 

  No, we are not going to just trust that an organization that is able  to operate entirely in secret, with the benefit of protection of  national security laws, with the benefit of over-classification of  documents--we are not simply going to assume lightly that they are  going to fix it, because they haven't and because they won't and  because they don't want to. 

  I understand why they might not want to. All of us can appreciate  that when we do a job, if somebody else adds requirements to that job,  we might be naturally resistant to it. But that doesn't mean that we  don't need to do it here. That doesn't mean that our oath to uphold,  protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States doesn't  compel us to do so here. 

  We know that the FBI is not going to fix it because the FBI has in  the past adopted procedures designed to prevent this kind of  manipulation, this kind of chicanery from arising, including, most  notably, the Woods procedures. Yet we know that the Woods procedures  have been openly flouted. 

  So can we walk away from this and pretend that the 45th President of  the United States didn't have his own rights abused, his own campaign  surveilled abusively by the FBI itself? No, we can't. And I don't know  anyone--Democrat or Republican, liberal or conservative or libertarian  or something else--who could look at that and say: Yes, that makes a  lot of sense. It makes a lot of sense that we should just leave  unfettered, unreviewable discretion in the hands of those who are able  to operate entirely in secret. 

  The Lee-Leahy amendment would require that the government turn over  to the FISA Court any and all material information in its position,  including information that might undermine its case as part of the FISA  application. As I said earlier, this information would be made  available to the amicus curiae upon request. 

  As an added protection, our amendment would require any Federal  officer filing an application for electronic surveillance or physical  search under FISA to certify that the officer has collected and  reviewed, for accuracy and for completeness, supporting documentation  for each factual assertion contained in the application. 

  If we are going to require people to go to the FISA Court at all to  get an order, if we are going to call it a court, ought we not require  that such evidence be assembled and at least be made available to those  whose job it is to make sure that the job is actually being done? 

  The Lee-Leahy amendment also requires these officers to certify in  each application that they have employed accuracy procedures put in  place by the Attorney General and the FISA Court to confirm this  certification before issuing an order. 

  Finally, the Lee-Leahy amendment requires the Department of Justice  inspector general to file an annual report regarding the accuracy of  FISA applications and the Department of Justice's compliance with its  requirements to disclose any and all material evidence that might  undermine their case. 

  Now, while I have a lot of ideas for reform, many of which are  included in the USA FREEDOM Reauthorization Act that Senator Leahy and  I introduced a couple of months ago, we were limited in this  circumstance for our purposes to just one amendment to the Pelosi- Nadler-Schiff bill. That is this amendment, the one that I have been  describing, the Lee-Leahy amendment. 

  We believe that our amendment is a very measured approach to enacting  those reforms that we believe to be most essential to protecting the  rights and the privacy of Americans from a system that, by its very  nature and, in some instances, by design, is ripe with opportunities  for abuse. It is not perfect, but it will go a long way, if we pass it,  toward forestalling this kind of abuse. 

  We have to remember that although we live in the greatest Republic  ever known to human beings and although our rights are, by and large,  respected in this country, we are by no means immune to the type of  abuse that can take hold in any system of government, especially a  system of government with a whole lot of resources at its disposal to  gather information, including efforts to gather information on that  government's own citizenry. 

  If we remember, about 45 years ago, there was a committee put  together, headed by a Senator from Idaho named Frank Church, that  looked at abuses of telephone surveillance by the government and  concluded that in basically every administration dating back to the  rise of the common usage of the telephone, our intelligence-gathering  resources within the United States had been utilized to engage in what  was essentially political espionage. 

  Since the late 1970s when the Church Committee issued its report, we  have had exponential growth in the ability of government and the  ability of everyone else, for that matter, to obtain and process data  and information. In most ways, it has been a real blessing. It is a  great thing. 

  It is also important for us to keep in mind the extent to which our  papers and effects are no longer found exclusively within physical file  cabinet files within someone's home or office. In many instances, they  can be found elsewhere in electronic form. 

  Our security and our liberty need not and ought never to be viewed as  irreconcilably at odds with each other. Many civil liberties and  privacy experts joined together in an effort known as the PCLOB a few  years ago--the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board--and  concluded a few years ago that our privacy and our liberty are not at  odds with each other. In fact, our privacy is part of our liberty. We  are not truly free unless our personal effects and our private  information can belong to us and not simply be open game for the  government. 

  It is sad and tragic that in order for this to come to light, it took  an assault on freedom so bold and so shameless as to loop in the  President of the United States. With this and other revelations that  have come to light in recent days and weeks and months and over the  last few years, we can't forget that these entities are still run by  human beings with their own political views, with their own agendas.  And in some cases, unfortunately--rare cases, I hope--people who are  charged with protecting the people and their liberty may in some cases  be inclined to be at odds with it. 

  It is unfortunate that the 45th President of the United States has  had, quite tragically, to become the victim of this. But I ask the  question, what if your information were on the line? What if you had  been targeted--maybe for political reasons, maybe for reasons that had  nothing to do with politics, maybe for reasons that just had to deal  with a personal vendetta someone had against any American. It is far  less likely that the abuse would ever have come to light. 

  In this circumstance, it did come to light. We can't ignore it, nor  can we pretend that it couldn't happen to any one of us--and I don't  mean as Members of the U.S. Senate; I just mean as Americans. In fact,  each and every one of us is less capable of standing up to this and  less likely to discover the abuse in the first instance. Not all of us  happen to be the President of the United States. 

  I am grateful that President Donald J. Trump has been willing to  speak truth to power and has been willing to call out the flagrant  abuse of FISA and of other procedures within the government. It is our  obligation, it is our solemn duty, and it is my pleasure to do  something about it. The Lee-Leahy amendment does something about it,  and I invite all of my colleagues to join me in supporting it. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT