Providing Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


Mr. LEE. Mr. President, last year this body, the United States  Senate, passed 41 bills from the Energy and Natural Resources  Committee. And 25 of those bills have been reintroduced. They all have  bipartisan support. They all have been vetted in committee. They all  are ready to move.

Today, I am asking that we pass four of them at the same time as a  modest step forward for the kind of open, Member-driven process for  which the Senate was built and has long existed.

The first, from Senator King of Maine, would expand access to the  Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument--something that passed this  body unanimously last year.

The second, from Senator Cornyn of Texas, would adjust the boundaries  of Big Bend National Park--again, a commonsense proposal with  bipartisan support.

The third, from Senator Gillibrand of New York, would establish a  national historic park at Fort Ontario--the site of the only Holocaust  refugee shelter in American history.

And fourth, from Senator Lankford of Oklahoma, would designate the  Historic Greenwood District, also known as Black Wall Street, as a  national monument.

The Greenwood District in Tulsa was once a thriving community of  Black-owned businesses, professionals, and families until the Tulsa  Race Massacre of 1921 tragically burned it to the ground.

Hundreds were killed, and thousands were left homeless. Designating  this site as a national monument is long overdue. And this month, May  31--in fact, just a few days from now--marks the anniversary of that  tragic, tragic massacre.

282, the  Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument access from Senator King;  S. 1051, the Historic Greenwood District--Black Wall Street--National  Monument from Senator Lankford; S. 432, Fort Ontario Holocaust Refugee  Shelter National Historic Park Establishment Act from Senator  Gillibrand; and S. 1112, the Big Bend National Park Boundary Adjustment  Act from Senator Cornyn; further, that the bills be considered read a  third time and passed and that the motions to reconsider be considered  made and laid upon the table.

Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I appreciate the kind words from my friend  and colleague the distinguished Senator from Oregon.

I know my time is short, but I need to respond to a couple of points.  First, the bills to which my Democratic colleagues are referring have  been cleared. They have been cleared through what is known as our  hotline, cleared for passage on the Republican side--not one objection  from one Republican.

It is the Democrats that are holding it up here. We are not the ones.

Secondly, I want to make very clear: This is a very unfortunate  occurrence in the Senate. It is a bad habit that we have gotten into,  and it is a habit that we must break.

The habit involves raising an objection. One of the things you did  not hear from my friend and colleague from Oregon is a single  objection, not on the merits, not on any legitimate procedural ground  to any of the bills that I just mentioned--not a single one. No, these  bills are drawing an objection today, not allowed to pass the Senate  today--even though they passed in the past unanimously, and they don't  have any substantive objection.

They are objecting to these not because they are unpopular but  because they are popular. When they are popular, when the need for them  is due and undisputed, when there is no legitimate argument against  them, when the House delegation, the local population, the Senate  delegation is all supportive of them, they use them and take them as  hostages.

And they use them so that the way these things can happen is they  will cuddle together a whole bunch of bills, and these bills all  accomplish similar things. They have a lot of commonalities. They do  similar things. They enjoy similar amounts of support. They have passed  in the past. The local communities overwhelmingly support them. It  makes sense to offer these up together. We opt to do them individually  as often as we can.

But what they want to do is what has been done in the past, is you  cuddle together a whole bunch of bills--sometimes a dozen or more,  maybe dozens of them--and then time the introduction of that package to  a moment just before a major holiday or long-scheduled recess, they  bring them forward, and they say: Take them or leave them.

You must take all of them or have none of them. And what that does to  public land States like mine, where 67 percent of the land is owned by  the U.S. Government or beholden to everything, is it puts us in an  impossible decision.

Usually, these deals are put together by two or three people in  secret, and they bring it forward at the last possible minute when  there is no time for debate, no time for amendments, no time to say,  OK, this one doesn't belong, the others are fine.

Take it or leave it. It is extortion. We have got to end that  process. There is not one legitimate reason why we shouldn't pass any  one of these four bills. Let's get it done today. I find it tragic that  this drew an objection.

Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I have got colleagues ready to speak, and I  just need 10 seconds here.

I respect and appreciate my friend and colleague from Oregon. It is  not to him, personally, about taking bills hostage. But this is a  process that has happened in the past over and over and over again.  This is how it is playing out.

As to these bills, I reiterate there is not one Republican Senator  objecting to them. Bring them forward. Let's pass them now. If there  are problems, I don't know what they are, why they would arise. They  are on the Democrat side, not ours.

But that is not our problem. It shouldn't be an impediment for  Senator Cornyn's bill or Senator Lankford's bill or Senator  Gillibrand's bill or Senator King's bill that the Democrats can't get  their act together, that, for some reason, they are not willing to  support that legislation. This is unfortunate. We have got to fix it.