Save America Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701278/save-america-act


Mr. LEE. Mr. President, we are fortunate. We are blessed to inhabit a  country where freedom is the norm, where popular sovereignty is the  objective, and has been since the dawn of our Republic. We are  celebrating this year the 250th anniversary of this country,  which, itself, was founded upon the idea that all human beings are  created equal; that we have certain inalienable rights, among these,  life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; and that to secure these  rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just  powers from the consent of the governed.

The consent of the governed--that is the key part. That is what  differentiates a tyrannical government--which is to say most  governments that have ever existed--versus a government in which men  and women are allowed to be free, in which government exists for the  specific purpose of serving the people. That is part of what was  recognized in the document whose 250th anniversary we will be  celebrating on July 4, that governments are indeed instituted among  men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.

So what does that mean to provide your consent? Well, among many  other things, it means the ability to participate in selecting who may  operate your government, who will wield the levers of government power.

Government power is something that is easily misunderstood. These  things don't necessarily occur to us automatically. To remember what  government is, sometimes we are inclined to attribute to government  qualities that it does not have and can never have, qualities that  government can never have specifically because the government is not a  person; the government consists of official power, the power to act in  the name of an entire country or other body politic, in order to  establish rules carrying the force of generally applicable law,  enforceable with the immense power of government.

Ultimately, it is, then, about power, and that is one of the many  reasons why, even though we need to respect government and respect the  authority of government--especially when it is a government of the  people, by the people, and for the people--we should never lose sight  of the fact that government is best understood as wielding authority  that is dangerous.

In other words, like other things that we rely on, that we need, that  are necessary in some cases to sustain life, or in other cases to make  life manageable or enjoyable, government is one of those many things  that, while a key indispensable part of our lives, it is, at its core,  dangerous because it is ultimately about force.

And what differentiates government from other entities or other  people--endeavors that can bring about force. Government has the  ability to use force to enforce law, to enforce compliance with rules  that we call laws because they are enforceable by force, with the  degree of official sanction and impunity that goes along with being a  government.

And that is why--I believe it was George Washington who pointed out  that, like fire, government is necessary, but it has to be carefully  contained and constrained, less it take over and destroy those very  same things that it is there to serve.

James Madison explained it really well in Federalist No. 51, when he  explained that if human beings were angels, we wouldn't need government  because if we were angels, we would be naturally benevolent, kind,  virtuous, and respectful of the law, respectful of order, respectful of  each other. And that is not to say that human beings are not that way;  I believe that human beings are fundamentally, generally good. But not  all human beings are that way, and no human being is that way all of  the time.

So getting back to Madison's point, if all human beings were angels,  we wouldn't need a government because we wouldn't harm each other; we  wouldn't physically injure each other; we wouldn't try to take other  people's possessions, things that don't belong to us; we would live in  harmony. That is not the condition that we inhabit because, alas, we  ourselves are not angels.

So he said: If men and women were angels, they wouldn't need  government. He also said: If we had access to angels to run our  government, we wouldn't have a problem with government that would  require us to subject government to rules.

And that is where this document comes in, the document that was  written 11 years after the Declaration of Independence. The Declaration  of Independence, remember, in many respects, sort of helped kick off  the Revolutionary War. It was sort of already underway a little bit  anyway, but it made it really official.

But after the Declaration of Independence was put in place, it took  years for us to win that war. By most accounts, 6 or 7 years. I believe  it was about 7 years before it was deemed officially won and we  defeated the world's last standing superpower at the time.

Now, this was a conflict as if between David and Goliath. Now the  original conflict between literally David and Goliath was not a  conflict in which the smart money would have been on David. David was a  small shepherd boy. David was no match for Goliath. Had the Vegas  oddsmakers been in business then, there is no chance that they would  have given David good odds at all facing Goliath--this huge individual,  armed to the gills, fiercely trained warrior; he was a professional  killer. Nobody would have bet on David. Unless they were really, really  thrill-seeking, risk-oriented gamblers, they would not have placed bets  on David. Now had they done so, I am sure they would have made a  fortune because nobody else would have believed that it was possible  for David to win, but he did.

So too with the American Revolution. We were David in that battle,  and England was Goliath--the world's last-standing military and  economic superpower. We chose to take them on. And despite all odds  being against us, we won. Took us about 7 years to get through that,  but we won, and we reflexively, instinctively put in place a weak  system of national government under the Articles of Confederation,  which ultimately failed, in large part because in our reflexive  instinct to resist that which we had endured under British colonial  rule. We had come to fear large, distant national governments--because,  in many respects, that is what the American Revolution was about.

It is not as though our American forbearers sat there one day and  said: You know, we are tired of flying the Union Jack, or we are tired  of having a Monarch. That didn't really explain what happened nor was  it about them being tired of singing ``God Save the King'' or tired of  the pronunciation they had over there.

Actually, I have no idea whether, or to what extent, the  pronunciations differed as much then as they do now, depending on which  side of the Atlantic you found yourself on.

It really had to do with this: We were subject to a large, distant,  omnipresent, brooding, intrusive, heavily taxing, aggressively  regulating national government, one that was so far from the people  that it was slow to respond to their needs, even their urgent pleas. It  became overly aggressive, and it knew no boundaries around its  authority. That is really what the American Revolution was about.

During the seasons, the decades--really, the nearly two centuries--in  which we were in this pattern of being British Colonies, we went  through cycles. There were seasons when the national government of  Great Britain would withdraw and let us sort of govern ourselves. It  was during those seasons, in particular, when our local self-rule--our  Colonial governments--blossomed, and Americans learned the art of local  self-government.

Then there would be other seasons, often during or in the aftermath  of a large conflict, a large-scale expensive war. The Crown and  Parliament needed to raise funds for a war or to pay off war debts, and  very often that is when they would send forth their swarms of  regulators and tax collectors to the Colonies, and they would start to  hold the Colonies with a tighter grip.

And it was after several cycles of this drama--several cycles of this  bipolar, passive aggressive pattern--that we faced from the Crown and  Parliament that, in 1776, we decided we had had enough.

So back to the early 1780s, we won the war. We instinctively put  together a government that would not resemble the system that we lived  under previously. And so we reflexively created this quite weak, anemic  national government, and that too proved problematic.

Within just a few years, it became apparent that we couldn't survive  unless we had a national government that  was capable of functioning as such; and that our national government  couldn't function effectively as a national government unless it had a  few powers--including the power to coordinate and regulate commerce  between the States and with foreign nations, including the power to  raise taxes to, among other things, fund war efforts, fund national  defense, assemble armies, and so forth.

And so it was against that backdrop that our Founding Fathers came  together in that hot summer of 1787 in Philadelphia. They tried the  previous year in 1786. They assembled in Annapolis to deal with the  same inadequacies of the Articles of Confederation. They tried to  convene, but they failed because they failed to achieve a quorum.

And they assembled in the late spring of 1787. It was still,  ostensibly, with the mindset of amending the Articles of Confederation.  It was not officially their objective to write an entirely new document  and ordain an entirely new structure and framework for our government  to operate, and yet that is what they came up with.

I happen to believe that those men were special. They were unusually  gifted, unusually well educated, both as compared to their day and  ours, in every respect. I believe they were wise men raised up by  almighty God to that very purpose, because it is my belief that this is  a land that God has preordained for liberty, that he did not intend the  sons and daughters of the United States of America to live in captivity  under the oppressive yoke of any tyrant, foreign or domestic.

And that is why we are so blessed with those uniquely inspired and  inspiring and gifted and well-educated individuals who understood  liberty. They understood power. They understood its dark side, and they  understood the potential for greatness of any society that can live  under the rule of law with this system of laws that attempts to treat  people equally.

We may not be equal in our capacity, in our possessions, in our  stations in life, but we are all treated equally in terms of the fact  that we are all equally subject to a just system of laws. That, from  the American Republic's very beginning, has been the objective. While  we don't always live up to that to the degree that we should, that is  the aspiration; and, in that respect, it is something that  differentiates us from so many other nations and certainly did at the  time.

What they came up with in the end was a system of government that  fairly allocated powers between the States and the Federal sovereign.  And it acknowledged that it is just as important for the Federal  Government to have power, to be exclusive in its domain over the  Federal sovereign, as it is for the States to retain all other powers  not granted to the Federal sovereign. It is no less bad for the Federal  Government to intrude upon the sovereignty of the States than it is for  the States to intrude upon and undermine the sovereignty of the Federal  Government.

And that is why the Founding Fathers were inclined to devote so much  time, attention, and brain power to this difficult task of assigning to  each level of government what its responsibilities would be, and then  separately assigning to each branch of the Federal Government--the U.S.  Government--which powers could be exercised by and within each branch.

These things were relatively foreign to our English counterparts.  They were even relatively new concepts here in some respects. In  others, there were patterns that emerged in which you can see a close  resemblance between the British system and ours--you know, like a  bicameral legislative body, as there was in Parliament; a chief  Executive, as there was in England, with a President and a Parliament.

There was some separation of powers, yes, but it wasn't complete. It  was nothing like ours was. And then, as now, the dual sovereignty  system did not exist in the United Kingdom. It was very rare in the  entire world. It was a relatively new creature here.

There were a couple of antecedents. I will mention two of them  briefly.

One of them was the Swiss cantons, which had survived for centuries  based on an allocation of power. The Swiss Confederacy, as it was  known, consisted of a consortium of regional governments called  cantons, and they came together for certain national purposes-- including, and especially, national defense.

So, too, was a more local, homegrown, familiar example known as the  Iroquois Confederacy. The Iroquois Confederacy had existed and lived  for centuries with Tribes that came together, maintained their right,  their authority to govern themselves locally at a local level as to  internal matters. But they came together and were one when it came to  external affairs, especially military matters.

It was in the 1740s that one of our Founding Fathers, Benjamin  Franklin--many decades before we would become an independent Nation and  many decades before we would have a Constitution--Benjamin Franklin  attended a conference of sorts in Albany, NY. Other attendees at that  conference included a chief from the Onondaga Tribe named Canassatego.  Canassatego and Benjamin Franklin became friends, or at least allies,  as Canassatego explained to Benjamin Franklin the secrets of the  Iroquois Confederacy's longevity, its durability, its ability to defend  itself--showing him that if you take one arrow and you want to break  it, it is easy to break a wooden arrow. But if you take a bundle of  five or six of those thin, wooden arrows and you bow them together, you  can't just break them like you can easily break an arrow.

Canassatego explained to Benjamin Franklin that this is the secret of  the Iroquois Confederacy. If we were just one Tribe--his Tribe, the  Onondaga Tribe--if just the Onondaga Tribe had to defend itself, it  would be much easier for an enemy Tribe to break. But when we are part  of the Iroquois Confederacy--as they had been for centuries--we come  together as a confederacy and defend ourselves when we are under common  attack, when we need to defend ourselves, and that worked.

In many respects, it was really much more the Iroquois Confederacy  than the Swiss cantons that were an inspiration. After all, this was  right here on the American continent. Individuals were able to meet and  interact with them far more so than they would have ever had the  opportunity to interact with government officials from the Swiss  Confederacy. And in many respects, the U.S. Government closely  resembles at least that spirit, at least that general concept, embraced  by the Iroquois Confederacy.

So they wisely came together, and I believe it is fortunate. I  believe it was providential and the product of a lot of divine  inspiration and intervention that in that hot, sweltering summer of  1778, in Philadelphia, having convened ostensibly for the purpose of  amending the Articles of Confederation to cover a couple of major  deficits in the Articles of Confederation--they were just going to  amend them.

The concept was: We will get together. We will figure out how to deal  with the interstate and foreign commerce problem, and with the ability  to raise funds, the ability to raise an army and wage war, when  necessary, and a few things like that. And then we were going to move  on, but they didn't do that. And I think that was another part of the  pattern of divine providence intervening on behalf of American people  with these wise men raised up by almighty God unto that very purpose to  bring about the result that they did.

Finally, in the midsummer of 1787, they signed that document--that  document that has now persisted, that has now endured close to two-and- a-half centuries and helped foster the development of the greatest  civilization the world has ever known.

Without each of these ingredients, this combination of local self- rule and national government, each remaining in its lane--this concept  that we sometimes refer to as federalism--the American experiment would  have failed.

So too--and that, by the way, is what I refer to as the vertical,  structural protection in the Constitution. We have a lot of  protections. The whole thing is a protection. The whole Constitution is  a protection in that its purpose for existence is itself restraining  government power. In literally every instance, with one possible  exception, that is what the Constitution does: It restrains government  power.

So it restrains it on these two axes, the one I just described--the  allocation of power between the States and the Federal Government is  the one we call  federalism. The horizontal protection is the one that I alluded to  briefly earlier--the separation of powers. We have got three separate  branches of government. I prefer to refer to them coordinate rather  than coequal branches. People use different terms to describe them.

I never call them just equal because they really are not equal. They  don't wield equal power. They are not equal in terms of their danger.

Many people mistakenly refer to the judicial branch as the most  dangerous branch. I think that is a huge mistake. It is just not true.  Now, sure, when mistakes happen over there, they do have consequences.  They can be bad, especially because it is the least democratic of the  three branches. It is the least accountable to the people--by design,  because its job is not to curry favor with the people. It is, rather,  to decide cases and controversies. And having been appointed by the  President and confirmed by the Senate, the Justices who hold the  highest judicial office in this country, on the highest Court of the  land, the Supreme Court of the United States--the only Court that is  itself established by the Constitution, with the rest of the courts  being the creations of Congress, pursuant to our constitutional  authority under article III of the Constitution--they are the least  accountable to the government because they are there to just decide  case and controversies.

The executive branch, run by the President--and, by way, as far as  the Constitution is concerned, the President, and to a degree the Vice  President, acting together, but primarily the President, is vested with  the power of the executive branch.

Insofar as we follow the Constitution correctly, if we were following  it to its full capacity, we would continue to recognize today, as the  Constitution itself does and has from the beginning, that all executive  power is vested in the President of the United States.

Yes, the Vice President is also elected and serves with him. The Vice  President serves two principle functions under our Constitution.  Function one is to serve as a spare, as a backup, as the person who  steps into the role of the President in the event of a death,  resignation, impeachment, and removal of the President of the United  States.

The second function is to serve as the President of this institution,  the U.S. Senate. But beyond that twofold role that I described of the  Vice President, the entirety of the executive power is vested in the  President of the United States.

This is significant power, to be sure; and yet that power and the  power of the Courts is still ancillary to--it is still less than--the  power vested in this branch of government, where we work--the executive  branch of the U.S. Government, the Congress of the United States.

How do we know it is the most powerful? We know it is the most  powerful because we make the law. The other two branches perform  ancillary functions to the lawmaking. We make the law. We decide what  the law should be, what the penalty for not obeying the law should be.  We prescribe these rules of action in the abstract, and it is then up  to the executive branch--meaning the President and those who serve  under the President--to execute, implement, and enforce the law; in  other words, to carry out what it is that we decide. If you want to  give it a corporate model analogy, it is as though we are the board of  directors and the President is the CEO.

The other way that we know that it is the most powerful and the most  dangerous--beyond the fact that we make the laws that the executive  implements and enforces and executes and that the judicial branch  interprets where people disagree as to its meaning--again, both  ancillary functions. Executing and interpreting are both ancillary to  lawmaking. The other reason we know that the lawmaking function--and,  therefore, the lawmaking organ--the Congress, the legislative branch,  is the most dangerous and the most powerful is because they entrusted  that power only to the branch of government that they made most  accountable to the people at the most regular intervals.

Presidents stand for election only every 4 years. By contrast, every  Member of the U.S. House of Representatives, by constitutional design,  stands for election every 2 years, every 24 months. In many respects,  this feels like a nanosecond in the legislative timeline. It is very  frequent. So every Member of the House is up for reelection every 2  years. In the Senate, one-third of our Members are up for reelection  every 2 years. That is why we are never very far from an election cycle  that will reorder things, that will send in new personnel, send some  back home, bring others back in.

This wasn't just because the Founding Fathers decided in the abstract  or for optical reasons that this would be fun to try. They did it  because they knew that this was the most dangerous power, the most  abusable power within the Federal Government and that it shouldn't be  entrusted to those who are detached from the people. You need to make  them accountable to the people at very regular intervals, and that is  precisely what they did.

So when we look at that government today and what it does, it is, in  many respects, far more powerful than the Founding Fathers could have  imagined, and that is not just because the United States of America has  grown from this sort of outpost of ragtag rebels who rebelled against  their mother country to being the world's greatest economic and  military and educational superpower, not just in existence today but  perhaps that human history has ever recorded.

So they would have been surprised by that, but that is not what I am  really referring to here. They would have been surprised by the extent  to which this government, our national government, our Federal  Government, based in this city, has become as powerful as it is within  this country, separate and apart from the prominence that this country  has acquired through economic growth, military prowess, and so forth.  In other words, this government performs a lot more functions than the  Founding Fathers ever envisioned, ever ordained, or ever authorized it  to perform.

If you read through the Constitution--and you can do it in a few  minutes, it is around 5,000 words, it doesn't take that long--most of  the powers of the Federal Government are those powers enumerated or  listed and given to Congress in one part of the Constitution. There are  a few others that you can find throughout the document. Most of them  can be found in article I, section 8, with 18 separate clauses. And its  powers include primarily the power to establish a uniform system of  laws governing immigration and naturalization: who can come into the  country, who becomes a citizen, and so forth; the power to collect  taxes, to raise money, and to spend that money in pursuit of Federal  purposes as ordained by the Constitution--those are both deficits in  the Articles of Confederation that they filled--the power to regulate  trade, or commerce, between the States with foreign nations and with  the Indian Tribes; the power to establish a uniform system of weights  and measures and the power to set up a system of postal roads; the  power to establish a system of what we now call intellectual property  laws: trademarks, copyrights, and patents, basically. They used  slightly different language then, but the idea was to protect the right  of authors and inventors to protect their art, so to speak, whether  that was a design or an invention, a poem, a book--whatever it is.  These intellectual property rights would be distinctively national and  Federal.

And what, might you ask, do these things have in common? Well, they  tend to be the sorts of things that need to be done at the national  level. Basically, that seemed to be their standard: Let's figure out  what has to be done at the national level lest there be chaos, and  let's leave everything else to the States and localities.

There are a few others. Bankruptcy laws come to mind and, of course,  the power to provide for our national defense: to assemble an Army and  a Navy, the power to declare war. Then there is perhaps my favorite  power of Congress that often goes unutilized and inert, almost rendered  vestigial but shouldn't be: the power to grant letters of marque and  reprisal.

I am referring there, of course, to letters of marque. That is  spelled M-A-R-Q-U-E. This is basically a hall pass issued by Congress  in the name of the United States that allows the person holding it to  engage in state-sponsored acts of piracy on the high seas with  utter impunity, backed by the full faith and credit of the United  States. If that is not awesome, I don't know what is. Now, it has been  a couple hundred years since we have used those with any regularity.  And perhaps it is time we do it again. It is a way of involving  privateers in our dirty work, in our military work without the U.S.  Government itself having to put American sweat, blood, and treasure on  the line.

If individuals want to sign up to do so, they may do so with the hope  and expectation that they will reap a liberal, rich reward if they  succeed in taking things away from our enemies and being able to bring  those things back into our country. It is part of how we have won wars,  particularly at a time when we didn't have a whole lot of money. We  haven't used those in a long time. Perhaps we ought to look at doing  those again.

But my point in reciting all of these--and there are a few others,  but this is the lion's share, where the bulk of the power is. There is  one other I will mention here that is not found in article I, section  8. There is one that is found in article I, section 4, clause 1 that  gives Congress the power to establish rules and regulations  not governing elections generally, but governing the election of  Federal officials, principally U.S. Senators and U.S. Representatives.  They understood and, in fact, openly provided in article I, section 4,  clause 1 that those elections would be conducted not by a Federal  election official--we don't want that, the Founding Fathers didn't want  that then, we don't want that now, and we should never in the future  want that--but that the States will conduct those elections and that  the States could come up with basic rules to govern the time, place,  and manner of those elections. And in the very same clause, they said:  But Congress may alter or add to those basic rules and regulations,  specifically concerning--exclusively concerning--the election of U.S.  Representatives and U.S. Senators.

Why? Well, because that is a Federal power. Congress is the Federal  policymaking body. Congress would necessarily have that power. But my  point is this: In all of those 18 clauses of article I, section 8, and  then in all the other miscellaneous powers of the Federal Government  almost always described in the Constitution as powers of Congress-- because, again, it is our job to set the policy. The two other branches  perform ancillary--important but ancillary--functions of either  executing and implementing the laws we make or interpreting the laws we  make.

The Constitution, in giving this power, never once gave the Federal  Government power to just legislate generally. They instead gave the  U.S. Government the power to do these limited things, to exercise these  limited enumerated powers that James Madison described collectively in  Federalist No. 45 as few and defined, while by contrast to those powers  reserved to the States as numerous and indefinite.

There is no power in there that says you can make good law generally,  do good things for good people. That was not what it was about. State  legislatures, except as constrained by their State constitutions or as  prohibited by the U.S. Constitution, may have some limitations, but  except as those limitations are found either in their State  constitution or in the U.S. Constitution.

State governments are free in our system to legislate on whatever  they want just because it might be good policy, but not all good policy  is constitutional within the Federal system because there are a whole  lot of things that are not within our power. Among those things are  things that tend to happen in one State at one time that aren't  crossing across State lines, that don't trigger any of the issues that  I mentioned a few minutes ago--national defense, weights and measures,  bankruptcy laws, intellectual property laws, and so forth.

Things like labor, manufacturing, agriculture, mining, health,  safety, and welfare historically, except as they touch one of the  Federal powers, were the province of States and localities. This was  always how it was supposed to be.

Now, we have deviated from that substantially, particularly since the  1930s in the New Deal era and particularly since one date that often  goes overlooked in American history: April 12, 1937. It is a date when  the Constitution was changed but not by constitutional amendment. Had  the change in the Constitution that was wrought that day been  implemented, been adopted as a constitutional amendment, it would have  been one of the most significant constitutional amendments ever  adopted, but they didn't do it that way. It was done by the Supreme  Court.

The Supreme Court, I believe, exceeded its authority and, by so  doing, authorized the U.S. Congress to exceed its authority by  interpreting one provision--clause 3 of article I, section 8, the  commerce clause--to give Congress the open-ended power to regulate not  just what it had theretofore been able to regulate as interstate  commerce--meaning, up until that time, the commerce clause had always  been understood--historically and according to its text, the text, the  original understanding--it had always been understood and accepted as  authorizing Congress to do a few things: No. 1, we could regulate  things or persons moving in interstate commerce; meaning moving across  State lines; meaning, if you had interstate commercial transactions.  Let's say if you had a farmer in Virginia growing tobacco and he was  selling his raw tobacco to a cigar manufacturer in Maryland, that was  an interstate commercial transaction. That is part of why the commerce  clause was put in there, because neither the laws of Virginia nor the  laws of Maryland would be competent to address all the issues that  could come up in that commercial transaction occurring across two  different States.

You had to have at least some government power that was capable of  resolving disputes where one State claimed all of the authority to  regulate that transaction and the other State did likewise. Just one of  many examples of how and why the commerce clause was designed and  originally understood: among other things, to authorize Congress to  regulate interstate commercial transactions--things and persons moving  in commerce across State lines.

(The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore assumed the Chair.)

It was also understood historically as authorizing Congress to  regulate channels and instrumentalities of interstate commerce, the  conduits and processes and means by which persons and things typically  move interstate in a stream of commerce. And by this we mean interstate  roadways, waterways, canals. Today we would add airways, airwaves, and  so forth. These are channels and instrumentalities of interstate  commerce. There are a lot of these.

To give you an example of one: our telephone system or the internet.  These are networks of wires that themselves are all connected, and  those wires stretch across States--across every State. If you pick up a  telephone here and you make a phone call in Washington, DC--or if you  are in Utah--if you pick up a telephone in Provo, UT, my hometown, and  you call someone else in Provo, UT--it hasn't crossed interstate  lines--that is still subject to Federal regulation because you have  touched a channel or an instrumentality of interstate commerce.

By the same token if you board an aircraft in Salt Lake City, UT, and  you fly to southern Utah, land in St. George, UT, that is an interstate  flight. You have not crossed State lines. And yet that is properly  regulated as a Federal thing because you are traveling in interstate  airways.

These are channels and instrumentalities of interstate commerce. So  what changed on April 12, 1937? Well, it was that the Supreme Court of  the United States interpreted the commerce clause giving Congress the  power to regulate not only that, not only channels and  instrumentalities and interstate commercial transactions but also  anything and everything that when measured in the aggregate, even if it  takes place in one State at one time, as long as it substantially  affected interstate commerce when measured in the aggregate one could  regulate it Federally.

Now, does that sound like legalese? Yes, because it is. Does it sound  confusing? Yes, it is probably intended to be so. Let me just put this  in perspective.

This radically transformed our government the U.S. Government that  was originally established and ordained as  a government of powers that James Madison described in Federalist No.  45 as ``few and defined'' while describing the powers reserved for the  States as ``numerous and indefinite.''

It almost flipped the equation.

Because of the supremacy clause where we do act, where we have the  authority to act, our law governs, our law trumps the inconsistent  State law that might conflict with it.

And so, yes, that matters. And that mattered immensely because all of  a sudden we went from being a Federal Government with few and defined  powers to a government with numerous and indefinite powers because  almost everything--almost every aspect of human existence--in one way  or another can sort of be characterized as something that when measured  in the aggregate substantially affects interstate commerce.

Let me give you an example of this carried to its logical conclusion  where it went: NLRB v. Jones & Laughlin Steel was the decision the  Supreme Court made on April 12, 1937. It did so in the context of labor  regulations.

They said: Yeah, labor, even when we are talking--as we usually are-- about somebody who is working in a job in one State at one time not  across interstate lines, not in a channel or instrumentality of  interstate commerce, not in the District of Columbia, an Indian  Reservation, or some other Federal enclave, but just garden variety  labor in a particular State.

Because other people work in other States and people sometimes move  from one State to another and money is frequently transacted from one  State to another, that means Congress can regulate labor--or that is  what they concluded at the time.

Within 5 years, this culminated into a really illustrative  flashpoint. In a case called Wickard v. Filburn the Supreme Court of  the United States reviewed a case involving the plight of a wheat  farmer named Roscoe Filburn. He was a wheat farmer in Ohio, and he got  in trouble with the U.S. Government. He was fined many thousands of  dollars.

I don't remember what the exact sum was, but as I recall, it was the  present-day equivalent of what would have been many tens or perhaps  even hundreds of thousands of dollars for a grave offense against the  United States.

What, you might ask, was his grave offense? Did he kill somebody? Did  he rob a bank? Did he remove too many mattress tags that you are not  supposed to remove?

No, they didn't have those then.

No. This was his offense: He grew too much wheat. He grew more wheat  than Congress in its infinite wisdom felt was appropriate. Technically  speaking, it wasn't Congress' judgment, and this is part of the  problem.

Congress, in 1937, perhaps egged on by NLRB v. Jones & Laughlin  Steel--Congress passed the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1937. In the  Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1937, Congress decided to ordain and  establish the U.S. Department of Agriculture as the omniscient,  omnipresent arbiter of who may grow what crops and in what quantity,  because after all we can't have people growing whatever crops they want  in whatever quantities or that would be chaos--dogs and cats living  together in the streets, Book of Revelation-style chaos.

We could not have that. We have got to have Congress controlling  prices. So we delegated out to the Secretary of Agriculture the power  to make his own set of laws, thus violating at once both the vertical  protection of federalism because all of the sudden we cannibalized a  lot of the State power and made it Federal. We had taken it over from  them.

And then we simultaneously disrupted the horizontal protection of  separation of powers because we are supposed to make the laws--and we  kind of still do--but ever since 1937, we have also kind of just been  delegating it out to other people. That is what Congress did with the  Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1937.

So they said: Secretary of Agriculture, you may--in fact, you must  establish production quotas for a whole host of agricultural products.

Why? Well, because we can't have farmers deciding how much wheat or  hay or rice or beef to raise. That would be chaos because then we won't  be able to control prices. And if Congress can't control prices, it  will be chaos. Dogs and cats living together in the streets, Book of  Revelation-style apocalyptic nightmares. That was their warning.

So they handed that power over to the Secretary of Agriculture. And  what did he do? Well, he sent out to every farmer--we will start at  least with every grain farmer in America--these little cards.

I have one of them framed. My son John gave it to me for Christmas a  couple years ago. It is a little card just like the one that Roscoe  Filburn the wheat farmer would have received, telling him how much  wheat--how many bushels of wheat he could grow based on the number of  acres he farmed to grow wheat. And they said: You may not exceed X  number of bushels.

So we had just exercised the power that was always historically  considered a State and local power--if they exercise that power. It  would have been a State power because a wheat farmer typically grows  wheat--at least in those days they would have and most farmers still  today--they were typically operating in one State at one time. They are  not growing wheat while on a conveyor belt or a bus that moves  interstate or something. So it would have been subject to State and  local power.

No. We made it Federal. Once it was Federal, then we messed up the  vertical protection of federalism. We then outsourced the lawmaking to  the executive branch--not to the President directly, but to the  Secretary of Agriculture--and we said: OK. You can now make a bunch of  other laws, and those laws will decide how much wheat per acre a wheat  farmer may grow and then the same thing for a whole host of other  agricultural products.

Back to Roscoe Filburn. He got in trouble. He got fined a ton of  money, many thousands of dollars, which is lot more then than it is  now.

But, you know, this farmer Roscoe Filburn, he was no simple-minded  human. And Roscoe Filburn had what every American should have; he had a  darn good lawyer. So when he got to the Supreme Court of the United  States he said: You know what? I shouldn't be in trouble at all for  this because, yes--yes--it is true. I grew more wheat than Secretary  Wickard--the Secretary of Agriculture at the time--told me I could  grow. I did it. But I shouldn't get in trouble for that because the  wheat--the amount of wheat that I grew in excess of my Federal grain  production quota--my limit--never entered interstate commerce.

And that, after all, was the hook, the Federal hook that allowed the  U.S. Government authority over Roscoe Filburn's wheat and the wheat  grown by every other farmer in America.

So he said that: The amount of wheat that I grew in excess of my  quota never entered interstate commerce. Why? Because it never entered  commerce at all because it never even left my farm. I took that wheat,  the wheat I grew on top of my grain production quota, and I kept it on  my farm to use as food for my family and for my animals and to reserve  the balance to use as seed in subsequent growing seasons.

That is a darn good argument. It should have been the end of the  matter. It wasn't. The Supreme Court wasn't finished with its verbal  legal and mental gymnastics.

They said: Ah, but by not complying strictly with your grain  production quota and with growing even a small amount of wheat in  excess of your grain production limit as granted to you by the  Secretary of Agriculture, that means that you bought less wheat than  you would have had to buy on the open market; because had you not  retained that for use on your own farm, you would have to have bought  it somewhere else. And that, in turn, when replicated by other Roscoe  Filburns all over the country would itself have in the aggregate a  substantial effect on interstate commerce.

It is really quite disgusting if you think about it. We went from a  government of few and defined powers to a government of powers that can  be described as numerous and indefinite, all without altering or  amending the Constitution, which was made deliberately difficult--to  amend the Constitution--because it is a law of laws.

It is not supposed to be something you can just change like changing  a  pair of socks. You have got to amend the Constitution, and amending the  Constitution was made deliberately difficult. There are two mechanisms  by which you can do it. We have only ever used one, and that is the  mechanism by which two-thirds of both Chambers of Congress propose a  constitutional amendment, and that amendment becomes effective only  after it has been ratified by three-fourths of the States.

We didn't use that. And had they tried to amend the Constitution like  that, it would have never succeeded. It would have failed miserably  because they would have known.

It is kind of a problem because ever since then, we have just  accepted this premise that the U.S. Government is really powerful, that  it can exercise pretty much whatever power it wants because it is only  a mental step or two removed from saying: well, this or that affects  interstate commerce.

Once we have all this power vested in this government, it became far  too easy and far too tempting--far too alluring for Federal lawmakers,  U.S. Senators and U.S. Representatives, to cease to be the lawmakers  and instead to make other lawmakers to delegate the lawmaking power, to  pass laws that read sort of like this: We hereby declare as Congress of  the United States that we shall have fair labor standards in the United  States and we hereby delegate to the National Labor Relations Board the  power to make and interpret and enforce their own rules carrying the  force of generally applicable Federal law to make sure that we have  fair labor standards.

We hereby declare that we shall have fair trade practices in the  United States and hereby give the FTC the power to make its own laws  that govern what fair trade practices are, and they can make the law  now.

You do this with Agency after Agency after Agency, and so now the  people who were once closely connected or at least only one step  removed from those who made even their Federal laws, now they are  several steps removed from it. And you have got people making their  laws who were neither elected by the people nor accountable to them.

Now, lest you think this is a de minimis problem, let me give you  this example. I have got two visual aids in my office in addition to  the Agricultural Adjustment Act grain production quota just like the  one Roscoe Filburn had.

I keep these two stacks of documents. One is a short stack. It is  about that tall. It is usually a few thousands pages long, consists of  the laws passed by Congress last year. Some would say that is too big,  too many pages. Maybe they are right. Regardless, it is about that big.

The other stack is 13 feet tall. In a typical year, it is about  100,000 pages long, stacked--with each of these documents stacked on  top of each other. It is 13 feet tall, 100,000 pages long. That  consists of the Federal Register.

The Federal Register is the annual cumulative index of Federal  regulations as they are first announced, released for notice and  comment, creating the illusion of a democratic process--it is just the  illusion, the notice and comment process in what is known as modern  administrative law in the United States.

It is a fraud. It is a farce, at least as far as any kind of  democratic input goes. They do whatever they want. They don't really  care that much. I mean, they try to go through the notice and comment  period, receive the comments, and make some nominal changes, perhaps if  they see something they haven't thought of before.

But for the most part, they are going to do whatever they want  because they don't care. They don't work for the American people. They  can't be fired by the American people. They don't ever stand for  election. Most of them don't even work for anyone who him or herself  can be fired.

It is almost government on autopilot, which is a type of government  that can't be removed, which is not just something that has the  potential for tyranny, it is the literal definition of tyranny.

In fact, some of the leading political philosophers, some of the  political philosophers that have the greatest imprint on the thinking  of our Founding Fathers, noted that the consolidation of the power to  make law with the power to enforce law--if that power is wielded  whenever, if ever it is wielded by the same people, it is not just the  case that that can lead to tyranny; it is tyranny. It is what tyranny  is. So that is a problem.

These are all areas in which we have strayed in one way or another,  and it explains how it is that we started from this simple system that  was established from the beginning on popular sovereignty and started  also from the premise that we wanted local self-rule, local government  to be the norm except, where necessary, to wield Federal power, and  where Federal power was appropriate, it should be distributed between  these three branches of government--one making the laws, one executing  and enforcing them, and one interpreting them. We went from that system  to a system in which consolidation of power has become the norm rather  than distribution of power, which was the entire objective of the  Constitution.

Why, then, am I speaking of this today? Over the 2\1/2\ centuries of  our country's existence and the soon-to-be 240 years of our operation  as a constitutional Republic under the U.S. Constitution of 1787, we  have seen these structural protections granted to the American people  as part of their freedom, as part of what it means to have popular  sovereignty. We have seen them whittled. We have seen them diminished,  oftentimes in small increments, other times in giant leaps. But these  offenses to the structural Constitution shouldn't be overlooked, they  can't be overlooked, and when they are overlooked, it causes other  problems. It also makes that much more severe what can happen whenever  any other constitutional insult or injury or offense or deviation comes  into existence.

Let's take for example--let's suppose that even though most  Presidents operating the executive branch of government would pledge  while running to faithfully execute the laws of the United States as  our Chief Executive Officer--in fact, that is kind of part of the job,  part of the oath of office that they take. Insofar as they stray from  that and they either exercise power that is not theirs or they refuse  to execute power that they are charged with enforcing, that creates its  own set of problems.

One of many points in our history that I can point to where that  became a problem is during the years January 20, 2021, to January 20,  2025. The President of the United States decided that the borders of  the United States and the laws designed to protect the borders of the  United States and the laws designed to decide who may enter this  country and who may not were sort of optional, and that, after all, it  really just needed to be much more about letting people who wanted to  be here into our borders and live among us--in many respects, as one of  us.

During that 4-year period alone, as stunning as it may seem, 10 to 15  million people entered our country unlawfully with the President of the  United States and those serving under him basically--not just basically  but genuinely beckoning them on, saying: Come on in. May we get you a  cold beverage? Is there anything we can do to make you more  comfortable?

Ten to fifteen million--now, this is problematic on so many levels.  Congress, over many decades, has enacted laws deciding who may enter  and who may not. Congress has, over many decades, decided the terms and  conditions by which that may happen, who may enter, and for what period  of time, who may work and in what capacity, subject to what  restrictions.

These were all just overlooked for the most part as that President-- the one serving from 2021 to 2025--just said: Let's just bring them all  in.

He paid lipservice to a couple of laws that appeared to grant fairly  broad authority to allow people in for humanitarian purposes, but he  didn't follow those. He did not follow the restrictions that those laws  put in place; he just said: Come on in.

Realizing that, you know, it was going to be very difficult to stop  him from allowing that to happen--and it was. Ten to fifteen million  people entered the United States unlawfully during that time period.  That by itself is a type of insult, a type of injury to the  constitutional structure in that if you have a President who refuses to  enforce  the law and, in fact, facilitates the violation of our law, that is  itself a type of injury to the Constitution.

It is a type of injury that is often difficult in many respects for  the courts to enforce. In some cases, the courts have the chance to do  so, and they don't enforce it. But there are a number of constitutional  injuries that are very, very difficult for the courts to enforce, and  the problem continues.

This by itself was an injury, but the injury compounded. As you might  imagine, people were fleeing countries in numbers that large, that many  millions of people, all at once. Some of them were running from  something. They were all running from something, and some of those  people who were running from something had no doubt led a life of  criminal activity in their home countries.

Nearly every one of those people, nearly every one of the 10 to 15  million people--maybe more--paid an exorbitant sum. At the low end, we  are talking $3,000, $4,000 a head. At the high end, for the higher risk  ones--the people who had to travel from farther distances or who had  bounties on their heads or warrants out for their arrest on Interpol or  whatever--those people were paying many tens of thousands of dollars a  head. To whom? Well, not to the U.S. Government--to international drug  cartels, which ended up making tens of billions of dollars a year, year  after year, during that 4-year reign of terror in which Joe Biden  refused to enforce our border.

Meanwhile, if we back up a few years, back up 30 years or so, when  Congress passed another law--a law that I am going to reconnect with  what happened between 2021 and 2025 in just a moment.

In 1993, Congress enacted a law called the NVRA, the National Voter  Registration Act, also known as the motor voter law. It was designed  for a purpose--it was meant to make it easier for American citizens to  vote. It said this: For any State that agrees to participate in this,  they get an amount of Federal funding for cooperating in the Federal  program. Nearly every State agreed to participate in it and  participates in it to this day.

The program works like this: Under the NVRA, an American citizen in  any participating State, which is nearly all of them, can go into a  DMV--a department of motor vehicles or whatever you call it in your  State--and apply for a driver's license. When they apply for a driver's  license, they are free to check a box saying: I would like, while  applying for my driver's license, simultaneously to register to vote.

It is kind of a good idea in some ways, I suppose, because when you  go to a DMV and you are applying for a driver's license, you typically  have to establish who you are. They are going to take your picture.  This is going to become an official document. It is sort of like when  you register to vote. So why not do both of them at once? It made a lot  of sense, I suppose.

But the way it works out is all you have to do is check a box saying:  I want to register to vote as I am applying for a driver's license.  Then here comes the kicker. All you have to do is sign your name at the  bottom saying ``I certify that I am a citizen and otherwise allowed to  vote,'' meaning ``I haven't lost my right to vote by virtue of a  criminal conviction or something like that or for renouncing my  citizenship'' or whatever else could end up doing that. There isn't  much else that would have that effect. But that is all it requires.  There is no proof. There are no details. Nothing.

Well, back in 1993, even though it wasn't that long ago, the world  was a little bit of a different place. We didn't have 30 million-plus  noncitizens residing in this country then. We do now. And it wasn't  commonplace in those days for the noncitizens who were here to need to  have and, in fact, to have a driver's license. So many of them didn't  apply for them. Many States didn't offer them if you weren't a citizen.

That has changed, too, since 1993. Nearly every State today will give  you a driver's license--no problem--if you are not a citizen. In 19  States plus the District of Columbia, you may freely apply for and  receive a driver's license even if you are by your own admission an  illegal alien. Even if you are a known illegal alien, you may do so.

So what is to stop them from going in to apply for a driver's license  and checking the box saying ``I want to register to vote too''-- especially when all they have to do is sign their name at the bottom?  No further questions asked. That is it. It seems risky, right? It seems  dangerous.

Well, a couple decades ago, some States started to wrestle with this.  Some States started to consider, well, maybe we ought to ask a few  questions. Maybe we ought to ask for some type of documentation as to  their citizenship.

That issue was raised by the State of Arizona, and in 2013, two  decades after the NVRA was passed, the Supreme Court of the United  States decided a case called Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of  Arizona. In that case, the Supreme Court said: We have looked at the  NVRA, and we conclude that the NVRA prohibits Arizona or any other  State--when registering voters using an NVRA form at a DMV, we conclude  that the NVRA prohibits those States from requesting any proof of  citizenship or asking further questions with regard to citizenship  because this is a Federal matter and any discretion about the  requirements of the NVRA have been preempted by Federal law such that  the States have no authority to act in that area.

So since 2013, no State is even allowed to inquire into somebody's  citizenship when they do this.

It didn't get that much attention at the time. In fact, this is a  case that until fairly recently--I introduced this bill in the Senate.  My partner on this bill in the House of Representatives is Congressman  Chip Roy from Texas. He and I started piecing this puzzle together  about 2\1/2\ or 3 years ago. When we put it all together, we realized  this really is a problem, and it became an especially acute problem  during the Biden Presidency when 10 to 15 million illegal aliens came  into this country. We realized the extent to which this could be  abused--perhaps is already being abused.

But our greater concern has from the beginning been based on what  could occur in the future as people realize the extent to which voting  in U.S. elections is really easy if you are not a citizen. That is why  we wrote, that is why we introduced what was originally called the SAVE  Act, which is a very simple approach. The SAVE Act simply said that  when you apply to register to vote using an NVRA form or otherwise  register to vote, you have to prove you are a citizen if you want to  vote in Federal elections.

Now, the States are free to do whatever they want with regard to  their elections. State and local elections are the province of State  and local governments. And they themselves may decide, consistent with  the terms of their own State constitutions, who may vote in what  election.

Until a few years ago, I would have considered it an absurd  suggestion if anyone even hinted at the possibility that some States  might legalize noncitizen voting. Well, some States have at least for  purposes of some local elections.

There are three or four States, plus DC, that at least in some local  elections openly allow noncitizen voters. Now that means that they are  registering noncitizens to vote in those elections.

As Federal authorities have inquired into how it is they go about  separating out those voter registration files and making sure that  those noncitizen voters registered to vote in those States are  precluded from voting in Federal elections, they go mute. They refuse  to answer. They won't say anything.

That is chilling. They are registering noncitizens to vote. We asked  them: How do you keep them from voting in Federal elections? And they  won't answer. That is not the worst of it.

About half of the States, particularly those with Democrat  legislatures and Democrat Governors, refuse to answer any questions  about whether, to what extent, in what way they are taking any steps to  review their voter registration files to make sure that no noncitizens  are not found among them. They refuse to answer. They refuse to share  data.

We have established, within the Department of Homeland Security, a  database, a database known as the SAVE database, hence the term SAVE  Act. I will get in a minute to the name change that happened more  recently with the SAVE Act.

It is this database called the SAVE database that was established and  designed for this very purpose--to help States to review their voter  registration files and take their voter registration data. It is one of  the great miracles of modern technology. We have this huge country,  some 350 million people who are still living here, most of whom are  citizens. But we have got more noncitizens living here than ever  before.

But through the miracle of modern technology, it is relatively easy  to take these huge files, these huge databases of voter registrations  in the 50 States and the District of Columbia, run them through the  SAVE database. And it will fairly quickly kick out a report, showing  these individuals appear not to be citizens of the United States.

To their credit, a lot of States have taken advantage of this.  Interestingly enough, it is basically most, nearly all States with  Republican legislatures and Governors have done that or at least have  started the process of doing that. In the process, they have discovered  many thousands of noncitizens who have, in fact, registered to vote-- many thousands.

That is just in the States that have decided to clean up their files  and decided to run them through the SAVE database. Those are the  conscientious ones. What about the nonconscientious ones or the ones  that are conscientiously, if they might want to call it that, refusing  to comply, refusing to even figure out whether they are violating the  law?

Remember, it is a Federal offense--it is a Federal felony offense to  vote in a U.S. Federal election. It is, likewise, a Federal felony  offense to knowingly facilitate and arrange for someone who is not a  citizen, knowing that they are not a citizen, to vote in U.S. Federal  elections.

And yet these States are just refusing to comply. It is like don't  ask, don't tell. Do not tell me where the noncitizens who are voting in  our State might be found because we don't want to remove them.

What other legitimate reason could there be to turn a blind eye to  this? Knowing all that we know, about 30 million noncitizens living in  the United States, 10 to 15 million who just arrived in the last few  years alone--how easy it is in almost every State to walk into any DMV  and by signing your name and checking a box, registering to vote,  including in Federal elections, with four of those States and the  District of Columbia openly allowing noncitizens to vote in some local  election, and then refusing to tell us what, if anything, they are  doing to prevent those noncitizens from voting in Federal elections.

That is why we introduced the SAVE Act. And then in the last couple  of months, at the request of President Trump and Majority Leader Thune,  we changed the SAVE Act to the SAVE America Act. We had the name  change. It is descriptive. It is what we do. We save America by passing  this.

And we also added the voter ID provision. This was kind of part of  the plan from the beginning. We had originally wanted to introduce it  with the voter ID provision of the bill. But we were advised at the  time to keep it simple so that we have a simple message about  citizenship.

But as time has moved on, we have realized that there is actually  great symmetry. And we have come up with this mantra that the SAVE  America Act is about making it easy to vote and hard to cheat. It is  equally important to accomplish both of those objectives.

Without both of them, you mess things up. If you leave off either of  them, you are in trouble. So if you make it easy to vote but also easy  to cheat, you are going to have problems. It is going to be chaos.

If you make it hard to vote and hard to cheat, that is going to cause  its own set of problems. You don't want to make it hard to vote. You  want it to be easy because exercising that constitutionally protected  right, that is the fundamental incident, the fundamental blessing. The  core element of what it means to be a U.S. citizen should not be  difficult to exercise.

And so we wrote a bill that, when passed into law, will make it easy  to vote and hard to cheat. If you cheat either one of those, if you  give short shrift to either objective, you will have a problem.

Now, how do we do that? Well, we achieve it through two principle  means: The SAVE America Act requires voter ID at the time of voting,  government-issued photo ID showing that you are who you claim to be and  that you are the same person listed under your voter registration file.  Very simple.

A whole lot of our States, including, I believe, 22 States  represented by at least one, if not two, Democratic Senators, have  photo ID laws. So if a whole bunch of Democratic Senators come from  States that have voter ID laws, you don't hear them complaining about  the voter ID law.

If they don't complain about their own States' voter ID laws, why  should they be concerned about ours? Why should their State and local  elections be any different than ours when we have the clearest and the  strictest penalty against noncitizen voting?

Well, there shouldn't--there isn't a legitimate defense against this.  There isn't a legitimate reason to not have a voter ID law in place in  the Federal Government, just as so many of the States have.

The second element involves citizenship, citizenship verification. We  achieve this citizenship verification in two different ways: One, it is  the citizen's responsibility. When a voter shows up to register to  vote, he or she must provide some type of proof of citizenship.

Now, ideally, we would like that to be the same type of proof of  citizenship that is used in other areas of the Federal Government, most  notably, most commonly, the type of proof of U.S. citizenship that  every American citizen has for decades and still to this day has to  provide when starting a new job, whenever you begin a new job as a new  employee.

In fact, everyone in this room, everyone in this building, everyone  in the entire Capitol Complex, nearly every--essentially, every  employee in the United States of America has had to provide this  documentation whenever he or she starts a new job as an employee.

You have to fill out a form called the I-9, where, in addition to  stating your name and date of birth and basic information like that,  you are also required to provide documentation of your U.S.  citizenship. And that is to make sure that those working in the United  States, those employed in the United States are either citizens or, if  they are not citizens, that they are here on a visa that allows them to  work.

Not all visas allow employment; and those visas that allow some  employment usually have pretty significant restrictions attached to  them, defining the nature and the duration of the work they may carry  out here while being paid.

That documentation typically consists of a birth certificate and a  government-issued photo ID. Sometimes an original copy of the Social  Security card can also suffice to buttress, to supplement the birth  certificate. It has got to be an original copy of the birth  certificate. Not hard to get. Easier today to get than ever before.

In most States--I believe in every State today, in fact--you can  order one of these online if you can't find yours. And for a few  dollars, you can order a copy and have it mailed to you within just a  few days.

It used to be a little bit harder. You know, in the days before the  internet, you would have to write out a letter, put it in the mail,  stamp it, wait for it to come back. Maybe they would get it. Maybe they  didn't. But it is a lot easier today.

These documents are so common that every American has to provide a  set of documents every single time they start a new job. I myself have  had to do this a number of times. Since becoming an adult, every single  job I have started, I have had to fill out an I-9; and I had to provide  that documentation.

I had to do that even here when starting as a U.S. Senator. I had to  provide that documentation, and that wasn't the only documentation I  had to provide. I also had to provide my election certificate that  showed that the people of Utah had, in fact, elected me to the U.S.  Senate.

Had I not done so, I couldn't have started this job, just as I  couldn't have started any previous job without proving who I was and  that I was a U.S. citizen and that I was entitled to be here.

So it requires you to prove your citizenship. The preferred form is  the birth certificate, coupled with a government-issued photo ID.

But when we wrote the law, when we wrote this bill, we really wanted  to make sure that we didn't make it too hard because, again, we want to  make it easy to vote and hard to cheat. If you cheat either one of  those, if you pay too little attention to either one of those elements,  you are going to mess up the equation.

And so we said: Look, there may be some people who have incomplete  documentation. Maybe they have got a government-issued photo ID but no  birth certificate. Maybe they have the birth certificate but no  government-issued photo ID.

Or maybe some people will be missing something else. Maybe they have  had a name change. Maybe they have--you know, a woman who has gotten  married and decided to take her husband's last name has her birth  certificate. The birth certificate doesn't have her husband's last name  on it because, you know, obviously, her parents would have had no idea  what her husband's name would be or who she would marry. So it wouldn't  be on there.

If she can't find her marriage certificate or some other proof of a  name change, we don't want that to become a problem. And, in fact, we  don't even want it to even become a problem if a voter registering to  vote can't find any of his or her documentation. Most of us have those,  and we can find them without too much trouble. And if we can't find  them, most of us can order one--order a copy and get what we need.

But even if you can't find one of the necessary documents, or you  can't find any of them, or because your house burned down, or because  your dog ate them or something else--I don't know--we still wanted to  make that easy.

And so we provided text in there that is now found in the legislation  now pending before the Senate. It starts on page 12, line 22 of this  legislation.

And it says that if you can't find any of the other documents, I  mean, any of them or all of them, it is OK. You can fill out an  affidavit. It is just like filling out a form. You just have to provide  a little bit more information.

And then you allow the State to confirm or refute that information  that can establish the critical elements of your citizenship.

So, for example, the affidavit would look something like this. If you  are a natural-born citizen of the United States, meaning you were a  citizen as of the moment of your birth, by virtue of the circumstances  surrounding your birth, then you are a natural-born citizen.

And if you are a natural-born citizen, then your affidavit would look  something like this: I, John Smith--or whatever your name is--was born  on such and such a date in this or that city. Here were my parents'  names. Maybe you need that; maybe you don't. And I was a citizen as of  the moment of my birth.

It is about all you would need if you had the birthplace, the birth  date, and especially your parents' names. It would be very easy for the  State to document that. Then, once you fill out that affidavit under  penalty of perjury--it is a sworn statement. Once you fill that out,  the burden shifts to the State, and unless the State concludes that you  have been lying--and if you were to lie about it, there would be  consequences because you will have signed it under penalty of perjury-- then you are good. There is no further responsibility, and there is no  cost. If you are lying, then, yes, there would be problems, but I don't  think most people are going to do that. Most people have sense enough,  by the time they have to sign something under penalty of perjury in the  form of an affidavit--providing that level of detail--that it is going  to be less likely.

In any event, that is a risk that we take on in this legislation.  Why? Well, because we want to make it easy to vote and hard to cheat.  We don't want to skimp on either one of those elements.

You can also prove your citizenship with one document if you have got  it. That document is a U.S. passport. Not everybody has one of those. A  lot of Americans do. It is useful to have, especially--if you are ever  going to engage in any international travel, you are going to need one.  If you don't ever travel internationally, you probably don't want to go  through the hassle and expense of getting one as they cost a couple of  hundred dollars; but if you do have one, you can use it.

So here we are. It is very simple legislation requiring that which we  already require in other laws. It is requiring people to do what they  do all the time. Every day in America, a whole lot of people are  starting a new job. In fact, I would dare say that, of the working-aged  adults in the workforce today--I don't know what the average is, but I  would imagine that the average American employee probably changes jobs,  changes employers, at least every--I don't know--5 or 6 years. Maybe it  is more than that. This is not an uncommon thing. And every time you do  that, you have got to pony up the documentation for the I-9 to prove  you are an American citizen or you can't start the job. So we know  people are doing this because we know most adults in this country--at  least those who are able to work--do, in fact, have jobs. So this is no  mystery.

We also know that--I don't know--I think it is, maybe, 160, 170  million people have passports. To get a passport, you have got to  provide--obviously, you can't provide a passport to get a passport  unless you have already got one that hasn't yet expired. Then it will  serve as proof. If you have never had one or if you have one that has  expired, you are going to have to come up with the original  documentation: a birth certificate, a government-issued photo ID, a  Social Security card, whatever.

But a lot of people go through this--and not just a lot--we are  talking hundreds of millions of Americans do this all the time. It is  not that difficult. Yet you would never guess this based on the hue and  cry we hear from our colleagues across the aisle.

This law has taken on a life and a flavor all its own. This proposed  law, this bill, is really, really popular as 90 or 95 percent of all  Republican voters support it, and between 70 and 75 percent of  Democratic voters support it.

Do you know how hard it is to find any bill or any set of policies  that will garner that much support in every racial and age and  geographic demographic imaginable? in every party affiliation  demographic? It is really uncommon. This thing seems to be growing more  popular every single day. In fact, it is controversial only in the  halls of this building, the U.S. Capitol. The U.S. Congress is the only  place where it is controversial. Only Senate and House Democrats don't  like it. The American people overwhelmingly do. Sure, you will find a  few people out in the country who don't, but they are vastly  outnumbered.

So why would the Democrats here oppose it? Well, let me go through  some of the arguments that we hear most frequently against it.

The first argument that we often hear is not necessarily the most  common, but it is one that almost always comes up, so I will list it  first, which is stunning to me.

The argument goes like this: We can't do this because States are in  charge of elections, not the Federal Government. This is a violation of  the vertical protection of federalism for the U.S. Government to impose  this mandate on the States, which are constitutionally responsible and  exclusively responsible for conducting elections.

This is a lie. This is just a baldfaced lie. It is incompatible with  any reading of article I, section 4, clause 1. It is, moreover, the  height of hypocrisy for people who continue to support a whole litany  of laws already enacted by this Congress, pursuant to the very same  provision of article I, section 4, clause 1--under the very same  provision--yet they don't oppose those.

In fact, the only reason that this law even became necessary--what  first got us thinking about it--has to do with this expansive, absurdly  incorrect interpretation of the NVRA made by the Supreme Court back in  2013. I say it was absurdly incorrect and it was and it remains that  today. It, nonetheless, remains conclusive over the dissent of my  former boss Justice Alito, who wrote a masterful dissent explaining why  that interpretation was wrong. The majority of the Court persisted with  what was an unconscionably bad ruling and not supported by the text.

What irritates me, what astounds me, and what leaves me almost  speechless is that not one of our Democratic colleagues--nearly all of  whom are raising this trumped up, baseless federalism argument against  the SAVE America Act--not one of them has ever breathed a word about  the NVRA. Not one of them has ever even hinted at the possibility that  we might need to repeal the NVRA. They are not saying that, and I am  not arguing that. But taken to its logical conclusion, their own  argument leads inexorably to the conclusion that the NVRA itself is  unconstitutional, which it is not, but that is where it goes. That is  where the hypocrisy starts and does not end.

Shame on them to make a federalism argument here when the plain text  of the Constitution says that this is a Federal responsibility and when  our existing law that they do not oppose; that they wholeheartedly  support; and that some of them were even here and voted for and  supported and aggressively advocated to pass--they say nothing about.  Yet it is the same law. If this is unconstitutional, that one was way  more unconstitutional. Neither one of them is. They know it, and they  persist in making these arguments.

Argument No. 2: This argument was made just a little while ago by my  friend and colleague the distinguished Senator from Vermont--the last  speaker in this Chamber before I started speaking this evening and a  good friend of mine. I really do like him, but he is wrong on this. He  is not just wrong, but somebody has badly deceived him. He is making  the argument that this disenfranchises women. He even read a letter  from a constituent, from a woman, in his home State of Vermont who was,  understandably, expressing outrage because she believes that she and  other women around the State of Vermont and throughout the country are  about to be disenfranchised should this bill become law. She will not.

Now, her argument and his argument, in building on her argument  raised in her letter and sending alarm bells, should have been  something that he as a U.S. Senator would have wanted to correct. After  all, we don't want our constituents panicking, especially needlessly,  and this one is a needless panic. She wrote to him in a panic,  understandably concerned that she and other women across the State of  Vermont and throughout the United States of America would be unable to  vote because, if after getting married they take their husband's name  and their birth certificate doesn't contain their married name--unless  you happen to marry somebody with the same last name that you were born  with, which very rarely happens--then all of a sudden, you would be  unable to vote.

What? This has never been the case. This has never been a problem. It  is not a problem when you fill out the I-9 when you start a new job.  Yet you use a birth certificate for that. It is not a problem when you  apply for a passport. You use a birth certificate for that. It is also  not a problem when you register to vote under the SAVE America Act. We  make it very simple and clear: If you have got a marriage certificate,  that can suffice for establishing the name change. If you have got a  name change that occurred for other reasons having to do with adoption  or you just wanted to change your name, you can provide the court order  approving the name change and recording it. People do change their  names, and sometimes there are interesting stories about this.

Years ago, when I was a young missionary in the Lower Rio Grande  Valley of the State of Texas, I met a family who told a story of a  family friend who decided, one day, that he wanted to change his name  to Squirrel. He went to a local courthouse and appeared before the  judge.

The judge said: Do you want to change your name?

Yes, sir.

To what do you want to change your name?

And he said: Squirrel.

The judge said: Squirrel? ``Squirrel'' what?

And he said: Squirrel--period--meaning that is it. He just wanted to  be ``Squirrel,'' sort of like--I don't know--Cher, Bono, Sting.  ``Squirrel--period.''

Well, the court reporter, apparently, recorded that as an answer, so  his name is now ``Squirrel Period,'' with the last name spelled P-E-R- I-O-D. That is what it is. So, from now on, unless he has changed his  name since then, Squirrel Period has had to establish his identity as  Squirrel Period. I hope he has changed his name since then because that  doesn't seem like a great last name and rather confusing.

In any event, Squirrel Period, if he were to newly register to vote  under this law--and keep in mind, it is only if Squirrel Period decided  to move or otherwise had to newly register to vote--this law wouldn't  require anything new in terms of his voter registration, meaning, if he  is already registered to vote--and there is nothing that requires him  to reregister as this law does not--he is not going to have to go in  and redo his voter registration. That doesn't change unless or until he  moves. Nobody's status quo changes under the citizen provisions of the  SAVE America Act unless or until you move.

So, assuming Squirrel Period moved, Squirrel Period would need to, in  the first instance, either provide a--if he had a U.S. passport, that  would be the easiest way to do it because you can use one document. So  he comes forward with his passport. If his passport says ``Squirrel  Period,'' then he can register to vote with that. If he doesn't have  one of those, then he would get his birth certificate. I have no idea  what this individual's name was at the time of his birth. Let's say his  name was John Smith. He would provide the birth certificate that says  ``John Smith'' and then a copy of the court recording, with the court  seal, saying that John Smith had changed his name to Squirrel Period.

But even if Squirrel Period couldn't find any of those documents--not  his birth certificate, not the court documentation of his name change  from John Smith to Squirrel Period--he could still square out an  affidavit establishing those essential elements: I was born John Smith  in Harlingen, TX, in 1954. My parents were James and Emma Smith, and I  changed my name 25 years later in the general district court of  Harlingen, TX, from ``John Smith'' to ``Squirrel Period.'' I am a  natural-born citizen.

That would be the end of it.

They hand that over to the State election officials, and it is up to  the State election officials to do the rest. Even if he doesn't have a  single document to his name at that point, he could still register to  vote.

What is wrong with that? There is not a darned thing wrong with that.  This is just good government. This is protecting and preserving popular  sovereignty--a form of popular sovereignty that we will lose if we  continue on this course toward not caring about who votes in our  elections.

Yes, we lose a degree of popular sovereignty also when we allow, when  we enable, when we facilitate, when we deliberately turn a blind eye to  the risk of noncitizens voting in our elections. This is an act of  facilitating foreign interference in our own elections. This is a form  of democratic suicidality that I don't think we have ever observed in  this country.

Why any country would want to attack itself or allow or invite itself  to be attacked like this, I do not comprehend. Against such a known  risk, it is difficult to understand.

Of course, in addition to these provisions that require the citizen  to provide documentation at the time of voter registration, of new  voter registration, there are some back-end citizenship verification  requirements that don't impose any burden at all on any citizen, that  just require the State election officials to routinely go through and  review their voter registration files in an effort to weed out those  who are not citizens.

Now, they may leave them in there for purposes of voting in State or  local elections if their State and local laws and State constitution  allow that. That is their business--crazy, in my opinion, but they can  do whatever they want on that. But for purposes of ascertaining who may  receive a ballot to vote in a Federal election under the provisions of  this law, they would be required to work with the people at the  Department of Homeland Security who run this SAVE database, cycle their  data through that database periodically to identify those who may have  registered to vote, and then remove them from eligibility to vote in  Federal elections.

Again, that imposes no obligation, no burden on any U.S. citizen  other than the government officials involved in that, whose job it is  to enforce and apply the law anyway. This doesn't do anything to  undermine anyone's right to vote.

So back to the arguments against it. We started with the federalism  argument; we refuted that one.

We proceeded then to the argument that this would disenfranchise  women--absolutely absurd. There is not a single particle of truth to  that.

Argument No. 3, Jim Crow 2.0--that this would somehow disenfranchise  racial minorities, Black Americans. Sometimes they articulate it as  ``rural Americans,'' which is weird, as if certain demographics within  this country, whether racial minorities, rural Americans, or otherwise,  can't be expected to have documents. This is just racist. It is not  just unsettling; it is not just disturbing; it is not just insensitive;  that is racist. Some refer to it as the ``soft bigotry of low  expectations.'' There is nothing soft about this bigotry; it is just  bigoted. And this is coming from the party of Jim Crow, the party that  pioneered and designed Jim Crow, the party that designed this system of  laws throughout the Southern United States to systematically, hatefully  exclude African Americans from public life and much of private life, to  segregate them.

This is evil. I can't imagine why a member of the party of Jim Crow  would want to resurrect memories of Jim Crow, especially when making  accusations of Jim Crow where accusations of Jim Crow have absolutely  no place. There is nothing about this that is that way.

So for them to accuse us of supporting Jim Crow policies--were this  not the U.S. Senate, where we have the speech-and-debate clause  privilege--I mean, those are not only fighting words, those are  defamatory. They are false and defamatory words spoken with knowledge  of their falsity and reckless disregard as to their truthfulness. Even  under the very, very strict standard of New York Times v. Sullivan, as  against a public figure, that is defamatory language. Yet they do it  over and over again.

Do you know what else? To show you how absurd this is, if that is Jim  Crow, do you know what else is? Well, the Oscars, the Grammys, the  Emmys, the Super Bowl, and the Democratic National Convention, because,  you know what, to get into the Democratic National Convention, to  participate as a delegate in the Democratic National Convention, guess  what you have to do. You have to produce photo ID and documentation  that you are entitled to be there and that you are eligible to  participate and vote in the Democratic National Convention. So if the  SAVE America Act is Jim Crow, then so is the Democratic Party.

But, of course, the Democratic Party is not Jim Crow. Yes, they were  into that thing many decades ago. Fortunately, that ended many decades  ago. But neither is the SAVE America Act.

On that note, let me talk about how that ended many decades ago. How  did it end, this awful regime? For centuries before then, when slavery  was a thing, African Americans lived in violent oppression and in a  truly evil system that deprived them of the dignity of being human  beings in every way imageable.

After the Civil War and the 13th, 14th, and 15th Amendments were  adopted and Reconstruction began, we were supposed to emerge from that.  We were making progress toward racial equality in this country until  gains made by the Democratic Party in national elections in the 1870s  halted Reconstruction, and in many ways, that oppression--the same  oppression that kept African Americans in bondage for so long--took on  a different form.

Now that slavery was abolished, of course, with the 13th Amendment,  the equal protection clause in the 14th Amendment accorded them the  rights of full citizenship, no differently than anyone else, and  established this principle that the government may not treat you  differently based on your race. The 15th Amendment ensured that those  formerly in the bondage of slavery would have the right to vote.

Yet, as Reconstruction was halted, a different form of oppression  took over and lasted for far too long--for many decades. In fact, kind  of the beginning of the end of Jim Crow in many respects started with  the Supreme Court's ruling in Brown v. Board of Education, but there  were still vestiges of Jim Crow alive and well after that.

In many respects, what sounded the death knell--not immediately but  really started nailing down the end of Jim Crow--was the enactment of  the Civil Rights Act of 1964. That law is instructive here. When that  law was still a bill, a proposal, it was passed by the House of  Representatives in March of 1964. At the time it was passed by the  House, it had a national approval rating of about 51 percent.

It came over here to the Senate. Many people considered it doomed to  failure over here because in the Senate, the supporters of the Civil  Rights Act didn't have nearly enough votes to achieve cloture in the  Senate.

Cloture is, of course, the mechanism codified in rule XXII of the  Senate rules that allows the Senate to bring debate to a close.

They were 32 votes shy of the supermajority required for cloture. To  his great credit, the Senate majority leader at the time, Senator Mike  Mansfield, a Democrat, decided that he was not going to give up even  though he was 32 votes short of cloture, which meant effectively that  it couldn't pass, or at least that was conventional wisdom.

He said: Nope. We are going to see about that. We are going to debate  it, and we are going to require those who oppose this law to come down  here day after day, week after week, for as long as it takes to state  their opposition to it, and we will require them to hold the floor and  to continue to state their opposition and see what happens to the  popularity of that bill as they do that.

They did that day after day, and this continued for weeks, a total of  60 days, excluding Sundays, when I think they would discontinue, so for  70 calendar days, but they were in session for 60 days.

Eventually, that started to sharpen the senses of the U.S. Senators  who were opposing the legislation. They got tired of standing here day  after day to defend the indefensible, to defend an oppressive system of  Jim Crow laws, and they got especially tired as they realized that law  was getting even more popular even as they were trying to defeat it.

Their position became indefensible, but it took weeks of debating  it--literally many, many weeks, like 10 weeks of debate--before they  got to the point where they decided they had had enough and they were  losing. Their arguments were unpersuasive, and in the end, those  arguments became impossible for them to overcome.

So as a result of that fact, having their minds sharpened by physical  exhaustion and by the sort of political exhaustion that comes from  having to defend an indefensible position, they started negotiating  amendments--perhaps initially to save face with the American people and  eventually in an effort to try to resolve whatever lingering  substantive concerns they had. They were able to do that, and they  negotiated amendments, and they adopted amendments. Those amendments  eventually were sufficient for them to be able to overcome a 32-vote  cloture deficit. The law passed, and with that came the end of the  oppressive Jim Crow era.

I believe that the time has come again when we need that kind of  filibuster. People who are aware of the filibuster, what it means,  start to conflate it, view it as the other side of the same coin as  cloture. They are kind of the same thing but not really. They are kind  of the other side of the same coin but not really.

You see, cloture is a procedural mechanism--one procedural mechanism  that can be used to force debate to a close. You have to have a  supermajority of Senators in order to stop all Senators from continuing  to speak.

But this isn't necessarily a static thing. The fact that in March of  1964, when there was not a sufficient supermajority to force debate to  a close with a cloture vote--in fact, they were 32 votes shy of that-- these guys had the courage to continue debating week after week after  week, meaning those who wanted to pass the law, those who were probably  being told by some of their colleagues: You are wasting everyone's  time. This can't pass. We are 32 votes shy of cloture.

But thank Heavens that we brought Jim Crow to an end. That hateful,  oppressive, evil system of laws was  brought to an end because Senate majority leader Mike Mansfield, a  Democrat, was willing to make Senators defend their indefensible  positions until they could no longer defend them or, alternatively,  until they decided it was time to start to agree, to start to negotiate  changes and to make changes, to make the bill acceptable, and they  finally did that, and they got it passed into law.

Do you know what? Jim Crow is dead, and it is dead in large part  because of Mike Mansfield's courage in forcing Members to debate. Thank  heavens he didn't give up and throw up his hands and say: Oh, everybody  is telling me we can't do this. Thank Heavens he didn't give up and  say: Our Members are tired, and they want to go home, or they want to  go to Paris or whatever it is that they want to do when the Senate is  in recess. Thank Heavens that they were willing to stand with something  knowing that it was the right thing to do, knowing that the American  people wanted them to do it until it could get done. And it worked, and  we are all the beneficiaries of it.

Who knows how long that tyranny would have ended? Who knows how long  that hateful regime of Jim Crow would have lasted had Mike Mansfield  not had the courage to do that. Yes, I am a Republican, and he was a  Democrat, and my hat goes out to him. Thank Heaven above for Mike  Mansfield.

I will not pretend for a moment that the similarities between the  SAVE America Act and the Civil Rights Act of 1964 are any greater than  they are, but I am also not going to ignore the procedural parallels to  them or the procedural dynamics at play in the U.S. Senate that I think  warrant our best efforts to try to pass this thing. Unlike March of  1964 when the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was passed by the House, when it  had a 51-percent approval rating with the American people, the SAVE  America Act is supported by 80 or 85 percent of all Americans today.

And unlike the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which when it arrived in  March of 1964 in the Senate Chamber, it faced a daunting, seemingly  insurmountable cloture deficit of 32 votes, we have a cloture deficit  of only 10 votes. Unlike the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which was  groundbreaking, revolutionary, brave, yes, but also somewhat complex,  it plowed a lot of new ground, a lot for people to digest to understand  how it might work--this bill, the SAVE America Act, is relatively  simple. It is only 28, 29 pages long.

I think one of the reasons for its popularity is that people totally  understand the need to do it, and most people can tell you what it  does: It makes it easy to vote and hard to cheat. Well, how does it do  that? Voter ID and proof of citizenship, it is that simple.

So, yeah, it is hard. Yeah, we face a cloture deficit, but we have  overcome harder obstacles before. We can do hard things. In the U.S.  Senate, perhaps we sometimes forget that we can do hard things, but we  can. And I assure you, we must. And if I have anything to do with it,  we will.

Now, I know that some want to give up, and I know that far too many  of my colleagues who want this bill to pass maybe are wondering: How do  we do it? I will tell them: Hold on, have faith, have hope, and have  the courage to stand up and continue to defend what it is that we know  our voters want and what in our hearts we know is right, what we know  in our hearts the American people need and deserve. And it is, after  all, already against Federal law for noncitizens to vote in U.S.  elections, so why not make it official? Why not make it real? Why not  make it enforceable?

You see, because this ties to one of the other arguments made  regularly against the SAVE America Act, however disingenuously, however  shamefully. One of their favorite arguments against the SAVE America  Act is we don't need it, we don't need it because noncitizens don't  vote. In fact, they don't register to vote because--and here is the  kicker--because it is already illegal.

You know how crazy that is? Do you know how absurd that makes you  look when you make that argument? That literally is like saying we  don't need police to enforce the law because crime is already unlawful.  It is like saying we don't need to require liquor store operators to ID  their customers to make sure that they don't sell liquor to children  because selling liquor to children is already illegal. This makes no  sense.

In fact, what they are arguing against the SAVE America Act is  arguably even more absurd than those two extremely absurd hypothetical  examples I just provided. Why? Because our system of laws, yes, makes  it unlawful for noncitizens to vote, but our system of laws, because of  the way this has been interpreted and the way it has evolved over the  years, it makes it impossible to detect. And when something is  impossible to detect, it is impossible to enforce.

Now, it is not impossible to detect in the sense that if you run the  voter registration files through the SAVE database, as many States-- primarily those run by Republicans--have done, it is pretty easy to  figure out who shouldn't be registered and to remove them from the  voter database, to remove their voter registration--or at least their  voter registration for purposes relevant to Federal elections.

So it is not that hard if you are a State that doesn't want  noncitizens to vote because noncitizens voting in Federal elections is  unlawful. So that is really what we are talking about here, isn't it?  It is about the States that don't care. It is about the States that  know they have got noncitizens registering to vote--and we do because  every State that has looked into it has found them. And just from the  few States that have started doing it, we know of thousands.

I suspect before long, we will know of thousands just from the small  handful of States that have started cleaning out their voter  registration files and running their data through the SAVE database.  And those are just the States that are conscientious enough to try to  make some minimal effort to detect it.

What are we to make then of the States that refuse to answer the most  basic questions about who is registered to vote in their State? I would  imagine--I am willing to make a guess--that some of those have some of  the most rampant problems within their voter registration rolls, some  of the most noncitizens.

And so I will not be surprised if, at the end of the day, we discover  that tens--perhaps hundreds of thousands of noncitizens are currently  registered to vote. That number could sharply spike to many millions or  even tens of millions, given the 30 million-plus noncitizens currently  residing in this country and the 10 to 15 million noncitizens who  entered this country illegally between 2021 and 2025 alone.

And so we will end where we began, talking about our country's  birthday, about our 250th anniversary of the Declaration of  Independence, of these core concepts of popular sovereignty that this  is, in fact, a government of the people, by the people, and for the  people; that this is a government in a country in which we acknowledge  and have acknowledged for almost exactly 250 years that governments are  instituted among men deriving their just powers from the consent of the  governed.

This government isn't legitimate without our consent, and it ceases  to be legitimate when we allow those who are not citizens, who are not  part of our body politic, to exercise decisions. If everyone is family,  no one is family. If everything is urgent, nothing is urgent. If  everyone is given the benefit of citizenship by allowing them to vote,  then citizenship means nothing. That is the core message that I wish  our Democrat colleagues would accept, and I am confident they will  ultimately accept, as we continue to make this argument because we are  not going away.

I am not going away. I will be back on this floor in this Chamber day  after day, week after week, month after month, as long as it takes. I  am not giving up--not a chance in hell am I giving up on this because  this is about the American dream itself. This is about the fact that  when you allow noncitizens to vote, you are robbing something from the  American people, from each individual American citizen, something which  is distinctively, rightfully theirs.

You cannot take that away. You are taking it away when you allow  somebody else to cast a vote that will cancel out yours. That is  unfair, it is unacceptable, it is un-American, it is illegal. We must  not tolerate it, and we will not.

At the end of the day, we can ignore this problem all we want. I am  not going to ignore it. Eighty-five percent of the American people  aren't ignoring it. If there are a few people in this building who want  to ignore it, so be it, but it is not going to be easy. And they will  eventually have to acknowledge that they are on the wrong side of  history, just as those who stood against the Civil Rights Act of 1964  eventually learned that they were on the wrong side of history.

And make no mistake, you are. You are on the wrong side of history.  You will ultimately be proven wrong on this. I hope that they come  sooner rather than later for your sake, for mine, and for all those we  represent.

I fundamentally believe that America's best days remain yet ahead of  her. They remain yet ahead of her because the American people, as  Winston Churchill is noted to have said--perhaps apocryphally, perhaps  accurately so--that the American people will always ``do the right  thing'' after they have exhausted every other alternative. If Mr.  Churchill didn't mean that as a compliment to the American people, I  nonetheless take it as such. It is what we do.

As I noted at the beginning of my remarks, we have certain  aspirations that we try to live up to that are embodied in our founding  documents, in the Declaration of Independence and in the Constitution.  While we have, countless times, done so imperfectly and at countless  times we have fallen far short of that to which we have agreed before  God and before government, we know when we need to do better. This is  one of those times.

Almighty God intended this land to be a land of liberty--a land of  liberty--and I hope and pray it always will be as we honor Him, as we  honor our founding documents, and perhaps, most importantly, as we  honor each other, as we honor our own citizenship and that of our  fellow citizens. In order to do that truly, we must pass the SAVE  America Act.

I will be back again and again until this is done. I have miles to  go--many, many miles in this journey. I have promises to keep and miles  to go before I sleep. And it is not time to sleep. That time is in the  future when this is done. Until then, I will not rest.