TAXPAYER FIRST ACT OF 2019--Continued


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, it is telling that the bill we are  considering this week called the Great American Outdoors Act was  written behind closed doors and has now been hermetically sealed,  walled off from amendments, by the people's elected representatives. 

  Forget the theatrics in Seattle; this bill is the real Capitol Hill  autonomous zone. In its current form, this bill enables the Federal  Government, if it is enacted, to purchase new lands in perpetuity,  without accountability and without oversight or any measures to make  sure that it can actually care for the land that it owns, perpetuating  and worsening our already highly problematic Federal public lands  policy. 

  This policy will have one overarching impact: to make life easier for  politicians and bureaucrats and harder for the American people whom  they, ostensibly, serve. 

  This is not the way the Senate is supposed to run. The point of this  body, its whole reason for existence, is to take imperfect bills, bring  them to the floor of the Senate, and then come together so that we can  hone and fine-tune them, so that we can debate them and discuss them,  so that we can identify their weak points and make them stronger--or at  least less weak. 

  The Senate is supposed to have an open debate and amendment process  precisely so that we can raise concerns and we can find solutions and  arrive at genuine, rather than forced, compromise and consensus. This  week, I have been encouraged to discover just how many of my colleagues  want to do just that. Many of my colleagues from different States and  from both parties are filing amendments in response to this bill. Some  of those amendments would significantly change it; others would present  simply small tweaks to tighten up the language or to provide for better  congressional oversight so that the American people are guaranteed that  what it says in the law is going to reflect what happens on the ground.  These amendments have already been written. They are waiting for  consideration. 

  Anyone watching C-SPAN 2 today will notice there is nothing else  happening on the Senate floor--I mean, literally nothing else happening  on the Senate floor. In fact, I would note for the record that there  are exactly three Members of the Senate in the Chamber right now--two  on the floor and one at the Presiding Officer's desk. There is  literally nothing else happening on the Senate floor. There is  literally no other business with pressing deadlines pending before this  body right now. The House of Representatives is adjourned and is  apparently set to remain adjourned until June 30, so it is not as  though we have any realistic deadline with the other side of the  Capitol. 

  The Senate, right now, would simply rather do nothing than vote on  amendments that those of us from the West, Senators from the gulf coast  and from various States around the country, would like to propose and  have, in fact, proposed. 

  I myself have proposed several. One of my amendments would require  State legislative approval for any land acquisition proposed in that  State so that  land acquisition would be something Washington does with the States  rather than to the States. 

  Many people don't realize there is a big disparity among and between  the States with regard to how much Federal land is owned. In every  State east of Colorado, the Federal Government owns less than 15  percent. In every State Colorado and west, the Federal Government owns  more than 15 percent. The average is more like 50 percent in the  Western United States, and in many of those States, including my own,  it is more like two-thirds of the land. 

  In these States and particularly the rural communities and those  rural communities in particular where there is the highest  concentration of Federal land, there is also poverty--poverty that is  not just correlated with or coincidental to the Federal land ownership,  but it is causally connected to its widespread existence. 

  Another of my amendments would require the Federal Government to  dispose of current Federal lands before acquiring new ones, forcing  land agencies to exercise fiscal responsibility and prioritize which  lands they want to keep under their control. 

  So getting back to referring a few minutes ago to those areas,  particularly those rural areas in my State, places like San Juan  County, UT--San Juan County, UT, happens to be the poorest county in  the State. It is also a place where the Federal Government owns 95-plus  percent of the land. This is not a coincidence. 

  So there ought to be something in place that requires an offset so  that when the Federal Government buys new land under the Land and Water  Conservation Fund or otherwise, it has to offset it by disposing of  land elsewhere. 

  There also ought to be some mechanism in place so as to give the  State's sovereign lawmaking body, the State legislature, the ability to  accept or reject the proposed expansion of the Federal land footprint  in that State. 

  It is really easy for my colleagues from certain parts of the  country--particularly those living east of the Rocky Mountains--to  suggest that, you know, Federal land ownership is a great thing. First  of all, a lot of people who say that do live east of the Rocky  Mountains, and a lot of people who say that also incorrectly imagine  that Federal public lands are more or less just national parks or  declared wilderness areas. They are not. 

  In my State, most of the Federal land is not a national park, is not  a national recreation area, is not a declared wilderness area; it is  just garden-variety BLM or Forest Service land that is chronically  environmentally mismanaged, and that leads to chronic environmental and  economic problems. 

  I also have a number of other amendments that would reform the NEPA  process--the process under the National Environmental Policy Act--to  help address the maintenance backlog on neglected land that Washington,  DC, already owns and controls from its perch generally thousands of  miles from the land in question. 

   Right now, other States have received protection and  are protected from unilateral land grabs by the Federal Government for  designation of national monuments. This is important, you see, because  when they designate Federal land as a national monument, that changes  the way that land can be accessed, the way it can be used. It goes from  one Federal land classification to another. It is one of the strictest  classifications in the sense that it is very, very difficult to use  that land or for local affected populations to have influence over that  land once it becomes a monument.  

  This is significant for Utah because 28 percent of the national  monument acreage designated within the 50 States over the last 25 years  has been in Utah. My State is due for the same types of protections  that are already in place in Wyoming and in Alaska. Those States in  years past have received far too many monument designations against  their will. Eventually, they received statutory protection. 

  Utah has borne far more than its share of the burden in the  designation of national monuments--monuments designated that way, by  the way, by Presidents who were acting in open willful defiance of the  will of the locally affected populations. 

  I believe that this is one of the most important changes we need to  see in Federal lands policy. I will continue to fight for it until we  achieve justice for Utah. In fact, this change could be achieved  through a single 1-page bill, one mostly consisting of two words.  Inserting the words ``Or Utah'' enables Utah to receive the same  protection from hostile designation of national monuments by a  President not interested in the will of the local population. 

  As important as all of these amendments are to me and my State, I am  not even asking for the right to propose all of them this week. I am  willing to set aside some of my priorities in order to help my  colleagues pursue theirs and, most of all, to help the Senate as an  institution to get back to the essential work that the Senate and the  Senate alone can do. The Senate was created to be the place--the one  place in our constitutional framework--where our diverse, divided  Nation could come together, where we could air our disagreements and  find common ground. 

  Every time we have a national controversy, a lot of people throw  around the word ``conversation.'' We need to have a conversation about  race, about police brutality, about freedom of speech, about the  environment, about the national debt. The list goes on and on. These  are all things about which we need to have conversations. This isn't  just a media trope. Senators say it too. I agree. We need to have  conversations about each of these and so many other important national  issues. 

  Guess what. This, right here, is literally the room where America is  supposed to have these conversations. This place right here, within  these four walls, is where these conversations are supposed to happen.  It is not supposed to be done only on Twitter. It is not supposed to be  done only on cable news shows. It is supposed to happen right here on  this floor. 

  Yet here we are on a Thursday afternoon at 4:23, 4:24 p.m. Look  around. Three Members are in the Chamber--two on the floor, one in the  Chair. That is it. 

  This is where the conversation is supposed to happen. It is not  occurring--not this conversation, nor any other, not on the Senate  floor, not in the middle of the week. With a whole lot of things going  on in the world, we are not having it. 

  We are not even having it on this piece of legislation, which,  significant as it is, is dwarfed in comparison to the magnitude of many  other issues that we have to deal with. That doesn't mean we don't need  to deal with this legislation. We do. But as long as we are going to  deal with it, as long as we are being asked to pass it, we need to at  least have a conversation about it, and we are not doing that. 

  The only reason that the U.S. Senate was given the powers that we  have in this body by the Founders and by our constituents is to  facilitate those vital conversations. This isn't the New York Times op- ed page. We are not supposed to be afraid of debate here. The Senate is  here to provide the venue where all Americans and all views can be  heard, to hash out our differences and arrive at a consensus and  compromise in the public eye. 

  It is especially important to do this in the Senate because this is  the place where each State has equal representation. Big, heavily  populated States have two Senators. So do small, sparsely populated  States have two Senators. This, by the way, is the one type of change  that cannot be made to the Constitution. It is the one type of  constitutional amendment that is, itself, preemptively  unconstitutional. You can't pursue article VI of the Constitution or  amend the Constitution in such a way--even if you follow the article V  amendment procedures, you cannot amend it in a way that changes the  principle of equal representation in the Senate among and between the  States. 

  It is especially important to have these debates and discussions when  it comes to legislation like this one, like the Great American Outdoors  Act, that, while important to the entire Nation in many respects,  affects some States differently than it does others. This bill has a  very different impact in Utah than it does in Colorado or in Montana or  in Tennessee or in Maine. It is very, very different.  

  This is why we have the Senate--so that we can air out these  grievances, so that we can air out our differences, so that we can make  improvements to legislation. 

  Perhaps we can't improve it. There are a lot of things about this  bill I don't like. There are other things about it I can live with. Yet  if we can't have the conversation, we don't have the ability to amend  or improve the legislation. As a result, the conversation doesn't  happen. And most of the American people are excluded from this debate  and this discussion and this conversation entirely. 

  This is where these conversations are supposed to occur, where we can  arrive at consensus and compromise in the public eye. And this, I  should note, is not for our convenience and comfort. Rather, the  Senate's purpose as a deliberative body is to add another layer of  republican and democratic legitimacy to the very laws we pass. The  House exists to assert immediate public opinion on the basis of the  proportional representation they have on that side of the Capitol.  

  The Senate exists to identify broad-based compromise and consensus  that is essential to the political legitimacy in a nation as diverse as  ours, and to do so in a way in which each State is equally represented.  That is why we require supermajorities to end debate here. That is why  we have 6-year terms. It is not to serve us. It is, rather, so we can  serve everyone else. 

  But right now, we are abusing our constitutional privilege. We are  willfully taking the powers of the American people--the powers that  they gave us, that they have given us--to deny them their right to a  diverse, deliberative, transparent, accountable process. We are doing  this for no other purpose than for our own convenience. No wonder they  can't stand us. 

  But it is not too late. It is not even too late for this week. There  is still plenty of time to salvage this process, to flex our badly  atrophied legislative muscles and to get to work. 

  After speaking with my colleagues all week, and, frankly, all of last  week on these topics, I believe the consensus concerns about this bill  are as follows: one, the inequity of natural resource revenue-sharing  between the Federal Government and the States; two, the cost of the  National Parks and Public Land Legacy Restoration Fund; three, the cost  of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, or LWCF; four, the  implications of an ever-expanding Federal land ownership; and, five,  transparency for the Land and Water Conservation Fund. 

  We could pick just one amendment for each of the aforementioned  categories--just one for each of those categories. We could have just  five amendments all together. By so doing, we could make significant  progress on this legislation. More than that, we could strengthen our  legislative muscle memory and take a step toward restoring the vital  deliberative powers of this body. 

  The Senate has long called itself the world's greatest deliberative  body. These days, when it doesn't debate, when it shuts out amendments  from individual Members--keeping in mind that this is supposed to be  one of the two fundamental rules of the Senate, where each Member has  access to unlimited debate and unlimited amendments--when it does this,  it is neither great nor deliberative. It is not living up to its name,  to its history, to its traditions, to its capacity, nor to its  constitutional purpose. 

  Five amendments are not a lot, especially considering this  legislative text bypassed the committee process all together in the  first place. This bill, as a bill, was never even processed by the  Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, on which I serve. It  bypassed that committee all together. It didn't go through it. Even if  the Senate votes on these amendments and votes them down-- notwithstanding the fact that we bypassed the committee--it is here  now. There is nothing in the Constitution that says it has to go  through committee. It is better if we do. We didn't here. We can still  deal with some of the concerns that individual Members have. This is  the appropriate place to do that, after all, with or without committee  action. 

  Regardless of the outcome of those votes, even if the Senate votes  those amendments down--every one of them--at least we will then be on  record about our priorities and about our positions. At least then we  have a chance to weigh in and say: Here is what I liked about the bill,  and here is what I didn't like about the bill. 

  That, in turn, helps us to communicate to the public about why we  either do or don't support whatever legislation is intact at the end of  that process. That, in turn, would strengthen the bonds of  accountability between the government and the governed, and, I would  hope, restore some of the public trust that Washington, DC, has  squandered for the last several decades. 

  If we require Senators to speak on their amendments and then move to  a vote, we could dispose of all five of these amendments in just a few  hours. We could do this today. We could have done it earlier today. We  could have done it at any moment yesterday. It is just not too much to  ask. We have to give this, like all legislation, the due consideration  and the careful deliberation that it deserves and that the American  people deserve. 

  Now, more than ever, our country needs us to be able to come  together, work together, and find solutions to the problems that we  face. I believe this bill presents us with an opportunity to do  precisely that. I am hopeful that my colleagues and I will get the  chance to take it. This is what we need to do. 

  We know that the Senate in the past has functioned in such a way as  to allow every Member of this body to represent his or her State. We  also know that can't really happen in a way that our system has always  contemplated unless every Senator has a chance to weigh in on and to  propose improvements to each bill and not be shut out of a process.  What we get when we jettison that is, instead, a process by which a  small handful of individuals will write legislation, that legislation  gets airdropped on to the Senate floor in a hermetically sealed  Chamber, and then Members are told: You have to vote for this entire  package or against this entire package. You have a simple binary  choice: Take it all or leave it all. 

  That isn't fair. The American people deserve better. We have settled.  It is time for us to no longer settle, but to expect more, to expect  the Senate to do its work. 

  Consistent with that, I think it is important for us to propose  alternatives. I have nothing but a desire to see these things debated  and discussed.  1599, which would allow Gulf States to receive a greater  portion of revenues produced from energy sources off their coast; Cruz  amendment No. 1651, which would reflect honest budgeting practices,  direct the Secretary of the Interior to sell off excess Federal lands  to the public as the ``pay for'' for this legislation, subject all  Trust Fund spending to congressional oversight through the  appropriations process, and strike the provision that allows the Trust  Fund to receive credit for interest that will not really be earned  based on money that does not really exist; Braun amendment No. 1635,  which would prevent unrelated spending increases in the future by  reducing the discretionary budget limit by $450 million; Lee amendment  No. 1647, which would prohibit the Federal Government from making  acquisitions using LWCF funds until they have received from the State,  where the proposed acquisition would be located, notice that the State  has enacted legislation approving the acquisition; and finally, Lee  amendment No. 1639, which would require reports to Congress on costs of  acquisition, maintenance, and administration of lands obtained under  the LWCF, reports to States and local units of government regarding  lost property taxes due to LWCF land acquisitions, and reports to  Congress on Restoration Fund projects to be funded, currently being  funded, and the amount of money expended for that project, as well as  an estimate of expenditures needed to complete each project. 

   1617, and the Senate vote  on the motion to invoke cloture on the substitute amendment No. 1617. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I would like to note now for the record that  there are exactly two Senators remaining in the Senate Chamber. It is  now 4:38 p.m. Now we are three again--now four. We have four Senators  in the Chamber at 4:39 p.m. on a Thursday. This is not the end of the  week, unless perhaps you are in the U.S. Senate. 

  There is no reason why the Senate shouldn't be convening and debating  amendments right now in order to do this. There is no valid reason why  Members who understand and appreciate the legitimate concerns that are  the focus of this or any other piece of legislation ought not be able  to raise concerns with that legislation and offer up amendments to  improve the legislation in question, especially as is the case here. 

  There are particular States, including my own, that would be  disproportionately disadvantaged and harmed by this legislation. It is  interesting to note that the Federal Government owns more of my State  than in almost any other State, than it does in any of the States of  any of the sponsors or prominent cosponsors of this legislation. Some  of the cosponsors, in fact, are people who live in States where the  Federal Government owns very little land. Look, I don't complain--no  fault. In some cases our disagreements here represent differences in  our background or differences in the preferences of our constituencies,  but as much as anything, I think they stem from and reflect differences  in the States that we represent, not just the preferences of the  voters, but also the way the public land is owned--the extent to which  Federal public land is owned and the impact that it has on our local  economies. This is a big deal. 

  So like I say, I don't fault them. I regard each of the people behind  this legislation as beloved friends and colleagues and as people who I  deeply respect and trust and admire. They are people with whom I have  agreed and cooperated with on countless instances on many wide-ranging  topics. 

  They are not wrong to want to pass legislation that they believe is  correct. They are, however, grossly mistaken in believing that it is  appropriate in this circumstance to shut out Members of this body who  have a different point of view, to exclude them from the debate  process. 

  One could argue and some might argue in connection with this: Fine,  let's debate it. We are debating it right now. What is debate after all  other than giving speeches in a legislative body? 

  That is what we are doing, and that statement is true as far as it  goes. Nevertheless, in order for that debate to have full meaning, we  need to follow our own rules, and we need to allow Members, pursuant to  our rules--and not just our rules, but also our precedents--our time- honored traditions and the spirit of comity that once inhabited and  pervaded every corner of this room. It is that spirit of comity, those  traditions, and those rules that really contemplate a much more  collegial environment, one in which we don't come to the floor with  legislation and say: That is it. There is no more. That is it. This  legislation was written as if on stone tablets. There is no more to be  written. This book is sealed. You can't have anything more to say. 

  That is not how colleagues treat each other. That is how one would  treat a subordinate, and frankly, I think it is insulting--not to me  but to those I represent and to those represented by my colleagues  doing it. 

  What I find also offensive is the notion that it is so important  somehow and so urgent to pass this legislation that we do so now, and  that we not wait until next week to consider it. But it is apparently  not important enough to allow individual Members to introduce  amendments--even amendments crafted in good faith, amendments that  wouldn't do any structural damage to the bill, amendments that may or  may not pass, but that haven't been written by the principal authors  and principal proponents of this legislation. This institution is  better than that, and I thought we were. I think we owe each other more  than that. 

  Look, this isn't always going to be the case in every single piece of  legislation. There are a number of things that are passed by this body  by unanimous consent. Others that come to the floor will receive an  overwhelming vote one way or another and don't necessarily, in every  circumstance, trigger the need for amendments. Those are, in some  cases, matters that are relatively noncontroversial. I see no reason  for an open amendment process if we were, for example, to declare June  2020 to be National Sofa Care Awareness Month. I don't think anybody is  going to care that much about that legislation, certainly not enough to  care deeply about filing amendments. In other cases, some legislation  might have been adequately vetted through a process of committee action  and public debate to the point where maybe no one really sees the need  for additional amendment by the time it gets to the floor. But that is  not always going to be the case. It should come as no surprise with a  piece of legislation like this one, sweeping in its effect, adding to  our already unaffordable mandatory spending, putting Federal land  acquisition on an equal footing with programs like Social Security and  Medicare by making it mandatory. Any time you trigger any of these  alarm bells, it ought to send a signal that this is not an appropriate  moment to expect that no Member from any State will have any different  perspective. It is not right. Deep down they know it is not right. 

  I have seen each of my most vocal proponents of this legislation on  the receiving end of this very kind of strategy. I have stood with them  as they have stood against it, even when I don't agree with their  substantive policy agenda, even if I don't agree perhaps with their  strategic plan in question, but I stand with them anyway because they  are my colleagues. They are my friends. It is what colleagues do for  each other. You see, the difference between a colleague and a  subordinate is that you don't purport to tell a colleague what he or  she can do if you don't have the authority to do that. You don't act  offended if your colleague doesn't agree with you, and you don't try to  silence your colleague. That is how you treat a subordinate. 

  It has happened for far too long here. I have been here for 9\1/2\  years, and I have seen it under Democratic leadership and I have seen  it under Republican leadership. It is not how it used to work here. It  is not how it should ever work. I find it revolting. It is one thing to  say: I want to vote on this legislation. It is quite another thing to  have the gall to say: I want to vote on this legislation, but I don't  want anyone else to have any say on what this legislation says, and I  don't care what this does to another State. I don't care that there are  other parts of other States in the Union, represented by my friends and  my colleagues, where people will suffer in this legislation. I don't  care--not my problem. I so don't care that that is a problem for  somebody else, that I am going to make sure that the other person can't  care and that he can't even make changes to this legislation.  

  If I were their subordinate, perhaps I would understand. As their  colleague, I don't. This isn't how you treat a colleague. This isn't  how colleagues interact in a body that considers itself deliberative  and collegial. So say what they want about this being bipartisan, about  there having been a collegial process about this bill's creation--let  them say what they want about that. Make no mistake. This is wrong,  what they are doing. I am not even talking right now about the merits  of the bill. I disagree with the bill. I don't like the substantive  policy end that it seeks to achieve, but I am not talking about that  right now. What I am saying is wrong and even outrageous is the gall,  the temerity that they have to tell colleagues that they don't have an  equal seat at this table, that their election certificate somehow  matters less.  

  Sooner or later, I believe that our best days lie ahead of us. I am  an optimist at heart. Optimism is something that is hard to have at a  moment like this, when you have been completely shut out of a  legislative debate. But the reason I am optimistic here has to do with  a very simple reality. Sooner or later, in a system like this one,  Members will find a way with the system of rules of the Senate and as  authorized by the rules and procedures and traditions of the Senate.  They will find a way to get around it, and I think you will see a  growing dynamic in which Members will reach across the aisle in order  to solve this very problem. 

  This problem is not a Republican problem distinctively. It is not a  Democratic problem distinctively. We have seen it under the leadership  of both parties, regardless of who has the majority. This is a problem  that Senators have among and between themselves, and I think in time  you will see more and more Members coming to each other's defense,  regardless of political ideology and regardless of the substantive ends  that we achieve in a piece of legislation. I think the sun is setting  or at least preparing to set on the days of locking out individual  Members from the amendment process. It isn't right, and deep down we  know it is not. 

  I will note that other than the Presiding Officer, at 4:53 p.m. on a  Thursday, I remain the only Member of the U.S. Senate within this  Chamber--just the Presiding Officer and me. That is it. 

  We could be voting now. We could have started voting hours ago. We  could have started voting yesterday. We could have voted on all of  these amendments. For all I know, all of the amendments that I am  proposing could have been considered and voted down and they would have  had their way. So what difference would it make? I am not certain  whether they would all fail. It is not up to me for all to fail.  Thirdly, even if they did all fail--every last one of them--at least  then Members of this body would be able to face their constituents at  the end of that process and be able to say: Look, I liked this  legislation. Even though it had these problems, the reasons to support  it outweighed those for opposing it. 

  Or they would be able to say: Look, I tried to make it better. I  failed. These problems remained. So I voted against it. 

  That increases accountability, rather than decreasing. That is good.  That is good for a constitutional republic like ours. It is essential  for the U.S. Senate. It is how it is supposed to work. 

  So we could have done that yesterday. We could have done that this  morning. We could still do it right now. We could start that process  right now in a matter of hours. We would have debated, discussed, and  voted on these amendments. Then we could move on. We could put this  whole thing behind us. We could do it right now. 

  They are hearing nothing of it, which begs the question: Why? Who  benefits from this? The only people who benefit are the small handful  of individuals who, on any particular occasion, happen to be involved  in this decision making and become more powerful. But they do so in a  dishonorable way, at the expense of all of their colleagues, at the  expense of their relationship with their colleagues, but most damning  of all, at the expense of their relationship and obligations to the  voters who elected them--and I mean those in every State. 

  I am sure they think they are doing the right thing, that the end  justifies the means. Nobody is immune to that line of thinking. It is  something we have to be conscious of. The circumstance doesn't make it  OK. This is wrong. We can do better. We can, we must, and together, we  will. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT