The Great American Outdoors Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Madam President, to most Americans, the so-called Great  American Outdoors Act is a mistake. It is expensive, shortsighted, and  it is wrong; but to those of us who live in the American West, it is a  disaster. Despite its rosy claims, this legislation combines two bills  that will only tighten the Federal stranglehold on our lands and drive  us deeper into debt, to the detriment of our economy, our environment,  and the livelihoods and the freedom of the American people. 

  So just how, you might ask, does it do that? Well, let me explain.  The first title containing an expanded version of the Restore Our Parks  Act attempts to address the roughly $19.3 billion maintenance backlog  on our Federal lands, concentrated primarily within national parks  projects, which approach a $12 billion maintenance backlog just on  their own, but it seeks to do so by spending $9.5 billion of Federal  offshore energy revenues over 5 years, without any means whatsoever of  offsetting those extra funds. 

  Now, that, to be clear, is money that is currently going to the U.S.  Treasury to pay for a number of other costs, a  number of other expenditures--from aircraft carriers to Federal courts  and everything in between--and will only add to our already ballooning  national debt. 

  It is, we have to remember, Congress's job to set priorities for the  funds in the Treasury. If we prioritize something--if we prioritize one  thing--we must either proportionately decrease the funding for  something else or find another way to generate new revenue. 

  This bill does neither. Furthermore, without any measures to prevent  it, it guarantees that a similar backlog will only reemerge in the  future. There are better ways to address this problem. For example,  there are much better ways in a proposal that has been introduced by  Senator Enzi in a bill called the REAL Act. The REAL Act would modestly  increase park visitor fees by $5, businesses and tourist visa fees by  $25, and a visa waiver program fee by $16--estimated to bring an  additional $5.5 billion in revenue over the next 10 years. 

  This, the REAL Act, introduced by Senator Enzi is a reasonable,  practical solution to sustainably address the maintenance backlog on  our National Parks, which is a problem. It is a problem that needs to  be dealt with, and the REAL Act does it in a very responsible,  sustainable fashion. What is more, the REAL Act would create a  permanent and independent way of supplementing the funding for our  National Parks and do so without adding to the national debt. 

  The second title of this bill--of the Great American Outdoors Act-- creates almost $1 billion of mandatory spending every single year on  new Federal land acquisition through the Land and Water Conservation  Fund. In other words, it adds a new entitlement, adding to our already  unaffordable system of entitlements. It puts it on a level playing  field with things like Social Security and Medicare, other entitlement  programs, the Land and Water Conservation Fund. 

  Now, why would we do this when we are already on a collision course  with our ability to fund Federal programs, including and especially  those programs that America's seniors have paid for, for years, and  come to rely on? Why would we do that for this program? Why make it  mandatory spending and thus convert it into yet another unaffordable  entitlement program? 

  Let's talk a little bit about the Land and Water Conservation Fund,  or LWCF, as it is known. This was originally put in place pursuant to a  law passed in 1964, and the LWCF, as it was created and enacted into  law back in 1964, was put in place in order to promote and preserve  access to recreational opportunities on Federal public lands--on public  lands generally, in fact. So the fund was set up to be the principal  source of money for Federal land acquisition and to assist States in  developing recreational opportunities on their own. 

  Originally, it directed 60 percent of its funds to be appropriated  for State purposes and 40 percent for Federal purposes. Unfortunately,  the program has since drifted far from its original moorings and far  from its original intent, and it has been rife with abuse. In 1976, the  law was amended to remove the 60-percent State provision, stating  simply that not less than 40 percent of the funds must be used for  Federal purposes, while remaining silent on whether a State would  receive a penny. 

  Now, just over the last year or so, not less than 40 percent of the  funds are dedicated to State purposes, so that still means that up to  60 percent of the funds can still be used for Federal land acquisition.  The result? Well, it hasn't been good. It has been used more for  Federal land acquisition than for improving access to or care of the  vast Federal lands that we already own and manage--or in many  cases, fail to manage.  

  Sixty-one percent of the funds have historically been used for  acquisition, compared to the 25 percent that have been allocated to  State grants, spending close to $12 billion to purchase new Federal  lands. 

  So despite people's images of charming ribbon cuttings at local parks  and scenic wildlife, the LWCF has functioned as the Federal  Government's primary vehicle for Federal land grabs, resulting in a  massive, restrictive, and neglected Federal estate. 

  The Federal Government now owns 640 million acres of land--more than  640 million acres--within the United States. To put this in  perspective, this amount--the more than 640 million acres of land  currently owned by the Federal Government within the United States--is  a total larger than the entireties of France, Spain, Germany, Poland,  Italy, the United Kingdom, Austria, Switzerland, and the Netherlands  combined. 

  Now, I am not talking about the government-owned lands or the  parklands within those countries. I am talking about the entirety of  the countries themselves. The Federal Government owns more land than  that. That is 28 percent of the total acreage within the United States,  and more than 50 percent of the land in the West. This has proven to be  far more land than the Federal Government is capable of managing  responsibly. The condition of the vast Federal estate ranges from fair  to poor to dismal. These lands face problems with rampant wildfires,  soil erosion, mismanagement, and littering--with a staggering combined  maintenance backlog of nearly $20 billion. 

  Resources are only being spread thinner as they are being stretched  to serve more and more lands--more and more lands that are now going to  be bought with the new entitlement spending that we are putting in  place with this bill should we enact this ill-conceived legislative  proposal. 

  On top of that, many of the LWCF funds have been diverted to a vague  ``other purposes'' category that has, in many instances, little to do  with access to outdoor recreation at all. In fact, many of the programs  it has funded have, instead, aimed to pull land from public use,  regardless of how the land in question is classified. So rather than  increasing opportunities for hunting and fishing, snowmobiling, hiking,  camping, mountain biking, or kayaking, the land policies in place have  slowly been squeezing out recreational opportunities, and this has been  going on for decades. 

  And so, too, have these policies imposed severe economic  restrictions. As the Federal estate has grown since the time the LWCF  was established in 1964, natural resource production--including mining,  energy, timber, and livestock raising--have sharply declined, depriving  rural communities and their economies of crucial jobs and economic  activity. 

  Timber production, for example, has been cut by about 90 percent  since the 1980s. So instead of providing sustainable, renewable,  economically productive logging in the Northwest, these forests are now  managed by catastrophic wildfire under the supervision--or I should say  the failed supervision--of the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land  Management. 

  If you don't believe me, ask anyone who lives in the Western United  States. Ask anyone who lives in the communities of Utah who have seen  the environmental and economic devastation brought about as a result of  failed land management policies. 

  Now, some claim, rather audaciously, that the outdoor recreation  economy is a major boon to these very same communities that are being  impoverished by it. But usually, nearly always, people who say that  aren't people who live in those communities. 

  Seasonal tourism is not a sustainable core industry for most  communities. Much of the money spent on outdoor recreation ends up  going to apparel, equipment, and gear from large out-of-state  companies. Rural public lands counties don't see a penny of it. This is  especially true in those counties where the Federal Government owns not  just 67 percent of the land mass, as is the case throughout Utah as a  whole, but 90, 95 percent plus of the land in some counties. 

  To make matters worse, Federal lands also mean a loss of property  taxes and, as a result, a loss of huge sources of revenue and  opportunities for States and for local communities. It is no  coincidence that the poorest rural counties in the West are the very  same communities, the very same counties where they have the most  Federal land. The poorest counties are the counties with the most  Federal land. 

  Why is that? Well, there are a number of reasons, but one of the  things that has to be taken into account is  the fact that, without property taxes, schools are underfunded, local  governments are crippled, fire departments are, ironically, depleted  and, therefore, unable to properly take care of the lands they are  charged to protect in the first place. This, by the way, says nothing  of the loss of economic activity as a whole. I am just talking here  about the lack of property tax revenue 

  Now, there is a Federal program for this, the Payment in Lieu of  Taxes Program, also known as the PILT Program, as the abbreviation  refers. This is a program that was intended to address this disparity  by compensating counties and local communities for their loss of  property taxes--that is the loss from property taxes that comes about  as a result of significant Federal land ownership and the Federal  Government's declaration, by law, that its lands may not be taxed. But  PILT payments have provided only a pittance of what would be due to  local governments were Federal lands not exempt from property taxes. 

  In 2018, the Utah Legislature commissioned a state-of-the-art  evaluation of 32 million acres of Federal land in Utah, excluding  roughly 3 million acres of National Parks and Wilderness Areas. Now,  this May, that same commission found that appraising these BLM and  Forest Service lands according to their lowest use value would result  in an annual property tax bill of $534 million. And this, by the way,  in addition to excluding National Parks and Wilderness Areas from that  equation, was a study that involved only those Federal lands extending  to within 1 mile of any municipal boundary or of any city or town in  Utah. So this fraction would produce $534 million annually in property  tax revenue, even if it were taxed at its lowest value. 

  In 2019, the PILT payments to Utah statewide totaled just $41  million, just 7.7 percent of the potential revenue from property taxes.  Again, we are not talking about the National Parks or their National  Wilderness Areas, nor are we talking about the lands outside of 1 mile  beyond any municipal boundary. 

  And while States and localities are the ones carrying the unfair  economic burden, Washington only pours salt in these wounds by  neglecting its oversight responsibilities. In May 2019, a GAO report  found that BLM fails to maintain centralized data on lands acquired and  that an increasing element of LWCF funds across agencies are being  spent on acquisition projects that occur without and, in some cases,  contrary to congressional approval. 

  Not only that, but a December 2019 GAO report found that numerous  agencies have blatantly disregarded LWCF requirements in order to  illegally purchase more land. Yes. They are buying land, in many cases,  contrary to their statutory authorization and limitations imposed by  law. Under the original LWCF Act, no more than 15 percent of the land  added to the National Forest System is to be west of the 100th  meridian, essentially everything west of Oklahoma. But the GAO found  that between fiscal years 2014 and 2018, the Federal Government had  acquired more than 450,000 acres of land in the United States, more  than 80 percent of which were west of the 100th meridian. In another  recent review of land acquisition policies across the agencies  conducted by the Departments of Interior and Agriculture, officials  said that 40 percent of the land acquired with LWCF funds were not even  requested by the agencies--not requested in the first place, yet they  were purchased in some cases contrary to an explicit statutory command.  

  As it turns out, billions of LWCF dollars are being spent without the  Congress and without the relevant agencies or the public being informed  of where or why or pursuant to what authority they were made. Why,  then, would it ever make sense to turn this into an entitlement  program, to turn this into something that is self-perpetuating--into a  self-licking ice cream cone--that needs no support or reauthorization  year to year from Congress? 

  Last year, the Senate permanently reauthorized this broken, harmful,  dangerous, unaccountable fund without reform and without any incentive  to offer future reforms, but as if that weren't bad enough, the  legislation before us now proposes to make that funding mandatory. 

  Before, Congress could at least appropriate varying amounts to be  used from the fund. Now, this bill, if passed, would turn the LWCF into  a true trust fund, automatically requiring that the full $900 million  be spent primarily on Federal land acquisition each year in perpetuity  without accountability and without oversight. The unofficial  Congressional Budget Office score estimates that this bill, as a whole,  will cost nearly $17.3 billion over the next 10 years, all for land  projects that we cannot afford, let alone maintain. 

  This is not how Congress was tasked with exercising the power of the  purse. This is not how it is supposed to work--not in this country and  certainly not in this legislative body. 

  It is the tough business of Congress to set priorities and to decide  which, among worthy causes, should receive our limited resources. These  funds could be going to provide relief in the midst of the current  pandemic or to our national defense or to shoring up benefits for  veterans or to a myriad of other goals. Putting these funds into a  direct deposit mechanism, however, means that we are not having those  conversations and not actively evaluating how we can best spend those  taxpayer dollars each year. No, no. Instead, we are going to put it on  autopilot. That is what this bill wants to do rather shamefully. 

  This provision of the bill automatically puts more funds toward the  harmful cause of growing the Federal estate, putting us on an even  worse path than we have already taken. In fact, the first provision of  the bill is only evidence to the fact that we have bitten off far more  than we can chew. 

  We can do better. As it currently stands, we have nothing to gain  from this legislation. The agenda of aggressively and endlessly growing  our Federal estate has put us on a dangerous path with devastating  effects for our lands and for the people who live, recreate, and  survive off of them as my home State of Utah has already experienced  far too well. If we do not change course, this path will only worsen  for the rest of the Nation too. 

  I want to point out something--a common misperception that people  often have about Federal land and what it is and what it does. In many  cases, if you don't live in the western United States, you are not  necessarily aware of the fact that the overwhelming majority--not just  most but the overwhelming majority of Federal land is not a national  park. National parks are some of the few things people consistently  like about the Federal Government. They are frequently the favorite  thing about the Federal Government. We all love national parks. They  are beautiful. They are fun, and they are something that the Federal  Government does that everyone still enjoys and loves. But most Federal  land is not a national park. The overwhelming majority isn't anything  like a national park, and the way these lands are divided out really  isn't fair. 

  In every State east of Colorado, the Federal Government owns less  than 15 percent of the land. In every State to the west of Colorado and  including Colorado, the Federal Government owns at least 15 percent  and, in many cases, many multiples of that. In my State it happens to  be about 67 percent. A tiny segment of that land consists of national  park land. Most of it is just land that you can't use for anything  else. The local governments can't tax them, and people can't access  them for economic or recreational purposes without a ``Mother, may I?''  from the Federal Government. That is what it is. Most of this land  isn't even a national park or a national recreation area or a  wilderness area or anything remotely worthy of that. This is just about  Federal control, and most of it is not managed very well.  

  The National Park System has been underfunded. They, in many ways, do  the best job they can with what they have, but they have been  chronically underfunded, and the national parks are quite well run  compared to the vast majority of Federal public land we have, which is  chronically neglected, environmentally mismanaged, often to the  economic and environmental detriment of those States where there is a  lot of Federal land. 

  Take San Juan County, UT. The Federal Government owns somewhere along  the order of 95 percent of the land in San Juan County. It also happens  to be Utah's poorest county.  These two issues are not a coincidence. The fact that they appear in  the same land mass is not coincidental; it is causal. The Federal  Government is the cause for the impoverishment of this county and other  communities in Utah and throughout the United States. Why? Because  people can't own the land, can't develop the land, can't tax the land  to fund their schools, their search and rescue services, or any other  government priority. Nor can they access it for most economic purposes. 

  Finally, all of my other observations about this legislation  notwithstanding, this is the Senate, and just like church is for  sinners, the Senate floor isn't for perfect, hermetically sealed,  finished bills. We are supposed to bring imperfect bills to the floor  to debate and deliberate and amend and discuss and, ultimately, find  consensus. That is why I and many of my colleagues have been trying to  do exactly that in this very situation with this very bill. 

  I have a number of amendments. Many western State Senators do as  well. Several Gulf State Senators have their own concerns about this  bill in its current form. The way the process is supposed to work is  that we bring this and other bills like it to the floor, and we offer  up changes and see where the Senate is, see where the process goes,  using reason, gentle persuasion, and awkward improvements to each piece  of legislation as our guide. That is how it is supposed to work. 

  There are a number of Senators from western States, from Gulf States,  and from States that really aren't in the West or the gulf that don't  really have that much to do with Federal public land, but they can see  the procedural and substantive defects of this bill. That is why many  of us who really would like to make improvements to this bill have come  together from different parts of the country. 

  The process of actually legislating has gone out of fashion in  Washington and, quite regrettably, out of this Chamber in recent years,  but it is something that I think the whole Senate would like to get  back to--and I mean the whole Senate, Democrats and Republicans alike.  This is an issue that is neither Republican or Democratic; it is not  liberal or conservative; it is not Libertarian. It is not an  ideological viewpoint. I know people within this Chamber on virtually  every point along the ideological political continuum who would very  much like to see the Senate working as an actual legislative body  rather than as a rubberstamp for whatever small handful of people  happen to write out behind closed doors and decide must be the  finished, perfect, hermetically sealed object of our vote. This is  wrong. It is an insult, not just to the 100 Senators who are here. It  is that to be sure, but nobody cares about that. It is more about those  we represent, those who elected us. Those election certificates don't  belong to us. They belong to the voters of our various States who  expect us to represent them. Regardless of how we might vote on any  particular piece of legislation, they expect us to have read it; they  expect us to do our job by showing up and by offering to make it better  where we see flaws and we see defects. There is no perfect bill, but we  can still make legislation a lot less bad. We can make it better. We  bring about actual consensus. Consensus is not found by ramming  something through without an opportunity for amendment, debate, or  discussion 

  This is wrong. It has gone on for far too long. I have seen it under  the leadership of Democrats and Republicans alike in this Chamber, and  it has to end. It will end. The question is, How long is it going to  take us and how much misery will the American people have to endure  while most of their Senators are effectively locked out of meaningful  legislative debate, discussion, and amendment? This is wrong, and it  has to end. 

  The debate on this bill has now been extended by a whole extra day.  There is no earthly reason why we can't use that extra day to work  through a handful of 15-minute votes on a handful of amendments. It is  just not that hard. In the amount of time that I have been speaking  tonight, we could have processed a couple of amendments. In the amount  of time that will be devoted only to hand-wringing and dismissal of  legitimate concerns with this legislation, we could process any  amendment that anyone wants to introduce, and this legislation could  still be passed weeks before the House of Representatives is even  poised to return. So why are we not doing this? There is no persuasive  answer here. 

  We have to start doing our job. I look forward to working with our  colleagues to get an agreement on some amendments so that we can give  this legislation the due consideration and the careful deliberation  that it deserves, that we deserve, that those who elected us deserve,  and then move on to the important nominations pending before the Senate  and to the National Defense Authorization Act that are next in line. In  the meantime, I hope Democrats and Republicans alike can unite behind  the fact that we can't skate forever under the mantra that the Senate  is the world's greatest deliberative body when it does not deliberate.  The good news is, it is entirely within our power to reclaim use of  that title justifiably and with dignity. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT