U.S. Government Accountability Office Decision


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700255/us-government-accountability-office-decision


Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land           Management--Applicability of the Congressional Review Act           to the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument Record           of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan      File: B-337705      January 15, 2026                                    DIGEST

The U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land       Management (BLM) issued the Grand Staircase-Escalante       National Monument Record of Decision and Approved Resource       Management Plan (Grand Staircase RMP). The Grand Staircase       RMP designates BLM-administered lands within the decision       area as available or unavailable for certain uses.

The Congressional Review Act (CRA) requires that before a       rule can take effect, an agency must submit the rule to both       the House of Representatives and the Senate, as well as the       Comptroller General. CRA adopts the definition of rule under       the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) but excludes certain       categories of rules from coverage. We conclude that the Grand       Staircase RMP meets APA's definition of a rule, and that no       CRA exception applies. Therefore, the Grand Staircase RMP is       a rule subject to CRA's submission requirements.                                   DECISION

On January 13, 2025, the U.S. Department of the Interior       (Interior), Bureau of Land Management (BLM) issued the Grand       Staircase-Escalante National Monument Record of Decision and       Approved Resource Management Plan (Grand Staircase RMP). We       received a request for a decision about whether the Grand       Staircase RMP is a rule for purposes of the Congressional       Review Act (CRA). As discussed below, we conclude that the       Grand Staircase RMP is a rule for purposes of CRA.

Our practice when issuing decisions is to obtain the legal       views of the relevant agency on the subject of the request.       Accordingly, we reached out to Interior to obtain the       agency's views. We received Interior's response on September       18, 2025.                                  BACKGROUND       BLM Public Land Management

Under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976,       as amended (FLPMA), BLM is responsible for developing,       maintaining, and, when appropriate, revising ``land use plans       which provide by tracts or areas for the use of the public       lands.'' BLM land use plans, referred to as ``resource       management plans'' (RMPs), establish goals and objectives to       guide future land and resource management actions implemented       by BLM. Pursuant to FLPMA, BLM established procedures for the       development, revision, and amendment of RMPs.

The objective of resource management planning is to       maximize resource values for the public through a rational,       consistently applied set of regulations and procedures which       promote the concept of multiple use management. An RMP       generally establishes land use designations; allowable       resource uses; resource conditions, goals, and objectives;       program constraints and general management practices; areas       to be covered by more specific plans; and other related       information.

BLM may amend an RMP to account for, among other things,       new data, new or revised policy, or a change in       circumstances. Amendments are to be made through an       environmental assessment of the proposed change or an       environmental impact statement, if needed, and must involve       public involvement and interagency coordination.           The Antiquities Act of 1906

The Antiquities Act of 1906 grants the President authority       to designate nationa1 monuments on federal lands that contain       historic landmarks, structures, or other objects of historic       or scientific interest. The President may also reserve       parcels of land as part of the national monuments, but the       statute mandates that such reservations be confined to the       smallest area compatible with the proper care and management       of the protected objects. Proclamations under the Act are       self-executing and do not require further action by Congress.       Both Congress and the President have designated monuments to       be overseen by federal land agencies including, for example,       the National Park Service and BLM.      Grand Staircase-Escalante Resource Management Plan

BLM issued the Grand Staircase RMP to establish a       management plan consistent with Presidential Proclamation       10286 (Proclamation 10286). Proclamation 10286 restored the       boundaries of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument       (GSENM) to its pre-December 4, 2017, boundaries. Proclamation       10286 also directed BLM to manage the lands for the specific       purpose of protecting and restoring objects identified in       Proclamation 10286 and Proclamation No. 6920, 61 Fed. Reg.       50419 (Sept. 26, 1996) (Proclamation 6920). Proclamation       10286 incorporated Proclamation 6920 by reference.       Proclamations 6920 and 10286 (collectively, Proclamations)       provide that BLM shall develop a management plan for the       GSENM in accordance with the Proclamations, FLPMA, and other       applicable laws.

BLM initiated development of the Grand Staircase RMP in       July of 2022 and completed the process with the issuance of       the Grand Staircase RMP on January 13, 2025. The Grand       Staircase RMP encompasses 1.87 million acres of public land       managed by BLM. It delineates goals, objectives, and       management direction intended to ensure consistency with the       protection of monument objects and the direction provided in       the Proclamations.

For example, the Grand Staircase RMP establishes a zonal       system that assigns different levels of protection and       access, including for example more than 1.2 million acres of       ``primitive area'' closed to off-highway vehicle use. The RMP       also designates areas for particular uses, limits camping to       a set number of days, identifies specific pastures as       unavailable for grazing or open only for trailing,       distinguishes recreational shooting from game hunting, adds       explicit protections for old-growth trees, and institutes       protection measures for migratory birds. To protect sensitive       resources, the Grand Staircase RMP creates new Areas of       Critical Environmental Concern.

Some measures within the Grand Staircase RMP are directly       mandated by Proclamation 10286. For instance, the RMP       implements the withdrawal of all federal lands within the       decision area from mineral and geothermal leasing, as       directed by Proclamation 10286. Additionally, the RMP       reflects Proclamation 10286's instruction that lands covered       by voluntarily relinquished grazing permits or leases will be       retired from livestock grazing. And it preserves tribal       members access to sites and resources for customary usage.       Finally, the Grand Staircase RMP affirms that management       actions based on Proclamation 10286 are subject to valid       existing rights and that all actions within the GSENM will be       consistent with the protection of GSENM objects.      Congressional Review Act

CRA, enacted in 1996 to strengthen congressional oversight       of agency rulemaking, requires federal agencies to submit a       report on each new rule to both houses of Congress and to the       Comptroller General for review before a rule can take effect.       The report must contain a copy of the rule, ``a concise       general statement relating to the rule,'' and the rule's       proposed effective date. CRA allows Congress to review and       disapprove rules issued by federal agencies for a period of       60 days using special procedures. If a resolution of       disapproval is enacted, then the new rule has no force or       effect.

CRA adopts the definition of a rule under the       Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which states that a rule       is ``the whole or a part of an agency statement of general or       particular applicability and future effect designed to       implement, interpret, or prescribe law or policy or       describing the organization, procedure, or practice       requirements of an agency.'' However, CRA excludes three       categories of rules from coverage: (1) rules of particular       applicability; (2) rules relating to agency management or       personnel; and (3) rules of agency organization, procedure,       or practice that do not substantially affect the rights or       obligations of non-agency parties.

Interior did not submit a CRA report to Congress or The       Comptroller general on the Grand Staircase RMP. In its       response to us, Interior provided additional information       about RMP procedures related to the release of the Grand       Staircase RMP. Interior noted that it followed the notice and       public comment procedures for RMPs in accordance with FLPMA       and its regulations. However, Interior did not state a       position as to whether the Grand Staircase RMP is a rule       under CRA.                                  DISCUSSION

At issue here is whether the Grand Staircase RMP meets       CRA's definition of a rule, which adopts APA's definition of       a rule, with three exceptions. As explained below, we       conclude that it does and that no exceptions apply.       Consequently, the Grand Staircase RMP is subject to review       under CRA.      The Grand Staircase RMP is a Rule under APA

Applying APA's definition of a rule, the Grand Staircase       RMP meets all of the required elements. First, the Grand       Staircase RMP is an agency statement as it was issued by BLM,       a federal agency. However, because the RMP was issued in       response to a presidential proclamation under the Antiquities       Act of 1906, we must assess whether the RMP represents an       agency statement or a presidential action. The President is       not an agency for purposes of APA, accordingly presidential       actions are not rules under APA. Thus, we have distinguished       between an agency acting under its own statutory authority,       which would constitute an agency statement, and an agency       acting under authority delegated by the President, which       constitutes a presidential action.

For example, in B-333725, Mar. 17, 2022, we considered       whether guidance issued by a presidential task force and       approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)       constituted a rule under CRA. Pertinent here, we examined       whether OMB's approval of the guidance was taken under the       President's sole authority or the authority vested in the       agency. There, the Federal Property and Administrative       Services Act (the Property Act) vested the President, not any       agency, with the authority to prescribe the policies and       directives the President considered necessary to carry out       the statute's purposes. The President subsequently delegated       this authority to OMB. a OMB's involvement therefore existed       solely by virtue of that presidential delegation. Because the       President is not an ``agency'' under the APA, we concluded       that when an agency acts solely pursuant to authority vested       exclusively in the President--effectively standing in the       President's shoes--the resulting action is attributable to       the President rather than to the agency.

By contrast, in B-336512, Aug. 29, 2024, we concluded that       an OMB Controller Alert suggesting that agencies identify       projects funded by statutes enacted pursuant to initiatives       of the Biden Administration constituted an agency statement       because it was issued pursuant to OMB's statutory authority       to issue such guidance, rather than under authority delegated       by the President.

The crux of our analysis here lies in whether BLM was       merely a conduit for the President's Antiquities Act       authority or whether it exercised its own independent       authority under FLPMA. As explained further below, we       conclude that the Grand Staircase RMP operates as a hybrid       regulatory instrument, reflecting both the implementation of       the Proclamations directives and BLM's independent exercise       of its discretion and authority under FLPMA.

The Antiquites Act vests the President with the authority       to declare certain landmarks, structures, and objects as       national monuments and to reserve parcels of land as part of       the national monuments. In certain respects, the Grand       Staircase RMP affirms the Proclamations' directives and       implements measures to protect the GSENM. The Grand Staircase       RMP provisions that acknowledge GSENM and specify its       boundaries simply reflect the legal status of the land as       established by the President under the Antiquities Act. Some       directives of the Proclamations also include the       administration's policy for the protection of the GSENM and       other policy interest. For example, the withdrawal of GSENM       from disposition under mineral and geothermal leasing laws,       recognition of valid existing rights, the provision of access       to tribal members for customary uses, and adoption of a       mandatory policy on grazing permit relinquishment.

However, BLM's implementation of the Proclamations' policy       directives and other discretionary provisions were developed       under BLM's independent authority to manage public lands and       resources under FLPMA. More specifically, BLM prepared the       Grand Staircase RMP pursuant to Interior's land-use planning       regulations implementing FLPMA, codified at 43 C.F.R. part       1600. In developing the Grand Staircase RMP, BLM proposed       five alternatives, Alternatives A-E, for the protection of       the GSENM and the management of federal land and resources       within the decision area. The development of management       alternatives, and the selection of an alternative, is the       hallmark of BLM's discretion under FLPMA. BLM selected its       Proposed RMP, Alternate E, which builds on Alternative C and       incorporates its assessment of the best available scientific       information, public comments, cooperating-agency input,       government-to-government consultation, and elements of other       alternatives. Accordingly, BLM exercised its independent       authority and discretion in choosing Alternative E, as the       best alternative to manage land use and resources within the       decision area.

As noted above, the Antiquities Act grants the President       authority to identify objects of historic or scientific       interest and to reserve the smallest area of land necessary       for their protection. By its plain terms this authority,       while exclusive to the President, is narrow in scope. It does       not encompass the development of land-use plans, or the       allocation of resources on public land. Congress assigned       those responsibilities to the Secretary of the Interior and       BLM under FLPMA. The Grand Staircase RMP explains that       Alternative E       designates management areas primarily as a tool for managing       visitation and allowable uses, while also ensuring protection       of GSENM objects. Whereas the President through Proclamations       was empowered to establish the GSENM and its boundaries under       the Antiquites Act. Because the Grand Staircase RMP relies on       a separate statutory grant of authority, FLPMA, rather than       delegation of the President's statutory authority under the       Antiquities Act, BLM was not ``standing in the President's       shoes'' when it developed a land use plan for the GSENM.       Although the proclamation directs the Secretary and BLM to       provide for the care and management of the monument, such       directives do not expand the President's statutory authority       under the Antiquies Act or displace BLM's obligations under       FLPMA. Unlike the case in B-333725, where OMB acted solely       under the authority delegated by the President under the       Property Act, the legal authority to manage federal land       and resources is vested in BLM.

The Grand Staircase RMP's affirmation of the GSENM's legal       status, and its initiation pursuant to the Proclamations,       does not render the RMP a presidential action. To conclude       otherwise would create a loophole for ``hybrid'' actions by       insulating significant regulatory actions from legislative       oversight under CRA. The Grand Staircase RMP reflects the       agency's determination of how it will exercise its       independent authority and discretion under its statutory       mandate to develop land use plans for public lands and the       government's mineral estate. Because the GSENM's legal status       exists independently of the Grand Staircase RMP, provisions       that affirm the Proclamations do not change the RMP's       fundamental character--an agency level administrative action.       Accordingly, the Grand Staircase RMP constitutes an agency       statement for purposes of the APA.

Second, returning to the three elements of the definition,       the Grand Staircase RMP is a rule of future effect because it       is designed to apply prospectively to guide all subsequent       management decisions and it implements and directs the long-      term allocation of public land for certain uses, establishes       permissible resource uses, and defines the conditions and       constraints necessary to achieve the specific goals and       objectives outlined within the RMP. The management decisions       made in the Grand Staircase RMP became effective January 6,       2025, when the Record of Decision was signed. As of that       date, the Grand Staircase RMP establishes a framework upon       which further decisions will be made. Therefore, the Grand       Staircase RMP has future effect.

Finally, the Grand Staircase RMP implements, interprets, or       prescribes law or policy, because it implements a management       plan as directed by and in accordance with the Proclamations.       We have recognized that `` `a statement by an agency that       simply restates an established interpretation `tread[s] no       new ground' and `le[aves] the world just as it found it, and       thus cannot be fairly described as implementing,       interpreting, or prescribing law or policy.' '' However,       while the RMP restates certain provisions in Proclamation       10286, it also establishes management policies pursuant to       BLM's authority under FLPMA that were not included in the       Proclamation. Additionally, the RMP establishes conditions on       land use, allocates resources for specific purposes, and       prohibits certain activities pursuant to BLM's authority       under FLPMA.

Our conclusion here is consistent with our previous       decisions finding similar land use plans and RMPs implement,       interpret, or prescribe law or policy. Accordingly, the Grand       Staircase RMP satisfies the third element of the APA       definition of ``rule.'' Having met all required elements, the       Grand Staircase RMP constitutes a rule under APA.      CRA Exceptions

We must next determine whether any of CRA's three       exceptions apply. CRA provides for three types of rules that       are not subject to its requirements: (1) rules of particular       applicability; (2) rules relating to agency management or       personnel; and (3) rules of agency organization, procedure,       or practice that do not substantially affect the rights or       obligations of non-agency parties.

(1) Rule of Particular Applicability

Consistent with our previous decisions, the Grand Staircase       RMP is a rule of general applicability, rather than       particular applicability. For example, in B-337163, June 25,       2025, BLM issued the Miles City Resource Management Plan       Amendment (RMPA) that established land use designations to       govern all coal mining activities by any person or entity       within the planning area of its Miles City Field Office.       Because the Miles City RMPA governed all coal mining       activities by any person within its purview, we concluded       that the Miles City RMPA was a rule of general applicability.       Similarly, the Grand Staircase RMP establishes land use       designations, forecloses certain activities, allocates       resources, and imposes conditions upon land use that are       applicable to any person or entity within the GSENM, making       it a rule of general applicability.

(2) Rule of Agency Management or Personnel

The Grand Staircase RMP is not a rule of agency management       or personnel. We have previously found that rules that fall       into this category relate to purely internal agency matters.       Because the Grand Staircase RMP primarily focuses on how the       public may use resources and public land rather than BLM's       internal management or its personnel, the RMP does not meet       CRA's second exception.

(3) Rule of Agency Organization, Procedure, or Practice             That Does Not Substantially Affect Non-Agency Parties

Lastly, the Grand Staircase RMP is not a rule of agency       organization, procedure, or practice that does not       substantially affect the rights or obligations of non-agency       parties.

We have previously explained that this exception was       modeled on the APA exception to notice-and-comment rulemaking       requirements for ``rules of agency organization, procedure,       or practice.'' The purpose of the APA exception is to ensure       ``that agencies retain latitude in organizing their internal       operations,'' so long as such rules do not have a substantial       impact on non-agency parties.

Following this principle in the CRA context, we have only       applied CRA's third exception to rules that primarily focus       on the internal operations of an agency. For instance, in B-      329926, Sept. 10, 2018, we found that updates to a Social       Security Administration (SSA) hearing manual governing SSA       adjudicators' use of information from the internet qualified       as a rule of agency organization, procedure, or practice.       There, the manual outlined procedures for SSA employees to       follow in processing and adjudicating benefits claims.       Because the manual was directed to and binding only on SSA       officials without imposing new burdens on claimants, we       concluded that the manual met CRA's third exception.

In contrast, rules that are directed at and primarily       concerned with the behavior of non-agency parties do not fall       within this category. a Thus, in B-337163, June 25, 2025, we       declined to apply CRA's third exception to BLM's Miles City       RMPA, because it was not limited to changes in BLM's internal       operations. Instead, the Miles City RMPA was directed at non-      agency parties as it foreclosed these parties from leasing       coal within designated areas of the decision area. Similarly,       in B-337200, June 25, 2025, we declined to apply CRA's third       exception to the Central Yukon RMP because the plan primarily       regulated the conduct of non-agency parties by foreclosing       certain actions through the establishment of land use       designations and the delineation of the activities that may       be undertaken in the decision area.

Here, the Grand Staircase RMP includes some procedural       changes, such as the new requirement for personnel to utilize       a revised drought index when determining whether to implement       grazing reductions. However, like the Miles City RMPA and the       Central Yukon RMP, the Grand Staircase RMP is not primarily       focused on making changes to internal agency operations.       Instead, the Grand Staircase RMP is directed at, and concerns       itself primarily with the preservation of the GSENM by       delineating the use of public land and resources by non-      agency parties within the decision area. Therefore, the Grand       Staircase RMP does not qualify as a rule of agency       organization, procedure, or practice.

We must also consider whether the Grand Staircase RMP       substantially affects the rights or obligations of non-agency       parties. When analyzing this aspect of CRA's third exception,       ``the critical question is whether the agency action alters       the rights or interests of the regulated entities.'' Along       similar lines, courts have determined that``[a]n agency rule       that modifies substantive rights and interests can only be       nominally procedural, and the exemption for such rules of       agency procedure cannot apply.'' In previous decisions, we       have concluded that where an RMP designates use by non-agency       parties in the areas it governs, it has a substantial effect.       For instance, in B-337163, June 25, 2025, we explained that       the Miles City RMPA altered substantive rights and       obligations of non-agency parties by excluding 1,745,040       acres of BLM-administered land from coal leasing, effectively       precluding these parties from pursuing coal leases within the       Miles City planning area. Similarly, in B-337200, June 25,       2025, we concluded that the Central Yukon RMP substantially       affected non-agency parties by imposing, among other things,       land use restrictions, such as designating areas of critical       environmental concern and closing certain tracts of land for       mineral extraction and recreational use.

Consistent with our prior decisions concerning other RMPs,       the Grand Staircase RMP has a substantial effect on non-      agency parties. The Grand Staircase RMP substantially affects       the rights and obligations of non-agency parties by, for       example, designating specific grazing pastures, e.g., Circle       Cliffs, Upper Paria, as ``unavailable'' or ``trailing-only'',       and closing approximately 1.2 million acres (classified as a       Primitive Zone) to off-highway vehicle use. Furthermore, the       RMP imposes time limitations for camping, restricts or closes       areas to recreational shooting, and provides direction       regarding access for mineral exploration and timber       harvesting. Accordingly, the Grand Staircase RMP fails to       meet CRA's third exception.                                  CONCLUSION

The Grand Staircase RMP is a rule for purposes of CRA       because it meets the definition of a rule under APA and no       CRA exception applies. Therefore, the Grand Staircase RMP is       subject to CRA's requirement that it be submitted to Congress       and the Comptroller General before it can take effect.                                             Edda Emmanuelli Perez,                                                   General Counsel.