Unanimous Consent Request--S. 3173


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, in a message to Congress on July 4, 1861,  Abraham Lincoln wrote that the leading object of government was to  ``elevate the condition of men, to lift artificial weights from all  shoulders; to clear the paths of laudable pursuit for all; to afford  all an unfettered start and a fair chance in the race of life.'' 

  It is no coincidence that he gave this message on the anniversary of  our Nation's birth. Lincoln was echoing the profound legacy of our  founding--a legacy that shaped our Nation and thereafter rippled across  not only the Western Hemisphere but the entire world. 

  When the Founders broke off from the yoke of British tyranny, they  declared all men to be endowed with certain inalienable rights--rights  that come not from the State, a church, any man or woman, or even from  a government, but, rather, from God himself. 

  The first of these inalienable rights was life. Never was any nation  in the history of human beings born of a higher principle or a deeper  connection to human happiness and flourishing. Here, the people would  rule. Here, government would serve the people and not the other way  around. Here, for the first time ever, each person, no matter his or  her station in life, was endowed with these rights and entitled to  their equal protection. 

  Today, 159 years since Lincoln's message to Congress and 244 years  since the Founders' message to the world, here we stand sworn, still,  to fulfill their promise. 

  As far as we have come during that time period, we still have so far  to go. Today, our government--founded to protect Americans' rights to  life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness--threatens unborn Americans  on all three counts. The Supreme Court imposes and Congress subsidizes  the most  radical abortion policy in the Western world. 

  Since 1973, more than 60 million little lives, innocent lives, have  been lost. The children lost to abortion cannot be seen, they cannot be  heard, but the loss of every single one of them is felt. Mothers have  been robbed of their children. There are gaping holes left throughout  our Nation, in our families and in our communities--gaping holes that  only those unique, unrepeatable souls could have and would have  otherwise filled. 

  For more than four decades, we have failed American women and their  unborn children. Today, we have a chance to do better, to aspire for  more, not to settle for mediocrity or tyranny but to celebrate and  embrace life and liberty. We have a chance to stand up for the very  weakest and most vulnerable among us, the ones still being knit  together in their mothers' wombs, the ones we know respond to human  touch by the age of 8 weeks, who feel pain by the age of 20 weeks, and  who recognize the sound of their mother's voice before they are even  born. 

  Science and medicine are only confirming what we know deep down--that  unborn human beings are, in fact, just like us. Every day, more  scientific evidence confirms our moral intuition that a person is a  person no matter how small that person happens to be. 

  The so-called Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act that was  before us earlier this week would have banned abortions for babies more  than 20 weeks of age, upholding in law what science already confirms;  that is, that these babies feel every bit of their life as it is being  ended. This should not have been a controversial bill. 

  Still less controversial should have been the Born-Alive Abortion  Survivors Protection Act. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection  Act takes no position on abortion, and it takes no position even on the  rights of the unborn. It simply says that in this country, the United  States of America, when a child is born, even if by accident, even in  the most dangerous place in the world for an infant--that is, a Planned  Parenthood clinic--he or she becomes a citizen of the United States  under our Constitution, entitled to the full and equal protection of  our laws. It says that when a child intended to be aborted is, in fact,  instead born alive, he or she cannot simply be ``disposed of'' in the  back room of a clinic or a hospital, as if it were nothing more than  medical waste. This bill merely outlaws the murder of the innocent in  the first moments of life; that is, the first moments of life outside  the womb. 

  It is a tragedy, a blight, and a poor commentary of frightening  reflection not only upon this country but on this very legislative body  that these measures failed this week. A minority of this body chose to  reject both the scientific facts of human biology and the essential  moral principle of human dignity. 

  When someone talks about not accepting science, I hope they will  remember what happened this week. I hope they will remember that  against all medical and scientific evidence, to say nothing of what  people know morally, intuitively, and within their own hearts, this  body failed to protect the most vulnerable among us. 

  Unfortunately, this is not the first time in our Nation's history  that we have sometimes looked at the people according to a really evil  logic of utility and power, and it is not the first time that we have  tried to dehumanize human beings. It is not the first time we have  tried to pick and choose who is wanted and who is valuable in society,  penuriously doling out rights to exist and to be free on the basis of  that arbitrary and unjustifiable determination. 

  Nonetheless, thankfully, if there is one thing that we know about our  country, it is that the American people have a way of bending the arc  of history toward life or, as Winston Churchill is credited for saying,  the American people will always do the right thing after they have  exhausted every other alternative. 

  We have a long, proud history as Americans of standing up for the  weak, for the innocent, and especially for the vulnerable. We have made  mistakes--grave, grave mistakes--but the right thing to do is always  the right thing to do, and we come around in the end. It is one of the  things that differentiates us from other societies. We aspire toward  that which is good. 

  Today there is reason to hope. Abortions in my home State of Utah  have been steadily declining over the past four decades, with fewer  than 3,000 happening in 2017. Six States are now down to just one  abortion clinic: Kentucky, West Virginia, North Dakota, South Dakota,  Mississippi, and Missouri. This past year, Alabama passed a law banning  elective abortions in most circumstances, and just last month hundreds  of thousands of Americans marched joyfully once again through  Washington, as they have year after year after year, for those who  cannot, for those who are rendered absent by this barbaric practice. 

  The tide is turning, and today we have another chance to right these  same wrongs. Through my bill, the Abortion Is Not Healthcare Act, we  have the chance to stop the tax deductibility of abortions which are  currently categorized as medical care by the IRS. 

  The purpose of healthcare is to heal, is to cure. It is not to kill.  Let us be serious. Whatever else abortion may be, of course, elective  abortion is not healthcare. That is why physicians literally take an  oath to do no harm. 

  The government should not offer tax benefits for a procedure that  kills hundreds of thousands of unborn children each year, nor should  taxpayers have to subsidize it. This bill would end this preferential  tax treatment and clarify that this gruesome practice is not  healthcare. 

  We also have the chance to permanently stop the use of our foreign  aid money from funding or promoting abortions overseas. The Protecting  Life in Foreign Assistance Act will save countless lives across the  globe and affirms the truth that the lives of all unborn children,  regardless of where they might happen to be from, have dignity and  worth. Today we can stand to allow all human beings--no matter what  their age, their appearance, or their abilities--a fair chance in the  race of life. 

  We have only to remain loyal to that bedrock principle that we claim  to defend in the Declaration of Independence: the inalienable,  fundamental right to life, the equal dignity, the immeasurable worth of  all human life. 

   3173 and the Senate proceed to its  immediate consideration. 

  I further ask that the bill be considered read a third time and  passed and that the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid  upon the table. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I appreciate the opportunity to address these  important issues today. I thank my friend and colleague from Oregon for  outlining his reasons for objecting to this  legislation. I feel the need to respond to a few things that he said  because they call for an immediate response. 

  First, he noted that there were two votes cast earlier this week that  he described as part of an ongoing pattern, an ongoing campaign among  Senate Republicans that, according to my colleague, are anti-woman.  This is offensive on a variety levels--first when you consider that the  abortion is no respecter of persons. It is not just male babies  aborted; it is also female babies. There are parts of the world where  abortion of female babies occurs in much higher numbers--in many cases  because they are female babies. 

  Abortion is itself--elective abortion is an act of violence against a  human form, against a human life, albeit a life in utero. 

  I remember a few months ago we were holding a hearing, of all things,  addressing issues relating to wild horses and burros in the Western  United States. Certain wild horse populations have grown out of  control. They have devastated rangelands. They have depleted resources  available to them, and many of them are starving, malnourished, and  suffering. 

  There have been programs that have sought not only to help them in  one way or another but also to sterilize them. I never thought I would  be part of a significant hearing addressing the nonsexy topic of equine  contraception, but in this instance we had one. One of our witnesses,  who was from an organization devoted to preventing cruelty to animals,  explained that one of the most effective techniques of horse birth  control involves the sterilization procedure. I asked why that was not  the preferred method. She said because, in many instances, it can  result in the loss of the unborn horse. I asked her why that mattered.  She said: Well, because it is a life, notwithstanding the fact that it  hasn't been born. It is cruel to the unborn baby horse. It is cruel to  the foal. If it is cruel to the foal, why isn't it cruel to the baby,  whether it is a male baby or a female baby? This is not anti-woman. 

  There was also the suggestion that the campaign somehow involves a  Republican in every exam room, and that, according to those who  advocate pro-life positions, it would relegate healthcare to the  healthy and wealthy. Well, this gets back to the very point I was  making. An exam room--actual healthcare--involves protecting and  preserving human life. Elective abortion, by contrast, has one object;  that is, the termination of a human life--an unborn, in utero human  life but a human life just the same. 

  You can say whatever you want about it but to call it healthcare, to  me, is counterintuitive--not just to me but to many, many Americans who  find the practice abhorrent and are shocked by the thought that the  U.S. Government would be subsidizing it, whether through its tax policy  or through more direct forms or, as we see today, both. 

  As to the suggestion that politicians ought to stay out of this  issue, well, let me ask you this: What about the idea that politicians  and, therefore, lawmakers ought to stay out of other issues involving  violence to a human being? There was a day and age in this country  where people would say that lawmakers ought to stay out of other issues  involving violence, of domestic violence: That is a family matter,  after all. Politicians ought to stay out. The law should have nothing  to do with that. Well, it involves violence to another human being. 

  To say simply that politicians and, therefore, lawmakers and,  therefore, the law ought to stay out of a topic means to suggest that  it is somehow beyond the reach of the law. If we have reached, if we  ever do reach the point where we can't say no human being can kill  another human being, we have really, really big problems. 

  We are not talking here about an exam room. We are not talking about  procedures designed to promote, to heal, and to prolong life. We are  talking about a procedure to end life. This is, itself, not a bill that  talks about the appropriateness or lack thereof of elective abortion.  This simply says that, given how many Americans feel about this, as  many of us in this very room feel about abortion, we shouldn't be  subsidizing it, and we shouldn't be pretending it is something it is  not. 

  Finally, let me remind this body and anyone who may be watching from  outside this body that, of the legislation we voted on this week, one  of those pieces of legislation didn't even involve abortion at all. It  didn't regulate any facet of abortion. It dealt only indirectly with  the topic of abortion, but it had nothing to do with the performance or  availability of an abortion itself. 

  It simply said that, when a baby is born, following or in the middle  of a failed attempt at an abortion, if that baby is born alive,  notwithstanding the attempt by the abortionist to kill the baby, that  baby shouldn't simply be neglected. In any other circumstance, a human  being, particularly a vulnerable, brandnew newborn baby--an infant--to  neglect the baby and allow that baby to die of exposure, to not  administer lifesaving care or nutrition or sustenance to that baby, to  neglect the baby and allow that baby to die of exposure would be a  crime. In some circumstances, it may well be murder. In others, it  would be a serious criminal form of deliberate child neglect. 

  So, to suggest that a baby is somehow different as a result of a  subjective intent of the abortionist to kill the baby and that we  shouldn't make sure that baby is properly cared for following its birth  is barbaric. Look, I get it. Not everybody shares my viewpoint with  regard to when human life begins. I get it. Not everybody shares my  view with regard to abortion policy. Now, I will defend to my dying day  my views on these issues, and I will not shrink from them, but  regardless of whether you agree with me on that, I seriously question  how anyone would credibly maintain that a human being born alive  following a failed abortion attempt shouldn't be given the same  protection under the law as any other human being. 

  In other words, the humanness of a baby shouldn't depend on that  baby's ``wantedness.'' The fact that anyone wanted to kill that baby  before the baby was born doesn't give anyone the right to kill the baby  with impunity. 

  That is what they voted down this week. Let's not pretend that this  is about exam rooms. Let's not pretend that this is about actual  healthcare. Let's not pretend that this is somehow an anti-woman  strategy. 

  By the way, many women I know--most, I would say--actually find quite  offensive the suggestion that to be in favor of protecting babies is  somehow anti-woman. This is offensive. It is sad to me, more than  anything. 

  This was a lost opportunity that we had this week to protect the  dignity of human life, not just unborn human life but human beings who  have been born. 

  One day we will look back and see this week through sad eyes in much  the same way we now look back on other episodes in American history  where we have failed to accord the full dignity to a human life that  each human life truly deserves. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT