Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 6172


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, they spied on the President of the United  States. They used the apparatus of the U.S. Government's superb  intelligence gathering agencies to spy on then-Candidate Donald Trump,  now President of the United States. They did so in a way that was  entirely predictable, entirely foreseeable, and in some ways avoidable,  if, in fact, we had the right laws on the books. We don't. That needs  to change. That is why this moment is a pivotal moment when three  provisions in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act are about to  expire this coming Sunday, March 15. 

  We have known that this day was coming for many years. In fact, it  was in 2015 when Congress last reauthorized the three expiring  provisions on any long-term basis. The three expiring provisions are,  of course, known as Lone Wolf, Roving Wiretaps, and 215. It is to the  last of these three sections, 215, that I am directing most of my  remarks today. 

  Now, 215 is only the beginning and not the end of the portion of the  Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, also known as FISA, that needs  reform. We need reform across the board, but the expiration of 215  gives us a unique opportunity to do that. We reauthorized it in 2015,  knowing that it would come back again for reauthorization in December  of 2019. 

  In December of 2019, we were in the middle of doing other things, so  an agreement was made within this body that we would extend 215 and the  other two provisions until this coming Sunday, March 15. So absent  action by this body between now and Sunday, March 15, those three  provisions of law will expire. 

  Those three provisions of law should not have to expire because we  ought to be able to reform FISA. A number of us have been working on  this not just for days or weeks or months but, literally, years. I am  now in my 10th year in the U.S. Senate. Basically, the entire time, I  have been working on reforms to FISA, figuring out where its weak spots  are, and warning my colleagues years in advance that at some point this  would be abused.  

  We have to remember what happened with the Church Committee. The  Frank Church Committee, a few decades ago in the U.S. Senate, looked at  the use of intelligence gathering and concluded that in every  administration--basically from Wilson through Nixon, who was the  President immediately before the Church Committee did its investigation  and issued its report--U.S. intelligence gathering agencies had abused  their authority for partisan political purposes basically to engage in  political espionage. We know that this is dangerous. We know that this  is bad. We also know that this is just the beginning and not the end of  the opportunities for abuse. 

  Consider this: Given the breadth and the wide scope on the authority  provided under FISA and given the fact that the Foreign Intelligence  Surveillance Court is able to operate in secrecy and, for the most  part, without any type of appellate review and any type of judicial  review, these are provisions that are, in fact, vulnerable and  susceptible to abuse. 

  So it is not just the President of the United States who has reason  to be concerned about this. If the President of the United States has  reason to be concerned about it, as he does--he reminded us just in the  last few hours, issuing a statement this morning indicating that he  still has concerns with FISA and that many Senators are pointing out  the flaws in the reform package passed by the Democratic-controlled  House of Representatives earlier this week and that many have  encouraged him to veto that legislation on that basis. But if the  President of the United States himself has reason to be concerned about  FISA, what about the rest of America? This is just the episode that  people know about in connection with the abuse that took place in the  Carter Page investigation. Had Donald Trump not become President of the  United States, we might well still not know about this particular  instance of abuse. Because of the secret manner in which this law  operates and the failure to provide special protections for known U.S.  citizens, we all stand vulnerable--every American citizen, whether they  hold office or not, whether they are famous or not, whether they are  rich or poor, regardless of their culture, their background, or what  part of the country they hail from. 

  So what we are seeking here are a few modest reforms to make sure  that it is a little bit harder to abuse this law. We know human beings  are flawed and fallible, and we have to rely on human beings to run  governments. It would be nice, as James Madison said, if men were  angels because, as Madison wrote in Federalist 51, if men were angels,  they wouldn't need a government. And if we had access to angels to run  our government, we wouldn't need all these rules surrounding the extent  of the power of government to protect us from the inherent risk  associated with the unjust, excessive accumulation of power in the  hands of a few.  

  But, alas, we are not angels, nor do we have access to angels to run  our government, so we have to rely on rules. The rules we are proposing  are not excessive. They are not extreme. They are actually very mild.  Among other things, we would like to see more robust amicus provisions,  meaning provisions allowing for a third-party advocate in the FISA  Court to be called in, under certain circumstances, especially  involving a sensitive investigation--involving, for example, a  political campaign or a candidate, an office holder, a church, a media  establishment, something like that that operates with express  constitutional protection. An amicus ought to be appointed to represent  an absent contrasting viewpoint, to represent American citizens where  American citizens' rights might be in jeopardy. 

  Understanding, as we have since 2015, that these provisions would be  expiring first in December of 2019 and then we reauthorized them for a  short period of time to give us more time to address these amendments,  I have, for years, been working on proposals and revisions to FISA with  this specific expiration deadline in mind. 

  I have not been, nor have any of my colleagues who have concerns  about this, unreasonable or extreme in our demands. In fact, for me,  personally--and I will not purport to speak for anyone else in this-- for me, personally, I would be fine with two of the three provisions  being reauthorized without any further modification. Lone Wolf and  Roving Wiretaps--let them get reauthorized; that is fine. Let's deal  with 215 separately. 

  Incidentally, section 215--if Sunday comes and passes, 215 doesn't go  away. It just reverts back to a previous version of 215--a previous  version that still gives the government the ability to gain access to  some business records associated with FISA-ordered targets. It is just  a narrower category. 

  Now, we can argue about whether that earlier provision would be  adequate. Incidentally, inspectors general have looked at this and  concluded that the 9/11 attacks were not the fault of the inadequacy of  215. They were the result of mishandling of information that they did,  in fact, gather and were able to gather. 

  In any event, I would love to be able to have that conversation  separately with regard to 215 without all three of these provisions  being held hostage simultaneously. I have made that offer. That offer  has been rejected. 

  I also think another appropriate approach in this circumstance might  well be to give ourselves a 45-day extension. A 45-day extension would  give us a little bit more time to deal with the coronavirus-related  crises that we face right now and then consider and debate and vote on  some additional amendments--some amendments that have never had the  opportunity to see the light of day. 

  Keep in mind, this provision--getting back to the expiring provision  that I have concerns with, section 215--existed prior to the moment  when it reached its current formulation. When it existed in that  formulation, it really did what the government needed it to. No one  really argued that it had been inadequate. There were some people, I am  told--I wasn't in the Senate or in Congress at the time that it came to  be. I am told that its advocates included Robert Mueller, Jim Comey,  and others, who just thought it would be a good idea to give the  government more power. 

  We have seen since then what happens when you give Jim Comey and  Robert Mueller and other people in the government more power, and we  have seen that there are some risks associated with this, not just if  you are a President of the United States or a candidate for the  Presidency of the United States, but we know that all Americans are  potentially vulnerable. 

  So we fast forward to earlier this week, less than 48 hours ago. We  received legislation, the legislation that was passed by the House of  Representatives yesterday. That legislation was negotiated without  involvement or without direct input from anybody in this body. The  majority leader himself has stated publicly that he was not involved in  the negotiation of that measure. That measure was passed within about  24 hours after it was introduced. It is now coming over here. 

  Now, I am not saying that it shouldn't be considered. In fact, I am  kind of saying the opposite of that. I am saying, I am happy to  consider it, but we need the opportunity to actually consider it. The  world's greatest deliberative legislative body or so it calls itself-- the Senate--is supposed to be the cooling saucer, the cooling saucer  where the hot tea spills out and is allowed to cool before it is  consumed. 

  In these circumstances in particular, where rights are at stake,  rights are at stake that are potentially threatened by provisions under  this bill--this bill introduced by Representative Nadler, and supported  by Representatives Schiff, Pelosi, and others--which hasn't had the  opportunity to be independently reviewed in the Senate or to be debated  or discussed or amended in the Senate. That is all I am asking for  here. 

  All I ask is to give us a few weeks. Let's take 45 days. Give the  Senate a chance to deal with the immediate crises associated with the  coronavirus and then a chance for us, in a timely fashion, to review  the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff bill and consider our own amendments to it-- bipartisan amendments from people who have reached across the aisle in  an effort to make this bill better. 

   I  ask unanimous consent that the bill be considered read a third time and  passed, and that the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid  upon the table; further, that at a time to be determined by the  majority leader in consultation with the Democratic leader, the Senate  proceed to the consideration of H.R. 6172 and that the only amendments  in order be six amendments offered by the following Senators: Senator  Lee, Senator Leahy, Senator Daines, Senator Wyden, and Senator Paul. I  further ask that upon disposition of the amendments, the bill, as  amended, if amended, be read a third time and the Senate vote on the  bill, as amended, if amended, with no intervening action or debate. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Mr. President. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I appreciate the care, attention, and detail  shown by my friend and colleague, the distinguished senior Senator from  North Carolina. I do disagree with him for 10 independent reasons. 

  No. 1, as to the suggestion that the proponents of the unanimous  consent request now before this body--that is, the very simple, clean  reauthorization of the expiring provisions for 45 days, giving the  Senate an opportunity to spend just a few weeks to debate and consider  these amendments after dealing with the coronavirus crisis--he  suggested that I, as the proponent of this measure, have--I think the  words were--never supported any of these tools, never in my entire time  in the Senate lifted a finger to support these tools. That is curious  because I was the author and lead sponsor of the USA FREEDOM Act,  which, in 2015, extended and reauthorized these very same provisions.  So his first argument is factually incorrect. 

  No. 2, he points to the lone wolf and roving wiretap provisions as  things that he is concerned about. I understand that they want those.  Now, lone wolf isn't used, but it is sort of a security blanket. People  like knowing that it is there within the government, and I am willing  to let that go. Roving wiretaps are used from time to time. I am  willing to let that go. In fact, I have offered repeatedly--and I will  offer again right now, if it is helpful--that I am willing to  reauthorize those right now without a single modification, without a  single limit beyond what has already been put in for the other  provisions. I am willing to do that free of charge on anything. So  those arguments are frankly disingenuous. 

  No. 3, as to the suggestion that I am somehow holding this bill  hostage, I say to the Senator: You, sir, have it wrong. You have it  precisely backward. What I am doing is saying: Let's preserve the  status quo. We have a crisis to deal with, with the coronavirus. 

  It is of great frustration to me that this body, through its majority  leadership and through its other leadership has known for years--I put  them on notice for years, for basically the entire time I have been at  the U.S. Senate--that I am concerned about these provisions. I have  made known ever since 2015, when we reauthorized these provisions at  issue, that I would continue to  want more reforms. Why we waited until the final days before the  expiration of that period is beyond my ability to understand. But it is  factually incorrect and manifestly unfair to suggest that I am the one  holding this hostage. 

  I say to the Senator: It is quite the other way around, sir. 

  As to the suggestion that these are FISA reforms, not PATRIOT Act  reforms, well, yes, they are all part of this package that we refer to  collectively as the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. The Senator  is right as to the provisions, especially the provision that I am most  concerned about, section 215, as we call it--section 215 of the USA  PATRIOT Act. I give him that one, but that doesn't address the  substance of the problem here. 

  As to Senator Burr's argument that we should err on the side of  keeping Americans safe, I absolutely agree with that. There is no  dispute about that. 

  I also agree with the findings of the Privacy and Civil Liberties  Oversight Board that concluded a few years ago that our privacy and our  security are not at odds with each other. This is not a zero-sum game  between those two objectives. Our privacy is, in fact, part of our  security. One of the reasons we became a nation, one of the reasons we  don't fly the Union Jack or sing ``Hail to the Queen'' or wear wigs and  robes in court has everything to do with the excessive abuse of the  rights of English subjects, including those on this continent, while we  were existing as British Colonies. Our privacy and our security are not  at odds with each other. They are in fact part of the same cohesive  whole. 

  No. 6, the argument made by Senator Burr that this provides  uncertainty for law enforcement, well, let me tell you why that is the  case. The only reason there is uncertainty for law enforcement on this,  for our intelligence community and law enforcement agencies that handle  this stuff, has everything to do with the fact that he just objected to  this unanimous consent request. 

  We could, right now, eliminate their uncertainty. We could have,  likewise, at any point in the months leading up to this, at every point  in which I would have been willing to debate and discuss these things.  For years I have had reforms on the table that we could have  considered. We could have brought those up. We could have done it then. 

  It is not me who is creating the uncertainty for law enforcement. It  is instead the unreasonable objection to receive any of my offers,  including passage of the Leahy-Lee bill, including passage of lone wolf  and roving wiretap independently, including simply extending and  cleanly reauthorizing the three expiring provisions for 45 days, giving  us the chance to consider a handful of amendments. 

  So I say to the Senator: Don't talk to me about being the one who has  created uncertainty. That, sir, is you. 

  No. 7, Senator Burr argues that a President of the United States can  do all of this, in any event, without the three expiring provisions on  the books. Well, my response to that is that is kind of curious. If  that were the case, why is he fighting so hard for these provisions?  Why should anyone be concerned about their expiration? He suggests  somehow that we would not have guardrails--any guardrails in place--if,  in fact, these were allowed to expire. If they were allowed to expire,  I am not familiar with any authority that would provide language  identical to that found in lone wolf or roving wiretap or 215. 

  So if that is the case, perhaps you, sir, would rather have them  expire. I really don't know, and I don't think that advances your  argument. 

  No. 8, the suggestion was made that these amicus provisions--which  are not the limit; they are one of six amendments that I would like to  propose and I would like the Senate to consider. But the FISA Court  already has the authority to appoint an amicus. Well, this is true. We  put that in the USA FREEDOM Act in 2015. The court does have that  authority. That doesn't mean it happens as often as it should. In fact,  as we saw with the abuse that took place in connection with Operation  Crossfire Hurricane targeting the sitting President of the United  States when he was a candidate, in many cases, the FISA Court judges  are not themselves terribly careful. Perhaps it would be helpful to  have somebody else in the room. I don't know why we should be so afraid  of that. 

  No. 9, to the extent that anyone is going to let this program go dark  and if that concerns you, then you ought to agree to this unanimous  consent request. This unanimous consent request will result in it not  going dark. 

  I have made it entirely foreseeable that I would want to have  amendments at least debated, discussed, and considered before we got to  this moment. It is not unreasonable for me to ask. I am not asking that  you accept these amendments, that you incorporate them into existing  law; I am instead simply asking that we be given the opportunity to  vote on them. 

  Finally, No. 10, Mr. Burr argues that this legislation was carefully  crafted by the Attorney General, the Speaker of the House, and several  other officials and that some 270 or so Members of the House of  Representatives voted for this. Well, good for them. That is their  prerogative. I have my own election certificate. I serve in a different  legislative body. I am aware of no obligation on my election  certificate that requires me to defer to the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff bill.  In fact, I refuse to do that. It is insulting to this body. 

  Had the Founding Fathers wanted to create a unicameral legislature,  they could have done so. Had the Founding Fathers wished to create the  Senate of the United States as simply a rubberstamp that would review  what the House of Representatives did and then have a veto, yes or no,  open or closed--a binary reaction to what the House of Representatives  did--they could have, they would have, and they should have done so.  They did not. We have our own independent obligation to review this  legislation. I have done so. I find it inadequate. 

  I am not demanding that all my amendments be accepted as a condition  precedent for my willingness to keep these from going dark. All I am  saying is that I want the opportunity to have amendments considered-- bipartisan amendments--introduced by several Members. 

  So I am going to make another request. I will tone this one down. I  will modify this one. 

     6172; and that the only amendments in order be five amendments offered  by the following Senators: Senators Lee, Leahy, Daines, Wyden, and  Paul. I further ask that upon disposition of the amendments, the bill,  as amended, if amended, be read a third time and that the Senate vote  on the bill, as amended, if amended, with no intervening action or  debate. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, you might notice a pattern here. This pattern  is going to continue. This pattern is going to continue because this is  unjust. This is unrealistic. This is unsustainable. 

  This used to be a body that prided itself on being the world's  greatest deliberative legislative body. It is a body that has its own  unique protections attached to it. 

  Article I of the Constitution sets out the parameters of the Senate,  and it makes clear that it will consist of exactly two Members  representing each State. The one and only kind of constitutional  amendment that is preemptively unconstitutional, that cannot be  adopted, is that type of amendment that would undo this fundamental,  sacred principle of equal representation among and between the States  in the Senate. You cannot do that. 

  They did this with a distinct purpose in mind: that we would have the  ability to represent the States as States; that we would not be just a  roving commission on what was satisfactory or whether the House of  Representatives had done its homework but that we  would be our own independent legislative body. We would be betraying  our oath to the Constitution and those whom we represent if we didn't  do this. 

  This used to be a place, for that very reason--in fact, until quite  recently, it was a place where any Senator could have any amendment  considered on any legislation. Basic standards of collegiality, of  decency and respect for each other and for the rule of law itself  convinced Members over centuries--literally centuries--to defer to each  other in at least their opportunity to propose and vote on amendments.  In recent years, we have seen this deteriorate. We have seen it  deteriorate, sadly, under the leadership of Republicans and Democrats  alike. We have seen it deteriorate at the expense of the representation  of each individual State. 

  This simply isn't acceptable, that we would get to this point in  legislation and we would be unable to vote on or consider basic  amendments to so important a law. They are asking us to reauthorize  these expiring provisions--provisions with profound implications not  only for national security but also for privacy, which are part of the  same cohesive whole--and they are asking us to reauthorize those until  December of 2023 with only minimal reforms--reforms that, I would add,  are modest at best, that are perhaps well-intentioned in some ways, but  the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff bill doesn't cut the mustard. It doesn't do  the job. 

  I have just asked for six amendments. That was too many. And I have  asked for five amendments, and that was too many. Surely they are not  suggesting that we can't ask for any amendments, because if they did,  that would be patently ridiculous. That would be uncollegial. That  would be uncivil. It would be unsenatorial. So we will try this again.  We will see what we can do with four. 

    Further, I ask  that at a time to be determined by the majority leader, in consultation  with the Democratic leader, the Senate proceed to the consideration of  H.R. 6172 and that the only amendments in order be four amendments  offered by the following Senators: Senators Lee, Leahy, Daines, Wyden,  and Paul. I further ask that upon disposition of the amendments, the  bill, as amended, if amended, be read a third time and that the Senate  vote on the bill, as amended, if amended, with no intervening action or  debate. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, this is the natural product of the American  people being asked again and again to simply accept that this is how  things will operate. The American people are told to just settle--to  settle for budgets that don't balance or come anywhere close to it; to  settle for a government that spies on you, that lies to you, that  overreaches, and a legislative branch that is somehow all too content  and seemingly eager and willing to allow and perpetuate and even expand  those authorities. 

  This is unacceptable. We shouldn't settle. We shouldn't settle for an  overreaching government. We should expect a government that respects  the letter and spirit of the Fourth Amendment. We shouldn't settle for  a Senate in which the rights of individual Senators--a bipartisan group  of Senators that has been trying for years to just have a vote on a few  reasonable amendments--would be shut out. We should expect an open,  robust debate, discussion, and amendment process. 

  Don't settle for any of this. You should expect more. We should all  expect freedom. We should all expect debate and liberty and the  protection of your fundamental rights as American citizens. 

  So we will try this again, rolling the number down to an absolute  bare minimum number of three amendments. 

     6172 and that the only amendments in order be three amendments offered  by the following Senators: Senators Lee, Leahy, Daines, Wyden, and  Paul. I further ask that upon disposition of the amendments, the bill,  as amended, if amended, be read a third time and that the Senate vote  on the bill, as amended, if amended, with no intervening action or  debate. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, earlier today, when the President of the  United States issued a statement about the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff bill  purporting to but utterly failing to meaningfully reform the three  expiring foreign intelligence surveillance provisions at issue, the  President expressed grave concern over the process. He expressed grave  concern over the content of the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff bill, which the  Senate reviewed, voted on, passed without amendment, without adequate  debate, violating the House of Representatives' own 72-hour rule in  order to get there. Perhaps he was talking about that, or perhaps he  was talking about the fact that the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff bill really  doesn't fix the problem. In fact, look at the fact that there was  overt, politically motivated targeting that took place against the  President of the United States. 

  Now, look, I know--I know--those were different provisions under  title I of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. I get that. But  it is still part of the same legislative package. It is still part of  the same set of laws we are concerned about here. The only time where  we have the meaningful opportunity to take a deep breath and debate,  discuss, and possibly amend these provisions is when they are set to  expire. 

  I referred earlier to the USA FREEDOM Act, which I authored and  sponsored, along with my distinguished friend and colleague Senator  Leahy, the senior Senator from Vermont, back in 2015. That was brought  about as a result of and during the moment when we were approaching the  expiration of these very same provisions. 

  That is how we bring about reforms. In fact, we brought about some  reforms in that very legislation that were outside the narrow context  of the three expiring provisions in question. There is no rule, no law  etched in stone, written into the rules of the Senate, the  Constitution, or anything else that tells us that we cannot, that we  may not, that we should not edit or amend or reconsider any provision  outside the narrow expiring provisions that we are facing with FISA.  Quite to the contrary, we have a pattern and practice in the past that  has established that this is the way we do things. 

  Look, in fairness, I wish we debated and discussed and amended these  things a whole lot more because these laws are really messed up. We  ought to be reviewing them and updating them a lot more often--not  because the people implementing them are bad. Maybe some of them are. I  don't know them. They have done some bad things, some of them. I am  sure there are a lot of people who have access to these tools who are  hard-working, well-intentioned, well educated, and highly specialized.  I am even willing to assume most of them fit that description and  wouldn't ever knowingly, intentionally violate that law. But the fact  is, the law has been violated. There are very few instances that we  actually know about. Why? Well, because this whole thing operates under  the veil of secrecy. 

  Sunlight illuminates and it also disinfects, and the opposite happens  when a court--a court charged with the sacred responsibility of  determining and in some cases limiting the rights of the American  people, U.S. citizens--operates in secret. 

  I devoted my career, prior to coming to the Senate, to litigation,  specialized primarily in appellate litigation and dispositive motions  in Federal court. One of the great things about the U.S.  court system is the fact that, despite its flaws, I would put it up  against any system of its kind anywhere in the world. The reason is, it  is done, with very, very few, narrow, careful exceptions, under the  light of day. Rulings, decisions, and judgments are made public and are  subject to appeal, usually on multiple levels. That is not how the  Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court operates. It operates in  secret. 

  So that is one of the reasons why we really ought to be reviewing and  updating this stuff more often, especially when we know there have been  abuses. We know from the sheer breadth of these statutes--some of which  were written, by the way, in the immediate wake of the 9/11 terrorist  attacks. As I mentioned earlier, I was not then a Member of this body.  I was not a Member of the Senate or of the House of Representatives. In  fact, I have never served over there. The Senate is the first place and  only place I have ever held elected office. I was an adult by then, and  I was licensed--a practicing attorney by then. I remember watching as  Congress was passing the PATRIOT Act and wondering why they were acting  so quickly--so hastily--to put so many words and so many pages into a  single bill.  

  I remember wondering whether they might, in the process of doing  that, trample over the fundamental rights guaranteed by the U.S.  Constitution without the American people knowing it. This has come to  fruition over time, and we have seen that it has been abused. We know  the certainty is--sure as we know the sun will come up tomorrow in the  East--that this will continue to happen. To what extent it continues to  happen or how long it is allowed to is, in many respects, up to us. 

  As I said earlier, governments are run by human beings. Human beings,  while redeemable, while generally good, are flawed, and they make  mistakes. But they are much more prone to make mistakes when they can  do so under cover of darkness, when they don't have to answer to  anybody. That is what is going on here. That is why I am so concerned  about this one. That is why I consider it--I guess I would say  disappointed. 

  It is disappointing that this body, some of the most talented people  I have ever had the pleasure of working with--100 Members, from 50  different States, each with his or her own story or his or her own  unique perspective--should be asked to succumb to a process that  doesn't allow us to have any input into a bill like this. 

  In this case, it arose in connection with the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff  bill--a bill that I consider inadequate. It draws near to the  Constitution with its lips, metaphorically speaking, but its heart is  far from it. It pays loose homage to the notion that American citizens  have rights worth protecting. Yet its provisions are malleable and easy  to circumvent. It functions in much the same way as carbon monoxide  might operate in the human bloodstream, where the human body might  recognize something, mistaking it for oxygen. That, by the way, is--I  am told--why carbon monoxide is so deadly. Your body will tend to  recognize it mistakenly for O2 and in some ways prefer it to O2, thus,  starving the body of actual oxygen. 

  When we accept something that looks like it does the job--and it, in  fact, doesn't--it can do a lot of harm in the process. Why? Because the  American people and their elected Representatives in the Senate and the  House and in the White House then have the opportunity to say: Well, it  looks like that was fixed; we can go on to look at something else. 

  It is easy to do here because, after all, we have no end to problems  that we can be worrying about. Even if this problem disappeared--and  any of five others that are at the top of the list--we would still have  thousands of others we could worry about. That is exactly why it is  such a problem. 

  To have a bill like the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff bill rammed down our  throats and to be told that we have to accept this, told that the  President of the United States, who himself has had his rights  violated, who himself was politically targeted under the FISA  framework--it is insulting to every American that after something like  that happens--we know it has happened; we know it continues to happen;  we know it will continue to happen--to tell us that we have to accept  the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff response to that is simply insulting. 

  We shouldn't put up with it. President Trump shouldn't put up with  it, and the American people shouldn't. It is not just Republicans, and  it is not just Democrats. This is no respecter of persons or of  political parties. In fact, many of my best allies on this issue are,  and have been, Democrats. Democrats were pretty early to acknowledge  the flaws in the PATRIOT Act and in provisions of FISA. 

  Ever since I got here in 2011, I have been working across the aisle  with Senator Leahy, with Senator Durbin, and with others to try to find  solutions to these problems. 

  One of the things that has happened in the intervening years--this is  my 10th year in the Senate--is that this really has become a bipartisan  issue. It used to be me and a handful of Democrats and Senator Paul who  worried about this. We now have a broad coalition of Republicans and  Democrats who are concerned about this. They are worried about it  because if it can happen to the President, it can happen to anyone. 

  The American people have been influenced in so many ways by our own  history, and our own history extends back many centuries, not just on  this continent but in the United Kingdom. After all, it hasn't been  that many years since we became our own country. We existed as colonies  for almost the same period of time that we have existed as a free,  independent constitutional Republic. 

  In both sets of experiences and in experiences even predating the  American experiment in its entirety, we have seen there are good  reasons to require things like search warrants. When the government  wants to get information from you, when it wants to search through your  papers, your possessions, your personal effects, or when it wants to  seize you or your possessions, the government really needs to get a  warrant; it needs to establish probable cause supporting that warrant;  and it needs to outline with particularity the things that it wants to  search or seize. It needs to do so from an independent magistrate. 

  All of these things matter. They matter not just because they are in  the Fourth Amendment, not just because they were a good idea when they  were put in there in 1791, but because long before we became a country,  these were part of the rights of English subjects, part of the rights  that American colonists had as English subjects and that English  subjects had even back in England. 

  They, too, had a government that was run by mere mortals. The divine  right of Kings notwithstanding, the mark was also mortal, as were the  persons occupying positions in Parliament and officers elsewhere in  the government. That is why, from time to time, these rights would be  abused. We saw instances of English patriots--like John Wilkes--whose  rights were violated and who sought legal recourse after he was  subjected to unreasonable, warrantless, open-ended searches and  seizures.  

  John Wilkes became respected on both sides of the Atlantic because he  didn't put up with it, even though it cost him dearly in financial  terms, socially, even politically. Even though it caused him great  pain, he fought; he aggressively litigated what had happened to him.  That is one of the reasons he became a hero on both sides of the  Atlantic. 

  We look to heroes on both sides of the Atlantic--people like John  Wilkes who, notwithstanding the fact he was an English subject, not an  American, he understood the English Bill of Rights; he understood core  rights that were incorporated as if by reference by the Fourth  Amendment but that were preexisting long before then. In fact, things  like the warrant requirement of the Fourth Amendment are rights that  everyone should be entitled to in every country. 

  It violates logic and reason and principles of decency and kindness  to suggest that a person can be arrested or have his or her house or  effects searched or seized without due process of law and without a  validly issued warrant bearing particularity backed up by probable  cause. 

  What, then, does this have to do with FISA? It has everything to do  with FISA. It has a lot to do with it.  

  The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, as the name suggests, was  created not to go after U.S. citizens but to go after foreign spies and  terrorists--not Americans. Sadly, over time, as a result of the  advocacy of people who weren't all that afraid of Big Government--the  advocacy and defense of people like Jim Comey and Robert Mueller--we  got a sort of morphing of FISA into something that wasn't focused  entirely, necessarily, anymore on foreign intelligence gathering, on  agents of a foreign power, on terrorists, but could be used even with  respect to U.S. citizens. This isn't right. In our hearts, we know it  is not right. 

  In our hearts, we should certainly know that it is not right when we  have the opportunity to consider some amendments--one of the amendments  that I have proposed--and a key part of the Lee-Leahy reform. We  provide something that I don't think would be shocking to any American  citizen. In fact, I think any American citizen would be shocked not by  the fact of its being introduced but by the fact that it is not already  law. It would say that if they want to go after an American--if they  know that the subject in question, the target of their investigation  is, in fact, an American--there ought to be added procedural  protections attached to their investigation of that person; that if  they get a court order under section 215 allowing them to search for  and gain access to any ``tangible things''--any of a whole category of  business records--they really ought to have to satisfy a different,  slightly higher standard than they would if the person were a spy from  a foreign country or a foreign terrorist or something like that. There  are certain rights that do inhere in the fact that you are an American.  That is not unreasonable. In fact, I am not sure I know any American  citizen outside of Washington, DC, who would even have a moment's pause  with that, other than to say: Why on Earth is that not already law? 

  I am also convinced that most Americans would respond to the beefed- up amicus curiae provisions. Remember, ``amicus curiae'' is a Latin  term that means friend of the court. It refers to the fact that within  the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, you have no jury, you have  no opposing counsel, you don't have a court reporter who is going to  report anything in public. You, instead, have total secrecy. Our FISA  provisions would expand our amicus curiae provisions, would expand the  circumstances in which the FISA Court must appoint a friend of the  court--or amicus curiae--just to argue the other side. This doesn't  even really limit their power. It just says: Let's bring somebody else  into the room--somebody else who can be trusted, who has security  clearance, but who can provide a different perspective. 

  Most Americans--in fact, I would say probably every American I know  outside of Washington, DC--would say there is nothing unreasonable  about that. In fact, what is unreasonable is the fact that that would  require an amendment--a change--to existing law. 

  Another one of the provisions that we want to amend deals with what  we call exculpatory evidence. When applying for a court order from the  FISA Court under section 215, the government should have a  responsibility to disclose evidence that would be exculpatory or would  show that the person being investigated might not have actually done  the thing they did or that they might have flawed information on their  hands. 

  We know that some of this has occurred or government agents have gone  before the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court and failed to  disclose meaningful material facts that, if known, would have at least  been material to the court and probably been determinative and resulted  in the court's unwillingness to issue the order in question. I don't  think I know anyone outside of this town who would say that is  unreasonable to request. 

  Senators Paul and Wyden have a few other amendments. One deals with  limiting the government's ability, through section 215, to gain access  to your browser history and another addressing the power of the  Attorney General to make some of these approvals. Those are amendments  that have been proposed by Senators Wyden and Daines. 

  Then we have an amendment from Senator Paul that would propose that  across the board in all of the different provisions of the Foreign  Intelligence Surveillance Act--whether it is 215 or 702 or title I or  some other provision--that if you are investigating a known American  citizen, you have a higher standard, and you probably need to go to a  regular court rather than a secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance  Court which, in most respects, doesn't even meet the definition of  court. 

  In response to some of these, opponents--defenders of the deep  state--might well glibly conclude: Well, there is no reason for you to  impose a higher standard or for you to impose anything remotely  resembling probable cause because, after all, in other contexts, the  government can gain access to business records without showing probable  cause. 

  While this is true in many circumstances, first of all, it ignores  the fact that recent jurisprudence from the Supreme Court of the United  States--including from the Carpenter case--makes clear that just  because something has a business record maintained in the ordinary  course of business, that doesn't mean the person to whom it pertains  has no reasonable expectation of privacy in it. In some cases, it  doesn't. 

  We are no longer dealing with the old jurisprudence of Smith v.  Maryland, unadorned by more recent developments like Carpenter. Under  Smith, they were dealing with the collection from a pen register--the  collection of an old-style landline telephone that spat out the numbers  that were called and being called to and from the number of the line in  question. Modern business records disclose a heck of a lot more  personal detail than that. I suspect if Smith v. Maryland--the one  dealing with the pen register and the landline telephone business  records--if that were decided today, it might well have been decided  very differently today than it would have been then, but, certainly,  with respect to many categories of business records, there is a  reasonable expectation of privacy. There is some expectation of some  privacy buried within that, and we can't conclude otherwise. 

  Secondly, separate and apart from developments in the law that ought  to cause us to view with some suspicion the government's open-ended  ability with a mere subpoena to show relevance to and therefore access  to certain categories of business records--unlike those circumstances  where someone could go into a regular court, whether a civil or a  criminal proceeding, and get a subpoena based on a mere relevance  standard without probable cause--in those circumstances, at least,  there is more of an opportunity for somebody to respond. In many cases,  that somebody might be the custodian of the records of the business  entity in question, whether it is the mobile telephone services  operator, the internet service provider, or the owner of the car rental  facility, the storage unit facility--whatever it is, there is some  opportunity for that business enterprise to go into court to try to  quash the subpoena, to argue that the government doesn't, in fact, have  a need for it; that it doesn't need to produce it to defend its own  business interests, if not those also of its own customers. 

  In some circumstances, there is also an opportunity for the person in  question to be notified independently to object to or in other ways-- one way or another--respond to the government's desire to gain access  to those business records. By contrast, under the Foreign Intelligence  Surveillance Court, you don't have that ability. That is why we need  special protections here. 

  Look, it is not hard for the government to have to follow basic  principles of due process. It is not hard for the government to have to  show probable cause. In most circumstances, this can be done in a  manner of minutes. No one has ever demonstrated, to my satisfaction,  why--especially where, as in the case of my probable cause amendment,  with the requirement that they satisfy that standard only when they are  in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court and they are going after  a record pertaining to a known U.S. person--it would still allow them  to go after other records pertaining to other people without that  knowledge and, if they didn't know someone was a U.S. person, they  wouldn't have to satisfy it. 

  But even that is apparently unacceptable to the self-proclaimed  masters  of the universe who now dominate the Senate and refuse utterly to  recognize the article VI-mandated expectation and constitutional  mandate of equal representation among the States in the Senate. 

  This is unacceptable. We have reached a point where we don't have the  expectation that we can rely on what comes out of committee because,  very often, what comes out of committee isn't even what is considered  here. 

  We had this Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff bill come out Tuesday night. It was  passed the next day by the House of Representatives. I understand why a  simple majority of the House of Representatives might well decide to  defer to Speaker Pelosi and Jerry Nadler and Adam Schiff. After all,  Pelosi and Nadler and Schiff, themselves, run a very substantial  portion of the Democratic Party's operations in the House of  Representatives. I understand why a whole lot of Members would like to  defer to them. 

  What I don't understand is, No. 1, why Republicans in the House of  Representatives would want to defer to Pelosi and Nadler and Schiff,  nor do I understand why--even if some Republicans in the House of  Representatives would foolishly defer to Pelosi and Nadler and Schiff-- why that in any way, shape, or form binds me or anyone else in this  body to do what Pelosi, Nadler, and Schiff decided to do. We are not a  rubberstamp. We are not a rubberstamp for the House of Representatives.  We are certainly not a rubberstamp for the deep state.  

  This gives me some hope, I suppose. This gives me some hope that,  given the fact that the President of the United States is willing to  acknowledge that FISA isn't perfect and that the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff  bill passed by the House of Representatives yesterday--without having  gone through any terribly thorough process and without Members of the  House of Representatives having had access to it for more than about 24  hours when they passed it--the fact that the President of the United  States was willing to openly, publicly, today call into question the  wisdom of the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff bill gives me some encouragement. It  gives me some encouragement that some of my colleagues here in the  Senate might see fit to claim the privileges attached to their election  certificate, to recognize that we are not all just functionaries of our  respective party leaders in the House and in the Senate; that we are  answerable to our own constituents to defend the Constitution in the  manner we deem appropriate and necessary under the circumstances. 

  I hope--I expect that this body will do the right thing. I think it  would be a shame--I think it is a shame to let three of these three  provisions expire and just let them hang out there with the uncertainty  that Senator Burr so thoughtfully pointed out will be the product of  these provisions expiring. We don't need to do that. 

  We have had years and years and years to address this, and we have  refused--we have deliberately declined; we have been recklessly  indifferent with respect to the need to reform these provisions. If not  us, who? If not now, when? 

  I have no interest in continuing to punt this thing over and over  again. This is like Charlie Brown going after that same football with  the same Lucy, who moves the darn football every time he gets close to  it. This isn't acceptable. I have great confidence in my colleagues  that a few of us--Republicans and Democrats alike--will come forward  and say: No, not on my watch, not anymore. This is not how the Senate  is going to operate. 

  This is just within a few days when we have seen a few unfortunate  things happen--things that are themselves symptoms of the same  underlying problem. I don't mean FISA, specifically. I am talking about  something much broader than FISA. I am talking about the deviation from  the norms of courtesy that have come to define this body over the  centuries. 

  My friend, the distinguished colleague from Louisiana, Senator  Kennedy, had an amendment he wanted considered and voted on last week  in connection with the Energy bill. I disagreed with that amendment. I  would have voted against it. In fact, I would have voted against it and  spoken against it on the floor. I really didn't like it, but he had an  amendment he wanted considered. He was shut out unfairly and  unreasonably. He was denied the opportunity to have that amendment  considered. He wasn't even given adequate notice of his procedural  rights that would come into play when the person--the Senator who had  introduced an amendment--came down to the floor to amend her previous  amendment and to use it as basically a managers' package, keeping  Senator Kennedy's amendment out of that package, thus effectively  denying him the opportunity to receive adequate consideration of his  own amendment. He wasn't given notice. 

  Because he wasn't given notice, he missed out on the opportunity to  do what he inevitably could have done and would have done, so long as  he could have come down here with 10 other Senators--a combined total  of 11 Senators--sustaining him for his procedural right to call for the  yeas and nays on the original amendment introduced by Senator  Murkowski. We could have voted on that amendment, and she wouldn't have  been able to insert that managers' package on her own without that  intervening call for the yeas and nays on her original amendment. 

  This is one of many examples that--while probably painfully boring to  the average American--should be deeply disturbing to any American who  knows about, who cares about, who yearns for the freedom that comes  from our representative government; that expects that people elected to  make laws will actually be participating in that process and not simply  dictated to by two leaders--one Republican and one Democratic--in each  House of Congress. 

  Yet another manifestation of that--one that has sadly become sort of  one installment in many series, like a set of sequel movies--is what  happens basically every time we have a spending bill. 

  To cite one example that occurred nearly 2 years ago, for many months  we had been waiting to see when we would have the opportunity to  debate, discuss, amend, and vote on a spending bill in the early months  of 2018. It would be the first real spending bill that we had the  opportunity to consider since the 45th President of the United States  was sworn in, in January of 2017. We had been told by our respective  party leaders in both Houses of Congress to wait for it; you will get  the chance to review it; you will get the chance to debate it and amend  it. 

  Then, one evening on a Wednesday in March of 2018, I received an  email. It was 8:37 p.m. That email was from Republican leadership  addressed to Republican Senators, saying: Attached is a spending bill  that we are going to be addressing. 

  I thought: Good. This is what we have been waiting for, for months. I  finally get to see it. 

  I opened it up. It was 2,232 pages long. It spent, as I recall, $1.2  or $1.3 trillion. I immediately distributed it to members of my staff  who worked through the night, splitting it up, figuring out what each  provision meant--recognizing that a 2,232 page Senate appropriations  bill doesn't read like a fast-paced novel. It doesn't read like a  newspaper. It is a very slow and cumbersome process, one that involves  countless cross-references to statutory provisions that wouldn't be  recognizable to most ordinary Americans, so it takes a lot of time to  review it.  

  My staff, after working on it through the night and through the next  day, was as shocked as I was to see that the House of Representatives  passed that bill--the same 2,232-page-long bill that most Members saw  for the first time at 8:37 p.m. the previous night. The House of  Representatives passed that bill before lunch the next day. The  Senate--this body--convened in the middle of the night the following  evening and passed it with not one amendment, not one change from one  Member of this body. 

  When we outsource things to the so-called four corners--the  Republican and Democratic leaders of both Houses of Congress--everybody  else gets shut out. This might be really good for you if you are from  one of those States represented by one of those four corners, but it is  really bad for everybody else. I don't mean that it is bad for the  Members; I mean every single person represented by someone else other  than those people.  

  At the end of the day, it is not their fault. It is not the fault of  the four corners so much as it is our fault. They are doing what they  have to do. They are doing the job the way they know how do it, the way  they have learned how to do it, the way we have trained them to do it,  sadly enough. We have let them do it that way, so they do. I am sure it  is not easy to do it that way, but it is probably less hard than every  other way out there. In that respect, I don't blame them for doing it  that way. I blame us. 

  Shame on us for passing that bill without any one of us having had  the opportunity to read the whole darned thing except for maybe four  Members. Between 435 Representatives and 100 Senators, you maybe had 4  Members total who knew what was in there and had control over it. Shame  on us for passing it anyway. 

  After those in the House of Representatives see for the first time  the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff bill less than 24 hours before they vote on it  and pass it--a bill purporting to reform FISA while failing to actually  do so in a meaningful way--shame on them. If we pass it over here,  shame on us. The shame is especially acute if we don't even try, which  is what we are being asked to do here. We are being asked to defer, to  let somebody else do the legislating. 

  By the way, just as we were told when approaching that spending bill,  as with most other spending bills in the 9 years I have been here, that  we have to leave them to the experts--don't worry about this; this is  for the Appropriations Committee's chairman, for the subcommittee  chairmen, for the majority and minority leaders from the two Houses of  Congress and basically for no one else; leave it to the experts--we are  now being told to leave it to the experts here, which begs the  question: What meaningful role do we play? Have we really rendered  ourselves that insignificant that we are not even willing to defend our  own right to raise our own ideas and our own concerns with something as  profoundly significant and potentially impactful on the liberties of  every single American--old and young, White and Black, male and female  and of any station, rich or poor? These provisions--make no mistake-- have the potential to affect every single one of us. Shame on us if we  don't even try to make it better. 

  So I am not going to blame this one on Pelosi, Nadler, and Schiff.  They can choose to pass an unwise bill, if they want to, that doesn't  fix the problem, but I don't work for Pelosi or Nadler or Schiff. I  work for the people of Utah. I was elected by the voters in the  sovereign State of Utah, who expected me to come here and represent  them. 

  By the way, this is an issue that is neither liberal nor  conservative. It is neither Democratic nor Republican. This is not a  partisan issue. In fact, the amendments that I am talking about here  are bipartisan. This is simply an American issue. It is a  constitutional issue. It is an issue pertaining to and inextricably  intertwined with the basic dignity of the eternal human soul. 

  We can't pass this thing while pretending to be concerned about the  rights of the American people, not unless we at least try to pretend  like we are doing our job, not unless we at least try to pretend like  we are trying to make it better. Even if you don't think FISA has been  abused--if you do, by the way, that is absurdly, insanely naive, but I  respect your right to be wrong; I respect your right to agree with  Pelosi, Nadler, and Schiff on that front if that is how you feel--there  have to be other ways in which you might acknowledge you can make this  bill better. 

  Maybe you are somebody who trusts the government way too much. Maybe  you are somebody who thinks the government ought to be given more  power. Maybe you are somebody who trusts the government when it makes  allegations that somebody is an agent of a foreign power or is working  for an agent of a foreign power or is a terrorist or has had some  unkind thoughts toward another person. Even if you trust the government  that much, you shouldn't, and what you would be suggesting would be  unconstitutional. Yet, even if you were, then shame on you for not  wanting to make this bill even more aggressive toward giving the  government power. 

  It is simply too grand a proposition to suggest that it is mere  coincidence that the exact, magical combination of factors, of  provisions that should have been included in this law--in the minds of  every Member of the U.S. Senate--happened to materialize under the  umbrella of the Pelosi-Nadler-Schiff bill that was passed by the House  of Representatives yesterday. That is just absurd. I mean, come on. Are  you telling me that you can't find a single provision that you think  couldn't have been written better? 

  Some in that position of still opposing it might say: Well, yes, but  we have other things to do. 

  That is true. That is exactly why I am trying to provide 45  additional days for us to debate and discuss other issues first and  then to fix FISA later. I would be willing to cleanly reauthorize the  three expiring provisions so that nobody would have to deal with any  uncertainty and so that the American people would not have to be put in  jeopardy, neither their security nor their privacy, both of which are  part of the same cohesive, continuous whole. Neither one of them has to  be undermined. Yet that is what they insist we do. They insist that. 

  So the argument might go: We have other things to do. 

  Well, if you have other things to do, then let's punt this for 45  days, and let's just agree that we are going to vote on some things.  Yet that is too much for them to suggest. 

  To the extent their argument is that we are too busy to do this right  now, then I would ask this question: Why? What are you doing right now?  What better thing does any Member of the U.S. Senate have to do right  now, at this moment, at 4:54 p.m., than to stand up and defend and  debate the rights and the significance of the rights of the American  people?  

  I mean, I genuinely would like to know what is so compelling that  makes it so that we can't even debate these things right now. In fact,  in the time I have been speaking today, we could have easily voted on  these very same amendments. We could have brought them up. We could  have, and I would have agreed to have limited our debate to only a few  minutes apiece. As we saw during the impeachment trial a few weeks ago,  we are actually capable of casting votes and completing them within 6,  7, 8 minutes if we stand at attention or sit at our seats and listen as  our names are called and then vote. What, I would ask, is so  compelling? Do people have appointments for haircuts or manicures? Do  they have to go to the dog groomers'? I really would like to know what  is so compelling that makes it so we can't debate something as  fundamental as how to improve the safety and privacy of the American  people. 

  I close by pointing out something that my friend and distinguished  colleague, the senior Senator from North Carolina, said a few minutes  ago about the fact of his almost ensuring that the program at issue-- the program supported by the three expiring provisions--will go dark by  his objecting to my series of unanimous consent requests and about the  fact that, as a result of his objection, not only is he essentially  guaranteeing these programs will now go dark, but he is also  guaranteeing, when we come back in just a few days from now--because  whatever it is that we have to do in the next few days is apparently so  important, and I really would like to know what that is that is so  important that we can't do this--we are going to have to turn to this  when we could have gotten it done today instead of turning to other  pressing issues in front of us, issues dealing with emergencies created  by the coronavirus. We could have, should have, would have otherwise  been able to have turned to those things immediately. Instead, we will  be stuck on this for days. I mean, this can end up taking many days--a  week or so--if it is drawn out sufficiently. 

  The program goes dark, and we lose the opportunity to debate,  discuss, and enact other legislation--all because we have colleagues  who decide they know better. It is not so much that they know better  but that Representatives Pelosi, Nadler, and Schiff know better. It is  their bill. Everybody else just voted for it. 

  Now we are all asked to vote for it, and we are told to mind our own  business, to butt out, because our Big  Brother--the brooding, omnipresent Federal Government--knows better. It  can be trusted. Trust Big Brother. Sure, he is going to spy on you, but  his intentions are good. Sure, he is going to spy on you, but he is  really just hoping to go after the bad guys so that you don't have to  worry about the fact he is spying on your neighbor, on your  constituents, on innocent Americans. 

  Even if I am wrong--let's say, for a minute, that somehow I am  mistaken in concluding that any of this will ever be abused--you can't  really get around the fact that it has been abused. We know of  circumstances in which it has been. We know that the President of the  United States has himself been the target of abuse under this. 

  Yet set that aside for a minute. Even under the absurd proposition  that none of this will ever be abused again and that Pelosi and Nadler  and Schiff have somehow found the magical formula that will forever  guarantee these expiring provisions from being abused again, why  wouldn't you still want to make the bill better? Why would you be  willing to let those provisions go dark? Why would you be willing to  postpone the consideration of other pressing business before the U.S.  Senate? Is it really that important to shut out of debate your  opponents who happen to disagree with you? What does this say about the  next thing we will consider or the next thing after that? 

  This doesn't end well. We know it doesn't end well. It never, ever  works to push U.S. Senators to the point that they are told they are  not entitled to their own opinions; that to the extent they have them,  they may express them but only in a brief period of time; and that they  then have to run off and be good little boys and girls and let the  adults take over. No. I know that this is the way it has been working  for a while, but it is not going to anymore. It is not going to anymore  because the American people are demanding more. They are demanding  better. Things sometimes have to get a little worse before they get  better. Unfortunately, that is the position in which we now find  ourselves. They have gotten worse, but they have gotten worse in a way  that the American people are now noticing and are going to say: Don't  do this anymore. Don't lock us out of the process. Don't tell us we  don't matter. Don't tell us that our own elected Senators can't have a  voice and that they won't get a vote and that they cannot debate it. 

  The President of the United States has been targeted unethically,  unlawfully, unscrupulously by the deep state. We have the opportunity  to fix that, to make sure it doesn't happen to this President or any  future President or any U.S. citizen regardless of how rich or poor or  powerful or powerless. We must fix it. Shame on all of us if we don't.  Our oath to uphold, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United  States requires this. The American people deserve more, and they  deserve better, and we must provide it. 

  (Mrs. FISCHER assumed the Chair.) 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT