Unanimous Consent Requests--The Calendar


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698423/unanimous-consent-requests-the-calendar


Mr. LEE. Mr. President, the American people understand to varying  degrees but have a general understanding of the fact that the work we  do here in the Senate is a combination of things.

Some of the things that we address are controversial. Some of them  make the daily or evening news or the cover of the newspaper the next  day. Those tend to be the things that are more controversial, things on  which there might be sharp disagreements, sometimes sharply divided  down partisan lines, reflected based on where one's desk sits in  relation to the center aisle of this Chamber.

Other times, there might be controversy, but the controversy doesn't  cut cleanly across party lines. We might have some Republicans and some  Democrats on one side or the other.

In many instances--maybe not enough but, mercifully, there are many  instances--there is not only not much controversy but no controversy at  all.

There is a significant amount of legislation that passes through this  Chamber every single year unanimously, without a single ``no'' vote.  Some of this, to be sure, might recognize the naming of a post office  or it might recognize--I don't know--``National Sofa Care Month,'' if  there is such a thing. Others deal with discrete, local issues--issues  that, while important to a select few people who live around, for  example, a particular piece of land owned by the Federal Government and  might be affected by the land management policy associated with that  parcel, are very important to that local population but might be  completely unknown not only to people on the other side of the country  but even to people in other parts of that same State.

There is a fair amount of legislation that moves through the  Committee on Energy and Natural Resources--a committee that I currently  chair--that fits into each of these categories: controversial bills  where there is a sharp Republican-Democratic divide; bills that have  some controversy that cut across party lines; and, yes, mercifully,  this other category of noncontroversial votes without a single  substantive objection.

The American people understand that there will be opposition to a lot  of pieces of legislation, but they also, justifiably, expect us to  consider and pass bills on their merits. As to this category of bills  that are important to some, unknown to most, and controversial to no  one, well, they expect us to get those passed in a timely fashion.

I am trying to do this quickly, expeditiously, and to do it in the  right way.

Now, I tried doing it the right way--the same way I am going to try  today--back in May, on the 22nd of May. I tried to do it the right way  again on July 29. I tried doing it the right way again, 2 weeks ago.  This will be my fourth attempt to try to pass a small handful of  extremely noncontroversial bills that already passed this Chamber  unanimously, without a single ``no'' vote in the last Congress, at the  end of last year, and that have moved forward from the Energy and  Natural Resources Committee--again, without opposition from either side  of the aisle, from any Senator--earlier this year.

Each of these times, I have received an objection from the Democratic  side of the aisle. At no point have I heard a single substantive  objection to any of these bills in this category that I have tried to  pass through this procedure--a procedure which is well-worn and which  exists for exactly this circumstance. You know, across multiple  committees--certainly within the Energy and Natural Resources  Committee--there is a lot of legislation that falls into that category.

We are told repeatedly that there are simply too many bills for the  Senate to consider individually. This is often the case. And it is  often the case, in particular, that for a bill that has no opposition,  for a bill that is very important to a population of people within a  particular State as to a discrete issue--it might be important or  interesting to literally no one else in any other State or in other  parts of the same State--we are told that these bloated bills that  sometimes get combined, which are multiple pieces of legislation,  sometimes amounting to thousands of pages at a time, can become a  necessary evil to accommodate all of the small lands bills important to  our States.

I am here to tell you that this is simply not the case. It certainly  need not be the case here, and it isn't.

Now, had we moved these bills each time I have been on the floor this  year, we certainly would have already been able to make significant  progress in clearing the backlog, so that we could deal with this  problem that many people cite as a reason we would need a massive, all- or-nothing, bloated, sewn-together lands package--take it or leave it,  all or nothing.

If we really need the bills passed, why can't we start, at least,  with the low-hanging fruit?

I have no delusions that this makes everything easy. It certainly  doesn't, as there is a lot of this process that can be difficult. But  we ought to start with the bills that are noncontroversial,  that have yet to receive a single substantive objection on their  merits, and that are things that we all agree on.

Why can't we move the bills that have already passed unanimously,  that have already been vetted in committee this year and last year, and  that passed on the Senate floor without a single ``no'' vote last year?

Why come down here and object, over and over again, to bills that are  noncontroversial?

Well, sometimes this is the muscle memory that can start to evolve,  that can start to take hold within this body. But it need not be this  way; it ought not be this way, as it doesn't lead to good decisions. If  this is how we treat the things that are noncontroversial, it is going  to make the things where there is some debate, some opposition, some  dissent more difficult and, as to the stuff that is sharply partisan,  impossible.

If you have a bill that you know can't pass on its own, well then,  what do you do?

Well, perhaps what you want to do is pair it with a bunch of other  bills that are themselves noncontroversial, hoping that it won't get  noticed or hoping that there will be enough other Senators who will  say: I guess we have to take it or leave it; so let's let it all pass.

They might say: Are you really going to sink all of this important  work just for one section of this much larger bill that you disagree  with?

Well, look, taken to its logical conclusion and repeated, over and  over again, and applied even to noncontroversial bills, this ends up  being sort of extortive in its effect, and it doesn't produce a good  outcome--not for people of either party, not for people of either  legislative Chamber, and, certainly, not for the American people.

Just yesterday, we were able to do some things on the floor the right  way. Senator Sullivan came to the floor and passed his bill to extend  the deadline for Alaska Native Vietnam-era vets to claim the land  allotments that they earned through their service. This was only after  Democrats--including my friend and colleague the distinguished senior  Senator from New Mexico, Senator Heinrich--had objected to it twice.  But his bill--Senator Sullivan's legislation that I just mentioned--is  now headed to the President's desk to be signed into law. Now, there is  no reason that that success that we tasted, just yesterday afternoon,  can't continue here with similarly situated, similarly  noncontroversial, unanimously passed bills.

So, again, I have got four bills that I will be asking unanimous  consent to pass here today. They include S. 1084, which is the North  Dakota Trust Lands Completion Act of 2025. This bill, sponsored by  Senator Hoeven, passed last year with unanimous support and would  authorize equal value exchanges to enable the State of North Dakota to  manage its own State lands.

S. 1142 is the Scarper Ridge Golden Gate National Recreation Area  Boundary Adjustment Act. This bill, sponsored by Senator Padilla,  passed last year and would make a minor boundary adjustment to the  Golden Gate National Recreation Area. It is entirely noncontroversial.

S. 1016 is the Vicksburg National Military Park Boundary Modification  Act. This bill, sponsored by Senator Wicker, is a minor but important  boundary adjustment to the park, and it passed last year with unanimous  support.

S. 603, sponsored by Senator Kaine, designates the George C. Marshall  House in Virginia as an affiliated area within the National Park  System. It is simply allowing them to be affiliated with the National  Park Service. This bill also passed with unanimous support.

What do these bills have in common? Well, they are bipartisan. They  all passed the body unanimously, without a single ``no'' vote in the  last Congress. I have heard zero substantive objections on the merits  to any single one of these bills.

I stand ready to work with any Member--Republican or Democrat--to  move their bills off the floor, especially with regard to these  noncontroversial bills.

We can get this done. We can work through this broken process. It  need not be broken, especially as to this category of bills. This is  the easy stuff. Let's not make the easy stuff hard, lest we incur the  risk of making the harder stuff impossible.

1084, North Dakota Trust Lands Completion Act of 2025 from Senator  Hoeven; S. 1142, the Scarper Ridge Golden Gate National Recreation Area  Boundary Adjustment Act from Senator Padilla; S. 1016, the Vicksburg  National Military Park Boundary Modification Act with a substitute  amendment from Senator Wicker; and S. 603, to designate the General  George C. Marshall House in the Commonwealth of Virginia from Senator  King.

Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I appreciate my friend and colleague, the  distinguished Senator from New Mexico, who has a genuine concern. It is  a worthy concern, and it is a concern that I share in the sense that I  want to make sure that both Democrats and Republicans serving in this  body on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, when they  submit these bills--particularly bills in this category that I  described that have passed unanimously in this body--be given ample  opportunity for consideration and passage over in the House of  Representatives.

He is understandably concerned about the possibility of Republican  and Democratic bills being sent over together, only to discover after  the fact, that the Democratic bills would languish. I understand that  concern. I am deeply sympathetic to it.

And it is because I share that concern--and not in spite of it--that  I believe this is the way we ought to do things. This is the way we do  things elsewhere in the Senate where we have got noncontroversial  legislation. Let's move them forward. Now, we have moved them forward.  You have seen pairings here; Democratic bills brought to the floor, not  stitched together surgically in one legislative package but paper- clipped together in one stack so that we are presenting them for  unanimous consent passage at the same time but not as part of the same  legislation.

Why do we do this rather than the other way?

Understanding the legitimacy of his concerns, we want to make sure  that bills in this category, in particular, receive fair consideration  regardless of whether there is a Democrat or Republican sponsor of the  bill.

No. 1, our House counterpart committee and others within the House of  Representatives have told us that not only is this their preference-- that they would rather have them paper-clipped and not stitched  together as one bill but sent over as separate bills--they  said this will actually expedite, facilitate their ability to get them  passed, whether they are introduced by Republicans or Democrats in the  House or in the Senate.

Not always, by the way, is a Democrat bill here a Democrat bill on  the other side of the Capitol. Sometimes it switches. But regardless,  even for the bills that are introduced by a Democrat here and a  Democrat there, these bills are considered--and we have been told over  and over again by those with responsibility over this, they have got a  better chance of passing separately than they would if we start  stitching them together.

In their view, as they have told me repeatedly, it will hinder--not  expedite or facilitate--their chances of being passed if we surgically  stitch them together in one bill.

There are a number of reasons for this, including the fact that the  laws of gravity don't always operate the same way here as they do on  the other side of the Capitol. Sometimes a bill that can move through  over here without a single objection might draw some opposition on the  other side of the Capitol for reasons that can be difficult to predict.

In any event, there is a great safeguard in all of this in the way  the House of Representatives passes this--and I think this is inherent  in why it is that they want them as separate bills that can be paper- clipped together for purposes of getting it passed by unanimous consent  over here--over there.

When they do it over there, they use a procedure in the House known  as suspension of the rules. Under suspension of the rules, you have got  to have 290 votes to pass it rather than a simple majority of 218  votes. That feature ends up replicating, to a significant degree, the  effect of the cloture standard over here such that it has got to be  bipartisan. So they can't afford to--and therefore don't on bills like  this--favor Republican bills over Democrat bills.

Now, my friend and colleague the distinguished Senator from New  Mexico noted a moment ago that his concerns are already materializing  and that they are neglecting Democrat bills in the House while  preferencing Republican bills.

I don't see this. In fact, to the contrary. Within the last week, the  House of Representatives has passed multiple bills--I believe it was  three or four bills--introduced by Democrats; Democrat bills run  through the suspension of the rules calendar passed this week.

They are not depreferencing them. And from what I have heard from  multiple credible sources on the other side of the Capitol, this is  because of the way the suspension of the rules practice works over  there. They don't, in part, because they can't get these passed if they  preference Republican bills and depreference Democrat bills in this  respect.

Look, at the end of the day, we have to remember that a lot of what  this Chamber does operates by means of unanimous consent, certainly in  scheduling votes, scheduling just about anything. Heck, scheduling what  time we are going to go to lunch or adjourn for the evening until the  next day requires unanimous consent.

But a lot of legislation we pass gets done that way, too, and thank  Heaven above that it can. If we can't do the easy stuff this way, the  harder stuff becomes much more difficult. And the really tough stuff,  the stuff that still needs to get done--things like permitting reform,  for example, where on both sides of the aisle you have strong opinions,  you have a strong desire overall to see that permitting reform gets  accomplished, you have somewhat differing ideas on what must be in  there and what must not be included--things like that that are very  important to the public but that are by no means noncontroversial  become far more difficult to impossible.

Let's get the easy stuff done. We did it yesterday afternoon. We can  do it again. I will be back as I am determined to push these bills  forward, Republican and Democrat. And if we tie them together  surgically in one bill, it will impair their passage, Republican and  Democratic alike. We don't need to do that here. We ought not. This is  unfortunate, but I will be back soon.