Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Madam President, I call up my amendment No. 1584 and ask  that it be reported by number. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LEE. Madam President, it has been an honor and a privilege to  work with my friend and distinguished colleague, the senior Senator  from Vermont, on this issue. Senator Leahy and I have, over the past  decade, worked together on a number of projects including this one,  including the USA FREEDOM Act. 

  Senator Leahy and I come from different political parties and  different ends of the political spectrum, and yet we share much in  common, including a devotion to our families, a devotion to God, a  devotion to this great country, and a devotion to the Constitution that  has fostered the development of the greatest civilization the world has  ever known. It is an honor and a privilege to stand with Senator Leahy  in defense of the Fourth Amendment and the other rights articulated in  our Constitution. 

  Senator Leahy and I have confronted many opponents, and many  opponents to the Lee-Leahy amendment have made arguments that I think  need to be mentioned one final time before we vote on this matter. Many  of them are arguing that this amendment would somehow hamper the  ability of the FISA Court to approve applications quickly in the case  of an emergency. This is simply untrue. In all these circumstances in  which it would apply, our amendment would allow the FISA Court to issue  a finding saying the appointment of amicus would, in that circumstance,  be inappropriate. This the FISA Court could do in a single sentence. 

  The FBI or some of its proclaimed self-appointed defenders also  complain  that this might make it harder for them to get surveillance  applications approved. Let me just remind everyone that we are talking  about the rights of U.S. persons--that is, of U.S. citizens and lawful  permanent residents of the United States. These are rights that deserve  to be protected. We have to remember that the purpose of the  Constitution is not to make it easier to govern. The purpose of the  Constitution is to provide structure and limitations on government  because governments sometimes make mistakes. 

  I find it especially tone deaf that the very agency--the very  Bureau--that has now been found to have been in violation of its own  policies and procedures--in not just one but two inspector general  reports in the past year--for failing to follow its own policies is now  the agency that many people are trying to defend in saying that we  can't inform the American people of what is going on and we can't  improve the process by which that agency operates. 

  Power is always vulnerable to abuse. Warnings were made when this  process was put into place, and exactly the kinds of abuses that we  have now seen are the types of abuses that have occurred over and over  or are the same ones that were foreseen. 

  This isn't an indictment of any one agency or administration or  person or political party. It is an affirmation of the Founding  Fathers' trust in the checks and balances that they put in place in our  founding document. James Madison so eloquently expressed this principle  in Federalist 51:  

       If men were angels, no government would be necessary. If       angels were to govern men, neither external or internal       controls on government would be necessary. In framing a       government which is to be administered by men over men, the       great difficulty lies in this: We must first enable the       government to control the governed; and in the next place,       oblige it to control itself.  

  We cannot--notwithstanding the urging of many--simply wave our hands  and say: No, we don't have to worry about this. It is OK because we  have to worry about national security or it is OK because this is about  foreign intelligence or this is about foreign intelligence gathering. 

  We know that what the Lee-Leahy amendment is designed to protect are  the rights of the American people--of U.S. persons--U.S. citizens and  lawful permanent residents. Reforms in this amendment do not take  anything away from the National Security Agency--nothing. We are just  injecting greater fairness and accountability into this process. 

  Insofar as we decide to have these programs, we have to have someone  accountable in them. We have to have a process by which the information  brought to bear within the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act Court  is accountable and reviewable by someone. 

  It makes sense to expand incrementally, mildly, but necessarily, the  amicus curiae provisions that were put in place 4 years ago with the  USA FREEDOM Act. 

  I truly believe that we can find a proper balance here between  privacy and security. I also believe that our privacy and our security  are not at odds. Our privacy is, indeed, a part of our security and our  security part of our privacy. You cannot have one without the other. 

  The Lee-Leahy amendment brings us closer to that balance. I invite  all my colleagues to support it and look forward to the moment, not far  from now, when we will pass it. 

                            Vote on Amendment No. 1584  BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT