Recognizing Paige Kitts


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694162/recognizing-paige-kitts


Ms. SCHOLTEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to join  me in congratulating Paige Kitts. Paige is a member of Girl Scouts of  Michigan Shore to Shore, Troop 4504. She has exemplified extraordinary  leadership, innovative problem-solving, and a demonstrated commitment  to making a lasting, positive impact by earning the most prestigious  award in Girl Scouting, the Gold Award.

Gold Award Girl Scouts are recognized as trailblazers who are willing  to tackle the most pressing challenges facing their communities with  measurable, sustainable, and far-reaching results. To earn the Girl  Scout Gold Award, high school-age Girl Scouts must identify and  investigate an issue they care about, devise a plan, and then lead a  team of experts and community members to implement a project that  produces lasting change. Over the course of 1 to 2 years, Gold Award  Girl Scouts demonstrate significant initiative, commitment, and  leadership, distinguishing them from their peers. Through their  resourcefulness and perseverance, they embody the Girl Scout Law to  truly make the world a better place.

Paige's project, ``Growing Hope'', in partnership with Growing Roots,  addressed the challenge of finding accessible programs and  opportunities for those with disabilities in our community. Paige took  action by designing and building a wheelchair-accessible garden bed to  help existing programs become more inclusive. She created an  instruction manual to share with other organizations, providing a  supply list, step-by-step instructions for building, and insights  regarding the benefits of wheelchair-accessible garden beds. This  project will have a positive impact on our community for years to come.

On behalf of Michigan's 3rd Congressional District, congratulations  to Paige Kitts for achieving the highest distinction in Girl Scouting,  the Gold Award. We thank Paige for her leadership and for making such a  positive, enduring change in our community.