Women's History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689165/womens-history-month


Ms. SCHOLTEN. Mr. Speaker, the United States won its independence 250  years ago in the Revolutionary War, and our journey as the United  States of America began. Yet, 250 years ago, I could not be standing  where I am today. Women did not have the right to vote, to hold public  office, or to own property 250 years ago. Some women were property 250  years ago. Women were a footnote to the story of our country's founding  250 years ago.

Today, 250 years later, women make up 125 Members in the Congress,  and the Democratic Women's Caucus is 96 strong. Women now make up more  than 58 percent of college graduates, 40 percent of all businesses are  women owned, and more than 52 Fortune 500 companies are led by women.

This kind of change did not happen by accident. It happened because  our mothers, grandmothers, great-grandmothers, aunties, sisters, and  cousins dared greatly and forged new paths for us to walk on. The  freedoms and privileges we enjoy today are because of those who came  before us. These are their stories.

Over the next hour, we will hear from women Members across the  country who will share the stories of heroines who changed the course  of history.

Deborah Ross.

Ms. SCHOLTEN. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from  Minnesota (Ms. Morrison).

Ms. SCHOLTEN. Mr. Speaker, clearly, history is still being made this  Women's History Month as we have an unprecedented number of changemaker  women from across the country who are standing up and fiercely  defending their constituents. We are so grateful for their work in  Congress.

Ms. SCHOLTEN. Mr. Speaker, as the first woman in history to hold my  seat in Congress, I am always thinking about the history-making women  of the past, present, and future. I am honored to highlight a few  stories of history-making women Michiganders now.

I am honored to highlight Michigander Harriet Quimby, the first  American woman to earn a pilot's license and the first woman ever to  fly solo across the English Channel. Her career in aviation was short  but accomplished.

Flying from the U.S. to England, Mexico, and more, Harriet's legacy  serves as a reminder that women can soar to whatever heights they set  their minds to.

We are so proud to claim that Sojourner Truth made her home in  Michigan for the last 27 years of her life, a fearless abolitionist and  women's rights advocate who used her powerful voice to demand justice.  Born into slavery, she escaped and dedicated her life to fighting for  freedom and equality. Her famous ``Ain't I a Woman?'' speech challenged  the exclusion of Black women from the suffrage movement, leaving a  legacy that continues to inspire generations.

Anna Howard Shaw was a trailblazer in every sense of the word,  becoming one of the first female ordained ministers in the United  States and later a physician. She dedicated decades to the fight for  women's suffrage, serving as the president of the National American  Woman Suffrage Association. Her leadership and relentless advocacy  helped secure the right to vote, proving that determination and  conviction, as well as persistence, can change the course of history.

Clara Arthur, known as the Mother of the Playground Movement,  believed in creating a better world for future generations. As  president of the Michigan Equal Suffrage Association, she worked  tirelessly to advocate for women's voting rights. Her activism extended  beyond the ballot box. She championed education, labor reforms, and  public spaces for children, ensuring that progress didn't just mean  progress for some. It meant progress for all.

Lucia Voorhees Grimes was a dedicated suffragist who played a pivotal  role in Michigan's fight for women's voting rights. As a leader in the  Michigan Equal Suffrage Association, she traveled the State organizing  campaigns, educating voters, and pushing for legislative change. Her  unwavering commitment helped pave the way for Michigan women to claim  their rightful place in the democratic process.

These are the stories of past historymakers who have changed the  course of our Nation. The freedoms we enjoy today are because they  refused to sit idly by, and now, as we see unprecedented attacks on our  healthcare, on our rights, we also see everyday women, especially in  places like my hometown in Grand Rapids, Michigan, who refuse to sit  quiet.

I refuse to stand by while Republicans, Donald Trump, and  billionaires like Elon Musk try to gut essential programs like  Medicaid, a lifeline that millions of families rely on.

No parent should have to choose between their child's health and  paying their bills. We are fighting to protect the care that women and  families depend on because healthcare isn't a privilege for the  wealthy; it is a right for everyone.

I highlight a brave mom from my district, Abby Koroma, a mother of  two visually impaired daughters who depend on Medicaid. Without this  critical program, Abby would be forced to make impossible decisions:  whether she has enough in her bank account for treatments that could  save her children's vision or putting food on the table.

No parent should have to face that choice, but Republicans in  Congress right now, aided by Donald Trump and Elon Musk, are willing to  rip away this essential healthcare from families like Abby's just to  hand out more tax cuts to the ultrawealthy.

We won't let it happen. We are the women who are standing in the gap  and standing up for these families. We will fight every day to protect  Medicaid, to stand up for families who depend on it, and to make sure  that no one in this country is left wondering whether they can afford  the care that they need for themselves or their families.

I stand here today so that no one has to wonder who they have  fighting for them. We are here, standing together and fighting for  families across the country.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the women who joined me here today to stand up  and highlight the powerful women of their home States and the impacts  that they have had on changing the course of history.