Adams Memorial-Great American Heroes Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697630/adams-memorial-great-american-heroes-act


Mr. MOOLENAAR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and  for his strong support. I also thank my colleagues on both sides of the  aisle for their work in this area.

Today, I rise in support of H.R. 2306, the Adams Memorial-Great  American Heroes Act. This bipartisan legislation will extend the Adams  Memorial Commission, which is tasked with establishing a national  memorial honoring President John Adams, First Lady Abigail Adams, and  their family for their leadership in shaping the early course of this  Nation.

As we look to celebrate the 250th anniversary of the signing of the  Declaration of Independence, this bill celebrates a family pivotal to  the foundation of this country. The United States would not be where it  is today without multiple generations of Adams family members serving  the country and working tirelessly to ensure its success.

John Adams served as our first Vice President and second President,  with Abigail supporting him throughout as his most valued and trusted  adviser. They were the first family to occupy the newly constructed  White House, which this monument will be immediately adjacent to.

Their son, John Quincy Adams, was America's sixth President, and so  dedicated to this country that following his administration, he  returned to the Halls of this very building to continue his service as  a Member of Congress, arguing adamantly for the abolition of slavery.

This memorial will educate generations to come about this historic  family's role in our Nation's founding and inspire all Americans to  honor their  principles of leadership, courage, and public service.

I am pleased to support the ongoing work that has brought the Adams  Memorial closer to reality, ensuring that our Nation's first leaders  are remembered in a fitting and lasting way.

I urge all my colleagues to support this bipartisan legislation.