Shandra Eisenga Human Cell and Tissue Product Safety Act


Mr. MOOLENAAR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Florida (Mr.  Bilirakis) for yielding and for his strong support for this  legislation. I also thank my colleagues on the other side of the aisle,  Mr. Pallone, and especially my friend and fellow Michigander,  Congresswoman Debbie Dingell, who has worked very closely with me on  this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bipartisan legislation, H.R.  1082, the Shandra Eisenga Human Cell and Tissue Product Safety Act.

In 2023, 36 patients across 7 States contracted tuberculosis after  receiving bone grafts containing infected donor material.

One of these patients was my constituent, Shandra Eisenga, of Marion,  Michigan, who tragically passed away on August 10, 2023, due to  complications from TB.

I was proud to have Shandra's family here last year when this  legislation was first considered by the House. This family has been  forever hurt by the loss of Shandra. Her daughter, Amber, said: Nothing  can erase the heartbreak of my mother's passing, but she would be proud  that we have helped make a positive difference in her name.

Today, we are taking concrete action to prevent more families from  having the same experience as Amber and to honor her mother's legacy.

Shandra's passing was completely preventable. So were the deaths of  nine other patients who have passed away from TB since 2021 because of  inadequate oversight of tissue material suppliers.

When it comes to tissue donations, the FDA requires screening for  diseases like hepatitis, syphilis, and HIV. This bipartisan bill will  require screening for tuberculosis, as well, and put an end to  preventable TB deaths like Shandra's.

The bill will also require HHS to conduct research and public  education campaigns on the risks of surgery requiring a tissue  donation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this vital bipartisan  legislation in honor of Shandra and her family.