Commending Michael Kraan


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693053/commending-michael-kraan


Mr. YAKYM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to thank an outstanding member  of my team as he departs for a new opportunity.

Michael Kraan has served as one of my legislative assistants for the  past 2 years. He has covered a broad range of issues, from natural  resources to veterans affairs, and has done so with exceptional  diligence and precision.

While working in my office, Michael also earned his master's degree  in national security policy studies. He quickly established himself as  an indispensable asset. I have often said that a good Member can become  a great Member with a great team, and Michael proved that every single  day in my office.

Michael played an essential role in creating and advancing key  legislation, including the National Veterans Advocate Act of 2025. This  bill would help ensure our servicemembers have the support and  resources they need when they return home.

After a veteran in my district could not get the timely access to  mental health care from the VA that he needed, Michael created the  Sergeant Ted Grubbs Mental Healthcare for Disabled Veterans Act. Just  last night at dinner, Michael shared how the highlight of his time in  my office was meeting Sergeant Ted Grubbs.

I also highlight his critical work on the SECURE American  Telecommunications Act, which I recently introduced to protect our  Nation's infrastructure from enemy threats.

None of these would have been possible without Michael's dedication  and expertise. Although it is also often difficult to see a team member  leave, Michael is taking steps to go on to be a military legislative  assistant in another office.

Max is getting one of the best. I trust the gentleman will take good  care of Michael.

I thank Michael for his hard work, loyalty, and service. He will  always be part of the family.                         Recognizing Mariah Greenlee

Mr. YAKYM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an exceptional  member of my team, my director of operations, Mariah Greenlee.

From day one, Mariah has been an indispensable part of our office. As  every Member knows, the director of operations is the person who keeps  the trains running on time. While I may be biased, I truly believe that  Mariah is one of the very best.

Whether it was fitting 47 meetings in 2 days, managing our intern  program, overseeing travel logistics, or simply keeping the office  running smoothly, Mariah did it all with excellence. Her calm under  pressure, strong organizational skills, and unwavering dedication  helped our office serve the people of Indiana's Second District at the  highest level. Hoosiers who visited the Capitol often commented on her  customer-service-driven approach.

Over the past 2\1/2\ years, I have come to rely on Mariah not only as  a trusted colleague but as a friend. Her work ethic, professionalism,  and commitment to service to Indiana's Second District have left a  lasting impression and mark on our team. While I am sad to see her go,  I am incredibly excited for what lies ahead for her in her next  chapter.

I thank Mariah for everything. Her contributions have meant so much  to me and my team. She will always be part of the Yakym family.