Studying Nepa's Impact on Projects Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697709/studying-nepas-impact-on-projects-act


Mr. YAKYM. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of my bipartisan bill, H.R.  573, the Studying NEPA's Impact on Projects Act, which I introduced  with my good friend, Mr. Panetta from California.

The National Environmental Policy Act, or NEPA, was passed in 1970 to  look at the impacts of projects on the environment.

After decades of abuse and misuse, NEPA has strayed far from its  original purpose. Now, it is a four-letter word, often weaponized to  bury infrastructure, housing, energy, and other critical projects under  a mound of paperwork and litigation.

NEPA is more synonymous with red tape than a green light. One recent  study found that energy projects spend a median of 3 years from final  agency approval to a final court decision, with some projects facing  delays that last for decades.

At various points in time, the White House Council on Environmental  Quality, or CEQ, has compiled reports on lawsuits, paperwork, and  delays associated with NEPA, but these efforts have mostly been ad hoc.

This bill would formalize and consolidate these reports by requiring  the CEQ to publish a single annual report detailing the burdens created  by NEPA, including the volume of lawsuits, the length and complexity of  environmental review and paperwork, and the cost of delays to taxpayers  and project sponsors.

This report, coupled with the efforts of the Trump administration and  this Congress to rein in permitting burdens, will allow us to conduct  oversight, ensure accountability, and identify areas of further reform.

The consequences of NEPA are felt across this country, from  manufacturing and construction in my district to critical forest  management, mining, and housing projects. These delays impact our  economy, but they also constrain our efforts to achieve energy  dominance, protect our national security, and compete with China.

This bill is an important step in our work to continue reforming the  permitting process. It is time to get the government and unnecessary  barriers out of the way of hardworking Americans who want to make  America build again.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Westerman for his help in getting this  bill to the floor and to my friend, Mr. Panetta, for his partnership. I  urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''