Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women and Families Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699232/supporting-pregnant-and-parenting-women-and-families-act


Mr. YAKYM. Mr. Speaker, from hearing my Democratic colleagues talk  today, it is clear that none of them has ever been to a pregnancy  resource center, and they certainly have never used their services.

Mr. Speaker, 17 years ago, my wife, Sallyann, and I found out we were  expecting our first child. Sallyann thought she was having some issues  with our pregnancy when she was only 7 weeks pregnant. We were young,  and we were scared. We didn't have a place to turn until one of her  friends suggested that we go to a pregnancy resource center.

We went down to the Women's Care Center in South Bend, where they  welcomed us with open and loving arms. They gave her an ultrasound, and  for the very first time, we saw our child, who, at that time, was about  the size of a peanut. Half of that peanut was a heartbeat. Most  importantly, they assured us that our child was okay and would be just  fine.

When we went to leave, I had just one question for them: How much do  we owe you? They looked at us and they said: Guys, the services that we  provide here are free. You can go on your way. They assured us that our  baby was healthy, and they gave us such peace of mind.

Here we are, 17 years later, and our daughter Elle is smart. She is  beautiful. She is a junior in high school, and we are out looking for  colleges. The pregnancy resource center in my community was there for  us when we were young and scared, when we had very limited resources,  but, unfortunately, if my Democrat colleagues had their way, our  healthcare would have been denied.

Why deny the Sallyann Yakym's of the world access to the care that  they need? Why deny people like my daughter, Elle, the care to make  sure that they are okay?

I wish my friends from the other side of the aisle would simply join  me in voting ``yes'' today on this measure.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, the gentlewoman from Minnesota  (Mrs. Fischbach), for the introduction of this bill, and I urge my  colleagues to vote ``yes.''