Republican Tax Cuts


Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I  thank him for bringing attention to this important issue.

I am going to talk about the State and local tax deduction in some  detail, but first let me just say generally that what we are talking  about is so important. We have so many of our friends on the other side  of the aisle who are constantly talking about how the government spends  too much money and how deficits are getting so much bigger.

Here, under their tax bill that they are proposing right now, they  are going to increase the deficit in the United States by $4.5  trillion. Now, that doesn't make any sense. Why would they propose  something when they have people on their side who their singular most  important issue is reducing the deficit, but they would increase the  deficit by $4.5 trillion?

Now, my colleague talked about the tax cuts from 2017, well, a lot of  my residents didn't see a tax deduction. They saw a tax increase. The  reason they saw a tax increase is because they capped the State and  local tax deduction at $10,000.

Let me just explain what the State and local tax deduction is. The  State and local tax deduction was in place for 100 years, from 1913  until 2017. In 1930, they started the Federal income tax code in the  United States of America. When they said we are going to tax people's  income at the Federal level, a lot of Governors, mayors, and local  elected officials said, no, they don't want a Federal income tax  because that will stop them from raising the taxes at the State and  local level. Since America's founding, government was mainly paid for  at the State and local level through State and local taxes. The Federal  Government was funded by tariffs, quite frankly, a very interesting  topic for today.

When the mayors and Governors protested, they said: We don't want to  have a Federal income tax because you are going to hurt us. We don't  want to pay taxes on the taxes we have already paid at the State and  local level.

The Federal Government said: Don't worry about it. We will put a  deduction in place that says you can deduct your State and local taxes  from your income, so you don't have to pay taxes on the taxes you have  already paid.

Okay, let's do that. They put it in place for 100 years.

In 2017, they said we are going to cap this deduction that has been  in place for over 100 years at $10,000. They took the long arm of the  Federal Government and reached into local governments. They violated  the covenant of federalism, and they said: We are going to make you pay  taxes on the taxes you have already paid to your States, to your  cities, to your towns, to your villages, to your school districts. We  are going to tax you on the money you have already paid in taxes at the  State and local levels.

That caused some people's taxes to go up, especially in high-tax  States that happen to be Democratic States, such as in New York, New  Jersey, California, Connecticut, Illinois, Massachusetts, Maryland,  Michigan, Minnesota, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Rhode Island, and  Hawaii. They caused people's taxes to go up because they could no  longer deduct their State and local taxes.

It is not fair. In fact, people have moved away from our States to  other lower tax States.

Why are taxes higher in my State and in your State compared to, say,  Florida and Texas? They are higher because in New York State and in  California, we insure our children. We have the lowest rates of  uninsured children in the United States of America and the lowest rates  of uninsured adults in the United States of America, whereas Florida  and Texas have the highest rates of uninsured children and uninsured  adults.

Our taxes are higher in our States because we pay our teachers,  police officers, firefighters, and other public workers in public  employee unions and other union workers higher wages. They don't like  unions in Florida, Texas, and other low-tax States.

It is not fair that in States like mine and yours, Mr. Thompson, and  other Democratic States, we are net donors to the Federal Government.  We send more money to the Federal Government than we get back.

A lot of our colleagues criticize our States. They say it is so  ineffective the way we are running our States. Why is it that we are  doing so well economically that we are the biggest net donors to the  Federal Government? We send more money to the Federal Government in  income taxes than we get back in Federal contracts and Federal  programs.

In fact, most of the red States in the United States of America are  net takers, and most of the blue States are net donors, so it is not  fair. It is very different from State to State in our country, but in  my State, for example, and in Mr. Thompson's State, similarly, if you  have a teacher and a police officer who are married, their income could  be over $150,000, $200,000 a year. In our States, because the taxes are  higher, because the cost of living is higher, the cost of housing is  higher, so that $150,000 to $200,000 a year is not a wealthy person.  That is a middle-class person.

I talked to a friend of mine from Oklahoma, and I told him that  person making $150,000 between the husband and wife is middle class.  They said: $150,000 a year? If they lived in my State, they would be  living in a gated community. They would belong to the country club.

That is not what it is like. It is different from place to place.

We set up these different State and city governments throughout our  country to be laboratories of democracy, to run their States and their  cities the way they see fit, to tax them as they see fit, and the one  way that they used the Federal income tax code to move forward was to  have a State and local tax deduction that was ripped away from them in  2017.

Some of my colleagues on the Republican side have said they will not  support this new tax bill unless we restore the State and local tax  deduction. We would like to see a complete repeal of the cap. We would  like to have you be able to claim all of your State and local taxes. We  passed it three times when the Democrats were in charge. We passed it  once, complete repeal; twice, complete repeal; third time, $80,000 cap.

Some Republicans have proposed a cap of $25,000. Five Republicans  have stood up and said $25,000 is not acceptable. I want to commend  them for standing up for their residents and taxpayers against their  party and saying they will not support this bill.

President Trump came to my State, actually right near my district in  Nassau County, where I used to be the county executive. He spoke at a  campaign rally in the summer of 2024, and he said we have to restore  the State and local tax deduction. Now, he is the one who took it away.  He said that we have to restore the State and local tax deduction.  Well, let's hold the President to that.

Let's commend our five colleagues who are standing up against their  party to say they want to raise the State and local tax deduction.

Let's be fair to these middle-class families. Let's be fair to these  States. Let's be fair to these mayors, Governors, and county  executives. Let's be fair to our firefighters and teachers. Let's be  fair to make sure that these States that are net donors to the Federal  Government are treated with the proper respect and dignity that they  deserved throughout America's history and stop penalizing them for  trying to serve their residents the best way they can.

Again, I appreciate the gentleman for yielding.