Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the National Park Service Relating to ``Glen Canyon National Recreation Area: Motor Vehicles''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Relating to ``Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species Status for the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of the Longfin Smelt''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy- Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars Ii; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; the `omnibus' Low NoX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; and for Other Purposes


Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I rise as chair of the California  Democratic congressional delegation in opposition to this rule. It  makes in order three resolutions that claim to be pursuant to the  Congressional Review Act, but are completely illegitimate.

That is not just my opinion, the nonpartisan Government  Accountability Office has not once but twice found that waivers  California receives under the Clean Air Act are not rules under the  CRA.

The Senate Parliamentarian has reached the same conclusion, so if  this passes and if the Senate follows its rules, this will not be in  order in the Senate.

Now, of course, our current President has taken many actions that we  believe are illegal. More than 100 cases have been filed to stop these  actions, and he has lost most of them, but it is sad to see the  majority here in the House following suit. I will just say this:  Abusing the Congressional Review Act is not the slope you want to slide  down. You will regret having opened that when you are no longer in the  majority.

I also oppose the underlying resolutions because they directly risk  our fellow Americans' health. Air pollution is directly linked with  increased rates of asthma, cancer, and other diseases. Parental and  childhood exposure to pollution is linked to long-term health risks,  adversely impacting babies and young children.

Just one of California's standards that would be blocked, the  Advanced Clean Cars II, is estimated to reduce healthcare costs by $13  billion over the next 25 years.

Now, it is important to note that these rules that California has  adopted, they are for California. Other States don't have to follow  these rules. There is a lot of criticism of California. We are the  biggest State. We are the most diverse State. We are a big, sprawling  State that has challenges, of course, but we are the most innovative  economy. For all of the criticism that the majority sometimes lodges  against us, we have just become the fourth biggest economy of the  world. The State of California is the fourth biggest economy, and as we  meet our challenges, we are also very successful economically.

Mr. Speaker, don't take this step to violate the rules. Don't take  this step to cripple California's economy. Vote ``no.''