Captain Accursio ``gus'' Sanfilippo Young Fishermen's Development Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700347/captain-accursio-gus-sanfilippo-young-fishermens-development-act


Mr. MOULTON. Mr. Speaker, as the Representative of Gloucester,  Massachusetts, America's oldest seaport, I am proud to lead this  critical bill to reauthorize the Young Fishermen's Development Grant  Program for another 5 years.

This national competitive grant program supports the training and  education of the Nation's next generation of commercial fishermen.  Commercial fishing is at the heart of Massachusetts's identity and  economy, but this legacy will not endure if we don't help the next  generation get started.

These grants help the industry expand and evolve. I am proud that  this money will give new opportunities to young people who are  interested in working at sea and supplying our communities with fresh  seafood, so we don't buy it all from unregulated fisheries overseas.

This bill has been renamed the Captain Accursio ``Gus'' Sanfilippo  Young Fishermen's Development Act in honor of the captain of the  fishing vessel Lily Jean.

Under this program, young fishermen across New England have received  critical vocational training to enter the industry, develop into  competitive deckhands, and transition to the wheelhouse as captains  like Gus.

I thank Congressman Nicholas Begich from Alaska for partnering on  this effort and making this a strong bipartisan bill. I am proud to  lead the effort with him to keep this vital program funded every year.  I also thank Representatives Tokuda, Radewagen, and Golden for their  partnership.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to say a few words about Gus. On January  30, 2026, the 72-foot fishing vessel Lily Jean sank roughly 25 miles  off Gloucester, Massachusetts. Tragically, all seven crewmembers,  including Captain Sanfilippo, were lost.

Gus hailed from a family of fishermen and first learned the ropes of  the industry from his father, Antonino, a Sicilian immigrant who owned  the St. George II. Under his father's guidance, he developed the values  of hard work and perseverance and a deep respect for the sea.

The lessons Antonino taught Gus remained with him throughout his  life. He later purchased his own fishing vessel, the Lily Jean, named  after his daughter, and carried forth his family's legacy as the next  generation of Sanfilippos to fish commercially.

With his beloved wife, Lorie, Gus had two children, Lily Jean and  Anthony. An adoring husband and father, he was also a father figure at  sea. Captain Sanfilippo mentored countless young men and women who  joined his crew. He enjoyed teaching them essential skills such as net  mending, electronics, navigation, and vessel maintenance. Most  importantly, he stressed the value of teamwork and looking out for one  another on the open ocean.

Captain Sanfilippo took young workers under his wing, showing them  not only how to succeed in the industry but how to carry themselves  with responsibility and courage. He ran a tight ship, valuing rules,  structure, and safety. He took great pride in his role as captain and  was, above all else, courageous and selfless.

Captain Sanfilippo is currently being considered posthumously for a  Mariner's Medal in recognition of his historic rescues of multiple  fishing vessels in distress.

As a father, he led by example with kindness, patience, steady  guidance, integrity, and a generous heart. As a captain, he shared the  same values with the young members of his crew.

Mr. Speaker, I am so proud to rename the Young Fishermen's  Development Act on behalf of Captain Accursio ``Gus'' Sanfilippo.