Welcoming His All-Holiness Bartholomew to Washington, D.C.


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695352/welcoming-his-all-holiness-bartholomew-to-washington-dc


Mr. MOULTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to welcome His All-Holiness  Bartholomew to Washington, D.C.

The Ecumenical Patriarch is the spiritual leader of over 300 million  Orthodox Christians worldwide. Since 1991, he has served as the  Archbishop of Constantinople--New Rome and Ecumenical Patriarch, a role  that traces its lineage to the earliest days of Christianity. As the  ``first among equals'' among Orthodox Christian leaders, he has been a  central figure in promoting unity within Orthodoxy, religious freedom  globally, and constructive dialogue among faiths.

Born on the island of Imvros, the Ecumenical Patriarch has spent his  life in service to both faith and humanity. He is internationally  recognized for his efforts to protect the environment--earning the  nickname ``the Green Patriarch''--as well as for his work in advancing  human rights, reconciliation among faiths, and support for religious  communities living under persecution.

He has been welcomed by presidents and prime ministers around the  world, addressed the European Parliament and the U.S. Congress, and was  awarded the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997. In September 2025, he  will return to the United States to receive the Templeton Prize--the  world's most distinguished award at the intersection of faith and  science.

This visit is especially meaningful to the many Greek Orthodox  Americans in Massachusetts and in my district. From churches in Lynn,  Peabody, and Salem, to communities across the Commonwealth, Greek  Americans have contributed profoundly to the civic, cultural, and  spiritual fabric of our state. The Ecumenical Patriarch's visit is a  source of deep pride for many of my constituents and a reminder of the  enduring connection between our country and the Ecumenical  Patriarchate.

Once again, I welcome Ecumenical Patriarch to Washington and in  honoring his decades of global leadership, his commitment to peace and  human dignity, and his enduring contributions to our shared moral and  spiritual life.