Congratulating Loris Griset Academy


Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, let me first rise to welcome today our own  Anaheim Police Department officers seated in the gallery. Thank you,  gentlemen, for protecting our community. Thank you for being here.  Thank you for taking an interest in congressional affairs.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Lorin Griset Academy in  Santa Ana for being recognized as a Model Continuation High School by  the California Department of Education.

Griset Academy helps prepare students to fulfill their potential both  in class, as well as in future careers.

Join me in congratulating the dedicated staff and educators at Lorin  Griset Academy for a great job in preparing Orange County's next  generation of leaders.               Honoring Santa Ana Police Chief Robert Rodriguez

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate Police Week by  honoring my very good friend, Santa Ana Police Chief Robert Rodriguez.

Chief Rodriguez was brought to the United States when he was 4 years  old as an undocumented immigrant. He got his opportunity at the  American Dream thanks to former California Governor and Republican  President Ronald Reagan. He then served our country in the marines for  6 years through two wars.

Today, Chief Rodriguez is our Santa Ana chief of police. He fulfilled  a lifelong dream of being an American and serving his great country.

He inspires our community. I thank him for his hard work. God bless  him and God bless Santa Ana.                       Recognizing Goodwill Industries

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Goodwill  Industries of Orange County for 100 years of service to our community.

Reverend John Winterbourne founded Goodwill Industries in Orange  County, California, in 1924. His own home became the first clothing  repair shop that expanded to include an as-is lot that essentially  created Goodwill Industries throughout the country.

Please join me in thanking Goodwill Industries for 100 years of  service and dedication to our community and to our Nation.             Congratulating Students of Magnolia Science Academy

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the students of  Magnolia Science Academy in my district, who have achieved a tremendous  milestone, qualifying for the VEX Robotics World Championship.

These students have shown that dedication and hard work does pay off.  They have earned the opportunity to compete on the international stage.

Join me in celebrating these remarkable young students as they  prepare for the world championship in robotics.                           Recognizing Bharat Patel

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize my very good  friend, Mr. Bharat Patel, for his incredible career and contributions  to our community.

In 1976, the Patel family purchased the original Peter Pan Motor  Lodge in Anaheim, right across from Disneyland. Almost 50 years later,  Mr. Patel's leadership has transformed this small hotel into the Castle  Inn and Suites in Anaheim.

Mr. Patel is a business leader and philanthropist. He sits on the  board of the California Lodging Industry Association, Visit Anaheim,  and several colleges.

Bottom line, he is a Cal State Fullerton alumnus, a Titan, and I am  proud of the positive changes Mr. Patel has brought to our community.

Recently, he was honored by Cypress College's Americana Awards as  Citizen of the Year in Orange County. I thank Mr. Patel for his great  work. He inspires and honors us.