Congratulating Kendall Pierson


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693460/congratulating-kendall-pierson


Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to highlight my young  neighbor, Kendall Pierson, who just graduated summa cum laude, which  means really good grades, from Mater Dei High School in Santa Ana.

Kendall was a member of the National Honor Society, the California  Scholarship Foundation, and the National Art Honor Society. She was a  dedicated member of her high school's basketball team that finished  seventh in the Nation.

Outside the classroom, Kendall volunteered at the Ronald McDonald  House and supported the Deaf Mass in Orange County. Clearly, Kendall is  a role model to all of us.

Kendall will be attending the University of Utah this fall to study  business. We are going to miss her, but I know, and her Grandma  Catherine knows, that she is going to be back after she finishes at the  University of Utah.

Madam Speaker, I congratulate Kendall on her graduation.                       Celebrating Consul Audrey Rivera

Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the incredible  service of Dr. Audrey Rivera Gomez, head consul of the Mexican  Consulate in Santa Ana.

For years, she has served the Mexican community in southern  California. Under her leadership, the consulate has promoted  educational, cultural, and preventive programs to keep young people  from being addicted to fentanyl.

Dr. Rivera Gomez has supported countless Mexican women entrepreneurs  and Mexican immigrant-owned businesses. She won Woman of the Year 2025  for her dedication to the immigrant community.

Madam Speaker, we are going to miss her in Santa Ana, but we know at  her next post she will continue to be successful.                           honoring rick whittington

Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the career of Rick  Whittington and his valuable service to our community and our Nation.

Mr. Whittington was a U.S. Navy veteran and served as a member of the  Seabees during the Vietnam war. He made honorable contributions to the  fight as a member of a construction unit, and he never forgot the dark  moments of the Vietnam war.

In fact, when he returned home from Vietnam, he was one of those  individuals who was harassed by the anti-Vietnam war protesters. Yet,  he kept his resolve and always remembered the pride of serving America.

Mr. Whittington is most proud of the work he has done as a civilian  helping our Nation safely dispose of nuclear waste through his  innovative products.

I thank Mr. Whittington for his service and his contribution to our  community.                            recognizing jim oregel

Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor my good friend and  fellow Anaheim High School alumnus, Jimmy Oregel, for a life of  dedication to the city of Anaheim and to Anaheim High School.

At St. Boniface, where we both attend, he helped found the Orange  County Congregation Community.

We are both diehard Anaheim High School football fans, and at  Anaheim, he served as a sports team manager. Upon graduation, Jimmy  joined the football booster club and took over as president in 1976,  and he has held that position.

Jimmy was inducted into the Anaheim High School Hall of Fame in 2008.  Please join me in recognizing Jimmy's life of service to Anaheim High  School and to the city of Anaheim community.