Daca and the American Dream


Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share the story of Victoria  Rosas, a DACA recipient in my home county, Orange County. Victoria was  raised in Fullerton, California, and thanks to her DACA status, she was  able to pursue her passion for healthcare and helping others.

Today, Victoria is a nurse, and in her spare time, she has written a  book and founded a non-profit group called Empower Moms California.

Victoria's journey is an example of the important contributions DACA  recipients make to this great country and why we need to protect them  from deportation.                           Recognizing Carlo Garcia

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Carlo Garcia, a  DACA recipient in our community and to tell you little bit of his great  story.

Carlo was brought to the United States as a child. In his early life,  even then he knew he would have to fight and work hard to achieve the  American Dream. He worked as a janitor to help to support his mother  and his young siblings while he continued to work to make sure he  pursued the American Dream.

Carlo is a first-generation college graduate and has begun his career  as a financial auditor, and recently he earned his CPA license just  this past November. Now he is even closer than ever to achieving the  American Dream.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Carlo.                     Recognizing Dr. Gloria Itzel Montiel

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Dr. Gloria Itzel  Montiel, a DACA recipient, for her achievements and contributions to  our great country.

Dr. Montiel received her DACA status after arriving in the United  States at the age of 8 years old. She excelled academically. She then  studied at Harvard University and then earned her Ph.D. from the  Claremont Graduate University.

Dr. Montiel has dedicated her professional career to public health  and education programming. Today, Dr. Montiel is a faculty fellow at  Claremont Graduate University.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Dr. Montiel for her dedication to our community.                          Celebrating Cristina Prada

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate Orange County's  grandmother, Cristina Prada, who is 94 years old.

Cristina's story is a very familiar story to us in Orange County. She  came from Colombia in 1973 and worked at two or three jobs at the same  time to make ends meet. She worked as a housekeeper at a nearby resort  and cleaned houses for wealthy movie stars.

Cristina began to build her American Dream and watched her family  grow even as she battled cancer numerous times in her life. At 94 years  old, she has beaten the odds and has proven the doctors wrong. She  continues to lead.

Cristina just celebrated her 94th birthday in the United States, and  her story is a story of the American Dream. We are blessed to have her  as part of our community.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Cristina for the way in which she inspires us.