Dhs Biodetection Improvement Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688729/dhs-biodetection-improvement-act


I rise today in support of Representative Strong's bill, H.R. 706,  the DHS Biodetection Improvement Act.

This legislation is essential in advancing the Department of Homeland  Security's efforts to protect Americans from emerging biological  threats. Specifically, it seeks to enhance biodetection capabilities  within DHS by requiring the Secretary to assess how the Department can  leverage the research and development of the Department of Energy's  national laboratories.

Biological threats, including deadly pathogens and bioterrorism  agents, represent a constant and emerging danger to the public health  and security of our Nation. However, the BioWatch program, which has  been the cornerstone of our biodetection efforts, is now outdated.

H.R. 706 takes a crucial step forward by requiring DHS to assess how  the Department of Energy's national laboratories can play an even  greater role in improving our biodetection capabilities.

These labs are equipped with cutting-edge research and development  capabilities that can help modernize our detection system. The national  labs have the expertise and technologies necessary to enhance DHS'  ability to detect, identify, and respond to biological threats much  more effectively. Accessing this valuable research will enable DHS to  modernize its biodetection tools and systems.

The bill also directs DHS to establish specific programs and  technical requirements essential for advancing biodetection efforts,  including vital research and development.

Furthermore, the bill requires the Homeland Security Secretary to  submit to Congress a strategy for regular external evaluations to  identify capability gaps and propose contingency plans if biodetection  technologies fall short.

As security threats continue to evolve, it is important that Congress  support improvements in biodetection capabilities.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support the bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. CORREA.

Mr. Speaker, while DHS has made tremendous efforts to enhance its  biodetection capabilities, we still have a long way to go. That is why  it is important to pass this legislation, H.R.