Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the National Park Service Relating to ``Glen Canyon National Recreation Area: Motor Vehicles''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Relating to ``Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species Status for the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of the Longfin Smelt''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy- Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars Ii; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; the `omnibus' Low NoX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690388/providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-national-park-service-relating-to-glen-canyon-national-recreation-area-motor-vehicles-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-united-states-fish-and-wildlife-service-relating-to-endangered-and-threatened-wildlife-and-plants-endangered-species-status-for-the-san-francisco-bay-delta-distinct-population-segment-of-the-longfin-smelt-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-heavy-duty-vehicle-and-engine-emission-warranty-and-maintenance-provisions-advanced-clean-trucks-zero-emission-airport-shuttle-zero-emission-power-train-certification-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-advanced-clean-cars-ii-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-and-nonroad-engine-pollution-control-standards-the-omnibus-low-noinfxinf-regulation-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, this past week, I had the honor to visit a  number of senior centers in my district. I saw seniors having a meal at  lunchtime paid for by SNAP, seniors that have relied on Social  Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and SNAP, seniors that have worked all  their lives to build America, and all they want to do is have a  peaceful retirement.

I rise today because my colleagues across the aisle are looking to  cut Medicaid and SNAP, programs that hundreds of millions of Americans  rely on to keep food on their table and their families healthy.

My colleagues are targeting almost $900 billion in cuts to Medicaid,  threatening to take away healthcare for some 80 million Americans who  rely on this program. That would strip away healthcare from millions,  including children, seniors, people with disabilities, and veterans.

They are targeting SNAP, a vital food assistance program that  provides food to 40 million people: seniors, children, and veterans.

I urge my colleagues to defeat the previous question so that we can  bring up H.R. 2753, the Hands Off Medicaid and SNAP Act, to stop our  colleagues from taking away healthcare from Americans and making a big  mistake.