Recognizing Ocfa Chief Brian Fennessy


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697850/recognizing-ocfa-chief-brian-fennessy


Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Orange County Fire  Authority Chief Brian Fennessy, who, after 8 years as chief, will be  retiring.

While at Orange County Fire Authority, Chief Fennessy led the  department through the COVID-19 pandemic and through the Bond,  Silverado, and Blue Ridge fires. He was named by the Orange County  Register as one of the most influential individuals in Orange County in  2020.

After his retirement, Chief Fennessy will now assume the director  role in the newly created U.S. Wildland Fire Service.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Chief Fennessy for his commitment to keeping  Orange County safe. He will be missed. I congratulate him on his  retirement.               recognizing anaheim police chief rick armendariz

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Anaheim Police  Chief Rick Armendariz, who, after 30 years at Anaheim Police, will be  retiring from law enforcement.

In 2019, Chief Armendariz joined the Anaheim Police Department.  During his time as chief, Chief Armendariz championed community  engagement, worked with local schools, and pushed to improve conditions  and resources for Anaheim's homeless population.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Chief Armendariz for keeping our community safe,  and I congratulate him on his well-earned retirement.                           honoring james t. poston

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor James ``Jamie'' T.  Poston, a proud American and Vietnam combat veteran who has dedicated  his life to serving our great country.

Jamie entered the United States Army in 1966, deploying to Vietnam as  a Mustang crew chief.

Today, at 80 years young, Jamie remains a pillar of support for our  local veterans. Every Thursday, he volunteers at the military diversion  court in Santa Ana. He attends bimonthly veteran treatment court  meetings, and he drives fellow veterans to recovery groups. He makes  sure that no one walks their journey alone.

Jamie Poston represents the very best of our veterans and Vietnam war  veterans--courage in war, compassion in peace, and service that never  ends.

recognizing 75th anniversary of orange county water district

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight the 75th  anniversary of the Municipal Water District of Orange County. For 75  years, MWDOC has been our county's water supplier.

In Orange County, they have been critical to delivering emergency  preparedness, water use efficiency, and public education. From working  with local Scout groups to supporting investments in our future water  supply reliability, MWDOC has truly impacted every life in Orange  County.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate MWDOC on its 75th anniversary.                          recognizing le dinh luong

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to recognize the birthday of  Vietnamese human rights defender Le Dinh  Luong. Mr. Le is a peaceful activist and a prisoner of conscience.

In 2018, he was persecuted for campaigning for compensation for  Vietnamese fishermen affected by the Formosa environmental disaster.  Mr. Le is not the first Vietnamese individual to be persecuted by the  Vietnamese Government for speaking in support of the victims of the  Formosa environmental disaster.

I am committed, Mr. Speaker, to working with the State Department to  work with the Vietnamese Government for an end to Mr. Le's solitary  confinement, to allow him to practice his religion in prison, to allow  him to receive appropriate medical care, and, finally, to consider his  early release.