Recognizing Jessie Echaury


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689745/recognizing-jessie-echaury


Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Jessie Echaury for  his military service and contributions to our community.

In 2016, Jessie served our Nation as a U.S. Army soldier in  Afghanistan. A decade later, he now serves other veterans as president  of Cal State Fullerton's Student Veterans of America chapter.

In this role, he advocates for veteran students struggling with  invisible wounds like PTSD.

I thank Jessie for his service to our Nation and for his commitment  to fellow students who are veterans.                          Recognizing Charlie Zhang

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Charlie Zhang for  his philanthropy and his induction into the Orange County Hall of Fame.

Charlie comes from humble beginnings. He came to this country  penniless and unable to speak English but with a dream. With hard work,  he started a number of businesses, and he achieved the American Dream.

Now, Charlie is known throughout Orange County for supporting  education and the arts. Some of his most important contributions have  helped business and economics students at my own alma mater, Cal State  Fullerton.

I thank Charlie for being a role model and helping to uplift Orange  County's next generation. I congratulate him on a well-deserved  induction into Orange County's Hall of Fame.                           Honoring Serrato Sisters

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate sisters Alicia,  Anabelle, and Angelica Serratos for their accomplishments as part of  the Santa Ana High School girls' wrestling team.

Alicia, Anabelle, and Angelica took home an impressive combined  record of 104 wins and 12 losses into their recent CIF Southern Section  girls' championship meets.

Their parents, Fernando and Monica, are both former wrestlers and  currently coach at Santa Ana High School. Their guidance has helped  their daughters, the sisters, and many other champs at Santa Ana High  School.

I wish Alicia, Anabelle, and Angelica success in their wrestling  careers, and I thank the Serratos family for showing Orange County how  it is done.

Go Saints.                      Recognizing Senior Santa & Friends

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Senior Santa &  Friends program that supports many seniors across Orange County.

Each year, this program brings joy to seniors and adults with severe  disabilities, bringing them gifts and special requests, gifts that make  changes in their lives like household appliances, medical equipment,  clothing, and nutritional supplements.

Senior Santa & Friends has been able to deliver 2,100 gifts annually  to seniors in need in our community.

Please join me in thanking Senior Santa & Friends for their  dedication to helping our community make life much better during the  holidays for our seniors.