Recognizing Thanksgiving Food Drives


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697343/recognizing-thanksgiving-food-drives


Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to recognize two Thanksgiving  food drives held in my district last week.

First, Santa Ana's Nicholas Academic Centers hosted a food drive for  students and their families to pick up groceries and Thanksgiving meals  to enjoy during the holidays.

The second is, in Anaheim, the YMCA joined forces with the legendary  Frank Garcia to host the annual We Give Thanks food drive.

Thanks to hundreds of volunteers and donations, thousands of Orange  County families had a Thanksgiving dinner with their families.                Recognizing Anaheim High's Flag Football Team

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the Anaheim High  School girls' flag football championship win.

Earlier this month, the Anaheim girls' flag football team brought  home their first-ever division championship. Thanks to their strong  defense, aggressive offense, and dedicated coaching staff, the  Colonists again earned a well-fought victory.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Anaheim, which has again made us proud.                     Recognizing Max Madrid's Retirement

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to celebrate the retirement of  my very good friend and longtime staff member, Mr. Max Madrid.

Max has worked for me as a field rep since I started in Congress and,  before that, when I worked in the State senate.

Max is a Navy veteran, a Vietnam war veteran who served our country  for 20 years in the Navy. Today, Max is again retiring from public  service.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Max, even though I don't really think he  is retiring, and I thank him for his good work.                            Honoring Gilbert Avina

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life, legacy, and  memory of Anaheim's true son, Gilbert Avina.

A graduate of Anaheim High School, he went on to dedicate 32 years of  service to the city of Anaheim. Gilbert also served as the president of  the Anaheim Car Club, where he gave back to the community that meant so  much to him.

Above all, Gilbert's heart belonged to his family. Married to his  beloved wife, Teresa, he was a father, stepfather, and proud  grandfather. His kindness, strength, humor, and work ethic touched all  of us.

Mr. Speaker, Gilbert will be missed.                        Sharing Sonia Talavera's Story

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my deep concerns  over how healthcare costs are rising in our communities and how they  are impacting our communities back home.

Today, I want to share the story of Sonia. Sonia is an elderly and  disabled individual who relies on disability retirement and Social  Security to get by.

Today, she can't afford a full-time caregiver, so her son is taking  over to take care of her on a full-time basis. I have to ask, how long  can her son take care of Sonia? Is this how we are meant to take care  of our seniors in this country?

Sonia's story is not unique. Without renewing the Affordable Care Act  tax credits, millions of Americans could face the same situation that  Sonia is facing today.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Sonia for sharing her story.