Save Sba From Sanctuary Cities Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692099/save-sba-from-sanctuary-cities-act-of-2025


Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, first of all, let me begin by thanking the  chair and the ranking member for their interest in good, managed,  efficient SBA offices. They are Federal taxpayer dollars being invested  to make sure that we continue to create jobs in our great country.

That being in mind, I would ask everybody to think about return on  investment to taxpayers. Orange County, California, my home, today is  probably the 30th largest economy in the world. It is home to  Disneyland and the Anaheim Angels, and is probably the 30th largest  economy in the world.

California, which always gets beat up here in this body, just became  the fourth largest economy in the world. Let me say: We are the fourth  largest economy in the world.

Guess what? As California taxpayers, we pay the Federal Government  $100 billion more in Federal tax dollars than we get back from the  Federal Government. I would say, as an economy, we are doing pretty  good. We need the workers. We need workers.

California has the biggest agricultural sector in the United States.  We feed ourselves and other States in the Union and other nations, and  70 percent of our workforce is--guess what?--undocumented.

We are waiting for this body to pass immigration reform so good,  hardworking individuals can be legalized.

We have the biggest manufacturing sector in the United States. It is  not Pittsburgh or Michigan. California, southern Cal, is the biggest  manufacturing sector in the United States. Guess who most of those  workers are? Undocumented. They also pay Federal taxes.

Let's evaluate the SBA not on rhetoric but on how many jobs an SBA  office creates. What is that return on investment?

I am not sure why we are doing this today. We all know that there are  millions and millions of undocumented workers in this country.  Absolutely, we don't want criminals, hardened criminals, in our  district. I don't want them as my neighbors.

If they are hardworking, honest individuals, taxpayers, what is wrong  with giving them the opportunity to be American, to pursue that  American Dream, and to be legalized? That is what America is all about.

I ask my colleagues to strongly consider their ``yes'' vote and  please vote ``no.'' We are talking about Federal dollars, taxpayer  dollars.