Securing the Cities Improvement Act


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that we are here today to consider  Representative Carter's bill, H.R. 1374, the Securing the Cities  Improvement Act, or STC. This bill is essential for enhancing cities'  security against nuclear and radiological threats.

The STC program was created by the Department of Homeland Security in  2007. It began as a pilot program in high-risk cities to detect nuclear  and radiological threats. Since then, it has expanded to include  additional cities, offering equipment, training, technological support,  and program guidance.

The program supports major events by ensuring cities are prepared for  potential threats. However, its reliance on the annual Urban Area  Security Initiative, or UASI, designations creates uncertainty for  local governments, as the designated high-risk areas can change, and  they usually do.

This bill aims to improve the program's stability and strengthen  partnerships with at-risk cities by allowing the Countering Weapons of  Mass Destruction Office to select STC cities based on their  preparedness capabilities rather than UASI designations.

The bill, Mr. Speaker, also establishes performance metrics, enhances  oversight of expenditures, and requires DHS to report to Congress on  program participation and any further changes.

Mr. Speaker, I applaud Representative Carter's leadership on this  measure. I encourage my colleagues to support H.R. 1374, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, let me start by thanking Mr. Carter for H.R. 1374. This  legislation will play a critical role in ensuring that our local  jurisdictions maintain the ability to detect and respond to chemical,  biological, radiological, and nuclear threats.

Without initiatives like this legislation, the STC, efforts to combat  these dangers could be significantly hindered or even discontinued,  putting the safety and security of our communities, taxpayers, and  citizens at risk.

Passage of this legislation is very essential to preserving our  national readiness and to strengthen security against emerging threats  and those who would do us harm.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly encourage my colleagues to support H.R. 1374,  and I yield back the balance of my time.