Tsa Commuting Fairness Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688740/tsa-commuting-fairness-act


Mr. Speaker, the ability of the TSA, or Transportation Security  Administration, to recruit and retain a highly skilled, well-trained  workforce is critical to our national security.

Since the agency was created in the aftermath of 9/11, TSA has helped  prevent terrorist attacks against U.S. aircraft from happening.

The jobs of TSA employees are difficult, from the Transportation  Security officers' perspective who screen millions of passengers a day,  to Federal air marshals providing in-flight security, to canine  handlers, inspectors, and cybersecurity experts, all helping to secure  our air transportation system.

In recent weeks, life has only become harder for this workforce, as  probationary employees have been fired and TSOs' collective bargaining  rights have also come under attack.

Thankfully, we have the opportunity today, Mr. Speaker, to make life  a bit easier for the hardworking civil servants of TSA.

The TSA Commuting Fairness Act, offered by my colleagues from New  York, Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Garbarino, would require TSA to study the  possibility of allowing employees' shifts to start upon arrival at the  airport's parking lot and bus and transit stops.

These employees often face long commutes to get to the airport from  the parking lot and then must travel long distances from the airport  parking lots and transit stops to get to the TSA checkpoints.

Letting employees clock in using cell phones and location data would  help alleviate the stress caused by irregular shuttles and the traffic  that is very unpredictable around the airport.

This is a sensible bill, Mr. Speaker, that would address important  quality-of-life concerns for a very critical workforce and, ultimately,  our national security when it comes to commercial airline security.

I thank my colleagues for working in a bipartisan fashion to advance  this measure, and I am glad to support it.

Mr. KENNEDY of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my bill,  H.R. 862, the TSA Commuting Fairness Act.

Year after year, through holiday seasons and spring breaks, air  travel continues to break records. These numbers are at an all-time  high and are expected to continue to increase this upcoming spring.

The Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, reported over 3  million travelers on the Sunday after Thanksgiving in 2024, with the 10  busiest days in TSA's history occurring last year.

Each day, we depend on hardworking TSA employees to keep our skies  safe. Transportation Security officers, or TSOs, inspect travelers as  they move through checkpoints; Federal air marshals ensure in-flight  security; and canine handlers enhance the system's security.

However, TSA employees face unique challenges when commuting to work.  Many employees find that the housing they can afford is far from  airports, lending to long commutes with limited public transit options  and heavy traffic. Airport employees often begin their workday by  parking or being dropped off in a designated parking lot where they  must then wait for inconsistent shuttle service to reach the terminal.

From there, they may face a lengthy trek to the security checkpoint  where they officially then clock in for work.

According to the Government Accountability Office, TSOs have reported  that just getting from the parking lot to the checkpoint to clock in  for work can take as long as 45 minutes to an hour at some airports.

My bill, the TSA Commuting Fairness Act, will help improve conditions  for these civil servants by directing TSA to conduct a feasibility  study on using mobile location data to allow employees to clock in for  work upon arrival at the airport transit stops instead of when they  reach that security checkpoint.

Doing so will help reduce commuting costs and improve the quality of  life for TSA employees, while allowing agency leadership to manage the  workforce appropriately.

This study will also provide important insight for TSA and Congress  as we collectively seek innovative ways to recruit and retain top  talent to help secure our transportation systems. My bill will help us  build the workforce we need to address evolving threats and keep air  travel trusted and secure.

Now, more than ever, it is critical that we advance policies like the  TSA Commuting Fairness Act to make it clear that we value the critical  work of our transportation security workers.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Garbarino and my colleagues on both  sides of the aisle for working with me to develop this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, given the recent attacks against our Federal workers, we  must seek innovative ways to compete for the top talent. This bill  would require a feasibility study to improve the quality of life for  the TSA workforce, while ensuring that TSA leadership retains the  ability to manage the workforce appropriately and maintain security  standards.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members of Congress to support this measure,  and I yield back the balance of my time.