Providing for Consideration of H.R. Department of Defense Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.R. Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act; Providing for Consideration of S. Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act; and Waiving A Requirement of Clause 6(A) of Rule Xiii with Respect to Consideration of Certain Resolutions Reported From the Committee on Rules


Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, by the direction of the Committee on Rules, I  call up House Resolution 580 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 580

Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this       resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule       XVIII, declare the House resolved into the Committee of the       Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of       the bill (H.R. 4016) making appropriations for the Department       of Defense for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2026, and       for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be       dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of       the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the       bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees.       After general debate the bill shall be considered for       amendment under the five-minute rule. The bill shall be       considered as read. Points of order against provisions in the       bill for failure to comply with clause 2 or clause 5(a) of       rule XXI are waived.

Sec. 2.  (a) No amendment to H.R. 4016 shall be in order       except those printed in part A of the report of the Committee       on Rules accompanying this resolution, amendments en bloc       described in section 3 of this resolution, and pro forma       amendments described in section 4 of this resolution.         (b) Each amendment printed in part A of the report of the       Committee on Rules shall be considered only in the order       printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member       designated in the report, shall be considered as       read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report       equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an       opponent, shall not be subject to amendment except as       provided by section 4 of this resolution, and shall not be       subject to a demand for division of the question in the House       or in the Committee of the Whole.

(c) All points of order against amendments printed in part       A of the report of the Committee on Rules or against       amendments en bloc described in section 3 of this resolution       are waived.

Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of       the Committee on Appropriations or his designee to offer       amendments en bloc consisting of amendments printed in part A       of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this       resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc       offered pursuant to this section shall be considered as read,       shall be debatable for 20 minutes equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees,       shall not be subject to amendment except as provided by       section 4 of this resolution, and shall not be subject to a       demand for division of the question in the House or in the       Committee of the Whole.

Sec. 4.  During consideration of H.R. 4016 for amendment,       the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Appropriations or their respective designees may offer up to       10 pro forma amendments each at any point for the purpose of       debate.

Sec. 5.  At the conclusion of consideration of H.R. 4016       for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to       the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill       and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening       motion except one motion to recommit.

Sec. 6.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3633) to       provide for a system of regulation of the offer and sale of       digital commodities by the Securities and Exchange Commission       and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. In lieu of the amendments in the nature of a       substitute recommended by the Committees on Agriculture and       Financial Services now printed in the bill, an amendment in       the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules       Committee Print 119-6, modified by the amendment printed in       part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying       this resolution, shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as       amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill,       as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided among and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Agriculture or       their respective designees and the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Financial Services or their       respective designees; (2) the further amendment printed in       part C of the report of the Committee on Rules, if offered by       the Member designated in the report, which shall be in order       without intervention of any point of order, shall be       considered as read, shall be separately debatable for the       time specified in the report equally divided and controlled       by the proponent and an opponent, and shall not be subject to       a demand for division of the question; and (3) one motion to       recommit.

Sec. 7.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1919) to amend       the Federal Reserve Act to prohibit the Federal reserve banks       from offering certain products or services directly to an       individual, to prohibit the use of central bank digital       currency for monetary policy, and for other purposes. All       points of order against consideration of the bill are waived.       The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by       the Committee on Financial Services now printed in the bill       shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall       be considered as read. All points of order against provisions       in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question       shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and       on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Financial Services or their       respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 8.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (S. 1582) to provide       for the regulation of payment stablecoins, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All       points of order against provisions in the bill are waived.       The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the       bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Financial Services or their       respective designees; and (2) one motion to commit.

Sec. 9.         4) to rescind certain budget authority proposed to be       rescinded in special messages transmitted to the Congress by       the President on June 3, 2025, in accordance with section       1012(a) of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control       Act of 1974.

Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.  Scanlon), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, last night the Rules Committee met and  reported a rule, House Resolution 580, providing for consideration of  four measures: H.R. 1919, the Anti-CBDC Surveillance State Act, under a  closed rule.

The rule provides 1 hour debate, equally divided and controlled by  the chair and ranking member of the Committee on Financial Services or  their respective designees and provides one motion to recommit.

Additionally, the rule provides for consideration of H.R. 3633, the  Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of 2025, also known as the CLARITY  Act, under a structured rule.

The rule provides 1 hour of debate, equally divided among and  controlled by the chair and ranking member of the Committee on  Financial Services and the Committee on Agriculture or their respective  designees, provides one motion to recommit, and makes one amendment in  order.

Further, the rule provides for consideration of S. 1582, the Guiding  and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act, also  known as the GENIUS Act, under a closed rule.

The rule provides 1 hour of debate, equally divided and controlled by  the chair and ranking member of the Committee on Financial Services or  their respective designees, and provides for one motion to recommit.

The rule also provides for consideration of H.R. 4016, the Department  of Defense Appropriations Act of 2026, under a structured rule. The  rule provides 1 hour of debate, equally divided and controlled by the  chair and ranking member of the Committee on Appropriations or their  respective designees, provides for one motion to recommit, and makes  330 amendments in order.

Finally, the rule provides for same-day consideration of a measure  related to rescissions this week.

Mr. Speaker, we are here today to debate a rule on four pieces of  legislation, beginning with H.R. 1919, the Anti-CBDC Surveillance State  Act.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1919 serves as a critical safeguard against the  financial power and erosion of individual privacy in the United States,  as it would prohibit the Federal Reserve from issuing a central bank  digital currency, CBDC, or using it to conduct monetary policy without  explicit authorization from Congress.

I would like to pose a fundamental question to my colleagues. Should  the Federal Government have the power to monitor, control, or restrict  how Americans use their own hard-earned money? Further, should the  Federal Government be allowed to make such sweeping decisions behind  closed doors without input from the public or their elected  representatives?

At its core, this bill is about ensuring the preservation of personal  financial freedom. The American people have a basic right to financial  privacy. They have the right to spend, save, and manage their money  free from surveillance or interference.

A CBDC would explicitly threaten that right by giving the Federal  Government unprecedented insight into individual transactions and the  potential ability to control or limit access to personal funds.

H.R. 1919 is about one thing: stopping the government from gaining  unchecked power over how Americans  conduct their financial lives. It ensures that if any form of digital  currency is ever created by the Federal Reserve, it must be debated,  authorized, and legislated by Congress instead of unilaterally  developed by unelected bureaucrats operating behind closed doors.

The potential consequences are too significant to permit unchecked  bureaucratic experimentation with tools that could fundamentally  redefine the relationship between individuals and their government  without clear oversight risks undermining longstanding economic  principles.

Now is the time for Congress to assert its role and ensure that any  future developments uphold the values of transparency, individual  rights, and a market-driven economy.

Next, Mr. Speaker, the rule also provides for the consideration of  H.R. 3633, the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of 2025, otherwise  known as the CLARITY Act. H.R. 3633 delivers a foundational framework  that has been missing for far too long, which is clear, consistent  rules for digital assets and the innovators building the future of  finance.

For years, American entrepreneurs and developers in the digital asset  space have been forced to navigate a regulatory maze marked by  conflicting guidance, shifting definitions, and enforcement actions in  place of actual rules. These inconsistent conditions have stifled  domestic innovation, discouraged responsible market participation, and  driven capital and talent to more favorable jurisdictions abroad.

H.R. 3633 addresses these issues directly by clarifying the legal  status of digital assets and establishing well-defined regulatory  responsibilities between the SEC and CFTC, creating a more predictable  landscape for market participants while preserving critical investor  protections and maintaining the integrity of U.S. financial markets.

This legislation reasserts the role of Congress in setting national  policy for emerging financial technologies. It ensures that decisions  with far-reaching economic implications are not made through regulatory  overreach but through transparent and deliberative processes.

H.R. 3633 is not only sound regulatory policy but also essential  economic policy. It will help preserve the United States' leadership in  financial innovation, support the growth of compliant digital asset  markets, and provide much-needed certainty to investors, developers,  and regulators alike.

In an increasingly competitive global financial landscape, this  legislation positions the United States to lead with clarity,  credibility, and confidence.

Additionally, Mr. Speaker, the rule provides for consideration of S.  1582, the Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S.  Stablecoins Act, otherwise known as the GENIUS Act.

This is not just a stablecoin bill. This is a strategic step toward  modernizing the U.S. financial infrastructure for the digital age while  protecting the interests of consumers, markets, and the Nation.

S. 1582 provides a comprehensive regulatory framework for the  issuance and oversight of payment stablecoins in the United States. It  is designed to support responsible innovation, ensure consumer  protection, and preserve the role of the U.S. dollar in an increasingly  digitized global financial system.

Stablecoins have become an essential component of the digital asset  economy, as they offer faster, lower-cost transactions and expand  access to financial services. In the absence of a clear Federal  framework, however, stablecoin development has outpaced regulation,  leaving investors without consistent protections and businesses without  clear rules of the road.

This legislation changes that by providing clear, enforceable  standards for payment stablecoin issuers, creating practical regulatory  pathways through both State and Federal charters and setting strong  reserve and disclosure requirements to ensure these assets remain  secure and trustworthy.

Critically, this bill prohibits the issuance of algorithmic  stablecoins lacking sufficient collateral, guarding against  destabilizing risks that could ripple through the broader financial  system. Also reinforcing the primacy of the U.S. dollar, this bill  ensures that dollar-backed stablecoins are subject to prudent oversight  and sound risk management.

At a time when other nations are rapidly moving to define the future  of digital finance, S. 1582 ensures the United States takes a prompt  and necessary step forward with clarity, credibility, and confidence.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, this rule provides for consideration of H.R.  4016, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2026.

H.R. 4016 provides the critical funding necessary to ensure the  readiness, modernization, and global strength of the United States  Armed Forces. This bill reflects Congress' enduring commitment to our  national defense and to the brave men and women who dutifully and  selflessly serve this country with distinction.

At a time of rising global threats from strategic competitors, like  China and Russia, to unstable regimes and nonstate actors, America must  remain prepared and ready. Deterrence requires strength, and strength  requires sustained investment, which is exactly what this legislation  delivers.

This bill funds operations, maintenance, personnel, and procurement  across all branches of the military, ensuring that our servicemembers  have the tools, training, and resources they need to succeed in every  domain, including land, air, sea, space, and cyberspace. It provides  for next-generation systems and emerging technologies, strengthens our  nuclear deterrent, and supports investments in cyber capabilities to  defend against 21st century threats.

Importantly, this legislation continues bipartisan efforts to improve  military quality of life, including robust funding for servicemember  pay increases, housing improvements, and family support programs,  believing that those who sacrifice to defend this country should never  have to sacrifice dignity or stability at home.

H.R. 4016 reflects a deep commitment to national security, strategic  deterrence, and support for those who serve. It targets stability,  honors peace through strength, and honors our constitutional duty to  provide for the common defense, reinforcing global stability, and  ensuring that the United States remains ready to respond to emerging  threats with confidence,capability, and conviction.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to consideration of these pieces of  legislation, urge passage of this rule, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, for the Record, supporters of cryptocurrency  exercised their First Amendment right last election and contributed to  many candidates.

In fact, those supporters spent over $50 million in support of  Democrat candidates. Supporters of cryptocurrency are not just  Republicans or Democrats. These are Americans who are very eager to see  us pass the most important legislation for the cryptocurrency industry  in history this week.

Foxx), our Rules Committee chairwoman.

Mr. Speaker, my colleagues are referring to a tactic Democrats  employed, yet again, to try to take control of the House of  Representatives through the Rules Committee. They did so because they  are desperate to stop us from passing the most important cryptocurrency  legislation in the history of our country and because they are, for  whatever reason, desperate to stop us from bringing forward our  legislation that funds our brave military.

The Republican majority is not going to hand the keys to the House of  Representatives to a caucus that, on a daily basis, impugns and  denigrates the 77 million Americans who voted for President Trump.

To my friends watching at home who support bitcoin and  cryptocurrency: Make no mistake. Members of Congress who vote against  the rule today are voting against the most important legislation for  the cryptocurrency industry in history.

I beseech my colleagues who appreciate, support, and invest in  cryptocurrency to study today's vote. Do not let those who vote against  us today come around during election time to ask for support as they  claim to fight for this incredible industry. Judge them by their vote  today.

I join the millions of Americans who want accountability for anyone  who committed crimes with Jeffrey Epstein. But I ask you: Can you  really trust the same radical leftists who presided over one of the  greatest scandals in American history, a coup in Joe Biden's White  House in which unelected staff actively sought the destruction of our  country?

Can you really trust the same radial leftists who sought to segregate  those of us who opted to make medical decisions for ourselves during  the COVID-19 pandemic?

Can you really trust the same radical leftists who have spent the  last decade trying and failing, trying and failing, and trying and  failing to tear down President Trump, one of the greatest Presidents in  American history?

Can you really trust those same people, who are trying to stop us  from passing the most important cryptocurrency legislation in history  and appropriations to fund our brave military today?

A vote against today's rule is a vote against cryptocurrency and our  Department of Defense.

Mr. JACK.

Mr. MOORE of West Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  Georgia (Mr. Jack) for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the CLARITY Act, the GENIUS Act,  and the Anti-CBDC Surveillance State Act.

I am a cosponsor, actually, of the CLARITY Act, which creates clear,  enforceable rules for digital commodity markets and gives innovators  confidence to build here in the United States of America.

Similarly, the GENIUS Act establishes a dollar-backed stablecoin,  reinforcing the U.S. dollar's dominance in global financial markets.

Finally, the anti-CBDC legislation ensures that we never enact a CCP- like financial surveillance regime in this country.

Together, these bills ensure that the U.S. remains the world leader  in digital asset innovation. I encourage my colleagues to support these  commonsense pieces of legislation.

Mr. MOORE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, digital assets are not some  future concept. They are already a key part of our financial system,  and Washington needs to start acting like it. Nearly one in three  Americans have used them in some form, and we cannot afford to let our  adversaries, especially the Chinese Communist Party, write rules for  this new financial frontier as we sit on the sidelines.

That is why we are advancing these three critical pieces of  legislation to make sure that America stays the world leader in  financial innovation.

Under the Biden administration, America's innovators operated in a  cloud of legal uncertainty, at best. Folks had to choose between  dealing with outdated rules or taking their ideas overseas. The Trump  administration, however, has taken a much more forward-thinking  approach, and now it is Congress' turn to step up.

The CLARITY Act changes this to establish clear regulatory language  that allows for the protection of consumers, while also giving  innovators the certainty that they need to build and grow right here in  the United States.

Stablecoins have shown real promise for faster, cheaper payments at  home and abroad. They have opened access to the U.S. dollar for people  who have never had that kind of financial stability before. Yet, while  the private sector has raced ahead, Washington has been stuck.

The GENIUS Act fixes that. It gives stablecoin issuers a regulatory  framework for strong reserves, real redemption rights, and smart risk  management.

Finally, the Anti-CBDC Surveillance State Act is about protecting  liberty. It blocks the Federal Government from launching a central bank  digital currency that could be used to track or control how law-abiding  citizens spend their dollars.

Together, with these three bills, this is a big step forward.  President Trump is making American leadership in financial tech a  priority. These bills reflect that vision with clear rules, strong  protections, and a real momentum to keep the dollar at the heart of  global finance.

Let's make crypto great again.

Mr. Speaker, this week, the House has the ability to advance four  pieces of legislation under this rule:

H.R. 1919, the Anti-CBDC Surveillance State Act prohibits the Federal  Reserve from issuing a central bank digital currency, CBDC, that  undermines Americans' rights to financial privacy.

H.R. 3633, the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of 2025, also known  as the CLARITY Act, establishes clear, functional requirements for  digital asset market participants, prioritizing consumer protection  while fostering innovation.

S. 1582, the GENIUS Act provides a clear regulatory framework for the  issuance of payment stablecoins in the U.S.

H.R. 4016, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2026,  provides critical resources to strengthen military readiness, support  servicemembers and their families, invest in next-generation defense  capabilities, and ensure that the United States can meet global threats  with confidence and resolve.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting ``yes'' on the  previous question and ``yes'' on the rule, Mr. Speaker.