Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendments to H.R. Consolidated Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Disapproving the Action of the District of Columbia Council in Approving the D.C. Income and Franchise Tax Conformity and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Critical Mineral Dominance Act


Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I call  up House Resolution 1032 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 1032

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R.       7148) making further consolidated appropriations for the       fiscal year ending September 30, 2026, and for other       purposes, with the Senate amendments thereto, and to consider       in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a       single motion offered by the chair of the Committee on       Appropriations or his designee that the House concur in the       Senate amendments. The Senate amendments and the motion shall       be considered as read. The motion shall be debatable for one       hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking       minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their       respective designees. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption without       intervening motion or demand for division of the question.

Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J.       Res. 142) disapproving the action of the District of Columbia       Council in approving the D.C. Income and Franchise Tax       Conformity and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of 2025. All       points of order against consideration of the joint resolution       are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the joint       resolution are       waived. The joint resolution shall be debatable for one hour       equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking       minority member of the Committee on Oversight and Government       Reform or their respective designees. The previous question       shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution to       final passage without intervening motion except one motion to       recommit (if otherwise in order).

Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 4090) to codify       certain provisions of certain Executive Orders relating to       domestic mining and hardrock mineral resources, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committee on Natural Resources now printed       in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as       amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill,       as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources       or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to       recommit.

Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, last night, the Committee on Rules met and  granted, by a recorded vote of 8-4, a rule providing for consideration  of three measures.

First, the rule makes in order to a motion offered by the chairman of  the Committee on Appropriations that the House concur in the Senate  amendments to H.R. 7148, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026. The  rule provides 1 hour of debate on the motion equally divided and  controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee  on Appropriations or their respective designees.

The rule further provides for consideration of H.J. Res. 142 under a  closed rule. The rule provides 1 hour of general debate equally divided  and controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the  Committee on Oversight and Government Reform or their respective  designees.

Finally, the rule provides for consideration of H.R. 4090, the  Critical Mineral Dominance Act, under a closed rule. The rule provides  1 hour of general debate equally divided and controlled by the chairman  and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources or  their respective designees and provides one motion to recommit.

This rule advances a motion to concur in the Senate amendments to  H.R. 7148, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026. Specifically, the  Senate amendments to H.R. 7148 strike the Homeland Security  Appropriations division, replacing it with a CR through February 13,  2026, and make other conforming changes to the text of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, by concurring in the Senate amendments to H.R. 7148, the  Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026, we will end the Democrats'  second government shutdown and fully fund the following departments and  agencies for the remainder of fiscal year 2026:

President Trump's Department of Defense, President Trump's Department  of Labor, President Trump's Department of Health and Human Services,  President Trump's Department of Education, President Trump's Department  of Transportation, President Trump's Department of Housing and Urban  Development, President Trump's Department of State, President Trump's  Department of the Treasury, and many agencies related to each of these  departments.

Simply put, a ``yes'' vote on House Resolution 1032 enables us to  consider legislation that pays our soldiers in the United States Army,  providing $54.5 billion in military personnel funding to support  Active-Duty soldiers, 172,000 reservists, and 328,000 National Guard  members.

A ``yes'' vote enables us to consider legislation that pays our  sailors in the United States Navy, delivering $40.5 billion to support  344,600 Active-Duty sailors and 57,500 reservists who keep our sea- lanes open and our country secure.

A ``yes'' vote enables us to consider legislation that pays our  marines in the United States Marine Corps, investing nearly $17 billion  to support 172,300 Active-Duty marines and 33,600 reservists sustaining  the readiness of our most forward-deployed force.

A ``yes'' vote enables us to consider legislation that pays our  airmen in the United States Air Force, providing $38.7 billion to  support 321,500 Active-Duty airmen, 67,500 reservists, and 160,300  guardsmen defending our skies.

A ``yes'' vote enables us to consider legislation that pays our  guardians in the United States Space Force, investing $1.49 billion to  support 10,400 Active-Duty guardians, a growing force critical to  modern national security.

A ``yes'' vote enables us to consider legislation that gives the  brave men and women who are defending our country a well-deserved pay  raise of 3.8 percent to ensure their compensation reflects the value of  their service and sacrifice.

A ``yes'' vote on House Resolution 1032 enables us to consider  legislation that funds the Department of Labor's Veterans' Employment  and Training Service, otherwise known as VETS, a program that serves  America's veterans and separating servicemembers by preparing them for  meaningful careers, providing employment resources and expertise, and  protecting their employment rights.

A ``yes'' vote on House Resolution 1032 enables us to consider  legislation that funds the Department of the Treasury's Office of  Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, a critical component of our  national security that disrupts and disables terrorists, criminals, and  other direct threats to American citizens, and protects our country's  financial systems from abuse by illicit actors.

A ``yes'' vote on House Resolution 1032 also enables us to consider  legislation that funds the Department of Transportation's Federal  Aviation Administration, the FAA, and our country's air traffic  controllers, who keep our skies safe.

Given my district's proximity to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta  International Airport, I proudly represent more air traffic controllers  than any other Member of Congress. During the Democrats' previous  shutdown, our Democratic colleagues used our air traffic controllers  and their families as political pawns, forcing them to go without pay  for 43 days.

Mr. Speaker, I hope the Democrats do not subject our country to yet  another long government shutdown, but only time will tell, as we will  vote on House Resolution 1032 within the hour.

Mr. Speaker, the rule before us also provides consideration for H.J.  Res. 142, a joint resolution disapproving the action of the District of  Columbia Council in approving the D.C. Income and Franchise Tax  Conformity and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of 2025.

On December 20, 2025, the District of Columbia Council enacted,  without the Mayor's support, legislation to decouple areas from the  Federal tax code and deny District residents and businesses the local  tax conformity impacts of several tax benefit provisions of the One Big  Beautiful Bill Act.

Simply put, the District of Columbia Council doesn't want its  citizens to benefit from the largest working families tax cut in  American history.

Specifically, the District of Columbia Council wants to deny its  citizens the ability to enjoy the increased standard deduction. The  District of Columbia Council wants to deny its citizens the ability to  enjoy no taxes on tips. The District of Columbia Council apparently  wants to deny its citizens the ability to enjoy no tax on overtime. The  District of Columbia Council apparently wants to deny its citizens the  ability to enjoy no tax on auto loans. Finally, the District of  Columbia Council wants to deny its citizens the ability to enjoy  additional deductions during tax season.

Mr. Speaker, I would ask my Democratic colleagues why the District of  Columbia took these actions, but I think we already know the answer. It  is politics because this happened following the various tax cut  packages during President Bush's administration. This happened yet  again after Congress passed the Trump Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2017.  When a Republican President enacts tax cut legislation, the District of  Columbia Council swiftly seems to act to deny its citizens the  benefits.

I applaud my colleague, Representative Brandon Gill, for introducing  this legislation. Representative Gill is a rising star in our  Conference, our freshman class president, and a very good friend.

Mr. Speaker, the rule further provides for consideration of H.R.  4090, the Critical Mineral Dominance Act, legislation that codifies  certain provisions of three executive orders by President Trump  relating to domestic mining and hardrock mineral resources.

During our last election, voters across our country overwhelmingly  voted to unleash America's energy potential, and this legislation  fulfills that mandate.

This legislation requires the Department of the Interior to annually  report on the dollar value of the overall economic impact of each  mineral commodity for which our country is import-reliant.

This legislation requires the Department of the Interior, in  consultation with the Department of Agriculture, to identify priority  mining projects on Federal lands that can be immediately approved and  expedited for completion.

This legislation directs the Secretaries of the Interior and  Agriculture to identify all Federal lands in their broad jurisdictions  that may be suitable for hardrock mineral exploration, development, and  production.

Finally, this legislation targets legal and regulatory bottlenecks  that impede domestic mining by directing the Department of the Interior  to revise or repeal rules and regulations that hinder mining projects.

Rolling back burdensome regulations is what Americans want and is  precisely what this legislation delivers.

I commend my colleague, Representative Pete Stauber, for introducing  this legislation. Representative Stauber is a natural leader of the  Committee on Natural Resources who continues to swiftly deliver for his  constituents and all Americans.

Mr. Speaker, passage of this rule enables our House of  Representatives to debate and consider legislation that ends Democrats'  second Federal Government shutdown, unleashes America's energy  potential, and lowers taxes for working families, seniors, and small  businesses within our Nation's Capital.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of our colleagues to vote ``yes'' on House  Resolution 1032, as it allows for our House of Representatives to  govern, just as the American people deserve.

I enjoyed the passionate speech from the gentleman from  Massachusetts, but I wonder aloud if the gentleman has such passion for  some of the criminals who our Federal law enforcement have apprehended  in Minnesota during their most recent operations.

For instance, our Federal law enforcement arrested a criminal illegal  alien from Somalia with a record of multiple counts of credit card  fraud, drug possession, controlled substance possession, and drug  trafficking. By the way, this criminal was issued a final order of  removal in 2022. Of course, that was never enacted under the previous  administration. I wonder if the gentleman has as much passion about  that illegal alien who has committed many, many crimes.

A criminal alien from Laos was also apprehended, with three prior  convictions for selling drugs, as well as convictions for assault and  contributing to a minor's delinquency. The criminal was issued a final  order of removal in 2009, but here we are.

Likewise, law enforcement in Minnesota arrested a criminal illegal  alien from Mexico previously arrested for child cruelty and battery. I  wonder if the gentleman stands with that criminal illegal alien as  well. We will surely see in further debate.

Foxx), the distinguished Rules Committee chairwoman.

Mr. Speaker, it sure seems like the gentleman from Massachusetts is  using a whole set of leftwing talking points himself, but I am curious  and, rather, we should probably check the transcripts. I do appreciate  the gentleman from Massachusetts for applauding Federal law  enforcement's efforts to apprehend and prosecute and subject to our  system of justice some of the worst criminals in our country. I do  appreciate that sentiment.

Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, I hope, in the spirit of respectful discourse,  the  gentleman from Massachusetts maintains standards of decorum on the  floor and no longer takes the Lord's name in vain.

Mr. Speaker, it is important to remember that we stand in the midst  of a second government shutdown. I just have a question for the  gentlemen from Massachusetts and Mississippi.

Because we are in a shutdown today and this is a vote that will help  us end this shutdown later this afternoon, I am curious: For how long  are they prepared to block our military members from receiving not just  their salary but also the hard-earned pay raise? For how long are they  willing to withhold the dues that are owed to the people who protect  us?

Mr. Speaker, again, I think it is important to note that the reason  why we are here today is because Senate Democrats, along with some  Senate Republicans, advanced legislation that enables us to fund the  government.

I do find it interesting that our colleagues in the House here are so  adamantly opposed to funding our government when 20 of their colleagues  in the Senate, in their own party, not only support giving our troops a  pay raise but support paying and funding our government, as it  rightfully should be, because of all of the wins that President Trump  has accomplished thus far.

Mr. Speaker, I am curious. With respect to this vote today, I hear  commentary over and over again on ICE and operations therein, but no  one has addressed the fact that we are voting today to pay our  servicemembers. It is a very simple vote. You can either vote ``yes''  to pay them or ``no'' to withhold payment and funds to them. I am just  waiting for somebody to answer why that seems to be a bargaining chip  that some of our colleagues on the Democratic side of the aisle  continue to deploy at the expense of our servicemembers.

Mr. Speaker, our Democratic colleagues have tried to distract from  the historic achievements reached in 2025 by mischaracterizing the work  of the House Committee on Rules with weaponized statistics taken out of  context.

I will remind my colleagues that barely over one-third, or 37  percent, of rules this Congress have been closed at the discretion of  the Committee on Rules. That means that for the vast majority of closed  rules, there were not any amendments that could even be made in order.

My friends across the aisle, particularly my friend from  Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern), know all too well the often Herculean  tasks required of the Rules Committee and the difficult discussions  when deliberating amendment decisions. The Rules majority believes in  meaningful lawmaking, not partisan messaging exercises. We do not need  to come up with partisan messaging amendments at the last minute in  order to score political points or manufacture floor fights but,  instead, focus on advancing thoughtful, substantive legislation like  the measures before us today through a fair and transparent process.

Mr. Speaker, under my Democratic colleague's stewardship of the  Committee on Rules--who mentioned abolishing tradition or what have  you--I think it is helpful to note that under his leadership of the  Committee on Rules, they abolished the centuries-old tradition of the  motion to recommit with instructions. I think we would all benefit from  an explanation of abolishing that centuries-old tradition and the right  of the minority.

Mr. Speaker, first and foremost, I think when your arguments are  hollow, that is when you revert to foul language. I think that is  evident, as we have seen today.

Mr. Speaker, again, I ask the question for the American people. I  hope that they demand an answer. Under the gentleman from  Massachusetts' stewardship of the Committee on Rules, they abolished a  centuries-old tradition during the 117th Congress. We are debating, in  fact, procedure today. I think we would all welcome an explanation of  that horrific abolishment of committee procedure.

Mr. Speaker, I would first say that screaming doesn't make up for  substance.

In closing, the rule I presented today, H. Res. 1032, enables the  House of Representatives to carry out its responsibilities and to  govern in an orderly and fair manner for the American people.

As a reminder, a ``yes'' vote on this rule enables us to consider  legislation that ends the Democrats' second government shutdown and  ensures that our government remains fully open. It ensures that our  soldiers, our sailors, our marines, our airmen, and our guardians are  paid on time and receive the pay raise they so rightly deserve.

A ``yes'' vote on this rule enables us to consider legislation that  protects working families, seniors, and small businesses in the  District of Columbia by allowing the House to address actions that deny  them the benefits of historic tax relief enacted by Congress.

A ``yes'' vote on this rule enables us to consider legislation that  strengthens America's economic and national security by advancing  domestic mineral production--something we didn't talk about enough  today--which reduces our reliance on foreign sources and supports job  creation here at home.

Finally, a ``yes'' vote on this rule enables us to consider  legislation that preserves equal debate, protects the rights of the  minority, and allows Members on both sides of the aisle to fully  participate in the legislative process.

Mr. Speaker, this rule allows the House of Representatives to govern  and to deliver on the responsibilities entrusted to us. I urge my  colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this rule.

Mr. Speaker, I hope those watching enjoyed our lively debate with the  gentleman from Massachusetts and his colleagues, although for any  families watching, I hope they edited out the gentleman's foul language  and his taking the name of the Lord in vain.

Let's see which arguments prevail because we are about to vote.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:   An Amendment to H. Res. 1032 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

Strike the first section to follow the resolving clause,       insert the following, and redesignate the subsequent sections       accordingly:

That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order       to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 7148) making       further consolidated appropriations for the fiscal year       ending September 30, 2026, and for other purposes, with the       Senate amendments thereto, and to consider in the House,       without intervention of any point of order, a single motion       offered by the chair of the Committee on Appropriations or       his designee that the House concur in the Senate amendments       with the amendment specified in section 2 of this resolution.       The Senate amendments and the motion shall be considered as       read. The motion shall be debatable for one hour equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective       designees. The previous question shall be considered as       ordered on the motion to its adoption without intervening       motion or demand for division of the question.

Sec. 2. The amendment referred to in section 1 is as       follows:

Insert, at the appropriate place, the following:

Sec.__. (a) Sections 90003 and 100052 of Public Law 119-21       (139 Stat. 358, 387) (commonly known as the ``One Big       Beautiful Bill Act'') are repealed and the unobligated       balances of amounts made available under those sections (as       in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this       Act) are rescinded.

(b)(1) Section 71107 of the Act titled ``An Act to provide       for reconciliation pursuant to title II of H. Con. Res. 14''       (Public Law 119-21) is repealed and title XIX of the Social       Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) shall be applied as if       such section and the amendments made by such section had not       been enacted.

(2) The amounts appropriated under section 71107(c) of the       Act titled ``An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to       title II of H. Con. Res. 14'' (Public Law 119-21) are hereby       rescinded.

(c)(1) Section 71120 of the Act titled ``An Act to provide       for reconciliation pursuant to title II of H. Con. Res. 14''       (Public Law 119-21) is repealed and title XIX of the Social       Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) shall be applied as if       such section and the amendments made by such section had not       been enacted.

(2) The amounts appropriated under section 71120(c) of the       Act titled ``An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to       title II of H. Con. Res. 14'' (Public Law 119-21) are hereby       rescinded.