Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Gas-Fired Instantaneous Water Heaters''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''; and Providing for Consideration of H. Con. Res. Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, in addition to the budget resolution, which I  support, I rise today in support of the rule for H.J. Res. 20, a  resolution authorized by the Congressional Review Act that will enable  our Congress to repeal a job-killing Biden administration regulation  that would ban and eliminate noncondensing tankless water heaters, an  American product made by blue-collar American workers in the heart of  my congressional district in Georgia.

This regulation was passed in the midnight hours of the Biden  administration on December 26, after Christmas and weeks after  Americans soundly rejected the Biden-Harris regulatory regime  administration, putting in peril the livelihoods of hundreds of my  constituents the day after Christmas.

To put this into perspective, noncondensing tankless water heaters  account for 40 percent of our country's tankless water heater market. A  majority of those noncondensing tankless water heaters are manufactured  in my congressional district by an incredible company called Rinnai  America Corporation.

These water heaters are the most advanced and efficient noncondensing  tankless water heaters on the market. Perhaps most importantly, Rinnai  America is the only company that builds noncondensing tankless water  heaters on American soil.

Rinnai America is headquartered in my hometown of Peachtree City, and  3 years ago, it opened a state-of-the-art facility in Griffin, Georgia,  two cities I proudly represent in this Congress.

Over 500 of my constituents are working to manufacture and market the  very water heaters the Biden administration attempted to outlaw. This  job-killing regulation imposed by the Biden administration is yet  another painful example of the left's war on hydrocarbons.

The purpose of this regulation is to try to single out and eliminate  an American manufacturer of noncondensing tankless water heaters.  Effectively, the Biden administration and the government were trying to  alter the market on their own by picking winners and losers, which is  something that consumers should do, not unelected nameless bureaucrats.

Mr. Speaker, our colleagues on the other side of the aisle have spent  an enormous amount of time the past few weeks trying to convince  Americans they are the party of blue-collar American workers.

Well, in the spirit of bipartisanship, I encourage my Democratic  colleagues to join me in support of this resolution to protect and  champion hundreds of blue-collar American jobs in the heart of our  country. To my Republican colleagues, let's join together as a team and  end this war on hydrocarbons now.

President Trump's White House has explicitly endorsed this  resolution, and I urge all of my Republican colleagues to join us and  vote for this critical legislation to empower consumer choice and  champion American manufacturing.

I will close by saying, we expect this vote later this week. I hope  everyone in this House joins me in support of this legislation in  defense of blue-collar American workers.