-9999


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, families across the country are struggling  with skyrocketing costs--health costs, grocery costs, energy costs--but  instead of working to address these challenges, Republicans are  bringing yet another disastrous Trump nominee forward to support his  agenda.

Thomas March Bell has been nominated to be the independent watchdog  at America's health Agency. There could not be a more dangerous choice  for this position.

I have long believed in the bipartisan coalition that works here to  defend the integrity and the independence of the inspectors general.

Senator Grassley once said:

Inspectors General are intended to be equal opportunity       investigators and are designed to combat waste, fraud, abuse       and misconduct . . . without regard to political affiliation.       They are the ultimate [drainers of the swamp].

One of Donald Trump's very first acts after taking office was to fire  these independent investigators. In less than a year, he has gutted the  integrity and independence of these Offices.

A few years ago, this body overwhelmingly passed a law to secure the  independence of the inspectors general in government, but 4 days into  his second term, Donald Trump threw that law into the dumpster. He  unlawfully fired nearly two dozen inspectors general across the  government. Now he is replacing them with a wave of partisan operatives  who stand ready to sabotage the independent oversight of inspectors  general. Meanwhile, it has been crickets from Republicans. They are  just happy to let him do it.

No nominee has exemplified the assault on independent oversight quite  like March Bell, the nominee to serve as Health and Human Services  inspector general.

I would be remiss if I didn't start off by noting that he is  nominated to fill a position that is not legally vacant. He is  nominated to fill the role of an inspector general that was illegally  fired by Donald Trump.

My Democratic colleagues and I on the Finance Committee urged  Chairman Crapo to pause this nomination. It was met with radio silence.  Now Republicans are pushing him through, unbothered by Donald Trump's  complete disregard for the law that almost every one of them voted for  just a few years ago. How times change.

Let me talk about Mr. Bell's supposed qualifications. Once in a  while, I get called a privacy hawk, and I never consider that an  insult. I have worked for decades, often with my Republican colleagues,  to safeguard the privacy of Oregonians and all Americans. I have come  to believe there are few places where privacy is more important than in  the healthcare system. That is why this nomination is so dangerous for  HHS.

Mr. Bell has made a career out of plastering people's private  information in so many places, everywhere he can make it stick. When he  was chief counsel for a select House panel, he made public a slew of  information on reproductive healthcare providers and patients that he  targeted with a sham investigation, all while they were being subjected  to threats and physical harm.

Staff and even Members of Congress raised multiple concerns about his  behavior during this investigation. He couldn't care a lick.

Those patients and providers saw a ninefold increase in violent  threats during his investigation.

When my staff asked Mr. Bell what steps he took to protect the  targets of this critical investigation, he replied: ``None.'' That is  unacceptable.

I also note that the entire investigation was based on doctored,  manipulated, and sometimes downright fabricated evidence, much of which  he got from a personal connection.

This wasn't oversight; this was raw partisanship intended to target  and intimidate reproductive health providers and the women seeking  their care.

This is shocking behavior from the person nominated to oversee the  privacy and protection of the private health information of Americans,  but that is Mr. Bell's bread and butter. In questions for the record  following his  nomination hearing, he refused to admit that Joe Biden won the 2020  Presidential election. An inspector general needs a firmer grasp of  reality than this.

Even now, while he is nominated for a role that requires resolute  independence, he is leading another sham investigation. This time, he  is looking at ActBlue. This is nothing more than Donald Trump  weaponizing the Federal Government to target political opponents with  political enforcers. Instead of serving the American people, he is  focused on carrying out the Trump agenda.

If my colleagues think that this blatant partisanship is going to  stop if he is confirmed as an independent inspector general, they are  betting on the wrong horse. When Mr. Bell came before the Finance  Committee, he said that he ``will examine, evaluate, audit, and  investigate to support the initiatives of President Trump and Secretary  Kennedy.'' Last time I looked, an inspector general isn't there to  follow the President's marching orders; they are there to make sure  that the train stays on track and that nobody is out there pilfering  the boxcars.

Mr. Bell has spent his whole career as a partisan operative. His  confirmation will be a blank check to continue to make the healthcare  system more expensive, more exclusionary, and less effective. It will  all be done at the expense of the American people. This goes beyond the  fox guarding the henhouse; it is giving the fox free rein to  investigate henhouses from coast to coast. And while that might be the  MO of this administration, it is dangerous for the American people, and  it is exactly the opposite of what Congress set up inspectors general  to do.

By confirming Mr. Bell, the Republicans send yet another strong  message to Donald Trump that he can use the Federal Government to  settle personal scores.

I urge my colleagues to respect the laws that we passed here and to  respect the privacy, the decency, and the safety of patients and  providers. I urge my colleagues to vote no on the dangerous Bell  nomination.