Nomination of Sean Plankey


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I must object to the Senate proceeding to  the nomination of Sean Plankey of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the  Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), Department of  Homeland Security.

Since July 2022, I have repeatedly urged CISA to release an  important, unclassified report by independent cybersecurity experts  that the Agency commissioned, titled ``U.S. Telecommunications  Insecurity 2022.'' Congress and the American people have a right to  read this report, and until CISA releases it, I must object to this  nomination.

CISA permitted my staff to read the report in person at the Agency's  office in the fall of 2023. However, CISA has marked this unclassified  report ``For Official Use Only'' and has refused to provide copies of  the report to Congress and in response to FOIA requests from the  public. I directly asked then-CISA Director Jen Easterly to release the  report in a February 27, 2024, phone call; however, she continued to  stonewall my requests until she left office in January 2025.

CISA has to date refused to release the report by making a claim that  the report is predecisional and deliberative and protected by a so- called ``deliberative process privilege.'' Setting aside that a FOIA  exemption does not apply to disclosures to Congress, based on my  staff's review of this report, this report is a technical document  containing factual information about U.S. telecom security. The report  does not recommend or discuss specific policy options that CISA could  take to address this threat. As such, this report contains important  factual information that the public has a right to see and CISA should  stop withholding the entire report under a purported ``deliberative  process privilege'' claim.

On February 29, 2024, I wrote to then-President Biden, urging the  administration to take action to address the serious national security  threat posed by foreign governments exploiting U.S. phone carriers'  weak cybersecurity. In that letter to then-President Biden, I stated  that ``CISA is actively hiding information about [the threat] from the  American people . . . CISA refuses to publicly release this  unclassified report, which includes details that are relevant to  policymakers and Americans who care about the security of their  phones.'' The Biden administration took no action in response to my  letter.

CISA's inaction on telecommunications security prompted the Agency's  top telecommunications security expert to file a whistleblower report  with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in the summer of 2024.  Citing his access to nonpublic reports and other ``very concerning  information,'' the CISA official told the FCC that ``there have been  numerous incidents of successful, unauthorized attempts to access the  network user location data of communications service providers  operating in the USA.'' He added that foreign surveillance went beyond  location tracking and included ``the monitoring of voice and text  messages'' and ``the delivery of spyware to targeted devices.''

CISA's multiyear cover up of the phone companies' negligent  cybersecurity has real consequences. In a November 2024 joint  statement, CISA and the Federal Bureau of Investigation confirmed that  the Chinese Government hacked ``multiple telecommunications companies  to enable the theft of customer call records data, the compromise of  private communications of  a limited number of individuals who are primarily involved in  government or political activity, and the copying of certain  information that was subject to U.S. law enforcement requests pursuant  to court orders.'' Vice President Vance subsequently revealed that his  communications and those of President Trump were compromised in this  hack. This espionage incident, and the harm to U.S. national security  caused by it, were the direct result of U.S. phone carriers' failure to  follow cybersecurity best practices, such as installing security  updates and using multifactor authentication, and Federal Agencies  failing to hold these companies accountable.

The Federal Government still does not require U.S. phone companies to  meet minimum cybersecurity standards. While it is too late to prevent  the Salt Typhoon hack, there is still time to prevent the next  incident. As such, I intend to object to considering this nominee until  CISA agrees to release this report, which will enable Congress and the  public to better understand the current threats and the need for  stronger cyber defenses.