Department of Government Inefficiency


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1687998/department-of-government-inefficiency


Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about the White  House's pet project, the department of government inefficiency,  otherwise known as DOGI.

For the past month, our Federal workers and agencies have been  assaulted by a dilettante billionaire empowered by President Trump to  muck about in Americans' lives and Federal agencies.

Americans are justifiably concerned that these unelected intruders  are acting as judge and jury on people's lives and livelihoods as they  gleefully and illegally feed tens of thousands of jobs and vital  programs into a woodchipper.

This billionaire and his tech bros claim to have found billions in  fraud, waste, and inefficiency, but their methods and results are  shrouded in secrecy. When they hype their claim on Twitter or the White  House press room, independent review has shown that their claims are  false or riddled with errors.

Buying condoms for Gaza?

It didn't happen.

Social Security payments to people who are 150 years old?

Nope.

Mr. Speaker, $800 billion in savings on one contract?

Oops. Maybe $800 million, they are not really sure.

Absolutely nothing adds up.

These DOGI efforts have introduced fraud, waste, and inefficiency  into every agency they have touched with their invasions, freezes, and  suspensions.

Federal workers have been fired then rehired as their functions were  quickly proven to be indispensable rather than nonessential. Employees  have been bombarded with weird emails that threaten them with  termination if they don't accept a sketchy buyout or snitch on their  colleagues and with demands that they interrupt their real work to do  make-work for review by people who have no understanding or interest in  public service or government functions.

Elon Musk's DOGI efforts are disrupting critical medical research and  treatments, foreign aid, veterans' care, criminal investigations, and  health, housing and human services across the Nation and beyond.

It takes a remarkable combination of arrogance and stupidity to think  that this is the best use of time for our intelligence officers, VA  workers, air  traffic controllers, FBI agents, and everyone else upon whom our Nation  depends to do their jobs well.

If this is what bringing business acumen to government function looks  like, then it is pretty clear we need to prevent our government from  becoming a dumpster fire like X or one of Trump's corrupt corporations.

We can't afford it, and the American people can't afford it.

Mr. Speaker, it is well past time that Congress removed Mr. Musk and  his DOGI minions from our government and get down to doing the peoples'  business.