Medal of Sacrifice Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699503/medal-of-sacrifice-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3497, the Medal of  Sacrifice Act.

Every year, over 100 sworn law enforcement officers and over 100  firefighters die while on duty or from hazardous conditions related to  their service.

While there are a number of different memorials for them, there is  currently no memorial or medal that honors all public safety officers  who die in the line of duty.

From 2015 to 2024, the leading causes of death for law enforcement  officers were: COVID-19, job-related illness, car accidents, and  shootings. These causes are responsible for 94 percent of line of duty  law enforcement deaths.

I have had conversations with the families of fallen officers about  their pain and struggles. They are why I worked to push forward a  bipartisan bill, the Honoring Our Fallen Heroes Act, which expands  disability benefits for the families of firefighters and other first  responders who develop cancer because of their service.

We were able to bring 179 colleagues together on a bipartisan basis  to pass this measure, which was signed into law last December, to honor  sacrifice not just in remembrance but through tangible support.

In that same spirit, I think we can, and must, come together on a  bipartisan basis to do more to keep officers and the communities they  serve safe in the first place by: investing in public health, making  our roads safer, and combating gun violence so we can keep weapons out  of dangerous hands.

Finally, in addition to this recognition, I can't really imagine what  is going through the minds of our colleagues on the other side of the  aisle when they say they support this bill when Republican leadership  in the House still hasn't complied with the 2022 law passed by this  body to honor the men and women of the Capitol Police and beyond who  protected and defended us and our democracy on January 6, 2021.

It is a stain upon this institution that the plaque dedicated to  those officers, to their patriotism and sacrifice, has not yet been  installed in the Capitol because this administration and its lapdogs in  Congress think they can rewrite history to hide their betrayal and  cowardice.

Is it too much for the leadership of this body to have the decency to  acknowledge that the Capitol Police, the Metropolitan Police, and  others saved the lives of Members of Congress on that day at great  personal risk to themselves? Is it too much to say thank you?

All that said, I support this bill to award medals of sacrifice to  other public safety officers who lose their lives in service to their  country and their communities, and I thank them.

Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I endorse the comments of the sponsor of  the bill. I totally agree we should be honoring the sacrifice of our  public safety officers and it is right that that honoring should start  from the top. I could not agree more that the President should be  recognizing those public safety officers who have given all for this  country, and I would put at the top of that list right now Brian  Sicknick and Howard Liebengood.

Mr. Speaker, I am ready to close, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 3497, the Medal of Sacrifice  Act, which would award medals to honor those who lose their lives while  serving as public safety officers. I encourage my colleagues to support  it, too.