Moving National Woman's Relief Corps Incorporation and Domicile to Illinois; Principal Office to Murphysboro, Illinois


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699500/moving-national-womans-relief-corps-incorporation-and-domicile-to-illinois-principal-office-to-murphysboro-illinois


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 988, a bill to amend the  charter of the National Woman's Relief Corps to formally change its  principal office from Springfield, Illinois, to Murphysboro, Illinois,  where I understand it is already located. It also moves its place of  incorporation from Washington, D.C., to Illinois.

The Woman's Relief Corps was formally organized in 1883 to preserve  the memory of those who served in the Civil War and provide assistance  to veterans, widows, and orphans. The National Woman's Relief Corps, as  it is now known, was congressionally chartered on September 7, 1962,  and continues to serve all of our veterans and their families.

Congress has incorporated both public and private organizations since  1791. While organizations are free to incorporate under D.C. laws or  the laws of any other State, many continue to seek charters from  Congress for the related prestige, which can help expand membership and  increase funding. More than 90 organizations hold congressional  charters, and many of them have principal offices and places of  incorporation outside D.C.

Particularly as this administration has slashed programs that serve  our veterans, gutted staff at the Veterans Crisis Line and Veterans  Health Administration, and made drastic cuts to programs that veterans  and their families rely upon, like SNAP and Medicaid, organizations  that work to support our veterans, like the National Woman's Relief  Corps, are more important than ever.

Ultimately, this bill is a straightforward administrative fix, and I  support it.

Mr. Speaker, the Woman's Relief Corps began as a way for patriotic  women to show their continued loyalty to the Union and support Civil  War veterans.

More than 140 years later, the organization continues to serve  veterans of all wars and endeavors to ``encourage the spread of  universal liberty and equal rights of everyone.''

I support the National Woman's Relief Corps' work, and I urge my  colleagues to support this legislation.