Providing for Consideration of H.R. Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Stop Illegal Entry Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695109/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-stop-illegal-entry-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the rule. The fiscal year  2026 National Defense Authorization Act presented to us without  amendment is, against all odds, a strong bipartisan compromise between  Republicans and Democrats on the Armed Services Committee.

I have to admit that I was pleasantly surprised to see this year's  NDAA come to the floor untouched by some of the rightwing extremist  policy riders that in recent years have been attached to important  bills like the NDAA.

However, this morning in the Rules Committee, Republicans green- lighted dozens of amendments containing controversial poison pills that  may very well make their way into the bill. I hope that my Republican  colleagues are able to demonstrate some restraint this week and vote  down these bad policies. We cannot afford to politicize our national  defense.

A good NDAA, like a good budget, is one that is probably perfect for  no one. It is the result of compromise and negotiation. In the case of  the NDAA, it is oriented around the shared goal of making sure that our  Armed Forces continue to be the best in the world.

However, while the FY26 NDAA is strong in many ways, it also falls  short in some crucial areas. Above all, it falls short in its lack of  meaningful policy to rein in the Trump administration's reckless and  illegal actions.

Out of fealty to their dear leader, Republicans have refused at every  turn to perform meaningful oversight of this administration, to push  back on Trump's worst impulses, and to exert Congress' Article I powers  against the executive's repeated overreach. In the context of the NDAA,  there hasn't been a single oversight hearing scheduled in the House or  Senate to address the ongoing misuse of our military forces.

Of all Trump's abuses, his worst have been in the domain of national  defense. Empowered by a partisan Supreme Court and aided by complicit  national security staff, Trump has repeatedly used the U.S. military to  commit reckless and even illegal acts that imperil our security, weaken  our status in the world, hurt our relationship with our closest allies,  and endanger our own citizens.

The President claims to have broad, undefined, and unchecked  executive power. He has installed corrupt and incompetent appointees  who jeopardize our national security and economic stability. He has  imposed Federal troops and the National Guard on civilians across  America, despite fierce opposition from local residents and political  leaders. He has sent armed and masked Federal law enforcement agents to  terrorize immigrant communities. Those agents have harassed and  detained U.S. citizens exercising their First Amendment rights.

The President has initiated multiple politically targeted criminal  investigations against his opponents and unilaterally defunded programs  that are important to our national defense and our security.

While Republicans gleefully cheer on military deployments in American  cities, I bet they would lose their goddamn minds if those troops were  sent to their home States which have substantially higher crime rates.

If the real rationale for these deployments is to address high crime  rates, States like Arkansas, Missouri, and Louisiana would be at the  top of the list. We all know this.

We all know this isn't really why the National Guard has been  deployed to D.C. or L.A. or Chicago. As with so many acts by this White  House, it is just pretext. It is pretext for an agenda based on fear,  intimidation, performative violence, and retribution.

Trump's agenda is about power and self-dealing, not problem-solving.  That is all it is. There are no solutions. There are no plans. Time and  time again, we have seen this White House reject and defund proven  solutions in favor of no-tolerance policies and flashy shows of force.

In the process, this administration has wasted millions in taxpayer  dollars with stunts like sending Dr. Phil on an ICE raid with a camera  crew.

They sent hundreds of people, many of whom had no criminal record, to  a violent, inhumane prison in El Salvador and produced a video of their  abuse and humiliation.

They sent uniformed military troops to the streets of American  cities, damaging the relationship between our citizens and our Armed  Forces.

This past week may have seen the most egregious and violent misuse of  military force yet that we know of. Last week, President Trump ordered  the extrajudicial execution by the U.S. military of 11 men on a  speedboat in international waters, thousands of miles away from the  U.S. He then posted a snuff video of that act on social  media. We still have not seen credible evidence or legal justification  for that strike.

That killing represents a sinister choice. The Navy and Coast Guard  interdict drug smugglers on the high seas all the time. If we knew  these men were smugglers and we knew where they were, an intentional  decision was made not to stop the ship and, instead, to kill the people  on it.

There is no congressional authorization for a President to kill drug  dealers at home or abroad. This killing on the high seas is not  authorized by international law.

The President cannot declare anyone he wants to be a criminal or an  enemy combatant and then summarily kill them. This is the logic used by  dictators and despots to disappear and kill dissenters and political  opponents. A President who acts as judge, jury, and executioner is flat  out un-American. If we allow such conduct, then we are no better than  the terrorists and criminals we claim to fight.

Additionally, earlier this year the President approved air strikes  against Iran, doing so without congressional authorization and in  contravention of the Constitution.

No matter what one thinks about the merits of that attack, this was a  flagrantly unconstitutional act.

Taken together with last week's assassinations on the high seas, we  now have a President who claims to be able to kill whoever he wants,  whenever he wants, and for whatever reason he wants, all without  accountability under the law to Congress and to the American people.

Moreover, as we speak of the separation of powers enshrined in our  Constitution, over the weekend, the President unilaterally decided to  rename the Department of Defense as the Department of War in what can  only be described as a PR stunt. It is a decision he doesn't have the  authority to make.

Whether or not this gimmick will distract from the Epstein files and  this administration's economic failures, it will certainly cost  taxpayers a fortune, with estimates ranging over $1 billion. Experts  predict that our enemies will use the move to portray the United States  not as a guarantor of peace but as a threat to international stability.

The NDAA is one of Congress' best opportunities to rein in these  kinds of abuses of military power, specifically abuses by this  President in his role as Commander in Chief. Unfortunately, this bill  misses that mark. It lets the President get away with starting illegal  wars and committing illegal killings.

Further, Pete Hegseth still has not faced any consequences for  leaking confidential information to journalists and wasting taxpayer  dollars on makeup mirrors. Tulsi Gabbard has not faced consequences for  manipulating intelligence reports that contradicted the President's  claims about Venezuelan gangs. No one has been held accountable for  firing intelligence officials who claimed falsely that his strikes on  Iran had obliterated its nuclear capabilities.

I know that my Democratic colleagues on the Armed Services Committee  fought hard for oversight in the NDAA. Unfortunately, the price of a  bipartisan bill to support our troops was that Republicans would  continue to enable this administration and many of its worst actions.

Mr. Speaker, unfortunately, House Republicans' efforts to turn a  blind eye to the President's apparent misconduct are not limited only  to matters of national security. For months, the President and most  House Republicans have blocked the release of the Epstein files.

During the 2024 campaign, the President and his inner circle,  particularly Pam Bondi, Kash Patel, and Dan Bongino, all repeatedly  promised that they would release the Epstein files, but once they came  into office and found the President to be frequently mentioned in those  files, they changed their tune.

In the past few months, the President has gone to extraordinary  lengths to prevent the release of the Epstein files. His DOJ approved  the highly unusual transfer of Epstein's convicted co-conspirator,  Ghislaine Maxwell, to a cushy minimum-security prison, apparently in  exchange for her agreement to distance the President from Epstein's sex  trafficking activities. The President has even threatened members of  his own party with retribution if they vote to release those files.

These threats appear to be working because House Republicans continue  to provide cover for the administration, repeatedly voting down  amendments in the Rules Committee that would have forced the release of  the Epstein files.

In fact, just this morning, Rules Committee Republicans once again  blocked the release of those files, and we have not seen our Republican  colleagues stepping up to sign the discharge petition that could lay  this issue to rest once and for all.

The longer this goes on, the more it seems appropriate to ask: What  are they trying to hide, and whom are they trying to protect? What is  the ``wonderful secret'' that Trump and Epstein share?

Mr. Speaker, I bring all this up because the other bill in this  resolution, H.R. 3486, the Stop Illegal Entry Act, is another  distraction to divert attention from this White House's ongoing issues  and the Epstein files. It is a messaging bill that is light on  substance, bad on policy, and just something shiny for House  Republicans to talk about other than the Epstein files.

The bill purports to be tough on undocumented immigrants, but it  doesn't do a single thing to improve our broken immigration system.  What it will do is siphon even more taxpayer dollars into the hands of  for-profit prison companies. Instead of deporting undocumented  immigrants, this bill would require convicted immigrants to serve  lengthy prison sentences here in the United States.

Guess who would benefit from that, Mr. Speaker? GEO and other private  prison companies that have invested millions in the President's  political campaigns.

It is already a crime to enter the country illegally. Despite the  propaganda from the other side, prosecutions against unlawful entry are  regularly the most prosecuted cases in the United States under  Presidents of both parties. Those found in violation of these statutes  are already subject to prison sentences and mandatory removal. However,  Republicans are proposing to jail undocumented immigrants for up to 10  or 20 years, wasting billions of taxpayer dollars and limited Federal  prison space.

American taxpayers are certainly justified in asking our Republican  colleagues: Why should we imprison someone who is subject to  deportation here in the United States and at that cost to the American  taxpayer?

Every day, we are seeing a new atrocity committed by ICE and the  Department of Homeland Security. All over America, masked ICE agents,  often in unmarked cars, are taking parents from their children,  arresting the elderly, arresting law-abiding immigrants, and even  detaining citizens.

Trump says he is going after the worst of the worst, but over 70  percent of the immigrants his government has rounded up have no  criminal record. In fact, the Department of Justice and the Department  of Homeland Security are reallocating resources away from investigating  major crimes so they can terrorize undocumented immigrants who are just  trying to work a job and provide for themselves and their families,  including some who were legally present here and had legal status until  this administration suddenly reversed it.

For all its bluster, this administration is not doing anything to  combat gangs or serious criminals. They are not arresting the worst of  the worst or gangs like MS-13 or Tren de Aragua. It is not doing  anything about the smugglers and human traffickers at the border.

Instead, ICE agents are scrambling to meet Stephen Miller's quotas by  arresting people at work or when they attend court hearings on their  legal cases for asylum or citizenship, as they are required to do, and  the hell with the impact on the local community, or, in the case of the  disastrous raid on the Georgia battery plant last week, the hell with  our allies and foreign investment in our country.

In the latest example of how this administration's disastrous  immigration agenda is at odds with reality, last week, ICE was directed  to make a flashy, high-profile raid at a Hyundai plant in Georgia,  arresting over 400  South Korean nationals whom we had explicitly invited to invest in  manufacturing here and bring jobs to the United States. This stunt has  been a complete disaster. It caused a major diplomatic rift with one of  our closest allies and biggest economic partners, and it has given the  whole world reason to believe that it is a mistake to move  manufacturing to the U.S.

In truth, the Stop Illegal Entry Act is just another shiny object  that is supposed to divert attention from the Epstein files and the  failures of this administration. Republicans don't actually care about  reforming the immigration system. They have repeatedly rejected all  attempts to do so. They just want to campaign on telling horror stories  about immigrants, regardless of the truth.

All we see from this House majority is distraction after distraction,  all to divert attention from the President's failure to deliver on  promises to the American people.

Ms. SCANLON.  Ansari).

Ms. SCANLON.  McBride).

If we defeat the previous question, I will offer an amendment to the  rule to provide for consideration of H.R. 4849, the Protecting Health  Care and Lowering Costs Act of 2025, introduced by Congressman Gray.

Mr. Speaker, in July, Republicans jammed through their big, ugly  bill. This 870-page monstrosity includes the largest cuts to healthcare  in American history. It takes healthcare coverage away from more than  15 million Americans, American citizens, including 10 million who would  lose their care due to the $1 trillion in cuts to Medicaid and the  Affordable Care Act and another $5 million because Republicans failed  to extend the tax credits that help make ACA plans more affordable.

These cuts will throw millions of Americans off coverage entirely,  bury families in medical debt, and result in hospitals and nursing  homes closing, especially in rural America.

In my district, 21,000 people are likely to lose their healthcare. In  the gentleman from Georgia's district, 36,000 people are estimated to  lose their healthcare.

Mr. Gray's bill would reverse those disastrous cuts, as well as  permanently extend the tax credits that help make ACA plans more  affordable for millions of Americans.

Ms. SCANLON.  McDonald Rivet) to discuss our proposal further.

Ms. McDONALD RIVET. Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of the  hardworking men and women not just in Michigan but across the country.

Working families in Michigan and across the country are really  struggling. There are 200,000 people in my district alone who rely on  Medicaid.

While the Republican tax scheme gives huge giveaways to billionaires  and breaks to the wealthy, it neglects the ACA tax credits working  families in my district depend on to cover their insurance premiums. It  cuts Medicaid by $1.1 trillion, kicking tens of thousands of my  constituents off their healthcare, and it raises costs for everybody.

Our Protecting Health Care and Lowering Costs Act reverses all of  that, and we should pass it today. We aren't just making a point. We  are fighting for the retired teacher from Mount Morris who needs  Medicaid because her insurance isn't cutting it. We are standing up for  the pregnant woman whose rural hospital is at risk of being shut down  because of the Republican tax giveaway.

We are raising our voices for the family from Bay City who will have  to sit down at the kitchen table to figure out if they should pay for  rent or their child's visit to the doctor.

We know that as a result of the billionaire tax giveaway we are going  to see premiums rise for working people across our country. The ACA tax  credits need to be reestablished now.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, there is absolutely nothing  that can make Affordable Care Act plans affordable. It was a gift to  the insurance industry from the Democratic Party.

Ms. SCANLON.  Leger Fernandez), a distinguished member of the Rules  Committee.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, once again, Republicans on the  Rules Committee blocked a vote on the bipartisan Massie-Khanna bill to  release the Epstein files. Covering up the files just protects the  criminal activity of pedophiles and the people who participated in  those heinous acts.

Epstein told the young girls and women: I have the banks and I have  the government. You have no power.

Let's prove him wrong. I am asking that just two more of my  Republican colleagues sign the petition to expose the rich and powerful  monsters that were part of the Epstein sex circle.

Trump is engaged in a cover-up. He is forcing Republicans to ignore  their own moral conscience when he blocks the Massie-Khanna bill.

What is he hiding? Well, just in the last 24 hours, the card that  Trump said didn't exist was released. It is a disgusting, degrading  birthday card that Trump sent to Epstein calling him a pal and stating  that they shared a wonderful secret.

Mr. Speaker, if that is not enough, Trump had the audacity to imply  that domestic violence is not a crime. He said: ``If a man has a little  fight with the wife, they say this was a crime.'' Consistent with that,  he has cut Federal funds that support victims of sexual crimes,  including domestic violence.

Trump was found liable in court for sexually abusing E. Jean Carroll.  Yesterday, a court upheld an $83.3 million defamation jury award  against President Trump.

Women are not safe in Trump's America. So, yes, Americans deserve a  vote on the Massie-Khanna bill to know what else Trump is hiding.

The survivors' painful stories brought many to tears last week. Their  pain made us cry, but we cannot stop at tears. We owe them the justice  they asked us for.

Release the damn files.

Mr. Speaker, if we are going to discuss what should be disclosed with  these Epstein files, all the more reason to bring this bill forward. We  can amend it in Rules and carry on from there, but that is not what we  are seeing from our colleagues across the aisle. They are trying to  bury it, and I assume they will continue to do so.

This House and this Congress cannot afford to continue allowing an  unrestrained and reckless President to trample on the Constitution and  Congress' powers and responsibilities. Every day brings a new crisis  with this White House, and they are all of its own making.

Since Trump announced his tariffs, the U.S. has lost 42,000  manufacturing jobs, tourism is tanking, and unemployment is on the  rise. Costs for everything from electricity to groceries to health  insurance are up, not down.

In fact, we are facing the biggest increase in health insurance costs  in 15 years, even as the cuts in this big, bad bill threaten to bring  more hospital closures.

Trump's attacks on the Federal Reserve could cause another financial  crisis. Masked agents are roaming our streets, and reports of human  rights abuses at ICE detention facilities are growing. Far from ending  the wars in Gaza and Ukraine, Trump has amassed naval forces off the  coast of Venezuela and could provoke another unauthorized war.

This administration is out of control and Congress must act.  Republicans can't keep their heads in the sand. They have already  failed to protect core Article I spending authorities, the power to  make appropriations and the power to declare war. Continued inaction  will only allow more power grabs by this White House to occur.

At every turn, Republicans have fought Democratic efforts to place  oversight and enforcement riders in legislation that we are passing.  With this NDAA, our Republican colleagues are, again, blocking policies  to restrain this President and prevent him from using the Armed Forces  as political weapons. This cannot be allowed to continue. We must  reject this rule and the Republicans' failed agenda.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on the PQ and the  rule, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.