Providing for Consideration of H.R. Department of Defense Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.R. Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act; Providing for Consideration of S. Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act; and Waiving A Requirement of Clause 6(A) of Rule Xiii with Respect to Consideration of Certain Resolutions Reported From the Committee on Rules


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693551/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-department-of-defense-appropriations-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-digital-asset-market-clarity-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-anti-cbdc-surveillance-state-act-providing-for-consideration-of-s-guiding-and-establishing-national-innovation-for-us-stablecoins-act-and-waiving-a-requirement-of-clause-6a-of-rule-xiii-with-respect-to-consideration-of-certain-resolutions-reported-from-the-committee-on-rules


Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the rule.

Although Bitcoin has been around for over 15 years, cryptocurrencies  and related decentralized financial products have exploded in the past  few years. Many Americans now own cryptocurrencies, and the industry  has seen significant growth.

At the same time, our laws have not kept up with these novel crypto  products, and there is wide agreement that Congress must update our  laws to appropriately account for crypto assets. However, today's bills  are not the answer to that problem.

The CLARITY and GENIUS Acts are bad legislation. They are industry- written bills that give the crypto industry everything it wants at the  expense of retail investors, consumers, and the overall health of our  financial system. These bills are products of the D.C. swamp that so  many of our colleagues usually condemn.

Mr. Speaker, every time our Republican colleagues write a finance  bill, it leaves us less safe and more prone to financial crisis. We saw  the very real consequences of this when Silicon Valley Bank failed in  2023. That failure was the direct result of Republican legislation that  exempted Silicon Valley Bank from Dodd-Frank Act regulations.

GOP proponents of that bill had argued, without evidence, that Dodd- Frank was too onerous and that big banks needed regulatory relief, but  it only took a couple of years for their disastrous deregulatory agenda  to lead exactly where we all knew it would, with billions of dollars of  customer deposits evaporating overnight and with the Federal Government  bailing out the bank's uninsured depositors.

This time, Republicans are at it again with two bills that will  create a weak and ineffective regulatory regime for cryptocurrencies  and stablecoins,  allowing exchanges and insurers to continue risky, fraudulent, and  illegal practices with limited oversight by the SEC or Commodity  Futures Trading Commission.

These bills give the crypto industry exactly what it wants. They get  the illusion of a real regulatory regime and the legitimacy that would  bestow. They get weak rules that can be exploited and manipulated for  financial gain, and they get enforcement mechanisms that are so meager  and underfunded that they won't deter bad actors.

We have seen what deregulation gets us. It got us the 2008 financial  crisis. It gets us bankruptcies and bailouts, and it ultimately leaves  hardworking Americans holding the bag while CEOs get golden parachutes.

It is not like we are talking about deregulating some benign  financial product. Crypto stands out as a uniquely risky asset. From  the invention of bitcoin until now, the primary demonstrated uses for  cryptocurrencies have been speculation, fraud, and money laundering.

You can't really use crypto to buy anything. The coins themselves  aren't backed by any profits, assets, or other tangible property. While  we have been hearing about all the wonders of the blockchain for over a  decade, shockingly few companies actually use it in a way that is  essential to their business.

In practice, the main real-life-use case for crypto is money  laundering. Crypto is used by Mexican cartels to launder their proceeds  from drugs trafficked into the United States. Terrorist organizations  fund their operations with crypto, and countries like North Korea use  cryptocurrencies to avoid U.S. sanctions and fund their nuclear weapons  programs.

In fact, bitcoin and Tether are the payment methods of choice for the  fentanyl manufacturers in China that supply the Mexican cartels, as  well as other fentanyl traffickers inside the United States. These  criminal organizations rely on crypto, and the legislation under  consideration today will not disrupt that illegal commerce.

The CLARITY and GENIUS Acts will not do anything to prevent crypto  from being used to break our laws or fund fentanyl deaths and senior  fraud. These bills do not provide any meaningful regulations to ensure  that issuers and exchanges fully comply with anti-money laundering  laws. Add to this that cryptocurrencies are used to facilitate billions  of dollars' worth of fraud against Americans each year. This fraud  comes in the form of scams, especially those targeting seniors, where  fraudsters trick people into purchasing fake crypto products and then  run off with the money, leaving the seniors with no recourse.

Then there is the institutional fraud, the fraud that comes from the  crypto companies themselves. Here we also have a long list of examples,  the most notable being the fall and bankruptcy of cryptocurrency  exchange FTX, which incorporated itself in The Bahamas to avoid  American regulatory scrutiny, gambled with customer funds, and  ultimately left its customers penniless because of fraudulent business  practices.

There is no other way around it. The CLARITY and GENIUS Acts will not  stop these types of fraud from happening, and they will leave regular  investors on the hook if they are victims of fraud.

The other glaring omission in these bills is they do nothing to stop  the abuse of cryptocurrencies and stablecoins as tools for bribery and  influence peddling. As President Trump and his allies have demonstrated  on a daily basis, any politician can issue a crypto asset, own the  majority of tokens, and then anyone who wants to buy that politician's  attention or votes can just invest in the asset. There is no oversight  or disclosure requirement. There is deniability on both sides of the  transaction. Any person, any foreign country can bribe and buy  politicians through cryptocurrency like this. Those who have purchased  such coins have been open about their motivations for doing so.

Right before his inauguration, President Trump issued his own coin,  the Trump coin, for which he is the majority owner. Millions of dollars  of questionable funds, including funds from foreigners and foreign  governments, have flowed into this coin, as well as his companies,  Trump Media and World Liberty Financial.

All in all, it is estimated that President Trump has netted $1  billion from those crypto schemes, taking advantage of the Office of  the President to enrich him and his family.

During the 2024 election, crypto companies donated millions of  dollars to elect the President. After he was elected, they donated  millions more to his inaugural committee. It is notable that in his  first 6 months in office, Trump has dismantled all the regulators that  oversee the financial and crypto industries, dropped criminal charges  and investigations against various crypto companies, pardoned a crypto  exchange that pleaded guilty to abetting money laundering, and pardoned  the former owner of the Silk Road who was responsible for selling  hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of drugs on the deep web.

Apparently, anyone who seeks to buy influence in this White House  simply has to find one of the President's companies or meme coins and  make a sizable investment. Emiratis and Saudis are investing in Trump's  crypto assets to curry favor. People looking for pardons, dismissals,  or preferential regulatory treatment are taking advantage of the Trump  crypto scheme. Lawyers and lobbyists are advertising to clients that  they can buy a pardon for the right price. It is easily the biggest  potential corruption scandal in our Nation's Presidential history.

If there is any crypto regulation we need right now, it is a bright- line prohibition on any elected official profiting off a crypto asset.

Mr. Speaker, this year marks the 15th anniversary of the Supreme  Court's Citizens United decision, which paved the way for corporations  and billionaires to spend unlimited money in our elections. Because of  this ruling, anyone, for the right price, can buy their preferred  outcomes in our elections and in Congress. One need look no further  than Elon Musk and the crypto bills that we are considering today to  see the impact of the Citizens United decision.

We all know about the millions that Musk poured into the Trump  campaign and the White House access he was granted before their abrupt  split recently, but the crypto industry also spent a lot of money. It  spent money to make these bills happen.

Over the past few years, the crypto industry has emerged as one of  the biggest and most aggressive political spenders in American  politics. In the 2024 election, crypto emerged as the biggest corporate  spender, accounting for nearly half of all the corporate money spent.  Crypto outspent every other business lobby by tens of millions of  dollars.

While the crypto industry's political spending is enormous, what  really sets it apart is the brazenness with which the industry buys  influence in Washington. Usually, it is hard to exactly pinpoint a  direct relationship between political spending and outcomes, but crypto  spending is so in your face that we can actually put a price on these  bills.

All in all, the CLARITY and GENIUS Acts cost the crypto industry  about $245 million, and that is a conservative figure. That is just the  money spent on 2024 campaigns. If you count money spent to hire  expensive lobbyists to come to Congress and ply Representatives with  industry talking points, the number is even higher.

Crypto's $245 million was spent supporting candidates who backed the  industry and defeating candidates who did not. Crypto got a good return  on its investment. In the overwhelming majority of races that crypto  principals invested in, they got their preferred candidate. Now crypto  companies have been able to write their own regulations to ensure they  won't face serious scrutiny or oversight, meaning that fraud and money  laundering will continue unabated, and investors will be on the hook  when the next crypto crisis happens.

Fifteen years after the Citizens United decision, these bills are the  direct result. Crypto is a textbook example of the consequences of that  decision. The question before us today is, how should cryptocurrencies  be regulated? The answer we are getting is with regulations provided by  the crypto industry itself.

Fifteen years later, Citizens United has been an unmitigated disaster  for  our country. Unlimited spending in politics has corroded our democracy.  It has bred cynicism and nihilism in the political process. It has made  Americans feel disenfranchised and powerless. It says to every  American, your voice doesn't count unless you can pay to play.

Mr. Speaker, we have a political system where any company or any rich  person can pay for advertisements, pay for lobbyists, donate to  campaigns and PACs and super-PACs, all to buy influence and get their  desired outcomes from Congress or the White House.

Time and time again, in every sector of our economy, corporations and  the rich have won in Congress, in the courts, in the rulemaking  process, and even in decisionmaking by enforcement agencies.

We see the consequences of Citizens United everywhere we turn. It is  the reason corporations can screw over workers and consumers with no  penalty.

It is why every part of the economy is monopolized by two or three  companies that sell poor products and give bad service. It is why we  are diving headfirst into a global climate crisis and doing nothing  about it.

It is why every time someone runs for office on a platform of putting  people over profits, they have to endure attacks from super-PACs  supported by billionaires or business interests. Our democracy will  remain imperiled so long as the mega-rich can buy influence, votes, and  elections.

If anyone was unsure of the consequences posed by Citizens United in  2010, it is now clear, beyond any doubt, that the decision was an  abject failure for the country. We have to overturn Citizens United,  get dark money out of politics, and make sure our government is  accountable to voters and not donors.

To my colleagues here in the House, we don't need to end campaign  spending for Members of Congress to do the right thing. Integrity  doesn't require authorizing legislation. We cannot allow big money  donors to buy or bully Congress. We need to do the right thing.

Mr. Speaker, today's rule also provides for consideration of the  fiscal year 2026 Defense appropriations bill. Since taking the majority  in the House, Republicans have unfortunately abandoned any pretense of  bipartisan compromise to promote our national security by loading every  defense bill with radical, rightwing policy riders. These riders have  turned what was once a rare area of bipartisan consensus into yet  another partisan divide.

This time around, Republicans have loaded the national defense bill  with provisions to prevent female servicemembers from accessing  reproductive healthcare. They have given a green light to  discrimination against LGBTQ servicemembers.

This bill does nothing to address the gross mismanagement of the  Pentagon by Pete Hegseth, a man who has leaked classified intelligence,  who spends more time in front of his Pentagon makeup mirror and doing  press stunts than effectively managing the Armed Forces, and who has  prioritized support for bigotry and weird cultural war obsessions like  changing the pictures on the Pentagon's website and renaming military  bases after Confederate icons.

When this bill is combined with the money spent by Republicans in the  One Big Beautiful Bill Act, the United States is on track to spend over  $1 trillion on defense. Every year, we spend more and more on defense.  It is not clear that taxpayers are getting a good deal.

After years of consolidation and lax antitrust enforcement, the  defense industry has ossified around five major prime contractors, each  with a degree of specialization. That means only two or three companies  ever compete for major contracts.

The consequences of this consolidation can be found across the  defense industrial base. We don't make enough of the weapons and  platforms that we need. Production for major platforms is often beset  by delays and cost overruns. We spend billions on studies and research  programs that don't lead anywhere. Production timelines are always  being extended. Delivery times are delayed, and per-unit costs are  increased.

In the face of these glaring business inefficiencies, Congress and  the Pentagon always give the contractors what they ask for and ask for  very little in return.

We need to replenish our weapons stockpiles. We need to quickly field  next-generation military assets like the Columbia submarine and the B- 21 Raider. We need to bolster supply chains that support this  production. We need to ensure that the Nation has the industrial  capacity to respond to a sustained major conflict anywhere in the  world.

In order for us to achieve these goals, meet our national security  needs, and support our servicemembers, Congress needs to perform real  oversight over the Pentagon and defense contractors.

In my time in Congress, I have supported multiple efforts to require  the Pentagon to perform a clean audit with tangible enforcement  mechanisms to ensure compliance. In each case, these efforts haven't  garnered the votes for passage because at the end of the day, this body  has not been willing to hold the Pentagon and defense industry's feet  to the fire.

The Pentagon has failed to complete seven audits in a row. That is  seven. Until the Pentagon faces real consequences for being unable to  account for the billions of taxpayer dollars it spends every year and  failing to comply with congressional oversight, we will never have  accountability.

At a time when our Republicans' quest to root out waste, fraud, and  abuse has led them to slash funding for American's healthcare and  hunger relief, it is astonishing they are willing to write yet another  blank check to the Department of Defense with no questions asked,  despite growing evidence of cost overruns, mismanagement, and more.

At the end of the day, I want our servicemembers to have every single  advantage over our adversaries. I want them to have all the tools,  platforms, resources, and weapons systems we can provide. I don't want  taxpayers to get a bad deal. I don't want to waste money on overpriced  defense contracts that overpromise and underdeliver.

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an  amendment to the rule to make in order amendment No. 50 to H.R. 3633,  offered by Representative Khanna, which requires the Attorney General  to preserve and release any records related to Jeffrey Epstein.

I applaud my colleagues, Representative Veasey and Khanna, for their  work to release the Epstein files. I strongly support these efforts and  the release of the files.

Last night, at the Rules Committee, Republicans rejected an amendment  that would have required the Department of Justice to release the  Epstein files, multiple criminal investigations which allegedly  documented trafficking of young women and girls by Jeffrey Epstein, a  sex offender and financier with whom the President often socialized.

For years, the President and those in his orbit, including Attorney  General Pam Bondi and FBI Director Kash Patel, alleged that prior  administrations had covered up the identities of the rich and powerful  people to whom Epstein had trafficked the girls and the facts  surrounding his allegedly suspicious death.

They came into office pledging to seek accountability for the  horrific crimes by revealing Epstein's client list and other  information, but recently backtracked and refused to release any  further information.

There appear to be only two explanations for this about-face. Either  the Epstein files did not contain the explosive information that Trump  and his allies claimed during his campaign, or this administration is  the one covering up what is in the files.

Last night, all the Republicans on the Rules Committee except one  voted against releasing the files.

Why would they try to prevent the truth about Epstein's abuse and  those he enabled from coming out? That is anybody's guess.

With this previous question, the entire Republican Conference has the  opportunity to correct that mistake. They can vote today to release the  Epstein files.

Mr. Speaker, this is a debate about what Congress should be  considering, and my amendment would simply allow Congress to express  its will with respect to the release of the Epstein files. This is  something our Republican colleagues and certainly key members of the  Trump administration have been talking about for years until their  recent about-face.

Congress can express its will. We would like to have it put up for a  vote. It doesn't block any votes on the crypto bills or the Defense  Department funding.

We think that the administration should release these files. It  really is a little confusing, I think, why suddenly our Republican  colleagues are blocking this, but perhaps it was a mistake. At least  one Republican voted with Democrats last night to release the files, so  this would just give all of our colleagues the opportunity to say what  they have been saying for so many years, that the Epstein files should  be released.

Ms. SCANLON.

I am not sure what the gentleman from Georgia is talking about when  he says that my amendment is offered as a product of radical leftists.  I know that it is rare in D.C., but this amendment actually has broad  bipartisan support, from the far right, from the far left, and from the  middle.

We just want to release the Epstein files. That is why we have  offered the amendment, and this body has the opportunity to vote on it.

I don't understand why my Republican colleagues are suddenly so  adamant about throwing up procedural hurdles to have the Epstein files  released.

Mr. Speaker, last night in the Committee on Rules, my Democratic  colleagues and I offered multiple amendments to try to improve the  crypto bills.

We offered amendments to prevent the President and his closest  relatives from profiting off of crypto while he is in office. We  offered amendments to protect investors and consumers and allow the  kind of government oversight that is needed to protect our economy.

All of these amendments were rejected by committee Republicans.

Last night, as we discussed the Defense spending bill, we also  pressed Republicans on how military families will be impacted by the  Medicaid cuts in Republicans' big, ugly bill.

About 850,000 military families on TRICARE also receive healthcare  through Medicaid, particularly children with special needs. Those  families may now see their health benefits cut or taken away as a  result of the big, ugly bill. That issue was not addressed in the  Defense spending bill.

Our Republican colleagues didn't want to hear it, and I doubt we will  be able to prevent them from proceeding with this misguided crypto  legislation today.

Yet, I will say this: If these bills become law, we can predict many  more crypto scandals and crises and money laundering. A lot of people  will lose a lot of money, and no one will face accountability for  taking advantage of retail investors. I hope that day doesn't come, but  it is bills like this that will determine the future of our financial  system.

Do we want a system that promotes speculation, bubbles, Ponzi  schemes, and frauds or one that promotes investment in innovative and  productive businesses that grow the real economy in ways that benefit  all Americans?

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on the PQ and rule,  and I yield back the balance of my time.

Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.

A recorded vote was ordered.