Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698750/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Cole for yielding  time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 6938. As chairman of  the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Subcommittee, I  worked hard to ensure this bill includes many House Republican  priorities.

The bill provides a total of $58 billion to advance our national  security, strengthen our economy, and unleash American energy  dominance.

The bill delivers strong support for our national defense and  provides $25.4 billion for the National Nuclear Security  Administration, prioritizing the continued modernization of the nuclear  weapons stockpile and the United States Navy nuclear fleet.

The bill strengthens our Nation's energy security by advancing  American leadership in deploying new nuclear technologies and  supporting the administration's efforts to make full use of our  Nation's vast fossil fuel resources. The bill will reduce reliance on  foreign materials and secure the full supply chain of critical  minerals.

The bill furthers our Nation's scientific and technological  leadership, including a strong focus on laying the groundwork for AI  and quantum efforts, by providing $8.4 billion for the Department of  Energy's Office of Science.

At the same time, the bill reduces funding by over 29 percent across  numerous other Department programs, including the applied energy  technology offices, to ensure taxpayer resources are focused on the  highest priority research and development projects.

The bill also strengthens our economy and promotes public safety,  providing $10.3 billion for the great Army Corps of Engineers,  including full funding of harbor maintenance and over $2  billion for flood and storm damage reduction, and continued support for  the highest priority, ongoing construction projects on the inland  waterways system.

Additionally, the bill prioritizes funding for the Bureau of  Reclamation for projects that increase water supply and support drought  resilience.

Mr. Speaker, there are many other important provisions in the Energy  and Water bill, but before I conclude, I will specifically congratulate  and thank Chairman Cole for being an outstanding chairman of the full  committee. He has let the cardinals do their work. He has worked with  Members in the minority and the majority. He has worked with Members of  the Senate and the House. Mr. Speaker, I also thank Ranking Member  Marcy Kaptur and our colleagues across the Capitol.

This is a strong bipartisan bill. It addresses America's needs and is  a great bill, and it should get bipartisan support. This is a strong  bill for America.

Mr. Speaker, I also thank the staff, and I do not say this lightly:  My staff, Republican and Democratic staff, worked up and through  Christmas and after Christmas to get this done. These men and women are  outstanding. They do a great job. Let's pass this great bill for  America.