Recognizing Ms. Karen Partin


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689097/recognizing-ms-karen-partin


Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commemorate and  recognize Ms. Karen Partin, who, on January 30, 2025, completed 1  million miles of long-haul driving without an accident.

Ms. Partin is a professional long-haul truck driver for McKee Foods  Corporation based in Collegedale, Tennessee. She began her career at  McKee Foods Corporation in September 1987. Starting in the  Manufacturing Production Area, Karen first transferred to Shipping,  then to the Transportation Department Dispatch Office approximately  eleven years later. Fast-forward four more years, in 2002, she moved to  Corporate Fleet Safety, where she began to learn about Safety in the  trucking industry.

In 2004, Karen chose to work part-time to fulfill her lifelong dream  of being a long-haul truck driver. Karen returned to school to pursue a  CDL. Two years later, Karen was a full-time professional semi-truck  driver, bringing with her an abundance of safety knowledge from her  time in Corporate Fleet Safety. The American Trucking Research  Institute confirms that women make up only 8.1 percent of all U.S.  professional truck drivers and only 2.7 percent of over-the-road truck  drivers.

Always a goal-setter, Karen began the pursuit of reaching one million  safe miles. It is a milestone for every professional truck driver and  an especially difficult goal for a woman professional truck driver.  Since her professional driving career began in 2006, Karen has  continued to further her education, completing, with Honors, a Business  Management course through Cleveland State Community College. Karen  recently completed an Advanced Critical Thinking course offered by  McKee Foods and is continuously completing learning courses through  LinkedIn Learning.

Karen is a member of Women in Trucking and She Trucking. Her  employer, McKee Foods, recently recognized Karen as a Road Team Captain  with the Tennessee Trucking Association. As a Road Team Captain, Karen  visits local schools to teach students how to share the road safely  with big trucks and promote the professional truck driving profession.  Karen is a role model for young adults, particularly women, to consider  trucking and logistics as a career.

Karen promotes a healthy lifestyle for herself and other professional  truck drivers. She emphasizes the need to stay fit and healthy is vital  as a long-haul truck driver. Karen is also the proud mother of two sons  and has one granddaughter.

I am honored to recognize Karen Partin for completing this unique and  coveted milestone.