Recognizing the 1st Anniversary of Corral Fire in San Joaquin County, California


Mr. HARDER of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise during Wildfire  Awareness Month to recognize the 1st anniversary of the Corral Fire in  San Joaquin County, California, and to honor the brave men and women  who risked their lives to contain this dangerous wildfire.

My home district of San Joaquin County is no stranger to wildfires-- we are in the midst of a growing megafire crisis, and in 2024 alone we  saw 9 wildfire incidents that burned nearly 15,000 acres in total.  Thankfully, these fires were contained due to the quick action and  selfless heroism of our firefighters, law enforcement, and first  responders. Just earlier this year, during the historic Los Angeles  fires, San Joaquin County sent nearly a dozen fire agencies south to  combat the deadly megafires. Our local agencies never hesitate to  answer the call, and we owe them a debt of gratitude that words alone  cannot repay.

Few incidents better encompass the bravery of our local agencies than  the 2024 Corral Fire, which burned 14,168 acres, forced the evacuation  of thousands of homes in the Tracy Hills community, and injured two  firefighters. This fire burned just miles from my home, and like so  many families in California's Central Valley, we were deeply alarmed  and concerned about how this blaze would impact our homes and  livelihoods.

But thanks to the work of multiple agencies, this wildfire was fully  contained in just six days. Nearly 500 personnel battled the blaze from  across agencies including the California Department of Forestry and  Fire Protection, Alameda County Fire Department, South San Joaquin  County Fire Authority, San Joaquin County Sheriffs Office, California  Highway Patrol, Tracy Police Department, Manteca Fire Department,  Lathrop-Manteca Fire District, Defense Logistics Agency, and more.

Not only did the emergency response effort quickly and effectively  facilitate the evacuation of the Tracy Hills community, serving as a  model for future evacuation efforts, but their bravery minimized damage  in the area.

As a member of the Tracy community, a fifth-generation resident of  California's Central Valley, and the federal representative for  California's 9th Congressional District, I want to express my deepest  gratitude to every member involved directly or indirectly in the  emergency response to the 2024 Corral Fire.

At the 1st anniversary of this wildfire, I recommit to doing  everything in my power to ensure our firefighters and emergency  responders have the federal support they need and deserve to continue  keeping our communities safe from these disasters.