Congratulating Northwest Florida State Women's Basketball Team


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691271/congratulating-northwest-florida-state-womens-basketball-team


Mr. PATRONIS. Mr. Speaker, I wish a good morning to northwest Florida  and rise to offer a special congratulations to the Northwest Florida  State College women's basketball team.

On April 1, 2025--actually the same day that I was sworn into  office--the Lady Raiders took on Alabama's Shelton State Buccaneers,  and took home their third national championship in 5 years, with a  final score of 62-53. Their overall record this season was 32-3, which  is amazing, with a conference record of 10-2, and a proud 13-0 record  at home.

It takes a lot of blood, sweat, and tears to make it to the top.  Having a heart for the game and for your fellow teammates goes a very  long way. I am very excited about the victory of this team and how they  brought it home to northwest Florida.

Congratulations to Coach Bart Walker and his coaching staff for all  their hard work and leading the team to victory and instilling in them  the heart of champions. I congratulate the Northwest Florida State  College State championship basketball team on a job very well done.  Their incredible win is inspiring. They have made their community and  the State of Florida very, very proud. God bless. Go Raiders.                    Remembering Captain Allen Colby Brady

Mr. PATRONIS. Mr. Speaker, I am privileged to represent more than  75,000 veterans that I represent in my district in northwest Florida.  Florida serves as one of the most veteran-friendly States in the entire  country.

Mr. Speaker, it is with great sorrow today that I acknowledge the  passing and honor the memory of one of those great heroes, Captain  Allen Colby Brady of Pensacola and his outstanding service to the  United States.

Captain Brady lived as a resident of Pensacola off and on for nearly  50 years, becoming a permanent resident in 1994 after marrying his  wife, Dianne, in 1994. Born in 1929 into a naval family, Captain Brady  committed to attend the Naval Academy and become a pilot at just 8  years old. He fulfilled that vow after graduating from Annapolis in  1951 and earned his wings in Pensacola 2 years later.

He flew combat missions in Korea, survived nuclear weapons testing in  the Pacific, participated in Cold War operations during the Taiwan  Strait crisis, and then played a secret role in the Bay of Pigs  invasion. He flew defense of freedom throughout the world.

However, his most harrowing test came in January 1967, when he was  shot down over North Korea. Allen was captured and spent more than 6  years--that is 2,237 days--as a POW in the infamous Hanoi Hilton,  enduring brutal torture, unimaginable conditions, and profound  isolation. He never broke. He returned with honor.

After his release in 1973, Allen didn't retire quietly. He returned  to Active Duty, ultimately commanding a major Navy training wing. Upon  retiring in 1979, after 32 years of service, he set sail, literally,  cruising the Florida coast, living out the promise that he and his  fellow POWs made to embrace life fully if they ever got home.

However, Allen's service didn't stop there. In 1980, he made a  daring, unauthorized voyage to Communist Cuba to rescue refugees during  the Mariel boatlift, an act of moral courage that risked his freedom  once again.

In later years, Allen became a speaker, mentor, and educator. He  published a book of POW stories for schools, and he made personal  classroom appearances. He also authored a memoir, ``Witnessing the  American Century,'' sharing insights from a life lived at the  crossroads of world events.

Even in his nineties, Allen embraced new adventures as he continued  to inspire students and veterans alike. Captain Brady exemplified the  values of patriotism, courage, and honor.

In his words: ``We will always need people who are willing to serve  their country . . . willing to give their lives defending her.'' Allen  Brady was not just such a person, he embodied that call.

God bless Captain Brady and his incredible life of service and  sacrifice. Katie and I, all Floridians, and this Nation offer our  thoughts and prayers to  the Brady family as they celebrate his life. May he rest in peace.