Restoring Trust in Our Nation's Government


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689466/restoring-trust-in-our-nations-government


Mr. PATRONIS. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to be here representing the  men and women of Florida's First Congressional District.

As a lifelong native of the Florida panhandle, I am ready to get to  work to support President Trump's agenda to make America first, to  protect our southern border, to make groceries affordable, to  strengthen our military, and to provide much-needed support to our  veterans.

Without my family, I wouldn't be here today, so I give a special  thank you to my beautiful wife, Katie; my boys, Johnny and Theo; and  all of the great friends and supporters who made the trip to our  Nation's Capitol.

Mr. Speaker, with a Republican majority here in Congress and  President Trump in the White House, we have got an opportunity of a  lifetime to fix this country so that our children grow up in a nation  that is safe and full of opportunities. So I am ready to get our fiscal  House in order.

As the former chief financial officer for the State of Florida, I  oversaw the State's budget for nearly a decade. I know what it takes to  make sure we have a growing economy with a stabilized budget.

I have always believed that people of America spend their money  better than Washington, D.C. does. In fact, it is just a fact that we  cannot achieve greatness when we are saddling our children with  unbearable amounts of debt. The President's efforts to root out fraud,  waste, and abuse is critical to restoring trust in our Nation's  government.

For far too long, Americans have sent their hard-earned tax dollars  to Washington without really feeling like they were getting anything  from it. Frankly, Washington has been indifferent to the needs of  families throughout the country, and we have got an opportunity to fix  a lifetime of issues for the better.

As I have said, I am a workhorse; not a show horse. I am ready to get  to work with my colleagues and this country together to get this  country out of the ditch and return it to greatness.

May God bless America.