Thanking Emergency Medical Services Personnel


Mr. PATRONIS. Mr. Speaker, in honor of National EMS Week, I rise  today to thank the great men and women of the emergency medical  services.

As the former CFO and State fire marshal for the State of Florida, I  saw these men and women firsthand in action during major events, such  as during the aftermath of Hurricanes Michael, Ian, Idalia, Helene, and  Milton, and, of course, the tragic building collapse of Champlain  Towers in Surfside.

The mental and physical fortitude that these heroes display daily is  inspiring. It is a testament to who they are as individuals.

The theme for National EMS Week is ``We Care for Everyone.''

God chooses special angels among us to serve, to heal, and to care  for those who are sick or injured.

They rush into danger at a moment's notice without hesitation, giving  hope to those who need it the most.

These heroes work 24/7 365 days a year, missing holidays, birthdays,  and other special occasions to ensure our communities are safe.

On behalf of a grateful nation and myself, I thank EMS workers. I  thank these Americans in the EMS field for all that they do.

As long as I have a voice in Washington, D.C., I will always support  our EMS professionals and every first responder working to serve our  local communities, the State of Florida, and our great country.                        Recognition of Judge Remington

Mr. PATRONIS. Mr. Speaker, I end on a solemn note as we honor the  life of Honorable Circuit Judge Tom Remington, who passed away on May  7, 2025, in Pensacola, Florida.

Tom dedicated over 60 years of his life serving our Nation and our  State, first as an artillery and infantry officer in Vietnam, where he  earned the Combat Infantryman Badge, two Purple Hearts, two Bronze  Stars with Valor, and the Silver Star. His service was featured on the  History Channel and in books like ``Hill 875'' and ``Dak To.''

After his military service, Tom graduated from Florida State  University College of Law, joined the Florida bar in 1971, and gained  courtroom experience as both a public defender and as assistant State's  attorney.

In 1995, he became a partner in the renowned law firm of Smith,  Anchors, and Remington, serving as general counsel to longtime Okaloosa  County Sheriff Larry Gilbert.

Tom was appointed to the circuit court by Governor Lawton Chiles and  served over 20 years in Okaloosa and Walton Counties. He held numerous  leadership roles, including chief judge and officer in various legal  organizations. Known for his humble and principled approach to justice,  Tom was deeply respected and affectionately called ``T.R.''

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of northwest Florida, my wife, Katie, and I  offer condolences to his wife, Dinah; the Smith Remington firm; and  children, Scott, Mary, and Sara.

I urge all in Florida's District One to join us in honoring Judge  Remington's remarkable commitment to service.