People Are Sick and Tired


Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  Texas (Mr. Roy), my colleague and friend, for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I would prefer not to have to expound upon this topic.  What I would prefer is that my colleagues in this body, on both sides  of the aisle, embrace the very somber responsibility of encouraging and  supporting the laws of our land.

Yet, we find ourselves in a position as conservatives where our  warnings of the past echo upon a nearly empty Chamber as we discuss the  horrors of the day and the crimes that have been committed upon the  citizens we are sworn to serve that need not have been committed. This  is because of the culture that we have allowed to spread across our  country, as my friend has spoken on, that we have allowed elected  officials to embrace, that culture that has woven its way into the  fabric of our country that pushes back against the prevention of crime  and the enforcement of law, and sells this idea that we are somehow a  less compassionate nation if we do not continually release career  criminals upon the streets. There is this notion that we can somehow  enforce criminal law with social vagaries; this idea that somehow if we  will just be very, very nice to the criminal element, they will just  stop committing crimes upon the law-abiding of our country.

We have to stand against the existence of that concept, certainly in  this body that is responsible for being the voice of we the people. In  cases where horrors are forced upon our innocent  citizens by career criminals that should have well been  institutionalized or imprisoned for many, many years, we have a  responsibility to speak out.

I would say that it is far from compassionate, as a citizenry, to  continue to release career criminals. I would offer to yourself and the  country, Mr. Speaker, for your consideration, maybe my fellow citizens  have to realize that the best shot that some of these guys that are in  the game on the criminal side of this thing, the best shot they have at  rehabilitation is jail, the very best shot.

I have seen it again and again and again in my career. I have had  criminals that I have taken off the street, that have lived a life just  immersed in drugs and crime and alcohol and violence. And maybe for the  first time in their life they were truly treated with the respect of  man to man is when I arrested them and took them off the street and  walked them through the booking process. I told them then that they  have a potential for a better life and a better day, but their path to  a brighter future comes through my jail. I advised them to take that  time in that jail to reflect upon their life and the potential that  they have to turn themselves around.

Years later, Mr. Speaker, I have had these same guys come to me, who  are now free, and say thank you. Thank you for talking to me the way  you did and handling me the way you did and making me realize that my  path to a better life began through jail.

The fact that this horrible man should brutally stab this innocent  woman, that is part of the national narrative right now. The fact that  we are dealing with that horror brings us to hold accountable every  judge that let him go and every prosecutor that refused to force  charges upon that man, every elected official and politician that stood  for cashless bail. Every member of our society that stood on the wrong  side of this thing should take a deep look in the mirror.

I say to my friend, Mr. Roy, who is a gentleman who supports the  enforcement of law, he is a good and compassionate man, a father and  husband, he is determined to serve his country, and asking our fellow  man, Mr. Speaker, to hear this message: enforce existing laws,  prosecute violent criminals, incarcerate those who are convicted, and  maintain that incarceration until they are reformed or their sentence  is complete.

We say this not just for ourselves, but for the murdered, for the  lost, for the forgotten, for the unseen victims of crime across our  country.

Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Yes, sir.

Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  Texas for yielding me additional time to address these issues.

Our sovereign border, Mr. Speaker, our southern border is 1,954 miles  long. I have scouted every mile by airplane, helicopter, four-wheel  drive vehicle, on horseback, and on foot. I have scouted every mile.

That 1,954 miles of southern border on the American side of our  border, the northern side of that border, is patrolled by some of the  finest law enforcement professionals that the world has ever known. It  is absolutely within the reach of those law enforcement professionals  to effectively enforce our laws on American territory and American soil  to the north of that 1,954-mile sovereign border.

Mr. Speaker, the southern side of that sovereign border is 100  percent controlled by criminal cartels.

Mr. Speaker, if we have an American Government executive authority  that determines by its policy it is not going to enforce the law with a  certain vigor that is required, when on the other side of the sovereign  border, there very well-funded, well-armed, and organized criminal  cartels, we are effectively partnering with those cartels.

There is a partnership in whatever criminal activity they are engaged  in. At our southern border, the criminal cartel traffic human beings  and drugs into our country. In 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024, the  executive branch of our government--the prior President and Secretary  of Homeland Security--effectively partnered with the criminal cartels  to traffic human beings and drugs into the heart of our country.

The impact that we had to bear was immeasurable. It delivered  generational trauma into our country. That was a policy decision and a  series of expansion of that policy over the course of 4 years that led  to millions upon millions upon millions of illegals coming into our  country.

In many cases, they themselves were victims of the lies that the  former executive branch put forth into the entire cartel pipeline, deep  into South American and through Central American. Rather than a law  enforcement professional body, they drew these illegals into our  country where they were waived in by a Federal law enforcement body  transformed into a reception and processing force. The negative impact  was 100 percent the result of policy.

Our colleagues across the aisle told us for years, Mr. Speaker: We  need more money. Why don't Republicans give more money to the Biden  administration? Well, Congress should pass more laws.

We said for those years: More laws are not required. Enforcement of  existing law and the will to do so is what is required. More money is  not required.

It is the same 1,954 miles of border, the same personnel, the same  roads, the same physical barriers, the same communications systems, and  the same surveillance systems. In 2 weeks under the new administration,  we went from 8,000 to 10,000 illegal crossings a day to almost zero  because of a change in policy.

The guilt and the deep accountability of every injury and every dead  American, every injured family, that responsibility lies with those who  develop the policy that encouraged the illegal trafficking of human  beings and drugs into our country.

Over 200,000 Americans are now dead. They can't vote for either  party. They are dead from drugs trafficked into our country in those 4  years. They are dead from fentanyl poisoning.

There are 435 of us here and 100 Members of our colleagues across  campus in the Senate. There are 535 children of God, Democrat or  Republican, by God, who are absolutely responsible for the decisions  and laws that come out of the American Congress.

Article I gives us the authority and, therefore, the responsibility  to be the voice of we the people. For 4 years, that voice cried out to  be heard. Enforce the law. Protect the citizens. Restore the  sovereignty of our border. Now, thank God, we have.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Roy) for allowing  me to address these concerns.

Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Where are they now?