Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARPER. Madam President, I commend the Senator from Louisiana for  his leadership and for his courage in not just helping to develop this  proposal that we have offered in a legislative forum but in trying to  make sure that it gets the debate it needs and the vote it needs on  this floor. 

  For a couple of centuries, Members of the Senate would introduce  legislation, and that legislation would be debated. Democrats and  Republicans would have the opportunity to offer amendments to that  legislation and to get votes on that legislation and on their  amendments. We would hammer out a compromise in the Senate and  eventually with the House and with whoever was President. 

  The Presiding Officer may remember an old movie called ``The Way We  Were.'' That is the way we were, and we need desperately to get back to  the way we were when we were the world's greatest deliberative body. A  good way to get started on that path is by supporting the legislation  that my friend from Louisiana and I have coauthored with the support of  a broad coalition of Senators and with the support of the business  community and the environmental community as well. 

  Our amendment, as Senator Kennedy has described today, is identical  to legislation called the American Innovation and Manufacturing Act. I  am not a really big one for acronyms, but the acronym that the Senator  has used is AIM, the AIM Act. It is currently supported by a bipartisan  group of 32 Senators--16 Republicans and 16 Democrats. I would describe  this as Noah's Ark, whereby, for every Republican, we add a Democrat  and on and on and on. Even today, we are continuing to add sponsors and  cosponsors to our bill and to this amendment. 

  This amendment, like the stand-alone bill, would save consumers  money; it would create jobs; it would support economic growth; and it  would help us to address the climate crisis. This amendment would  authorize the EPA to implement a phase-down of the production and  consumption of something called hydrofluorocarbons, known as HFCs, over  the next 15 years. HFCs are used as coolants in refrigerators and air  conditioners. They are  substances that help to make sure our air conditioners work and our  freezers work and our refrigerators work, among other things, and that  our chillers work. 

  Unfortunately, what came before the HFCs was bad for our ozone and  our planet, and it created a big hole in the ozone layer of our planet.  We figured out that it was not good. It turned out to be the  refrigerants that we were using that were causing it. Scientists came  along and said: Let's replace them. Let's get rid of those CFCs and  replace them with something that doesn't give us a hole in the ozone  layer. 

  Guess what. HFCs work. They do. They do a really good job at that.  That is the good news. The bad news is these hydrofluorocarbons are  1,000 times worse than carbon dioxide as a greenhouse gas--1,000 times  worse. So they are good on the one hand and are bad on the other hand. 

  So the scientists go to work again. Scientists in this country and  businesses in this country go to work and ask: What can we do about  this? They have come up with a replacement to replace the HFCs--1,000  times worse as a greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. 

  We also have the opportunity, in using American technology, to put  Americans to work in selling these products not just in America but  around the world. American companies have invested literally billions  of dollars to produce and sell the next-generation technology to  replace HFCs. Our amendment protects those investments. 

  Again, the amendment is good for consumers, and I will explain why.  The amendment drives the deployment of more efficient air-conditioning  and refrigeration products and equipment. It reduces energy and upkeep  costs as well. How much? What is it worth in terms of saving money for  consumers? Apparently, the EPA has calculated it through its own  economic analysis, and it has come up with a number that says that over  the next 15 years, our legislation would save consumers $3.7 billion-- not millions but billions of dollars. 

  Our amendment is good for American jobs. The chamber of commerce  expects our legislation to result in the creation of 150,000 additional  direct and indirect jobs in this country in the years to come--150,000  additional, good-paying jobs. Our amendment is good for our economy. 

  Our legislation is expected to improve the trade imbalance in  chemicals and equipment by $12.5 billion, which is something we need to  do, and it is expected to increase manufacturing output close to $39  billion over the next 7 years. 

  Oh, by the way--P.S.--our amendment is good for the planet we live on  and the people who inhabit it. We will end up joining the rest of the  world to phase out HFCs, which will help to avoid an increase of up to  a half a degree Celsius in our climate, in our temperature on this  planet. 

  All of these are win-wins. They are all win-wins. They are the reason  that our legislation has such broad support from stakeholders. Our  legislation is supported by an unlikely coalition. As Senator Kennedy  said, it is not every day that you find the lamb and the lion lying  down together in their finding a common cause. Yet, in this case, there  is a whole host of environmental groups, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,  the National Association of Manufacturers, and other business groups, a  lot of Democrats, a lot of Republicans, and maybe one or two  Independents. I mean, it is a great coalition, and it is one that I am  proud of in my having worked with Senator Kennedy to create. We do all  of this with the broad support of this unlikely coalition. 

  Our legislation doesn't preempt the roles of States. With that said,  I know that some of our colleagues have called for adding to this  amendment new preemption authorities that would prevent States from  addressing HFCs. My response to them is that there are reasons this is  not an issue to be addressed at this time. 

  And as we have seen with TSCA and the California waiver for vehicle  standards, this administration doesn't seem keen on following the law,  and there is no guarantee that if we require EPA to phase out HFCs that  the Trump EPA will do so in a timely manner or in a legally defensible  way. 

  Allowing the States to act helps hold the Federal Government  accountable. However, once a strong Federal program is in place, States  will not need to act and will spend their resources elsewhere. We have  seen this happen before with programs similar to the one this amendment  would create. 

  I would like to add that many of my colleagues in this Chamber have  stated that they support innovation to help achieve our climate and  clean energy goals. 

  The Federal Government has many tools to drive innovation--many tools  to drive innovation--Federal funding, Federal procurement, and also  regulation. 

  There is a reason we have broad support from the business community.  Businesses know that regulation will further drive innovation and U.S.  investments. Without the regulations that would be created if this  amendment were adopted, the United States will continue to lose global  leadership in the production of HFC alternative technologies. 

  And let me just add a P.S. I know some people think climate change is  a hoax; it is not real. My wife and some of her colleagues from the  DuPont Company that she worked with for years traveled to Antarctica  earlier this year. They spent a couple weeks down there, an incredible  trip, learned a lot, and they came back and I said: How warm was it  down there? She said it was in the thirties--rarely below, not above. 

  She came back about 5, 6 weeks ago. In the weeks since then, the  record-high temperature in Antarctica, South Pole, hit 63 degrees. That  record lasted for about a week, and it was replaced by a new record,  65. That lasted for about another week or two. That was broken by  another record. I think it was 67 or 68 degrees--like that. 

  A piece of Antarctica about the size of the District of Columbia fell  off into the ocean. Something is happening here. Something is happening  here, and I think what it is, is getting to be pretty clear. 

  Here is the good news. The good news is we can address that concern,  that problem, which is not a hoax, and we can do so in ways that create  tens of thousands of jobs, billions of dollars in exports, all kinds of  economic opportunity, innovation, and technology that we would  celebrate, and we should celebrate. 

  We need to support this amendment. I just want to again thank my  colleague for his leadership, for allowing me to be his wingman in this  effort, and I look forward to garnering the support of a broad  coalition of our colleagues. It is the right thing do. Let's do it. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT