America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARPER. I have come today to talk about a couple of bills that  the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works reported out today  unanimously that would vastly improve our Nation's water  infrastructure. What does infrastructure include? It includes the pipes  that bring us our water or that take our wastewater where it can be  treated. 

  Infrastructure includes our dams, includes our harbors, our ports,  our waterways--all that and a whole lot more. 

  When we talk about improving our water infrastructure, what we are  really talking about is keeping the promises afforded to every American  through the Declaration of Independence. 

  Remember those words: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness?  The legislation that we acted on today--the two bills that will be  combined into one later on, on the floor--called the Water Resources  Development Act, the underlying message is that our work today directly  reflects those words in the Declaration of Independence: life, liberty,  and the pursuit of happiness. 

  Certainly, none of those things--life, liberty, the pursuit of  happiness--are possible without access to clean water, whether it is to  wash our hands or to drink. We can't have life without clean water to  drink. The COVID-19 pandemic has reminded us of that too--just how  important it is to have access to clean water to wash our hands and  soap to wash our hands. We are reminded daily--I would say almost  hourly--to wash our hands with soap and water. It is a simple yet  effective way to prevent the spread of this deadly, virulent disease. 

  In our committee today, the Environment and Public Works Committee,  Senator Sullivan from Alaska talked about the Native Americans who live  in his State who don't have running water. They don't have a spigot to  turn on. They don't even have the ability to flush toilets. For them,  the idea that you can actually do those things is just a dream that  they could never imagine being realized. The thing is that too many  communities across our country do not have access to clean water  because of harmful contamination in their groundwater or water supply  pipes. 

  Sadly, this public health disparity usually goes hand in hand with  economic opportunity. While water is the essence of life, it is also an  essential part of our economy. More than 99 percent of the U.S.  overseas trade--more than 99 percent of U.S. overseas trade--moves  through our waterways. Imagine that. Most people would never imagine  that. Our Nation's water infrastructure, our ports, our shipping  channels, and other related projects support economic growth,  facilitate commerce, sustain jobs, and create new jobs as well. 

  Americans cannot truly pursue happiness without the economic  opportunity that comes with having strong water infrastructure, a lot  of which we can't see--we have been joined on the floor by the chairman  of our committee. There are pipes and wastewater treatment plants and  the facilities that clean the water for us; we don't see those.  Fortunately, somebody does--somebody builds them, somebody maintains  them--in order for us to have that life, liberty, and pursuit of  happiness. 

  Well, today, our committee, led by John Barrasso, Senator from  Wyoming--I happen to have the privilege of being the ranking Democrat  on that committee--we approved two bills that are going to help us keep  those promises laid out in that Declaration of Independence--life,  liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. 

  America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2020 and the Drinking Water  Infrastructure Act of 2020 will help the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers  and the Environmental Protection Agency make improvements to key water  infrastructure systems throughout our country. The programs we passed  in our committee today will support the Army Corps of Engineers'  operation and maintenance of--listen to this--13,000 miles of  commercial, deep-draft ship channels--13,000 miles--and 12,000 miles of  commercial inland waterways. 

  I had explained earlier, Mr. Chairman, before you joined, how 99  percent of the cargo that we send to other countries or that comes to  us comes by ship. It doesn't come by airplanes; it doesn't come by  train. It comes by ships. Those ships don't move without waterways  largely maintained by the  Army Corps of Engineers. These are little known projects that keep our  economy moving. They are essential to our way of life as well. What  comes into the Port of Los Angeles today will be on shelves in stores  in the Midwest a day or so later. 

  In Delaware, we have a port on the Delaware River. It is called the  Port of Wilmington, not far from where my wife and I live. It supports  more than 19,000 jobs in our region. For a big State, 19,000 jobs is  not much. For Delaware, that is a huge deal. 

  The Port of Wilmington is the United States' top seaport for fresh  fruit imports. If you happen to live in the eastern part of the United  States and you got up and had cereal this morning with some banana on  your cereal, there is a good chance that that banana came through Port  Wilmington. 

  The Army Corps is working diligently with our port on an expansion  project that will open a channel to a new containment facility just a  couple miles north of the current port along the Delaware River. The  Army Corps is responsible for dredging and maintaining access to this  new channel which, over time, will support more commerce, more jobs for  our region--not just for our State, but for our region. For such a  small State, if you were to stand and draw a circle around the house  where my wife and I live, in about a 10-mile radius, you cover New  Jersey, you cover Pennsylvania, you get pretty darn close to Maryland  as well. So the impact will be regional.  

  In addition to authorizing necessary Corps projects, the two bills  that we reported out of our committee today unanimously included  authorizing the Clean Water Revolving Loan Fund for the first time  since 1987. We used to be able to provide grant programs to fund water  projects in States, to help fund water projects, to help fund  wastewater treatment projects in our States, and we changed that when  Ronald Reagan was President, and then we have these revolving loan  funds. The Federal Government replenishes them every now and then. The  States invest the money out of those funds, but we haven't reauthorized  the Clean Water Revolving Fund which focuses less on drinking water and  more on cleaning water, reducing the effluent it is putting out in our  community. So many of our communities rely on these funds to improve  their wastewater systems. 

  In the drinking water bill, a corollary, we also authorized more than  a half billion dollars to provide critical drinking water  infrastructure through the Small and Disadvantaged Communities grant  program. I just talked earlier, when I spoke of Senator Dan Sullivan's  comments at our hearing today, we talked about Native American  communities in his State who don't have flush toilets. In a number of  cases, they don't turn on the faucets and the clean water just comes  out. There are other communities, not just there, in my State at one  time, not long ago, in other States where there are disadvantaged  communities, and we have a grant program that we are going to use to  help more and more of them--not all of them--and this will help us keep  the promise of clean and safe drinking water, maybe not for every  American, but more Americans, no matter what their ZIP Code is or what  kind of bank account they have. 

  I think of Matthew 25--I don't care what our faith is--Matthew 25  starts out with these words: When I was thirsty, did you give me a  drink; when I was hungry, did you feed me? 

  Well, when I was thirsty and I didn't have any clean water to drink,  what did you do about it? Well, in this bill, we do something about it,  and I am proud of what we have done. 

  As we work to ensure clean water for all, our drinking water bill  will continue our work to address what are called ``forever  chemicals.'' A forever chemical is a chemical that doesn't degrade, and  there is a word that is about a mile long--there are a couple of words  that describe it--we call it PFAS. That is the acronym. I am not big on  acronyms, but I like this one a lot. There are thousands of ``forever  chemicals'' that just don't degrade in our environment. For the most  part, they are not dangerous, but a couple of them are really  dangerous, and they can lead to thyroid and liver disorders. They can  increase the risk of cancer. They can adversely affect people's immune  systems. We have a pretty good idea of which ones they are, and we need  to do something about it. 

  We sought to do that early this year and late last year, through  other legislation. We have an opportunity with the bill that we  reported out today to do more good work on addressing these forever  chemicals. One of the ways is by developing a clean drinking water  standard for two of them that are most concerning: PFOA and PFOS.  Between today, reporting the bill out of committee, and the time we  come back to the floor to debate it here, we have an opportunity, I  hope, to do even more good work in addressing that. 

  Madam President, I know you have a military base in your State. I  have been to one or two of them. We have one big military base in our  State, the Dover Air Force Base. It is the biggest employer in the  central and southern part of our State: 6,000 uniformed and civilian  personnel. They have some of the biggest planes in the world, C-5, C- 17. It is a cargo base. It has been recognized many times as the best  cargo base in the world, best Air Force base in the world too.  

  About 5, 6, 7 years ago, one of our C-5s took off--they fly around  the world--they had a full load of fuel, full load of cargo, and as  they took off, the flight engineer noticed that an engine light came on  from one of the engines--not a good sign--and the flight engineer  turned off--not that engine--turned off another engine, and then he had  two engines working and two engines not working. 

  Long story short, the airplane came around and tried to land again  where it had just taken off. It crashed a mile short of the runway, and  fortunately, nobody was killed. The fire department came rushing out  and foamed down the area and helped put out the fire. Nobody died. 

  I am sad to say that, when I was on Active Duty as a naval flight  officer at a naval air station one morning, driving into work many  years ago, there was a huge fire. One NASA airplane, big plane, landed  on top of one of the Navy airplanes. It killed everybody. I think one  person survived in the whole crash. Again, folks, firefighters rushed  out and tried to save lives with this firefighting foam. 

  The true irony is that the firefighting foam which is used to save  lives in air crashes actually, when it rains, it gets washed into the  ground and a lot of times ends up in wells and groundwater that people  drink and consume, and it creates very serious health results for them. 

  At any rate, between today and the time our bills come to the floor,  we hope to make a lot more progress in adjusting those for everyone. 

  While millions of Americans rely on the Army Corps projects to safely  navigate our waters, stay safe from flooding and storm damage, and reap  the benefits of healthy aquatic ecosystems and marshlands, we know  impacts of climate change propose a real threat to public safety and to  the durability of our infrastructure. 

  I would like to use the example of Ellicott City, MD--not even 30, 40  miles from here. A couple years ago, within 18 months of each other,  they had two 1,000-year floods. What is a 1,000-year flood? It is a  flood that is supposed to occur every 1,000 years. We had two of them  within 18 months of each other, and we are seeing that kind of extreme  weather in places all over the country, and not only does it wreak  havoc at our homes and our businesses and our transportation system,  but also our drinking water systems. 

  One of the things that we do in our bill is to address that. These  two bills expand grants that will help small and medium-sized  communities increase the resiliency of their water systems to natural  hazards and extreme weather, like what was experienced in Ellicott City  and any number of places around our country. 

   I already thanked him once, but now that he is  here, I want to thank him again. I want to thank him for his leadership  and helping us to move this legislation through. We have all heard the  saying--I think it was Joe Biden that said it--just because somebody is  my adversary or somebody is on the other side of the aisle, they don't  have to be my enemy. 

  We are actually--don't let this word get out in Wyoming--I think we  could  say we are friends and we like to work together. Our staffs, most days,  like to work together, hopefully. But I want to thank his staff. 

  I want to thank all the Senators. He and I pleaded with our  colleagues from all 50 States to give us their ideas of what should go  into this bill, and a bunch of our colleagues--a majority of them--did  that. So it is not just something we dreamed up in our committee, but  had great input from a whole bunch of our colleagues, Democrats and  Republicans, and we were able to put together a bill that passed our  committee unanimously. 

  I just want to mention the names of a couple of people on both sides  of the aisle, and they include Richard Russell, Brian Clifford, Andy  Harding, Lizzie Olsen, Susan Lucas, Craig Thomas, Beth Lange, Christina  Rabuse, Matt Leggett, who worked for Senator Barrasso; and on my team,  Mary Frances Repko, our staff director, Mark Mendenhall, Annie D'Amato,  and John Kane, who works harder than just about any person I have ever  had the privilege of working with. 

  Lastly, Senator Barrasso introduced me last year or so to a fellow  from Wyoming who had been nominated to be a very senior official at the  Commerce Department, and he had been nominated for a position where he  would be Assistant Secretary of the Interior to handle, among other  things, national parks, national wildlife refuges, fish and wildlife-- big job, important job for all of our States--certainly mine and  certainly Wyoming. 

  During his testimony, Rob Wallace testified, I thought, so well, and  it is hard not to like the guy. I liked him almost immediately, but he  said these words to our committee. He said: Bipartisan solutions are  lasting solutions. That is what he said: Bipartisan solutions are  lasting solutions.  

  I sat there that day thinking: Boy, he nailed it. I have stolen that  line--sometimes, I give him credit for it; sometimes, I don't--but  think about that. Bipartisan solutions are lasting solutions. 

  We need the lasting solutions. We especially need them with respect  to making sure those words in the Declaration of Independence--life,  liberty, and the pursuit of happiness--aren't just words on a sheet of  paper or old words on a piece of parchment, but they are real words  today, and we have renewed our commitment to them, and we have done  that with the legislation we reported out of our committee. 

  We still have some work to do. Harbor maintenance, we need to try and  resolve that--people have strong views, not always in sync with one  another--and the legislation on forever chemicals and how do we deal  with that in ways that are smart and respect science and enable us to  make sure that we better protect people's health. 

  So these bills, in closing, are a win, win, win, for our Nation's  economy, for our public health, and for our environment at a time we  desperately need it. As we face down the COVID-19 crisis before us, I  hope that these two pieces of legislation will serve as a model for how  we can continue to work together, which is what I intend to do with our  chairman. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT