Cares Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARPER. Madam President, before our colleague and friend from  Missouri leaves the floor, I want to thank him for a very thoughtful  presentation. I want to thank him for that and for his leadership. I  know he has other places to go. I am glad I was here to hear that. 

  I wasn't sure if I would continue wearing my mask. I saw the  Presiding Officer was wearing theirs and I said: Well, I will keep  wearing mine, too. All our staff on the floor, including one of the  staff who takes down our words for the Congressional Record and folks  who accept documents at the desk in front of us are all wearing masks.  I was wearing a mask earlier today going into a markup at a business  meeting in the Environment and Public Works Committee. They were also  wearing masks. 

  As I was about to go into the business meeting, there was a Capitol  police officer there. I said to her: How are you doing today? 

  She said: I am doing fine. 

  I said: Any idea how many of our Capitol police officers have been  infected and developed symptoms or had the virus at some point in  recent weeks? 

  She said: I believe it is somewhere between 15 and 20. 

  This came as a surprise to me. We haven't heard that much about it. I  have been here to vote several times this afternoon. I was coming here  to say a few words about legislation we passed unanimously out of the  Environment and Public Works Committee. I was passing a number of  Capitol police officers, people who clean the building, maintain the  building, and folks who serve food in the cafeteria so that the people  who are working here have something to eat. They were almost without  exception wearing masks. 

  The reason why it is important for us to do that is because they are  at risk. We, as leaders, need to exhibit and lead by our example. I  know my colleagues endeavor to do that. It is important. These are  people who serve our country just as we do. They deserve not just our  respect and our thanks, but they deserve our protection. For everybody  for whom maybe it is something they are uncomfortable doing, not used  to doing, like hand sanitizing, washing their hands every other hour or  even more, these are good things, not just for us but for the people  who are serving this country here with us in our Nation's Capital. 

  I did come here today to say those words from my heart, and I wanted  to share them with you and others.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT