Carper Statement on First Presumptive Positive Case of COVID-19 in Delaware


Today, U.S. Senator Tom Carper (D-Del.) released a statement after Delaware Division of Public Health (DPH) confirmed that a Delaware resident has tested presumptive positive for coronavirus (COVID-19). Last week, Senators Carper and Chris Coons (D-Del.) and Representative Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) voted to approve an emergency spending package allocating $8.3 billion to fight the novel coronavirus, including over $4.5 million in additional funding for Center and Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) assistance.

 

"First and foremost, I want to wish the Delaware resident who has tested positive for coronavirus a speedy recovery. I know I speak for the rest of the First State when I say that our thoughts and prayers are with you and your loved ones at this time. In light of this news, families in Delaware should know that officials and public health experts in our state have been working diligently and preparing to help keep our communities safe. Additionally, I, along with my partners here in Congress -- Senator Coons and Congresswoman Blunt Rochester -- stand ready to assist Governor Carney to make sure that our state and those who are on the front lines dealing with this virus have the resources they need. For Delaware and the nation to successfully mitigate the spread of the coronavirus, we are going to need an all hands on deck approach. This is an effort that will continue to require coordination across the federal, state and local level, and it will also require individuals to do their part, too. We all have a role to play, and we all have to do our job to keep ourselves and others safe. It's important to not panic but to be proactive; make sure to take the common sense steps that can keep you and your family healthy, like washing your hands with soap and water, covering your cough and staying home when you are sick. I also urge all Delawareans to follow the most up-to-date guidance from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Delaware Health and Social Services, health care providers, and health care professionals."

 

Any students, faculty, and staff who have concerns about potential exposure risks should contact the University of Delaware's Call Center at (302) 831-1188 between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

 

Delawareans should visit www.CDC.gov or www.de.gov/coronavirus to learn more about the virus and how they can protect themselves and their families. Following simple everyday measures to prevent the spread of respiratory viruses, such as staying home when sick and washing hands with soap and water, can help to keep communities healthy.