Carper Unveils New Coronavirus Resources to Help Delaware Families, Worker and Small Businesses Access Federal Relief


Today, U.S. Senator Tom Carper (D-Del.), unveiled new resource pages to help Delaware families, workers and small businesses learn about relief available to them as part of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act (S.3548), the latest coronavirus (COVID-19) relief package that Congress passed last week. In total, the CARES Act allocates nearly $2 trillion to provide relief for hard-working Americans who currently find themselves in dire situations through no fault of their own. The package includes $1.25 billion in cash grants for the State of Delaware, in addition to millions of dollars in funding for hospitals, unemployment insurance, Medicaid and education programs.

On Senator Carper's website, you can find documents that answer "Frequently Asked Questions" (FAQs) about what is included in the CARES Act with regard to:

Relief for small businesses and nonprofitsCash payments for individuals and familiesAccess to new unemployment benefitsIf you are a Delawarean with questions about any of these topics, please visit Senator Carper's website at the links above. If you need additional information or have questions about your specific situation, please don't hesitate to reach out to Senator Carper's office at (302) 573-6291 or by filling out this form.

"The coronavirus outbreak has put many Delaware families, workers and small businesses in dire straits that they never imagined," said Senator Carper. "It's why I worked alongside Senator Coons and Representative Blunt Rochester to ensure that the CARES Act -- the latest coronavirus federal relief package passed by Congress -- puts them first. Under the new law, loans and federal grants will be available for small businesses in Delaware and across the country to help owners pay their employees, their bills and pre-existing loans. Cash payments and expanded unemployment benefits will also be available for many Delawareans, including families with children, to ensure that we get money into the pockets of those who need it most right now.

Carper continued, "But even with all of the beneficial provisions included in this new law, I appreciate that it can be difficult and time-consuming to search through federal websites looking for answers or figuring out how help will get to you and your family. That's why, today, I'm unveiling new resources on my website to ensure Delawareans have the information that they need right at their fingertips. My office and all the members of my team want to make sure assistance is accessible to all those who need it, and we will continue working around the clock to make sure that Delawareans get the help they need quickly."

 

Delawareans with questions about relief for small businesses and nonprofits can find answers here.

Delawareans with questions about cash payments for individuals and families can find answers here.

Delawareans with questions about accessing new unemployment benefits can find answers here.