Delaware delegation coordinates with state officials to respond to COVID-19 spread


Today, U.S. Senators Tom Carper and Chris Coons and U.S. Representative Lisa Blunt Rochester (all D-Del.) joined Dr. Kara Odom Walker, Secretary of the Delaware Department of Health and Social Services, and Dr. Karyl Rattay, Director of the Division of Public Health, for a call regarding the State of Delaware's response to the spread of COVID-19 (the disease caused by the novel coronavirus).

"Although Delaware does not currently have any confirmed cases of COVID-19, we are coordinating with state and local officials to ensure we are prepared for community transmission of the virus. We want to increase Delaware's capacity to screen for the virus and ensure that Delaware's families are supported if businesses or schools need to close," said Delaware's delegation in a joint statement. "We were proud to have passed bipartisan legislation last week to provide Delaware with a minimum of $4.5 million in additional funding to prepare for potential outbreaks from a total package of more than $8 billion to support our nationwide efforts to protect Americans and find a vaccine. Those funds are just a first step, though: We will continue to work together to ensure every community has the resources they need to protect public health. We are committed to doing everything we can at the federal level to support the critical work that the state has been doing and the work of health care providers and first responders on the front lines in the First State."

Senators Carper and Coons and Representative Blunt Rochester encourage all Delawareans to visit www.CDC.gov or www.de.gov/coronavirus to learn more about the virus and how they can protect themselves and their families. Following simple everyday measures to prevent the spread of respiratory viruses, such as staying home when sick and washing hands with soap and water, can help to keep communities healthy.

Delawareans at heightened risk for serious illness from COVID-19 include elderly people and individuals living with chronic medical conditions. If you are at higher risk of getting sick from COVID-19, visit CDC's page here for additional guidance.  If you have questions, please contact Delaware's COVID-19 information line at 1-866-408-1899 or TTY 1-800-232-5460.