Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I rise today to speak on behalf of the  nomination of Robert Feitel to serve as inspector general of the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which oversees the safety and security  of almost 100 nuclear powerplants throughout this country--an important  job. 

  This is a nomination I urged the majority to take up and pass, not  this week, not this month but before we went into recess on April 8. We  are  here, and this is a good nomination. I hope my colleagues will support  it.                                 Coronavirus  

  Mr. President, having said that, let me remind my colleagues that we  are still in the middle of a global pandemic--if we need to be  reminded. I don't think we do. But once we have voted on the nomination  before us today, I would urge the Senate to pivot and begin focusing  next on examining issues related to the pandemic and to ensuring that  the assistance we provided in the legislation we have passed so far-- four pieces, some bigger than others--is getting to the families and  the communities that badly need it. If we were unable or unwilling to  do so, I am not sure that the Senate should be returning to Washington  to act on nonurgent business in contravention of the recommendation of  the Office of the Attending Physician and while this entire region is  still under stay-at-home orders. 

  I also want to make it clear that the Environment and Public Works  Committee, on which I serve and lead with Senator John Barrasso of  Wyoming, was willing to approve this particular nomination unanimously  by voice vote, but it is what is it is, and we are here today. 

  In the midst of a global pandemic, the majority leader says he is  concerned with nominations. Well, then, let's address positions that  are actually more relevant to the crisis that we face today. 

  Currently, one-third of the inspector general positions that are  confirmed by the Senate remain either vacant or without permanent  leadership. The President has nominated individuals to fill some, but  not all, of these positions. The Senate should work quickly to vet  those nominees we have received, especially those who would be involved  with oversight for the coronavirus response. 

  My colleagues will recall that this past March Congress passed an  unprecedented $2 trillion relief package, the CARES Act, to bring help  to millions of Americans who find themselves in dire straits through no  fault of their own. Thankfully, the CARES Act created three new  separate oversight bodies to monitor this emergency funding. I was also  proud to work with Democrats and Republican colleagues alike to help  secure an additional $20 million to ensure that the Government  Accountability Office, which is known as GAO, can conduct important  oversight of this funding. In fact, I learned last week that GAO has  already notified Congress that it has already either undertaken or  begun investigations or has planned investigations of over 150 audits  that are related to this funding. Now, I appreciate GAO's diligence on  this important matter; not only do I appreciate it, but we appreciate  it, and the American taxpayers appreciate it as well. 

  More than ever, it is critical that we have robust oversight to make  sure that this money gets into the pockets of those who need it most  and not into the pockets of those who would literally steal money from  the needy and steal money from the taxpayers of this country. 

  If our majority leader wants to bring the Senate back, then I would  like to suggest that our time would be well spent making sure that  those oversight bodies created in the CARES Act are fully functional,  including the CARES Act Congressional Oversight Commission, which I am  told still lacks a chairperson. This is a five-person panel. It is one  created by each of our leaders in the House and the Senate. That would  give us four, and then another one would be jointly agreed to by the  majority leader here and the Speaker of the House. I am told that as of  today, as of this moment, we still lack a chairperson of that important  panel. I hope that our leader here, Leader McConnell, and Speaker  Pelosi will work with haste even today--even today--to jointly name a  chair to the Congressional Oversight Commission as required by law. 

  The CARES Act also created the Pandemic Response Accountability  Committee. That is a committee composed of inspectors general from  relevant agencies to oversee all spending appropriated through the  CARES Act. That is a huge undertaking. Unfortunately, those IG  positions at key agencies, including the Treasury Department and  including the Department of Education, still remain vacant. 

  We have seen over the last month just how crucial it is that our IGs  remain independent. Since the Senate was last in session, the President  has unceremoniously removed, reassigned, or undermined highly regarded  inspectors general who apparently weren't loyal enough to him or who  dared to criticize what they viewed as a failed or flawed response to  the coronavirus. For example, at the beginning of April, President  Trump removed Glenn Fine, a highly regarded acting inspector general  for the Pentagon, who had only a week earlier been selected by his  peers--selected by his peers--to chair the Pandemic Response  Accountability Committee, the third oversight body created by the CARES  Act. 

  We have also seen the President look to replace the Health and Human  Services IG who, in a detailed report, pointed out the severe shortages  that a number of our hospitals have been facing during the coronavirus  outbreak. 

  I believe it is clear that Congress needs to speak up when  appropriate and do a better job supporting our inspectors general when  this President--or frankly any President--takes retaliatory action  against the independent watchdogs responsible for identifying failures,  waste, fraud, and abuse across our Federal Government, especially when  this much money is at risk. 

  If the Senate is going to be back in session, it would seem to me  these critical oversight positions should be among our top priorities                        Nomination of Robert J. Feitel  

  Mr. President, having said that, let me turn again to the nomination  before the Senate today. Like all agencies, the Nuclear Regulatory  Commission needs a strong and independent inspector general, and I  believe in Mr. Feitel we have one. I believe he is up to the task. 

  We cannot be complacent when it comes to nuclear safety. Just  remember, 50 percent of the carbon-free energy produced in this country  is produced by our nuclear powerplants. Think about that. In a day and  age when the climate crisis is a huge threat literally to our planet  and those of us who live on it, right now, half of the carbon-free  electricity comes in this country from nuclear powerplants. 

  It is the job of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to oversee those  plants and make sure they are being run well, run safely, and in ways  that enable us to continue to depend on them as we go forward for  carbon-free electricity. 

  Anyway, Mr. Feitel is well qualified and prepared, I think; certainly  the Environment and Public Works Committee believes he is prepared to  take on this responsibility. I hope my colleagues will join Senator  Barrasso, our chairman, and myself and the members of our committee to  vote yes on this nomination. 

  With that, I don't see anybody waiting to speak after me, so I  suggest the absence of a quorum. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT