Justice in Policing Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARPER. Good afternoon, Mr. President and colleagues. I rise  today to highlight some recent work that we have done on the Senate  Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations that could help not hundreds,  not thousands, not tens of thousands, not hundreds of thousands, but  millions of Americans save some money when filing their Federal income  tax returns this year and in future years. 

  As the ranking member of the subcommittee called the Permanent  Subcommittee on Investigations in the Senate, my staff and I worked  closely with a fellow named Rob Portman of Ohio, who is the chairman of  our subcommittee, and with his team. He put us all in a room together-- Senator Portman's team, Republicans; our team, Democrats--and wonder  who is who and whose side they are on. You wouldn't know one side from  the other. It is sort of like the Presiding Officer and I working  together on recycling issues, with his team and mine. 

  Senator Portman and I, along with our staffs, studied big problems  and big challenges facing Americans in America. We tried to identify  commonsense solutions in a truly bipartisan, almost nonpartisan  approach. That has characterized the work of the subcommittee not just  for a couple of years but for decades. 

  For years, I have heard the following question over and over again  back home, and the Presiding Officer probably has too. People in  Delaware and I am sure in the Presiding Officer's State asked this  question: Why can't you all work together in Washington and get  something done? That is what we do on our Permanent Subcommittee on  Investigations. We work together, and I think we get a lot done. It is  our bread and butter. I want to talk for a few minutes today about some  of the work here on the Senate floor. 

  Over the past year, our subcommittee has examined a whole bunch of  issues, and one of those issues is relating to the IRS Free File  Program. Earlier this week, we released a short staff memorandum laying  out our findings. 

  Over the next couple of minutes, I want to explain the genesis and  the importance of the Free File Program, what our subcommittee learned  about it, and some of the things Congress and the IRS could do to  improve the program and better serve taxpayers. 

  I say to the Presiding Officer, I don't know if back in your home  State you do townhall meetings, but I guess you have done a bunch of  them. I did a bunch of them especially when I was a Congressman-- hundreds of them--and as Governor and even now. 

  When I was a Congressman, every year we used to--we only have three  counties in my State. The Presiding Officer has a lot more in his. Once  every year, a month or so before the tax-filing deadline, usually  March, I would host townhall meetings in each of our counties, and we  would invite the IRS to come, along with the State Division of Revenue,  to participate. We would offer to the people of Delaware the  opportunity to ask questions not just of me and my staff but of the IRS  and the State Division of Revenue about tax returns that were being  filed. It was something I loved. I love helping people, and I know the  Presiding Officer does as well. It was a real chance to help people in  a timely way. 

  If you take that idea--and that was an idea for, I will say, the 20th  century, a 20th century idea, and it was a good idea. But we have a  21st-century idea, and it is called the Free File Program. That is what  I want to focus on now. 

  Some people might be asking: What in the heck is the Free File  Program anyway? Going back to 1998--I was Governor then, and I think  our Presiding Officer might have been a House Member. I am not sure.  But Congress directed the IRS to work with the tax preparation industry  to create a way for Americans to file their taxes electronically. 

  This is around the time when the first version of search engines like  Yahoo! and Google were being developed and coming forward. Email  addresses and web portals, like America Online, were rapidly expanding  the availability of internet services not just for homes but for  schools and other places too. Suddenly, it was possible to do a whole  lot of things on the internet for the first time, including filing our  taxes electronically. 

  Free File is the program that grew out of a mandate Congress issued,  and taxpayers were first able to take advantage of the program in 2002.  So my guess is the mandate from Congress to the IRS to make this  program available was about two decades ago, and the first time  taxpayers were able to take advantage of that was a couple of years  later, in 2002. 

  The program is really a partnership between the IRS on the one hand  and tax preparation companies, like H&R Block and Intuit, to offer  complete and free online tax preparation and filing services--not to  all Americans but to most. Sixty percent was the original goal, the  original target. Today, it is available to about 70 percent of all  Americans. 

  This year, most taxpayers earning less than $69,000 could use Free  File to file their taxes for free. That is why we call it Free File. I  will say that again. This year, most taxpayers earning less than  $69,000 could use Free File to file their taxes for free. 

  A lot of times, when you hear somebody offer you something for  nothing, for free, you say: Well, I am not sure I would want to do  that. This is one that a whole bunch of taxpayers--about 100 million of  them, in fact--can take real advantage of because according to the  IRS, over 100 million taxpayers are eligible to use this program, Free  File. 

  Over 100 million taxpayers can file their Federal taxes for free. One  might ask: Well, how do they do that? All they have to do is to visit  this website to get started. The website--I am looking to see where  that website is listed. I don't see it here. Maybe it is on the back. I  don't think it is back there either, but I will just say it. Here it  is. All they have to do is visit this website to get started: IRS.gov/ FreeFile. That is it. That is a mouthful, isn't it? That is IRS.gov/ FreeFile.  

  As much as I do it--it is this close. There it is: IRS.gov/FreeFile.  I am blind. There it is. 

  To my staff who prepared this for us, thank you. 

  From there, whoever clicks on this address can choose to visit the  individual Free File website of one of several companies offering this  service and choose the one that works best for them. It sounds pretty  simple, even to me. But only a few million taxpayers out of 100 million  who are eligible use the program every year. Clearly, we can do better  than this. 

  On our subcommittee, we started looking into Free File about a year  ago, after reading news reports alleging that some of the companies  that participated in the program were making it harder, not easier, for  taxpayers to find their Free File websites. This is important,  colleagues. This is important because very few taxpayers go directly to  the IRS.gov address that I mentioned right here--website. Instead, when  most taxpayers are ready to file their taxes, they use search engines  like Google, and they type in phrases like ``free online tax filing''  or ``free tax return.'' For search terms like these, Google might  return thousands, maybe millions, of results. Those results could  oftentimes be confusing. Imagine that you are trying to get some  information, and you get thousands of ideas from searching on Google.  That can often be very confusing or just too much for a lot of us to  try to wade through. 

  On top of that, we were able to confirm that 5 of the 12 companies  that participated in the Free File Program in tax year 2018, 2 years  ago--that includes H&R Block, Intuit, TaxHawk, Drake Software, and  TaxSlayer--apparently took steps to actually prevent their Free File  websites from even appearing in search results. So when someone  searched on Google last year for free tax help, they were likely to  land on the website for one of the heavily advertised commercial tax  filing products. 

  Some of those commercial products have names that are similar to the  names companies have given their Free File offerings. For example, H&R  Block has a commercial product called Free Online, and Intuit has one  called Turbo Tax Free Edition. These names sound a lot like the names  given to the IRS Free File products, but they are not the same. In  fact, there is no guarantee that they will actually be free, despite  their names. 

  I want to be clear. There is nothing wrong with Free File partner  companies having their own successful commercial products and  continuing to innovate. There is nothing wrong with that. I am told  there are legitimate reasons someone might want to prevent a website  from appearing in a Google search result. However, it is important that  we make sure not to confuse taxpayers any more than they might already  be confused when it comes to preparing their tax returns. 

  It is also imperative to Senator Portman, his staff, and my staff  that the lowest income taxpayers are able to access the free filing  services that Congress wanted to be sure were available for them. It is  too easy for a taxpayer to click on a search result that looks like a  free filing option and wind up being charged for extra services they  didn't want and, frankly, didn't need. 

  In fact, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration  estimates that more than 14 million taxpayers who qualified for the  Free File Program used commercial software offered by a Free File  partner company and may have paid a fee to file their 2018 Federal tax  return when they did not need to do so. Just think about that. Fourteen  million taxpayers could have filed their Federal tax returns completely  free but instead ended up paying a fee. 

  While it is entirely possible that some of those 14 million people  knew they were using a commercial product and chose to pay more, many  simply didn't know they might have a better option. We have an  obligation to make sure they know about it. Both Congress and the IRS  need to do more to make certain that taxpayers who are eligible for a  free product and want a free product don't end up paying for something  they should not have to pay for. It is that simple. 

  So how did this happen? Well, we have learned that part of the blame  belongs to the IRS, which apparently has designated only three full- time employees--think about that--for how many people we have in this  country? Three hundred-plus million? The IRS has designated only three  full-time employees to work on Free File and, I am told, has not  conducted sufficient oversight over the program for years. For example,  our Subcommittee on Investigations learned that the IRS has not  completed a customer satisfaction survey for the Free File Program  since 2009. That is 11 years. That is right--since 2009, even though  the Treasury Department's Inspector General for Tax Administration  recommended greater use of customer satisfaction surveys not last year  or the year before that but as far back as 2007. 

  Despite Americans' growing tendency to use search engines like Google  to navigate the internet, the IRS and its Free File partner companies  apparently never discussed online search practices until very recently.  This allowed individual companies to make their own choices about how  their Free File websites could be accessed. 

  There is also the fact that the IRS has not had a marketing budget  for the Free File Program in more than 6 years. When we asked IRS  officials to explain the lack of marketing, they told us a couple of  things. Here is one of the things we heard. They said: ``Well, it may  have been an IRS budget decision as part of the broader reduction in  spending the agency received over the last several years.'' He said  ``as part of the broader reduction in spending.'' Actually, it was the  broader reduction in appropriations the Agency received over the last  several years. 

  The Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration came to pretty  much the same conclusion. Here is what we got from the Inspector  General of the Treasury: The IRS was trying to ``save money and be more  efficient.'' 

  Well, we should make sure that we save American taxpayers money, no  doubt, especially at a time when every dollar counts for our family  and, frankly, for our government. 

  With that said, what can Congress do? What is our role here in the  Senate, in the House, in the Congress, and in the White House, in the  executive branch of our government and Treasury? 

  As senior members of the Finance Committee, Senator Portman and I  have listened to former IRS Commissioner John Koskinen, a great leader,  and to the Government Accountability Office led by Gene Dodaro, a  wonderful Comptroller General. We listened to them lament the fact  that, for years Congress has appropriated the IRS with far less money  than it needs to provide adequate tax enforcement and good customer  service, as well as to better ensure that all Federal taxpayers are  paying their fair share to fund our government and meet our many  obligations. 

  Despite a recent bump up in funding for the IRS in the past year,  since fiscal year 2010--so over the last decade--funding for the IRS  overall has declined by $3.1 billion, after accounting for inflation,  while the number of individual taxpayers has increased by 13 million.  That makes no sense to me. My guess is it doesn't make much sense to  most people. Let's listen to that again. Funding for the IRS--our job  is to appropriate money, among other things. Funding for the IRS,  overall, has declined by over $3 billion, after accounting for  inflation, while the number of individual taxpayers who need to be  served, who have questions to ask and tax returns to submit--that  number has gone up by 13 million people. 

  These IRS budget cuts have impaired both tax enforcement and taxpayer  service operations. For example, reduced funding has led to a reduction  in  the number of employees assigned to answer telephone calls. The  inevitable result is fewer taxpayer calls answered, longer wait times  to get through to the IRS representative, and a lot of needless  frustrations from the people we and the IRS are serving, the people who  have sent us here to work for them. 

  All of this was before the coronavirus pandemic forced the IRS to  send thousands of its employees home. 

  So as I prepare to wrap up here today, let me say to all of our  colleagues, those who are gathered here and those who are not--our  colleagues both here in the Senate and in the House of Representatives  at the other end of this building--while it is important that we ask  why the IRS didn't do a better job of overseeing the Free File Program  and make clear that it must do more, it is equally important that we in  the legislative branch of government and in the administration--this  administration and future administrations--provide the IRS with the  tools and resources it needs to do the important job it does. 

  The last time the IRS had a marketing budget for their Free File  Program, it spent between $750,000 and $1.5 million marketing the  program annually to, gosh, probably 200--over 100 million--we will say  close to 200 million taxpayers. That sounds like a lot of money, but  when you are talking about over 100 million taxpayers, it doesn't go  that far. I am not sure that is a big enough budget given the large  number of taxpayers who seem to be unaware of Free File. Even a modest  amount of funding would go a long way toward ensuring that millions of  eligible taxpayers do not have to pay a dime to file their taxes  online. 

  Well, colleagues, my staff and my other colleagues often hear me say  these--I think they are called aphorisms. One of my favorites is, find  out what works and do more of that. Think about it. Find out what  works. Do more of that. Well, we found out on our subcommittee how we  can strengthen and support this Free File Program. Let's do it. Let's  not just talk about it. Let's not just complain about it. Let's do it.  Let's begin by doing our part to provide--this year and in the years  that follow--the IRS with the resources it needs and, where necessary,  the additional guidance it needs to make Free File work the way we  intended it to work almost two decades ago. 

  Another thing I would like to say is that in adversity lies  opportunity. Think about that. I wish I could claim that as my own.  That is Einstein. In the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, the filing  deadline for taxpayers has been pushed back, as we know, to July 15-- not April 15, a month or a month and a half ago, but July 15. Here is  what that means. It means we have--taxpayers have--we have more time to  get the word out, the IRS has more time to get the word out to eligible  Americans that they can file their taxes for free--more time to get the  word out to eligible Americans that they can file their taxes for free.  Get the word out to whom? To tens of millions of American taxpayers. 

  I want to encourage all eligible taxpayers to visit IRS.gov/ freefile--right here--IRS.gov/freefile--to ensure that they have access  to the free resources that are available to them. 

  I would also ask everyone to help spread the word. Talk to your  friends. Talk to your family. When you are cooped up at home and you  can't go anyplace, you are still locked down in quarantine, what will  you talk about? Talk about Free File; say: Here is a way we maybe could  save some money, and our friends could too--instead of taking a  different course. 

  That is it. I will close with this. I like movies. I know the  Presiding Officer likes movies. One of my alltime favorite movies and  our colleague who has joined us, from Alaska, one of his alltime  favorite movies--he has talked about it many times--is ``Back to the  Future.'' This is, in a way, back to the future. 

  Back when I first got to the House, we used to do this--as I said  before Senator Sullivan and Senator Cruz came to the floor--I talked  about how every year, in every county in Delaware, we would do--there  are only three counties--we would actually do townhall meetings, and we  would have folks in from the IRS and from the State Division of Revenue  to actually help people prepare and file their taxes. We don't do that  anymore. Actually, we have something that is even better, a whole lot  better, and it is this Free File Program that the IRS has. It is  available, if people just knew about it. 

  I will close with these words. I wish I could claim this as well. I  wonder who said this. Maybe one of our smart pages--if our pages were  here, I would ask one of the pages to figure it out. Have you ever  heard the saying: If a tree falls in the forest and there is nobody  there to hear it, is there really a noise? 

  Think about that. If a tree falls in the forest and there is nobody  there to hear it, is there really a noise? Well, if we have a great  program through the IRS to help millions and millions of people file  their taxes for free and they don't know about it, is there really a  benefit? I think, arguably, not. We can do something about that. Let's  do it. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT