Letter to the Hon. Sean O'Donnell, Inspector General of the Environmental Protection Agency - After Reviewing New Documents, Carper Urges Expansion of EPA Inspector General Investigation into the SAFE Vehicles Rule


Dear Inspector General O'Donnell:

 

I write to ask that the Office of the EPA Inspector General expand its investigation into whether EPA officials have improperly circumvented section 307[1] of the Clean Air Act, Executive Order 12866[2], and other rulemaking review and procedural requirements.[3] While I previously asked[4] that you commence such an investigation after I learned of potential irregularities associated with the recent finalization of the Safer Affordable Fuel-Efficient (SAFE) Vehicles 2 Rule[5], I now have additional information and have obtained documents that confirm such wrongdoing. 

 

The rule, finalized by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Department of Transportation (DOT) and published in the Federal Register on April 30, 2020, weakened standards beyond the request of any automaker. This rule follows the September 2019 finalization of Part 1 of the rule that preempted the historic authority of California to set and enforce its own greenhouse gas tailpipe standards, as well as that of the 13 additional states that have adopted those standards, including Delaware.  

 

As I've previously described, EPA's concerns with the 2018 proposed SAFE Vehicles Rule to roll back vehicle greenhouse gas and fuel economy standards were properly and well documented[6] [7] in the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) rulemaking docket, which generated numerous negative press reports describing the inter-agency disagreement, including EPA's observation that the model DOT used was "unusable in current form for policy analysis and for assessing the appropriate level of the CAFE or GHG standards."  EPA also asked that its logo be removed from the proposed rule because of its lack of input and involvement in its development.  My office learned that EPA, White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Department of Transportation (DOT) political officials were angered by the very public airing of the inter-agency disagreement about this rule that resulted from the lawful submittal of written materials created during the review of the proposed rule to the docket.

 

My previous request to you observed that an effort to conceal further inter-agency disagreement could result in the concealment of embarrassing and legally risky information related to flaws in the final rule available from the public or potential future litigants.  I have learned that this is exactly what has occurred.  My office has also documented a number of new concerns associated with the finalization of the rule.  These include:

 

5.    DOT was the sole author of most if not all of the draft final rule submitted in January to OMB. After EPA reviewed the materials, EPA Acting Administrator Idsal was briefed on EPA career staff's concerns with the draft final rule and was made aware that it was not an EPA-co-authored product. 

6.    Four hard copies of EPA's concerns were sent to DOT on February 5, but EPA political officials apparently purposefully and potentially illegally withheld these documents from being placed into the rulemaking docket and made available to the public. 

7.    The concerns EPA sent to DOT on February 5 catalogued numerous errors and inaccuracies in the draft final rule, but DOT did not incorporate most of EPA's feedback.  In fact, EPA reviewed a second draft of the rule on March 25 and observed internally that the continued failure to correct many of these errors would leave the rule legally vulnerable. 

8.    After the final rule was signed, the Agencies made significant changes to it before it was published in the Federal Register, raising transparency and potential legal questions associated with what appears to be an unprecedented process used to alter the materials. 

A more technical description of these concerns as well as new documents obtained by my office are attached. These materials describe a fundamentally and legally flawed rule created by what may be the most procedurally problematic process my office has ever reviewed.  I ask that you and your staff commit to take all necessary measures to protect the identities of those who may have exercised their lawful right under 5 U.S.C. ยง 7211 to provide information to Congress without fear of retaliation due to their disclosures.  

 

Thank you for your attention to this important matter.  If you have any questions or concerns, please ask your staff to contact Michal Freedhoff (Michal_Freedhoff@epw.senate.gov) of the Environment and Public Works Committee staff.  I look forward to your prompt response.