Letter to the Hon. Andrew Wheeler, Admin. of the Environmental Protection Agency - Carper: New Evidence and Leaked Documents Reveal White House Official Worked to Weaken PFAS Protections


Dear Administrator Wheeler:

 

I write with concern about the apparent efforts of Dr. Nancy Beck, nominee to chair the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), to weaken EPA's proposed Significant New Use Rule (SNUR) that is designed to restrict the use of certain long-chain PFAS chemicals (including PFOA and PFOS) in products.  Documents and other information obtained by my office indicate that in Dr. Beck's previous role as EPA's Deputy Assistant Administrator for the Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention, as well as in her current role at the White House National Economic Council, Dr. Beck has sought to make it more difficult for EPA to use its authority under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) to protect Americans from these harmful substances. I urge you to resist these efforts and ensure the final rule is as protective as was originally envisioned.

 

In January, 2015, EPA first proposed what amounted to a de facto ban on certain long-chain PFAS (including but not limited to PFOA and PFOS) for which there were no ongoing uses, as well as a de facto ban on the resumption of all abandoned uses of certain long-chain PFAS substances that had previously been allowed. Additionally, the rule proposed to remove the exemption in TSCA that allowed entities to import these chemicals as part of articles (such as surface coatings or other consumer products).   Following the 2016 re-authorization of TSCA, EPA concluded that a supplemental proposed rule would be needed in order to consider and reflect the changes Congress made.  In February 2020, EPA issued that supplemental proposed rule.  A review of hundreds of pages of inter-agency documents, agency calendars, red-lined drafts of this rule and other information obtained by my office indicate that:

 

While at EPA, Dr. Beck sought to weaken the supplemental proposed rule by urging for the adoption of a complicated and time-consuming analytic barrier to justify the finding mandated in the 2016 TSCA provisions that the "reasonable potential for exposure" to a chemical from an article (i.e. a product) must exist before applying the law's requirements to those articles.  She did this even though EPA had told Congress at the time the 2016 TSCA revisions were being negotiated that EPA did not believe the new provisions would alter its ability to finalize this rule. 

After Dr. Beck left the EPA for the White House, she directed the reversal of the White House's repeated conclusions that this proposed rule did not require White House or inter-agency review, presumably in order to assure her continued ability to direct the development of the supplemental proposed rule. 

Through months of inter-agency negotiations, involvement of political officials and extensive editing, and despite the apparent resistance of EPA, Dr. Beck succeeded in originating or directing the inclusion of provisions in the supplemental proposed rule that could, if finalized, result in violators of the rule being granted "safe harbor' from enforcement,  the exemption of some PFAS-containing products from being subject to the rule, and the exclusion of data that describe the risk of exposure.The appended timeline and underlying documents more specifically describe these concerning developments.  I request that you place all of them into the public docket associated with this proposed rule.

 

In the FY 2020 National Defense Authorization Act, Congress included provisions that mandated the finalization of this rule by June 22, 2020.  As the Agency moves to meet this deadline, I urge you to support the legal and scientific views of the EPA experts who have sought to promulgate these important protections for years, and resist the involvement of Dr. Beck or other political officials who seek to weaken them.

 

Thank you very much for your consideration of this important matter.  If you have any questions or concerns, please have your staff contact Dr. Michal Freedhoff of the Environment and Public Works Committee staff (michal_freedhoff@epw.senate.gov).