Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Education Relating to Borrower Defense Institutional Accountability--


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARPER. Madam President, I rise this evening to discuss the  National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, which is oftentimes referred  to as the ``Magna Carta'' of environmental laws. When I think about our  Nation's most illustrious documents, I am reminded of the true  expression of America and its aspirations. I am reminded of our  Declaration of Independence and its embrace of ``Life, Liberty and the  pursuit of Happiness.'' 

  I am also reminded of our Constitution. Delaware is known as the  First State because we were the first State to ratify the Constitution,  December 7, 1787--one week before anybody else. Our Constitution is the  most replicated and enduring Constitution in the history of the world.  It is not entirely unlike our more recent expressions of America's  values and guiding principles, like the National Environmental Policy  Act of 1969, or NEPA. NEPA has served as one of our bedrock  environmental laws for a half century now. 

  According to its six pages of statute, NEPA's purpose includes  ``efforts which will prevent or eliminate damage to the environment and  biosphere and stimulate the health and welfare of man.'' 

  NEPA enshrines democracy by giving the American people a voice to  help decide the fate of Federal decisions. For 50 years, NEPA has  sought to ensure environmental protection, public health, and the  notion that the American people have a say in Federal decision making. 

  Like our Constitution, NEPA is one of our Nation's most replicated  laws. The same principles of democracy and citizen participation that  are enshrined in our Constitution are also enshrined in NEPA. We have  made changes to our Constitution over the years, but those changes were  made rarely and with great forethought. 

  However, just 60 days ago, the Trump administration proposed a rule  that  would fundamentally change the NEPA regulation for the first time in  its 50-year history. 

  Earlier this month, I testified at the Council on Environmental  Quality's public hearing in Washington, DC. There, I stated that unlike  the Ten Commandments, the NEPA regulations are not written in stone. I  understand that. 

  In 1978, there was broad consensus to finalize the NEPA regulations.  If we had that same kind of broad consensus today to update certain  NEPA provisions, this would be another story. After all, I have said  oftentimes that if something isn't perfect, let's make it better. But  there is a reason that NEPA is one of the most imitated environmental  laws on this planet--it has had a lot of success. 

  Any changes to the implementing regulations of this bedrock law--let  alone such substantial changes proposed by the Council on Environment  Quality to NEPA regulations--require careful thought, meticulous  deliberations, and bipartisanship. Consequential changes should be made  rarely and with great forethought. 

  Speaking of bipartisanship, one of our nominees before the  Environment and Public Works last year, nominated for a senior position  in the Department of Interior, said, in these words: Bipartisan  solutions are lasting solutions. That is what he said. He is a  Republican, from Wyoming. He said: Bipartisan solutions are lasting  solutions. 

  NEPA was signed into law 50 years ago by a Republican President,  Richard Nixon. NEPA was passed in this body by a bipartisan majority.  NEPA was passed in the House by a bipartisan majority. The reason why  it is still alive and well and functioning, protecting our environment,  is because it is a bipartisan solution, and it has helped make it a  lasting solution. 

  Any changes--any changes to the implementing regulations of this  bedrock law, let alone the kind of changes sought by CEQ, require a lot  more careful thought, deliberation, and bipartisanship. 

  CEQ simply has not aimed to address the needs of all the  stakeholders. Witness the universal opposition of the environmental  community, NEPA's most consistent constituency. Council on  Environmental Quality has touted this proposal--their proposal now--as  a way to ``modernize'' NEPA. However, the proposal is instead an  anachronism, taking us back to a time when construction bulldozed and  disconnected communities, before NEPA was enacted in 1970. 

  This proposal casts aside any consideration of frontline communities,  as well as the severe environmental consequences that come with  eliminating the requirement to consider cumulative environmental  impacts and indirect effects. 

  Taking away that requirement is akin to creating a new NEPA mandate  that would exclude the impact to air quality--or water quality--from a  proposed action. Simply put, it makes no sense. 

  Not only is removing these requirements a bad idea for public health  and for our environment, but doing so will end up costing taxpayers  more when projects aren't built to be resilient and, as a result,  taxpayer investments are quite literally washed away by the next big  storm or flood. 

  What is more, this proposal gives the fox the keys to the henhouse by  allowing companies to write their own environmental impact statements.  Think about that--by allowing companies to write their own  environmental impact statements. That is a little bit like offering  students self-graded, take-home exams. This proposal also creates  loopholes to avoid environmental review and public input, which is  especially harmful to environmental justice communities that are often  the targets of industrial investments and projects. 

  I take no joy in saying this, but the proposal before us is one that  is, sadly, myopic and ideologically driven. I have repeatedly called on  CEQ to withdraw this proposal, and I do so again today. 

  Along with the policy, I must also mention CEQ's refusal to open this  notice to proposed rulemaking to greater public involvement that is  commensurate with its gravity and scope. 

  In rebuttal to repeated concerns from more than 160 Members of  Congress, and literally hundreds--hundreds--of stakeholder  organizations, CEQ stated that it is ``engaging in extensive public  outreach, including through requests for public comments, two hearings  and other outreach''--two hearings in the whole country. 

  Just last week, with only three full business days prior to the close  of the comment period, CEQ finally told 166 other Members of Congress  and me that it would refuse to extend the public comment period, thus  providing the public as little opportunity as possible to have their  voices heard. 

  Both CEQ's reply and its public statements make clear that CEQ  believes it somehow deserves extra credit for allowing the public to  participate in this rulemaking. Public involvement means not only an  opportunity to comment, it means taking those comments seriously by  CEQ. 

  Let me be clear. Neither this CEQ nor any Council on Environmental  Quality gets extra credit for the mere act of requesting public  comments on America's bedrock environmental law. 

  CEQ certainly does not deserve extra credit for allowing only 60 days  to review and comment on this massive environmental protection  rollback. CEQ also does not get extra credit for only two hearings in  the entire country--two hearings--to receive public comment. 

  At these hearings, the public needed a ticket and only got 3 minutes  to speak. Think about that: 3 minutes for a law that has been around  for a half century that is a basic bedrock environmental law, 3  minutes; constraining comments to a couple of minutes; the idea of  requiring tickets, as if it is some kind of prize to participate in  something that should be a democratic norm; and the idea of CEQ failing  to engage a single speaker in Denver or Washington, DC. Think about  that: not engaging even one speaker in the two places where the public  actually had the opportunity to comment. Not one. That doesn't  constitute an open process, not where I come from. I think it probably  doesn't for most other folks as well. It doesn't come close. What we  have here is a clear sign that CEQ is limiting the involvement of the  public and wants the clock to expire before the public can find out  what is actually in the massive rewrite. That is what it is. 

  To say I am disappointed with CEQ's response is an understatement.  NEPA is a 50-year-old law, but Americans have only been given 60 days  to defend it. 

  I will go back to what I said before. No law is written in stone. The  Declaration of Independence, the Constitution of our country are not  written in stone. Everything we do, I know we can do better. But the  way CEQ has approached this task, this undertaking, is not just  disappointing, I think it is shameful. 

  NEPA reminds us that our government is one that is of the people, for  the people, and by the people. But this proposal and this process  bear--what I just described--little resemblance to those words of  Abraham Lincoln. Sadly, they make a mockery of them. 

  Let me be clear. I will continue to fight to defend NEPA and the  democratic tools it avails to the American people. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT