Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I rise to talk about the Securing  America's Clean Fuels Infrastructure Act, which I am introducing today  with my good friend, the senior Senator from Tennessee. Our legislation  would improve and expand the existing Alternative Fuel Vehicle  Refueling Property Investment Tax Credit, which is commonly known as  ``30C.'' 

  The Securing America's Clean Fuels Infrastructure Act is about giving  Americans a real choice when it comes to transportation, and it's about  economic opportunity at a time when Americans need it most. On  America's roads and highways today, gas stations are rarely farther  than the next corner or next exit. That's not necessarily true for  cleaner fuels. In order to meet our clean air and climate goals and  lead the world in clean vehicle manufacturing, Americans must have  greater access to hydrogen refueling and electric charging stations.  Our legislation improves upon current tax credits to better incentivize  companies to make investments today--rather than later--in the  construction of clean fuel vehicle infrastructure nationwide. 

  Currently, 30C provides a 30 percent investment tax credit for  alternative fuel vehicle refueling property, which includes electric  charging stations and hydrogen refueling stations. This tax credit  expires on December 31, 2020. Today, the 30C investment tax credit, as  it is structured and interpreted by the Internal Revenue Service, only  allows the credit to be used on a per-location basis rather than on a  per-device basis, which means that only one charging station per public  parking garage could qualify for the credit. That current structure and  interpretation of the credit makes it difficult to finance multiple  charging or refueling stations at one location, or to finance  expansions of one location in the future. The Securing America's Clean  Fuels Infrastructure Act makes clear that the 30C investment tax credit  can be applied to each item of refueling property (such as each  charger) rather than per location. 

  Additionally, the current $30,000 cap on business investments does  not provide adequate support for the installation of today's fast- charging electric vehicle stations or hydrogen refueling stations. The  Securing America's Clean Fuels Infrastructure Act increases the 30C  investment tax cap for business investments from $30,000 to $200,000  for each item of refueling property. 

  Finally, this legislation will also extend the credit for eight more  years, to December 31, 2028, ensuring that the business community has  the certainty needed to make long-term investments in clean fuels  infrastructure. 

  Our legislation is a commonsense way Congress can spur economic  investments in our nation's aging infrastructure, help reduce  transportation pollution, and support the millions of Americans that  are considering buying a clean car today or in the future. That is why  this bipartisan legislation has won broad support from the business and  environmental communities. This is legislation that I commend to my  colleagues for their serious consideration.                                  ______                                   

      By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Risch, Mr. Gardner,          Mr. Wyden, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Daines, Mr. Coons,          Mr. Moran, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Cotton,          Mr. Merkley, Ms. Warren, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Markey, Mr. King,          Mr. Toomey, Mr. Brown, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Braun, Mr. Leahy, Mr.          Peters, Mr. Sasse, Mr. Cardin, Ms. Collins, Mr. Sanders, Mrs.          Feinstein, Mr. Reed, Mr. Warner, Mr. Casey, Mrs. Capito, Mr.          Inhofe, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Lankford, Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. Murray,          Mr. Booker, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. Harris, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Hawley,          Mr. Scott of Florida, Mr. Bennet, Mrs. Blackburn, Ms. Smith,          Mr. Young, Ms. McSally, Mr. Romney, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Cramer, Mr.          Crapo, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Boozman, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Hassan, Ms.          Cortez Masto, Mrs. Loeffler, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Johnson, Mr.          Schatz, Mr. Portman, Mrs. Fischer, Ms. Sinema, and Mr. Thune): 

  S. 3744. A bill to condemn gross human rights violations of ethnic  Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang, and calling for an end to arbitrary  detention, torture, and harassment of these communities inside and  outside China; considered and passed.                                  S. 3744  

  To condemn gross human rights violations of ethnic Turkic Muslims in  Xinjiang, and calling for an end to arbitrary detention, torture, and  harassment of these communities inside and outside China. 

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.  

       (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Uyghur       Human Rights Policy Act of 2020''. 

       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act       is as follows:  Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. Sec. 2. Statement of purpose. Sec. 3. Findings. Sec. 4. Sense of Congress. Sec. 5. Updating statement of United States policy toward the People's                Republic of China. Sec. 6. Imposition of sanctions. Sec. 7. Report on human rights abuses in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous                Region. Sec. 8. Report on protecting citizens and residents of the United                States from intimidation and coercion. Sec. 9. Report on security and economic implications of repression in                Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region by the Government of                the People's Republic of China. Sec. 10. Classified report.       SEC. 2. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.  

       The purpose of this Act is to direct United States       resources to address human rights violations and abuses,       including gross violations of human rights, by the Government       of the People's Republic of China through the mass       surveillance and internment of over 1,000,000 Uyghurs, ethnic       Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, and members of other Muslim minority groups       in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.       SEC. 3. FINDINGS.  

       Congress makes the following findings: 

       (1) The Government of the People's Republic of China has a       long history of repressing Turkic Muslims and other Muslim       minority groups, particularly Uyghurs, in Xinjiang Uyghur       Autonomous Region. In recent decades, central and regional       Chinese government policies have systematically discriminated       against these minority groups by denying them a range of       civil and political rights, including the freedom of       expression, religion, and movement, and the right to a fair       trial. 

       (2) In May 2014, the Government of the People's Republic of       China launched its latest ``Strike Hard Against Violent       Extremism'' campaign, using wide-scale, internationally-      linked threats of terrorism as a pretext to justify pervasive       restrictions on and serious human rights violations of       members of ethnic minority communities in Xinjiang Uyghur       Autonomous Region. The August 2016 appointment of former       Tibet Autonomous Region Party Secretary Chen Quanguo to be       Party Secretary of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region       accelerated the crackdown across the region. Scholars, human       rights organizations, journalists, and think tanks have       provided ample evidence substantiating the establishment by       the Government of the People's Republic of China of       internment camps. Since 2014, the Government of the People's       Republic of China has detained more than 1,000,000 Uyghurs,       ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, and members of other Muslim minority       groups in these camps. The total ethnic minority population       of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region was approximately       13,000,000 at the time of the last census conducted by the       People's Republic of China in 2010. 

       (3) The Government of the People's Republic of China's       actions against Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, and members       of other Muslim minority groups in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous       Region violate international human rights laws and norms,       including-- 

       (A) the International Convention on the Elimination of All       Forms of Racial Discrimination, to which the People's       Republic of China has acceded; 

       (B) the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman       or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, which the People's       Republic of China has signed and ratified; 

       (C) the International Covenant on Civil and Political       Rights, which the People's Republic of China has signed; and 

       (D) the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 

       (4) Senior Chinese Communist Party officials, including       current Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region Party Secretary       Chen Quanguo, who executes Chinese government policy in the       region, and former Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region Deputy       Party Secretary Zhu Hailun, who crafted many of the policies       implemented in the region, bear direct responsibility for       gross human rights violations committed against Uyghurs,       ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, and members of other Muslim minority       groups. These abuses include the arbitrary detention of more       than 1,000,000 Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, and members       of other Muslim minority groups, separation of working age       adults from children and the elderly, and the integration of       forced labor into supply chains. 

       (5) Those detained in internment camps in Xinjiang Uyghur       Autonomous Region have described forced political       indoctrination, torture, beatings, food deprivation, and       denial of religious, cultural, and linguistic freedoms. These       victims have confirmed that they were told by guards that the       only way to secure their release was to demonstrate       sufficient political loyalty. Poor conditions and lack of       medical treatment at such facilities appear to have       contributed to the deaths of some detainees, including the       elderly and infirm. 

       (6) Uyghurs and ethnic Kazakhs who have obtained permanent       residence or citizenship in other countries report being       subjected to threats and harassment from Chinese officials.       At least 5 journalists for Radio Free Asia's Uyghur service       have publicly detailed abuses their family members in       Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region have endured in response to       their work exposing the Government of the People's Republic       of China's abusive policies. 

       (7) In September 2018, United Nations High Commissioner for       Human Rights Michelle Bachelet noted in her first speech as       High Commissioner the ``deeply disturbing allegations of       large-scale arbitrary detentions of Uighurs and other Muslim       communities, in so-called reeducation camps across       Xinjiang''. 

       (8) In 2019, the Congressional-Executive Commission on       China concluded that, based on available evidence, the       establishment and actions committed in the internment camps       in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region may constitute ``crimes       against humanity''. 

       (9) On December 31, 2018, President Donald J. Trump signed       into law the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (Public       Law 115-409), which-- 

       (A) condemns the People's Republic of China's ``forced       disappearances, extralegal detentions, invasive and       omnipresent surveillance, and lack of due process in judicial       proceedings''; 

       (B) authorizes funding to promote democracy, human rights,       and the rule of law in the People's Republic of China; and 

       (C) supports sanctions designations against any entity or       individual that-- 

       (i) violates human rights or religious freedoms; or 

       (ii) engages in censorship activities.       SEC. 4. SENSE OF CONGRESS.  

       It is the sense of Congress that-- 

       (1) the President should-- 

       (A) condemn abuses against Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz,       members of other Muslim minority groups, and other persons by       authorities of the People's Republic of China; and 

       (B) call on such authorities to immediately-- 

       (i) close the internment camps; 

       (ii) lift all restrictions on, and ensure respect for,       human rights; and 

       (iii) allow people inside the People's Republic of China to       reestablish contact with their loved ones, friends, and       associates outside the People's Republic of China; 

       (2) the Secretary of State should consider strategically       employing sanctions and other tools under the International       Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6401 et seq.),       including measures resulting from the designation of the       People's Republic of China as a country of particular concern       for religious freedom under section 402(b)(1)(A)(ii) of such       Act (22 U.S.C. 6442(b)(1)(A)(ii)), that directly address       particularly severe violations of religious freedom; 

       (3) the Secretary of State should-- 

       (A) work with United States allies and partners and through       multilateral institutions to condemn the mass arbitrary       detention of Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, and members of       other Muslim minority groups in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous       Region; and 

       (B) coordinate closely with the international community on       targeted sanctions and visa restrictions; 

       (4) the journalists of the Uyghur language service of Radio       Free Asia should be commended for their reporting on the       human rights and political situation in Xinjiang Uyghur       Autonomous Region despite efforts by the Government of the       People's Republic of China to silence or intimidate their       reporting through the detention of family members and       relatives in China; 

       (5) the United States should expand the availability of and       capacity for Uyghur language programming on Radio Free Asia       in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region; 

       (6) the Federal Bureau of Investigation and appropriate       United States law enforcement agencies should take steps to       hold accountable officials from the People's Republic of       China or individuals acting on their behalf who harass,       threaten, or intimidate persons within the United States; and 

       (7) United States companies and individuals selling goods       or services or otherwise operating in Xinjiang Uyghur       Autonomous Region should take steps, including in any public       or financial filings, to ensure that-- 

       (A) their commercial activities are not contributing to       human rights violations in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region       or elsewhere in China; and 

       (B) their supply chains are not compromised by forced       labor.       SEC. 5. UPDATING STATEMENT OF UNITED STATES POLICY TOWARD THE                     PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.  

       Section 901(b) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act,       Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (Public Law 101-246; 104 Stat. 84)       is amended-- 

       (1) by redesignating paragraphs (7), (8), and (9) as       paragraphs (8), (9), and (10), respectively; and 

       (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:  

       ``(7) United States policy toward the People's Republic of       China should be explicitly linked to the situation in       Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, specifically as to       whether-- 

       ``(A) the internment of Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz,       and members of other Muslim minority groups in internment       camps has ended; 

       ``(B) all political prisoners are released; 

       ``(C) the use of mass surveillance and predictive policing       to discriminate against and violate the human rights of       members of specific ethnic groups has ceased and is not       evident in other parts of China; and 

       ``(D) the Government of the People's Republic of China has       ended particularly severe restrictions of religious and       cultural practice in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region;''.       SEC. 6. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.  

       (a) Report Required.-- 

       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than       annually thereafter, the President shall submit a report to       the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, the       Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the       Senate, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of       Representatives, and the Committee on Financial Services of       the House of Representatives that identifies each foreign       person, including any official of the Government of the       People's Republic of China, that the President determines is       responsible for any of the following with respect to Uyghurs,       ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, members of other Muslim minority       groups, or other persons in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous       Region: 

       (A) Torture. 

       (B) Cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment. 

       (C) Prolonged detention without charges and trial. 

       (D) Causing the disappearance of persons by the abduction       and clandestine detention of those persons. 

       (E) Other flagrant denial of the right to life, liberty, or       the security of persons. 

       (2) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be       submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified       annex. 

       (b) Imposition of Sanctions.--The President shall impose       the sanctions described in subsection (c) with respect to       each foreign person identified in the report required under       subsection (a)(1). 

       (c) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this       subsection are the following: 

       (1) Asset blocking.--The President shall exercise all of       the powers granted to the President under the International       Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the       extent necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in       property and interests in property of a foreign person       identified in the report required under subsection (a)(1) if       such property and interests in property-- 

       (A) are in the United States; 

       (B) come within the United States; or 

       (C) come within the possession or control of a United       States person. 

       (2) Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole.-- 

       (A) Visas, admission, or parole.--An alien described in       subsection (a)(1) is-- 

       (i) inadmissible to the United States; 

       (ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other documentation to       enter the United States; and 

       (iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into       the United States or to receive any other benefit under the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.). 

       (B) Current visas revoked.-- 

       (i) In general.--An alien described in subsection (a)(1) is       subject to revocation of any visa or other entry       documentation regardless of when the visa or other entry       documentation is or was issued. 

       (ii) Immediate effect.--A revocation under clause (i)       shall--  

       (I) take effect immediately; and 

       (II) cancel any other valid visa or entry documentation       that is in the alien's possession.  

       (3) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in subsections       (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency       Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a foreign       person that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to       violate, or causes a violation of paragraph (1) to the same       extent that such penalties apply to a person that commits an       unlawful act described in subsection (a) of such section 206. 

       (d) Implementation.--The President may exercise all       authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the       International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702       and 1704) to carry out this section. 

       (e) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of       sanctions under this section with respect to a person       identified in the report required under subsection (a)(1) if       the President determines and certifies to the Committee on       Foreign Relations of the Senate, the Committee on Banking,       Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on       Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the       Committee on Financial Services of the House of       Representatives that such a waiver is in the national       interest of the United States. 

       (f) Exceptions.-- 

       (1) Exception for intelligence activities.--Sanctions under       this section shall not apply to any activity subject to the       reporting requirements under title V of the National Security       Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) or any authorized       intelligence activities of the United States. 

       (2) Exception to comply with international obligations and       for law enforcement activities.--Sanctions under subsection       (c)(2) shall not apply with respect to an alien if admitting       or paroling the alien into the United States is necessary-- 

       (A) to permit the United States to comply with the       Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations,       signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force       November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United       States, or other applicable international obligations; or 

       (B) to carry out or assist law enforcement activity in the       United States. 

       (3) Exception relating to importation of goods.-- 

       (A) In general.--The authorities and requirements to impose       sanctions authorized under this section shall not include the       authority or a requirement to impose sanctions on the       importation of goods. 

       (B) Good defined.--In this paragraph, the term ``good''       means any article, natural or manmade substance, material,       supply, or manufactured product, including inspection and       test equipment, and excluding technical data. 

       (g) Termination of Sanctions.--The President may terminate       the application of sanctions under this section with respect       to a person if the President determines and reports to the       Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, the Committee       on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, the       Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives,       and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of       Representatives not later than 15 days before the termination       takes effect that-- 

       (1) information exists that the person did not engage in       the activity for which sanctions were imposed; 

       (2) the person has been prosecuted appropriately for the       activity for which sanctions were imposed; 

       (3) the person has credibly demonstrated a significant       change in behavior, has paid an appropriate consequence for       the activity for which sanctions were imposed, and has       credibly committed to not engage in an activity described in       subsection (a)(1) in the future; or 

       (4) the termination of the sanctions is in the national       security interests of the United States. 

       (h) Sunset.--This section, and any sanctions imposed under       this section, shall terminate on the date that is 5 years       after the date of the enactment of this Act. 

       (i) Definitions.--In this section: 

       (1) Admission; admitted; alien.--The terms ``admission'',       ``admitted'', and ``alien'' have the meanings given those       terms in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act       (8 U.S.C. 1101). 

       (2) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means a       person that is not a United States person. 

       (3) United states person.--The term ``United States       person'' means-- 

       (A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted       for permanent residence to the United States; or 

       (B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States       or any jurisdiction within the United States, including a       foreign branch of such an entity.       SEC. 7. REPORT ON HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES IN XINJIANG UYGHUR                     AUTONOMOUS REGION.  

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in       consultation with the heads of other relevant Federal       departments and agencies and civil society organizations,       shall-- 

       (1) submit a report on human rights abuses in Xinjiang       Uyghur Autonomous Region to the Committee on Foreign       Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs       of the House of Representatives; and 

       (2) make the report described in paragraph (1) available on       the website of the Department of State. 

       (b) Matters To Be Included.--The report required under       subsection (a) shall include-- 

       (1) an assessment of the number of individuals detained in       internment camps in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region; 

       (2) a description of the conditions in such camps for       detainees, including, to the extent practicable, an       assessment of-- 

       (A) methods of torture; 

       (B) efforts to force individuals to renounce their faith;       and 

       (C) other serious human rights abuses; 

       (3) to the extent practicable, an assessment of the number       of individuals in the region in forced labor camps; 

       (4) a description of the methods used by People's Republic       of China authorities to ``reeducate'' detainees in internment       camps, including a list of government agencies of the       People's Republic of China in charge of such reeducation; 

       (5) an assessment of the use and nature of forced labor in       and related to the detention of Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang       Uyghur Autonomous Region, including a description of foreign       companies and industries directly benefitting from such       labor; 

       (6) an assessment of the level of access to Xinjiang Uyghur       Autonomous Region granted by the Government of the People's       Republic of China to foreign diplomats and consular agents,       independent journalists, and       representatives of nongovernmental organizations; 

       (7) an assessment of the mass surveillance, predictive       policing, and other methods used by the Government of the       People's Republic of China to violate the human rights of       persons in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region; 

       (8) a description of the frequency with which foreign       governments are forcibly returning Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs,       Kyrgyz, and other refugees and asylum seekers to the People's       Republic of China; 

       (9) a description, as appropriate, of United States       diplomatic efforts with allies and other nations-- 

       (A) to address the gross violations of human rights in       Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region; and 

       (B) to protect asylum seekers from the region; and 

       (10) the identification of the offices within the       Department of State that are responsible for leading and       coordinating the diplomatic efforts referred to in paragraph       (9).       SEC. 8. REPORT ON PROTECTING CITIZENS AND RESIDENTS OF THE                     UNITED STATES FROM INTIMIDATION AND COERCION.  

       Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of       this Act, the Director of the Federal Bureau of       Investigation, in consultation with the Secretary of State,       shall submit a report to the Committee on Foreign Relations       of the Senate, the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate,       the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the       Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives,       the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of       Representatives, and the Permanent Select Committee on       Intelligence of the House of Representatives that outlines       all of the efforts to protect United States citizens and       residents, including ethnic Uyghurs and Chinese nationals       legally studying or working temporarily in the United States,       who have experienced harassment or intimidation within the       United States by officials or agents of the Government of the       People's Republic of China.       SEC. 9. REPORT ON SECURITY AND ECONOMIC IMPLICATIONS OF                     REPRESSION IN XINJIANG UYGHUR AUTONOMOUS REGION                     BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF                     CHINA.  

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Director of National       Intelligence, in coordination with the Secretary of State,       shall submit a report to the Committee on Foreign Relations       of the Senate, the Select Committee on Intelligence of the       Senate, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of       Representatives, and the Permanent Select Committee on       Intelligence of the House of Representatives on the matters       described in subsection (b). 

       (b) Matters to Be Included.-- The report required under       subsection (a) shall include-- 

       (1) an assessment of the national and regional security       threats posed to the United States by the policies of the       Government of the People's Republic of China in Xinjiang       Uyghur Autonomous Region; 

       (2) a description of-- 

       (A) the acquisition or development of technology by the       Government of the People's Republic of China to facilitate       internment and mass surveillance in Xinjiang Uyghur       Autonomous Region, including technology related to predictive       policing and large-scale data collection and analysis; and 

       (B) the threats that the acquisition, development, and use       of such technologies pose to the United States; 

       (3) a list of Chinese companies that are involved in-- 

       (A) constructing or operating the internment camps in       Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region; or 

       (B) providing or operating mass surveillance technology in       Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region; and 

       (4) a description of the role of the Xinjiang Production       and Construction Corps in internment and forced labor in       Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region. 

       (c) Form of Report.--The report required under subsection       (a) shall be submitted in an unclassified form, but may       contain a classified annex.       SEC. 10. CLASSIFIED REPORT.  

       The Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with       such elements of the Intelligence Community as the Director       deems appropriate, shall submit a classified report to the       Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the       Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of       Representatives that assesses the ability of the United       States Government to collect and analyze intelligence       regarding-- 

       (1) the scope and scale of the detention and forced labor       of Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, and members of other       Muslim minority groups in the People's Republic of China; 

       (2) the gross violations of human rights perpetrated inside       the internment camps in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region;       and 

       (3) other policies of the Government of the People's       Republic of China in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region that       constitute gross violations of human rights.                                  ______                                   

      By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Cornyn, and Ms. Harris): 

  S. 3746. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to include  certain employment as a health care practitioner as eligible for public  service loan forgiveness, and for other purposes; to the Committee on  Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT