Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, before the Senator from Oklahoma leaves  the floor, may I ask a question of him? 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARPER. To my colleague James Lankford, who keeps a tab on his  colleagues, do you know if any of our colleagues today is celebrating a  birthday?      

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARPER. What are his initials? 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARPER. Tom Cotton. One of the TCs. We lost a really good TC, Tom  Coburn, whom Senator Lankford knows passed away about a month and a  half ago. It was a great loss to our country, to his State, and someone  whom we will always celebrate here and revere for his dedication and  his commitment and the example he set for all of us. 

  We are glad the Presiding Officer is alive and well. I am going to  ask him if I can proceed with my comments. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I rise today following Senator Lankford. I  want to say a thing or two about Senator Lankford, who is good friend,  good colleague. We sit together in committee. In fact, he succeeded Tom  Coburn in the U.S. Senate. When Tom Coburn was leaving, he said: I am  leaving, but you are getting somebody better than me, and his name is  James Lankford. I don't know if he is any better, but he is a worthy  successor. It is a privilege to serve with the Senator. I think he  knows that. 

  I spend a lot of my time here trying to find ways not where we differ  or disagree but areas where we can agree. I like to say that sometimes  we may not see eye to eye on every single policy, but we ought to agree  on the principles. Among the principles as we approach 4.0--the next  major legislation dealing with this crisis--I hope one of the  principles we can agree on is if State and local governments are having  massive losses of revenue that are attributable to this coronavirus  crisis, then they deserve help in terms of replacing lost revenue. 

  I will give you a couple of examples. Delaware Transportation Trust  Fund--we get a lot of revenues from tolls, and I am told by our  Secretary of Transportation that our toll revenue is down by over 50  percent. Gasoline sales and moneys that we derive from motor fuel taxes  are also down, as I recall, by more than 50 percent. 

  It is not just Delaware, as we try to build our roads, highways, and  bridges throughout the country and rebuild our infrastructure, improve  our service transportation infrastructure, but States across the  country are getting not just whacked but really destroyed with respect  to our ability to continue our transportation infrastructure programs  as well. I think that is an area that we ought to be able to agree on. 

  The folks at Moody's every month gives us an update on how States are  doing--the revenue stream, their spending stream--so we have an idea to  compare this May to last May, maybe this past April to last April, and  to actually see where the revenue loss is occurring and for us to do  something about that. I think we can find agreement there. 

  Another area we can find agreement on is when folks in States and  local governments are incurring costs that directly relate to the  pandemic--healthcare providers, the doctors and nurses, folks who are  like orderlies and all kinds of folks who are in nursing homes, in the  trenches. Public health, first responders, firefighters, EMTs are doing  that kind of work, and States are spending a lot more money to help put  them out on the streets and in nursing homes doing the job. We have an  obligation to help States and local governments to deal with those. 

  Another thing I hope we will do is focus on training and retraining  programs. Unfortunately, too many businesses that are closed now will  not reopen. There are a lot of people who have skills that made them  employable to existing businesses that are no longer in existence. We  need to be focused on the jobs that are out there that need to be  filled and people need to be trained in. Why don't we focus our  retraining dollars, Federal dollars, and marry those up with State  dollars to address that need? 

  Those are just a couple of ideas that I think we need to focus on. I  hope we will work with the Governors and work with State and local  officials, including mayors and county executives, and find common  ground. I think there is plenty of common ground. I look forward to  working with Democrats and Republicans alike here and across the  country to identify that. 

  I say that as a recovering Governor, who was once privileged to lead  the National Governors Association. My hope is we can work closely with  them, bipartisan leadership there. If we can't do that, shame on us. I  think we can. 

  That is not why I came to the floor. I didn't come here to join  Senator Lankford in celebrating your birthday. Now that I am here, I am  happy to note it and salute that                         Immigrant Healthcare Heroes  

  Mr. President, I came today to honor the immigrant healthcare heroes  on the frontlines in this battle against coronavirus. I want to begin  by thanking our majority whip, Dick Durbin, a senior citizen. Don't  tell him I said that. His staff is right here on the floor. The senior  Senator from Illinois, he and I came to the House together a million  years ago, in 1982. Maybe someday he will be a senior citizen as well.  I want to thank him--all kidding aside--for leading the charge and  bringing much deserved recognition for this extra group of Americans. 

  Across this country of ours, every day there are doctors, there are  nurses, there are medical support staff, there are healthcare workers,  caretakers, and others who are getting up every day, leaving their own  families and going to work on behalf of members of other families. Too  often, these men and women are doing so at great personal risk to their  own health and, as it turns out, to the health of the ones they love. 

  Despite the grave risks to themselves, these heroes and heroines are  undeterred. Day in and day out, week in and week out they continue to  serve others and continue to demonstrate, by their own courage, what  leadership by example is all about. For that, we are deeply grateful. 

  Something that most Americans may not know is that one in six  healthcare and social service workers--one in six--in this country are  immigrants. When you add them all up, that is 3.1 million people who  have chosen to make the United States their home and are giving back to  their country, this country now, in profound ways. They are not a  number. They are not a statistic. They are caring, courageous members  of our own communities and of their own communities. 

  Over the last 3\1/2\ years--and even before that on the campaign  trail--we heard Donald Trump and many other people around him demonize  immigrants. He has used fearmongering to claim that immigrants and  Dreamers--the young people here when they were kids, maybe younger than  kids--the President spent a lot of time fearmongering to claim that  those immigrants and Dreamers are going to take all of our jobs away.  That just isn't true. 

  I know a bunch of those Dreamers. A lot of them are students at  Delaware State University. They are students, young people, whom any  parent would be proud to claim as their own. They are some of the  finest young people I have met here or anyplace around the world. 

  While many Americans are rightly following stay-at-home orders, these  men and women are often putting their own health and safety at risk to  do some of the most critical jobs every day. I believe it is important  that we recognize these immigrant healthcare heroes who are playing a  truly critical role in the fight to protect their fellow Americans. 

  I mentioned a minute ago that there are 3.1 million healthcare and  social service workers in our country. Today, I want to highlight the  story of one of them. Her name is Cesarina Ramirez. She is standing  right here over my left shoulder. She is a nurse. She is a nurse at one  of Delaware's federally qualified community health centers. It is  called Westside Family Healthcare. We only have three counties in  Delaware. They are in Northern Delaware, New Castle County, where two- thirds of our residents live, and also in Kent County, which is where  Dover is, the capital of our State, and Dover Air Force Base, the  finest Air Force base in the world. Westside Family Care, like the  nearly 1,400 federally qualified community health centers across the  country, helps to deliver quality, primary care  services in underserved areas every day. Every day--without a lot of  fanfare or acclaim--they do what my mother used to call the Lord's  work. That is what she used to call it, the Lord's work. 

  Cesarina and her colleagues in Wilmington have been serving our  community throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. I want to take the next  several minutes to share with my colleagues and the American people a  part of her story, why she became a healthcare worker and why she  continues this work now, serving a largely--but not entirely--Spanish- speaking population, even during the hardest of times like the times we  are living in today. 

  What I am going to do in the next several minutes is share with you  Cesarina's story. It is not in my words; it is in her words. This is  what she looks like. She works in Wilmington, DE, not that far from  where my wife and I live. I probably met her a time or two. I didn't  recognize her because she had her mask on here today. Delaware is a  little State, so you meet just about everybody. Here is her story--in  her words.  

       My name is Cesarina Ramirez, and I was born in the       Dominican Republic. 

       My family came to the United States when I was seven years       old, and I'm the oldest out of my 3 siblings. My father was a       doctor in the Dominican Republic and my mother was a teacher. 

       As my dad got older and started his family, he couldn't       help but notice all the corruption and crime that there was       in Dominican Republic. He wanted the American dream for his       kids.  

  As did his wife.  

       So, he decided to leave everything behind and move to the       land of opportunities: the United States of America. 

       My dad became a taxi driver. He was working overnight while       going to school in the mornings. After 3 years of hard work,       he graduated with an Associate's Degree in Radiology. 

       Both of my parents are deceased now, but their courage and       work ethic live on in each [of] their children. My siblings       and I could not be more grateful for their unselfish decision       they made for us. I have been working for 10 years at       Westside Family Healthcare, where I'm a team medical nurse. I       educate patients about medical conditions to help them       identify lifestyle changes that can benefit their overall       health and goals The one thing that I love the most about my       job is that I'm able to make a difference in someone       else's life.  

  As the years passed, I quickly learned about the Spanish  interpretation among our patient population. As a Hispanic and with  Spanish being my first language, I recognize that sometimes it is  easier for a patient to speak in their native language when it comes to  medical concerns. I like that I can be the voice of the patient, and  their number one advocate.  

       I have observed instances of patients receiving care from a       provider that has the same cultural background and speaks the       same language, resulting in positive health care outcomes. In       these cases, the patients appear relaxed, are willing to ask       necessary questions to obtain knowledge and there is a mutual       understanding of goals and plans to improve patient care. 

       Taking care of patients is a privilege.  

  I think it is a privilege to serve the people of Delaware and our  country. She feels that way about her patients.  

       Looking at the difference in the amount of help that can be       provided to the community has truly been an inspiration to       work hard and try to be the best nurse I could be.  

  That is the end, if you will, of what she has said. I wanted to share  that with all of you today. 

  I don't know if Cesarina will see these proceedings or hear my words  or hear her words through me, but I want to say thank you for that  message, Cesarina. Thank you for all you are doing to serve our  community in Delaware, even during these most difficult and challenging  times. The United States and the first State are more than lucky. We  are blessed that you are on our team in this fight against the  coronavirus. 

  To all the other immigrant healthcare heroes who are serving their  fellow Americans throughout this country--and to those who are  fortunate enough to have been born here and serve--we salute you. We  salute you. We thank you for looking out for the rest of us so that we  might enjoy the blessings of life, liberty, and the pursuit of  happiness. We are better for having you here among us. We appreciate  the lifesaving care you are providing for so many of us. 

  If you are out there hearing the sound of my voice and you are an  immigrant, a healthcare hero, or if you know someone who is, I would  encourage you to share your story with us on Twitter or Facebook. Just  use the hashtag ``immigrant healthcare hero.'' I am going to say that  again. Use the hashtag ``immigrant healthcare hero.'' We would love to  highlight your story and thank you as well. 

  I don't see anyone else waiting to salute you on your birthday and  commend you. Not seeing anyone, I will yield the floor. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARPER. My staff was nice enough to put this at the end of this  statement. I would get in trouble if I don't include it. 

  Once again, to Cesarina and all of her coworkers at Westside Family  Healthcare, as well as the many healthcare workers in Delaware and  America--throughout America--working on the frontlines of this pandemic  today and every day, we salute you. We are forever grateful for the  work you are doing to keep the rest of us safe and healthy. 

  As the Presiding Officer is a military veteran, Army, I am a veteran  as well, Navy, and the last Vietnam veteran serving in the Senate now  that we do not have John McCain. 

  I am not sure what they say in the Army when people are doing a good  job, but in the Navy we say two words, ``Bravo Zulu.'' That means  ``good going.'' In your case, grateful. Keep up the good work, Cesarina  and all the other viewers across our country, whether they be native- born Americans or folks who become Americans by choice. 

  Thank you for giving me that extra dispensation. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT