Fighting Dhs Immigration Raids


Ms. TOKUDA. Mr. Speaker, 80 years ago, over 120,000 Japanese  individuals were stripped of their rights and forced into barbed-wire  camps because of the way they looked and the language they spoke.

My great-grandfather, my GG, was one of them. He was taken from his  home on Maui and imprisoned not for anything that he had done but for  who he was. We said then, ``never again.'' Yet, here we are today.

Now, the very sites where Japanese-American families were  incarcerated have been reopened. Fort Bliss, a World War II internment  camp, is now the Nation's largest immigrant detention center.

To add insult to injury, the Trump administration is using the same  law, the Alien Enemies Act that was once used to imprison Japanese  Americans, to detain and fast track deportations, with zero due process  rights.

While this administration insists it is targeting dangerous  criminals, we know that more than 73 percent of those in ICE custody  have no criminal convictions at all.

This administration is also intentionally dismantling legal pathways  and stripping people of lawful status so they can be deported. We just  saw this on Kauai recently, where a raid that swept up 44 people ended  with six Venezuelan men--who were legally here seeking asylum--self- deporting after the administration revoked temporary protected status  for their country. To anyone who thinks this could never happen to me,  consider this: Two-thirds of the Japanese imprisoned in camps were  American citizens. Their children, like my grandfather, serving in the  United States military in defense of a country who saw them as the  enemy.

Today, American citizens are also being rounded up, once again,  stopped and detained, simply for the way they look, by officers who  face no accountability. United States military veterans are being  picked up, detained, and deported.

What we are witnessing is a slow methodical erosion of citizens'  rights and a cold indifference towards treating entire communities as  national security threats.

We are in the midst of history in the making, and history has already  shown us the dangers of what this country can do when given unchecked,  unfettered immigration authorities.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues on all sides of the aisle: How much  are we willing to tolerate before we say enough is enough?

Eighty years later, this Nation still reflects with shame at what it  did to our Japanese-American families. We apologized. We vowed to  learn. We vowed to do better, and we have failed.

``Never again.'' ``Nidoto nai.''