Protecting Education for Children with Disabilities


Ms. TOKUDA. Mr. Speaker, only 50 years ago, we made a promise as a  nation. When Congress passed the Individuals with Disabilities  Education Act, we affirmed a simple and profound truth: Every child, no  matter their disability or ability, has the right to a  free and appropriate public education; not as charity, not as an  afterthought, but as a civil right.

Let's be honest. That promise has never been self-executing. Making  IDEA real has required vigorous Federal oversight, strong civil rights  enforcement, litigation when necessary, strong parents who demand only  the best for their child, and a willingness to demand more--not less-- resources and accountability.

That is why the Trump administration's dismantling of the Department  of Education, the decimation of special education enforcement, and the  hollowing out of the Office for Civil Rights is so dangerous. This is  not reform. This is retreat. It will set public education back more  than 50 years.

In Hawaii, we know what happens when FAPE is treated as optional. The  Felix Consent Decree raised the alarm more than 30 years ago that we  were failing our children. We are the tenth largest school district in  the Nation. One in ten of our students have an IEP. Many live on our  neighbor islands in rural and remote communities, where even access to  services or reliable internet is a challenge. Federal enforcement is  not abstract to us. It is the difference between support and neglect.

The reality is, IDEA has also been an unfunded mandate. You have  heard it here today from my colleagues. The Federal Government once  promised to cover 40 percent of the cost. It has never met that  promise, never rising above 10 or 12 percent at best. Now, instead of  finally doing what we owe our children, our families, our communities,  this administration wants to walk away altogether.

I am a proud product of our public schools. I am a proud parent of  public school students, and I believe deeply that an injury to one is  an injury and insult to all.

The dismantling, defunding, destaffing, restructuring of the  Department of Education is death by a thousand cuts. If we allow this  to continue, if we walk back all the gains we have made as a result of  IDEA, it will leave all our children behind.

We must not, cannot let this happen, and I assure you, all of us here  today on this floor will stand in the way of the destruction of the  Department of Education and the demise of the Individuals with  Disabilities Education Act.