Risk of Conflict with Nuclear Weapons


Ms. TOKUDA. Mr. Speaker, I rise to join my colleagues and reinforce  their warning and urgent call to action.

Mr. Speaker, today, we stand at a crossroads. The world is once again  drifting toward a future where nuclear weapons are not just tools of  deterrence but urgent threats hanging over every human life.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot afford to look away, not when the lessons of  the past are still very visible amongst us. Look to the people of the  Marshall Islands. Many of them are living in my district, part of our  Hawaii ohana, whose lands became sacrifice zones in the name of power.  Entire communities were displaced, and generations were scarred by  radiation. The Bikini Atoll, once a paradise, became a proving ground  for devastation.

These are not just theoretical consequences, lines on paper,  assumptions, and equations. They were real, and they are very real  still.

The United States and its allies conducted 318 nuclear tests in the  Pacific islands. The people who lived on the islands lost their  ancestral homes, now uninhabitable, and the people who were exposed to  fallout were immediately sickened with ongoing, long-term impacts for  human health, including increased rates of birth defects, genetic  disorders, and secondary cancers.

The nuclear age taught us that while bombs may drop in seconds, their  impact crosses centuries and generations, and now, instead of learning  from history and learning from the mistakes of our past, we are poised  to repeat it with greater risk, fewer safeguards, and far more at  stake.

Today, the United States, Russia, and China inched closer to an  unrestrained three-way arms race as we collectively spend well over $1  trillion on updated and new nuclear warheads and means of delivery.  Just one of these programs, as was mentioned, the Sentinel  intercontinental ballistic missile, will cost $141 billion according to  the Department of Defense.

Keep in mind, Mr. Speaker, that is not even the bottom line. Their  cost estimates keep growing and growing. A new arms race is a race with  no finish line. Let us be clear: There are no winners, only losers in  this race.

It doesn't have to be this way.

We must urgently renew and expand nuclear arms control treaties with  both Russia and with China. The path to security lies not in new  warheads or Golden Domes but in dialogue, transparency, and mutual  restraint. We must invest as much into diplomacy and prevention as we  do into silos and interceptors.

Let us be clear. All it takes is one bomb, one miscalculation, and  one moment of madness, and everything--everything--will end.

The clock is ticking, but the future is still ours to shape. Let us  choose wisdom over fear, peace over peril, and life over annihilation.

Mahalo to my colleague, Congressman McGovern, for organizing this  Special Order hour.

I ask on August 6 and August 9, let us take a moment to pause and  remember we do have a choice.