Stop Trump's Chaos--Stand Up for Science


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691391/stop-trumps-chaos-stand-up-for-science


Mr. WHITESIDES. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Stevens for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, my name is George Whitesides, and I represent  California's 27th Congressional District.

Before I was a Member of Congress, I served as the Chief of Staff of  NASA and later as the CEO of an aerospace company that created hundreds  of well-paying jobs in the Antelope Valley. I have a degree in remote  sensing with GIS. I grew up in a science family. My dad is a chemist  and a professor. I have worked on new and innovative ways to tackle our  wildfire crisis, a growing threat that the people I represent know all  too well.

I know from firsthand experience that the United States is home to  the smartest, most hardworking, and most impressive minds of our time  who have dedicated their lives to helping families across the country  fight deadly diseases, predict and prevent natural disasters before  they hit, and mount a challenge against our foreign rivals like China.

However, we can't continue this important work without our scientific  institutions.

Recently, our biggest scientific agencies have come under a full- scale attack with the administration's proposed budget effectively  annihilating the very science that keeps us safe. Programs that  previously had broad, bipartisan support, such as the Army Corps of  Engineers water infrastructure fund, EPA's drinking water and clean  water funds for States, forestry operations, energy utility assistance  for low-income households, science and technology programs, and  agricultural support are all on the chopping block.

At NASA, satellites that allow us to understand weather patterns,  monitor our changing climate, and track fires as they move and spread  are at risk of being deorbited. Employees in my home district who work  at NASA Armstrong and JPL have no idea what their futures hold.

NOAA, an organization that helps families across the country prepare  for natural disasters like hurricanes and tornadoes, is being gutted  from the ground up.

The NIH, which works on groundbreaking cures for diseases like  cancer, Alzheimer's, and heart disease, has supplied significantly  fewer grants and awards to scientists than in previous administrations,  effectively halting our work on critical medical advances.

From February to April, the administration terminated nearly 700  grants across 24 NIH institutes and centers focused on subjects such as  aging, cancer, child health, diabetes, mental health, and neurological  disorders.

We are not only losing the promise of progress and cures and climate  technology, we are losing critical data that allow us to better  understand the world we live in and respond to growing threats that we  face, both foreign and domestic.

That is why today I led my colleagues with similar scientific  backgrounds to let the administration know exactly what will happen to  our Nation if they gut these science agencies. A letter was sent to the  President drawing on our diverse backgrounds and constituencies to let  him know exactly why science is a good investment for the future of our  children and for our country.

Make no mistake, we can always be better and more efficient, and  these are ideals that we should all strive for. These are ideals that  Americans fairly demand from their government, and we should all be  working toward that challenge.

When I helped lead NASA for President Obama, we constantly iterated  and improved our existing systems because we knew how important it was  to stretch the taxpayer dollar as far as it can go.

Taking a sledgehammer and a chain saw to entire institutions that  allow us to stay safe and also remain competitive on the global scale  is not only unwise, it is dangerous.

The bottom line is that science is an incredible investment for jobs  today and for the future of our country.

I am going to keep fighting for the families across my district who  need NASA satellites to know if their houses are going to be safe from  fires, for seniors who need medical advancements to live long and  healthy lives, and for red States and blue States that will be hit by  tornadoes and hurricanes in the months and years to come.

I am here to stand up for families in my district and across the  country who will be less safe and more at risk as a result of these  cuts. I am here as an innovator and entrepreneur to stand up for  science.