Recognizing Colonel John Peyton Swain


Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Colonel John  Peyton Swain of the Civil Air Patrol, the U.S. Air Force Auxiliary. He  is an inspiration in the world of public service, whose legacy spans  more than 60 years of volunteerism and defense of our Nation's  airspace, development of youth, and civic readiness.

As Civil Air Patrol's first director of government relations, Colonel  Swain reestablished its presence in Washington after a 50-year absence.  His legislative strategy more than doubled its Federal funding, built  trusted bipartisan relationships on the Hill, and led the successful  effort to award Civil Air Patrol the Congressional Gold Medal in honor  of its World War II service.

Colonel Swain's lifelong commitment from cadet to congressional  liaison made Civil Air Patrol stronger, more visible, and better  equipped to serve the Nation.

I have been proud to work with Colonel Swain to fight for Civil Air  Patrol funding throughout my time in Congress and thank him for his  service.

I am also thankful that my son, Trey, who now serves as a major in  the United States Marine Corps, was inspired to answer the call to  serve after his experience as a cadet in the Civil Air Patrol.

I extend my deepest gratitude to Colonel Swain for his service and  congratulate him on his retirement. Without his strategic vision and  leadership, Civil Air Patrol would not be the venerable organization  that it is today.             Honoring Late U.S. Air Force Veteran Rick N. Parsons

Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the late United  States Air Force veteran Rick N. Parsons for his remarkable service to  our country.

Rick grew up in Lyndonville, New York, a small town in Orleans  County. After graduating from Lyndonville High School in 1962, he  proceeded to enroll in the United States Air Force Academy.

After graduating from the Academy and marrying his high school  sweetheart, Nancy, he went on to serve 26 years in the United States  Air Force.

During his tenure, Rick would become the commander of the 32nd  Tactical Fighter Squadron Wolfhounds, later the 33rd Tactical Fighter  Wing. However, his most notable accomplishment came on February 7,  1991, when he downed an SU-7/17, becoming the only wing commander to  record an aerial victory during Operation Desert Storm.

His life of service included two tours in Vietnam, one tour in Saudi  Arabia, and he logged over 5,000 hours of flight time. Rick earned the  rank of colonel in the United States Air Force.

Rick went on to lead another successful career as a financial adviser  in Monument, Colorado. He often enjoyed spending time with his fellow  1966 Academy graduates and cheering on his grandchildren, whether they  were performing in a play or competing in sports.

Sadly, in 2021, Rick passed away with his wife, Nancy, by his side.  On the Fourth of July, the town of Lyndonville recognized Rick at its  annual Independence Day parade, expressing gratitude for its native son  for his legacy of service, valor, and leadership.

It is an honor and wholly appropriate to recognize Rick's exceptional  service and devotion to our great Nation.            Recognizing New York State Senator Tarky Lombardi, Jr.

Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the life and  legacy of my dear friend Senator Tarky Lombardi, Jr., who passed away  on November 24, 2024.

Tarky Lombardi leaves behind five children; eight grandchildren; and  his wife, Marianne, whom he happily was married to for over 66 years;  as well as a profound legacy in service to the State of New York and  our country.

His wonderful grandson, Mark Fogelson, also served as an intern in my  office.

After earning a law degree from Syracuse University and serving in  the United States Army, Tarky returned to New York, dedicating his life  to public service, including 27 years in the New York State Senate,  where he represented the 49th District.

Senator Lombardi earned a national reputation for his accomplishments  in the health field, including spearheading the Nursing Home Without  Walls Program, a first-of-its-kind program that was so transformative  that it was replicated in so many other States.

Lombardi was also devoted to his alma mater, Syracuse University, and  was pivotal in working with the Governor of New York to facilitate the  construction of the Carrier Dome. Tarky was so tenacious. Without his  advocacy, the dome would never have been built.

Tarky was a one-of-a-kind member of the Greatest Generation. He loved  our State and our country. He was a unifying force in the State  legislature, always bringing together members of both sides of the  aisle for dinners in the legacy of Reagan and O'Neill in that wonderful  tradition.

I congratulate Tarky's family and so many who have done so much to  help our region, upstate New York, and Syracuse University, and all of  the wonderful legacies of everyone who lives in the region and everyone  from the State of New York.

Tarky was a dear friend, and he is so missed by many of us, including  me. We love his family, and we are grateful to him.                        Birthday Wishes To Trey Tenney

Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I wish a happy birthday to my son, Trey,  today, and congratulate him for being a major in the Marine Corps.