Agricultural Risk Review Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692798/agricultural-risk-review-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1713, the Agricultural Risk  Review Act of 2025, sponsored by Representative Lucas.

H.R. 1713 aims to add the Secretary of Agriculture as a member of the  Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, also known as  CFIUS, when there is an agriculture-related issue. Recognizing the  importance of safe food and of national security involving agriculture,  H.R. 1713 also requires CFIUS to determine whether a national security  review is necessary upon notification from the Secretary of Agriculture  that an agricultural land transaction could somehow affect national  security.

I do not want to add my voice to what I regard as alarmist voices  talking about: Oh, my God, foreign interests, maybe even China, will  buy American land. Keep in mind that we need investment in the United  States.

When the Chinese buy a high-tech company, they can take that  technology that is acquired back to China. When they buy farmland, they  can't take the land back to China, and they can't take the food back to  China unless we decide to let them. Of course, the President could step  in in any kind of national emergency and prevent that.

There is discussion that the Chinese will buy a farm near, a couple  miles away from the main entrance to a military base, but, of course,  they could also park a car next to the military base. They can be in an  Airbnb next to the military base. They could rent a farm. I don't think  that the purchase of farmland poses the risks that are being overblown.  I don't think China can ship our topsoil back to China nor do I think  that China can deprive Americans of the ability to eat American food.

H.R. 1713 addresses these concerns, the concerns that people do have,  by providing a path for the Secretary of Agriculture to notify CFIUS  when those transactions, in the opinion of the Secretary of  Agriculture, do pose a threat or at least a concern.

This bill is identical to what Congress passed in 2024, but that was  in an appropriations bill. Passing it again will make sure that we make  this part of permanent statute.

When we focus on the security of our agriculture, we should also note  that arbitrary cuts are being made that will affect directly the  poorest families in our country, particularly cutbacks to the SNAP  program that provides safe nutrition to families that might otherwise  go hungry.

We also noticed that the DOGE effort of Elon Musk, who apparently  fortunately has returned most of his attention to his private  businesses, not only illegally cut millions of dollars from U.S.  Department of Agriculture activities but would deprive the Department  of Agriculture with the expertise necessary to carry out this bill, and  of  course, deprives the USDA of the staff it needs to prevent the spread  of food-borne disease.

Finally, I think the withdrawal of the United States from the World  Health Organization and illegally ending American food programs also  exposes the entire world and ultimately the United States to  substantial risks. Remember that when somebody suffers from a disease  abroad, that gives a chance for the disease to replicate, mutate, and  then migrate back to the United States.

I feel that H.R. 1713 does improve CFIUS. I urge my Republican  colleagues also to work to protect SNAP, the USDA, and our efforts at  global health. I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

This bill, H.R. 1713, encourages more permanent, coordinated  communications between those who focus on agriculture and our national  security experts at CFIUS.

I commend the gentleman from Oklahoma for his work on the committee  on so many different issues. I urge my Republican colleagues not only  to support this bill but to support the activities of the Department of  Agriculture, including SNAP, food inspections, and other efforts  designed to make sure that our food supply is safe, available, and  secure.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.