Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Defining Larger Participants of A Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment Applications''


Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, we are here to deal with two regulations,  the first dealing with payment systems, and the second dealing with  overdraft protection. In both cases, I came here for the entertainment  value to watch Republican after Republican tell us how much the  majority doesn't trust the Trump administration. It is as if Trump  doesn't control the CFPB.

Mr. Speaker, the regulation we are considering now is just a  regulation that says that this is an area we are going to look at.  Republicans are afraid the Trump administration will look at it. It  doesn't do anything except begin a process.

Mr. Speaker, as to both of these CRAs, the effect is not only to  erase what was done under the Biden administration but prohibit the new  administration from adopting any consumer protection. That is because  my colleagues on the other side of the aisle want zero consumer  protection and the Trump administration to have an excuse.

The excuse is: Congress passed the CRA. We are prohibited from  writing a regulation in that area.

The Republican administration could rewrite these rules. Congress  could overwrite these rules. Instead, we are erasing the rules and  prohibiting other rules from being there.

Mr. Speaker, I spent this morning being told that we need to have  cryptocurrency because it is going to be this great payment system and,  for some reason, the payment systems that use U.S. dollars aren't good.  Now I am here on the floor being told that Venmo and its competitors  are so wonderful that there should be absolutely no regulation.

On the one hand, we have to create a new currency for drug dealers,  and, on the other hand, the current system using the U.S. dollar  shouldn't even be regulated because it is perfect.

Why do we need to regulate here? First, to prevent excessive fees;  second, to prevent deception; but, third--and this is obvious--to  prevent the loss of consumer money.

Venmo is holding $7 billion of consumers' money. If you have a tiny  bank that is one-tenth or one-hundredth the size of Venmo, you have to  make sure that you have reserves. You can't take the money to the horse  races. Yet, Venmo can do anything with the money. If they lose the $7  billion, you as a consumer are out of luck, and Trump can say: It  wasn't my fault because Congress prohibited us from having prudential  regulations.

If an entity in the transactions business is going to hold $7 billion  of consumers' money, shouldn't we at least make sure that the money is  still there, and shouldn't we make sure that they don't engage in  Botswana currency swaps and others with the highest risk transactions  they can find to perhaps make a lot of money or lose all of the  consumers' money. Heads, I win. Tails, the consumers lose.

Mr. Speaker, I will take 1 minute or 2 to talk about the other  regulation because, after Members vote against the first of these  resolutions, you are going to feel so good that you are going to want  to vote against the second one.

This is the one that limits overdraft fees to $5 for the big banks,  the 175 biggest banks, or they can charge what their actual cost is if  it is more than $5. It requires disclosure of what these overdraft fees  are going to be.

It will save American consumers $6.1 billion every year. If we are  concerned about inflation, why shouldn't we tell the banks that  overdraft is not a profit center? They can recover their costs or maybe  a little bit more, but they don't turn to the consumer and say: You  were so dumb that you had an overdraft, so we are going to hit you with  a wild fee.

Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, do not vote to prohibit regulation of  payment systems. Do not vote to prohibit limitations on overdraft  protection. Do not vote to allow $6.1 billion to be transferred from  constituents to the biggest banks in the country. Vote ``no,'' and then  vote ``no'' again.