Encouraging Local Emerging Ventures and Economic Growth Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692760/encouraging-local-emerging-ventures-and-economic-growth-act-of-2025


This bill illustrates what I said earlier today, that the most  fascinating issues are those that involve accounting and auditing.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3301, the ELEVATE Act of 2025,  sponsored by the gentlewoman from Iowa (Mr. Nunn).

Emerging growth companies, also known as EGCs, are a special type of  public company that we created during the bipartisan JOBS Act of 2012.  Unlike full-fledged public companies, EGCs only need to provide 2 years  of audited financials when they conduct their initial public offering,  also known as an IPO.

Despite this special 2-year accommodation, there are some instances  where an EGC, emerging growth company, is still required to provide 3  years of financials, still required under present law. One such  instance is when the EGC conducts a spinoff, which is a transaction in  which one company creates a new, independent company by selling new  shares of its existing business. So the one company becomes two  separate companies through a spinoff transaction.

Mr. Nunn's bill reduces this obligation for EGC spinoffs to 2 years.  That is only 2 years of audited financials, keeping in line with what  is required when the EGC itself goes public.

In doing so, this bill streamlines the financial disclosure  obligations for emerging growth companies across the board making it  easier for them to raise capital from the public.

I commend the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. Nunn) on this bill. I urge my  colleagues to support the ELEVATE Act of 2025, which would streamline  accounting disclosure requirements and auditing requirements for  emerging growth companies, also known as EGCs, so those EGCs only need  to provide 2 years of audited financial statements across the board.

Like other bills that Democrats and Republicans have come to  bipartisan agreement on, this bill balances the concern of those trying  to raise capital while also maintaining disclosures and financial  transparency that benefit and protect investors and thereby protect our  capital markets, which so many speakers have pointed out are the envy  of the world.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bill, and I  yield back the balance of my time.