Encouraging Public Offerings Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3381, the Encouraging  Public Offerings Act of 2025, sponsored by the chair of the relevant  subcommittee, the Capital Markets Subcommittee, that being the  gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. Wagner). I commend her for her bill and  her work in general on these issues.

This bill codifies an SEC rule that allows any issuer to submit a  confidential draft of the registration statement for review by the SEC  staff. In doing so, it allows companies seeking to access public  markets more time to carefully draft their registration statements  under SEC's guidance without needing to worry about the contents of  their registration statement being made public before they have had a  chance to cross all their t's and dot all their i's.

Mrs. Wagner's bill also codifies a 2019 SEC rulemaking that allows  any issuer to test the waters before going public, which would allow  any issuer to gauge institutional investor interest in their offering  without first needing to file a registration statement with the SEC.

Overall, this makes it easier for companies to access our capital  markets and to go public.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill. I think it is important  that we encourage companies to go public both so that they can get the  capital they need to expand their business and so that any person has a  chance to invest in these businesses and diversify their own portfolio.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 3381, the Encouraging  Public Offerings Act of 2025 sponsored by the chair of our  subcommittee, the gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. Wagner), which would  allow issuers to take advantage of confidential draft registration  statements that are currently available only to EGCs. It also makes it  easier for companies to have access to capital by giving them the  ability to gauge interest from institutional investors without added  regulatory requirements of registration.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.