Fair Investment Opportunities for Professional Experts Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692775/fair-investment-opportunities-for-professional-experts-act


Mr. Speaker, I want to commend the gentlewoman from Missouri for all  of her work chairing the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, but,  particularly, for the hearings that we have had on this bill. I look  forward to working with her on this subcommittee for many years to  come.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3394, the Fair Investment  Opportunities for Professional Experts Act, offered by my friend and  Financial Services Committee chair, French Hill. This bill is the first  step in what I hope will be an effort to reform the definition of  ``accredited investor.'' This bill moves us to add to that definition  by noting that certain experience, licenses, and education can, indeed,  make one an accredited investor.

At the same time, I will point out that our definition of  ``accredited investor'' was, I think, wrongfully decided that we should  just focus on whoever is rich, then defined people as rich based on  1983 numbers. While $1 million may have made you rich then, Mr.  Speaker, it does not mean that you are rich today.

I rise in support of this bill. The accredited investor framework has  long protected the general public from investing in high-risk, illiquid  private securities. Unlike our public capital markets, in the private  capital markets, companies don't provide anywhere near the same  financial and other disclosures to investors. There are not the same  legal protections for investors either, nor is there the same ability  of the SEC or the State securities regulators to police these markets.

When the accredited investor framework was first being debated,  accredited investors were thought to be those who possess an intimate  understanding and knowledge of the risks inherent in investing in  private securities. These risks include heightened volatility, less  transparency, difficulty obtaining accurate pricing, long lockup  periods, and limited liquidity.

Ultimately, industry argued for a simpler approach, so the SEC  adopted the current definition, which is based around income and  wealth. Today, to be an accredited investor, the investor must have a  net worth, either individually or, with spouse, exceeding $1 million  excluding the value of their home, or they must make more than $200,000  a year or $300,000 with a spouse.

Those were definitions applicable in 1983 that may not have defined  those with the requisite knowledge, but at least defined those who were  high-income, high-net worth individuals. Of course, certain  professional certifications or designations such as being an investment  adviser could also qualify a person under the existing rules.

The wealth and income thresholds, as I have said several times, were  set back in 1983. Back then, roughly 2 percent of all Americans were  considered accredited investors. As of 2023, that number had risen to  20 percent. Clearly either the standard was wrong in 1983 or it is  wrong now, because it is an entirely different level of real wealth and  real income.

Mr. Hill's bill aims to return back to the original concept of  accredited investor, which is that investors in private offerings  should be fully aware and knowledgeable of the risks involved.

As my friend and ranking member of the Financial Services Committee,  Ms. Waters, has said during our markup of this bill:

Just because you have $1 million doesn't mean you       understand the complexities of the private markets. On the       other hand, you shouldn't be prohibited from investing in       products if you have full knowledge of the risks involved but       don't happen to have $1 million.

I would add to that that our definition of ``accredited investors,''  when we are done improving it, and this bill is an important step  toward improving it, should focus on what percentage of net worth a  person is investing in the particular private offering or private  offerings in general.

That is because one may be accredited to invest 5 or 10 percent of  their net worth, but when you start betting the mortgage payments on  one private investment, Mr. Speaker, then that is where our definition  of ``accredited investor'' should protect you from that. So there  should be diversification and limitation on the amount that an  accredited investor can invest in any one or in all private offerings.

Nonetheless, that is for a different bill. This bill simply makes one  important improvement in our definition of ``accredited investor.''

It is critical for the SEC to revise and update the accredited  investor definition to protect those who don't possess the proper  knowledge or information about the risks of private unregistered  securities. Mr. Hill's bill moves us in the right direction by  indicating that certain credentials, such as someone with a master's in  business administration, an MBA, or a FINRA certification, for example,  should be deemed accredited without needing to meet income or wealth  requirements. It also  reconfirms Congress' mandate to the SEC that it must adjust the wealth  and income thresholds to account for inflation. This is the right  balance.

I look forward to passing this bill, and I look forward to our  subcommittee and the full committee making other changes in the  definition of ``accredited investor.''

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no speakers on my side, and I yield  myself the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of Chairman Hill's bill, H.R. 3394.  This bill will improve the definition of ``accredited investor.''

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote, and I yield back the balance of  my time.