Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693831/guiding-and-establishing-national-innovation-for-us-stablecoins-act


Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is customary, when we consider major  legislation, to give credit to those who created the bill. The ghost of  Sam Bankman-Fried looms above this auditorium. He is the genius behind  this GENIUS Act, and one can only hope that he is able to watch C-SPAN  on a black-and-white television set in his prison cell.

You don't have to be a genius to know that this bill is an attack on  working families. That is why the AFL-CIO says no, and they are scoring  it.

They call it stablecoin. It is not stable. It is not a coin. It is a  money market account that, under this law, must pay zero percent  interest. Who wants to forgo a 4 percent rate of return and get a zero  percent return in stablecoin? Those who are desperate for what  cryptocurrency offers.

Cryptocurrency literally means hidden money, and these stablecoins  are exempt from the anti-money laundering provisions. Thus, it meets  the needs perfectly of drug dealers, human traffickers, sanctions  evaders, those who are hiding assets from their former spouses, and tax  evaders.

Just to be clear, the Republicans rejected unanimously in committee a  provision to prevent mixers. Mixers are devices whose sole purpose is  to defeat even top law enforcement efforts pursuant to a warrant, and  under this bill mixers will be used to defeat law enforcement.

Republicans claim to be against crime in the streets, but they are  creating a device whose sole purpose is to facilitate crime in the  suites.

Page 43 of this bill contains a provision maintaining the eligibility  of stablecoins for bailouts under a facility created under section  13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act. Now, Jerome Powell won't bail out  stablecoin, but the next guy will.

Stablecoin marketers are going to tell investors that if they ever  have a problem they are going to get bailed out. After all, crypto has  all the power in Congress because it is the number one source of super- PAC independent expenditures. Last year, crypto did more super-PAC  expenditures than Big Oil and Big Pharma times five.

This bill is designed to enrich President Donald Trump. Even Richard  Nixon never thought of printing up baskets of Monopoly money and  selling them for cash. Trump thought of it, and he is doing it  electronically.

Abu Dhabi has announced they are investing $2 billion in Trump  stablecoin, $2 billion in Trump's hands where he has to pay nothing,  zero percent, on the loan. He invests the money, makes $2 million a  week, up until Abu Dhabi demands its money back, which they are never  going to do as long as our foreign policy meets the needs of Abu Dhabi.

Republicans rejected unanimously an amendment to prevent taxpayer  money from being used to buy crypto. If you are voting for this bill,  you are voting for taxpayer money to go into buying Trump coin.