Increasing Investor Opportunities Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697831/increasing-investor-opportunities-act


Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of the Access to  Small Business Investor Capital Act, Section 302 of H.R. 3383 the  Increasing Investor Opportunities Act or the INVEST Act. Section 302 of  the INVEST Act is identical to my bill H.R. 2225 the Access to Small  Business Investor Capital Act, which passed the House of  Representatives in June. I want to first thank Ranking Member Waters  for her tireless work to protect investors as well as Chairman Hill and  Chairwoman Wagner for including my bill in this larger capital markets  package. I also want to thank Reps. Huizenga, Bynum, and Garbarino for  joining me as co-leads on this important piece of legislation.

The bipartisan Access to Small Business Investor Capital Act makes a  narrow technical correction to a federal securities rule that has had  major unintended consequences over the last two decades.

In 1980, Congress created Business Development Companies (BDCs) to  facilitate capital formation into small and medium-sized businesses.  BDCs provide both investment capital and management assistance to  growing businesses that are often underserved by traditional lending  institutions. By law, BDCs must invest at least 70 percent of their  assets in small and mid-sized domestic companies.

Over time, BDCs have filled a crucial gap in our economy by funding  businesses in industries and geographies often overlooked by other  financial institutions. BDCs are often the first institutional  investors to step in. Despite this success, a 2006 SEC rule has  inadvertently discouraged capital flows into BDCs, constraining their  ability to serve small businesses. The rule--part of the SEC's Acquired  Fund Fees and Expenses (AFFE) disclosure framework--requires mutual  funds and other investment vehicles that invest in BDCs to disclose the  management fees, expenses, and AFFE of the BDC itself.

This has the effect of double-counting BDC expenses, because BDC  costs are already factored into their share price and returns. By  adding them again as acquired fund fees, the SEC rule artificially  inflates the expense ratios of funds holding BDCs.

The result is misleading: investors see a fund's expenses as higher  than they actually are, simply because it invests in BDCs. This  perception has led many fund managers to exclude BDCs from their  portfolios, not because of performance, but because of distorted  regulatory accounting.

The intent of the rule--to provide transparency--was well-meaning.  But the execution, particularly when applied to BDCs, has proven  counterproductive. Research by U.S. and international finance  professors shows that after BDCs were removed from major U.S. stock  indexes--a consequence of the AFFE rule--BDCs experienced 29 percent to  33 percent lower investment growth compared to peers. The effects were  not limited to the financial sector: companies that relied on BDC  capital saw lower job creation, with employment growth falling by 1.5  to 6.4 percentage points compared to pre-exclusion levels.

The rule also fails to recognize the unique structure and mission of  BDCs. Unlike passive funds, BDCs are actively managed and intentionally  incur higher costs to provide tailored investment and advisory services  to small businesses. This model creates long-term value, but the AFFE  rule unfairly penalizes it. This is similar to the model of a REIT or  bank, which the SEC AFFE rule excluded.

If the SEC had the benefit of hindsight--of knowing the capital  formation and job creation losses that followed this rule--it's likely  that BDCs would have been carved out of the AFFE framework from the  start similar to REITs and banks. That is why Congress must act now to  reverse this unintended consequence.

Section 302, the Access to Small Business Investor Capital Act fixes  this by allowing funds to omit a BDC's ``acquired fund fees and  expenses'' from disclosures while still maintaining transparency around  the BDC's management fees and costs. This restores fairness in the  treatment of BDCs, aligns regulatory disclosures with economic reality,  and gives investors a clear view of true costs.

Importantly, it does so without rolling back investor protections or  weakening existing SEC oversight.

This bipartisan legislation will open the door for more investment in  BDCs, thereby unlocking more capital for small and mid-sized businesses  across the country. The most important thing that our financial  institutions and capital markets do is provide capital for businesses,  particularly small, medium-sized, and growing enterprises.

Business Development Companies play a vital role in meeting this  need, and I'm proud to work with a bipartisan group of Members to  remove an outdated and unnecessary regulatory barrier.

Finally, the Access to Small Business Investor Capital Act seeks to  resolve the AFFE issue with BDCs being removed from indices by  eliminating the double counting of fees and, consistent with this  intent, it is expected that comparable 1940 Act funds--such as interval  and tender-offer funds--would also receive identical AFFE treatment.

The Access to Small Business Investor Capital Act passed the  Financial Services Committee and this House once before, and I am glad  that it was included in the INVEST Act.