Sharareh Moghaddam's Detention


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701430/sharareh-moghaddams-detention


Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I want to bring to the attention of the  House and to the American people a truly heartbreaking, desperate, and  unfair situation involving Ms. Sharareh Moghaddam.

She resides in my district with her U.S. citizen husband and is  currently being detained hundreds of miles from her home by immigration  officials, despite the fact that a Federal immigration court has  already ruled in her favor. According to that court, she should be home  with her family in the San Fernando Valley, pursuant, in part, to the  green card or permanent residency card that she has held for many  years.

Sharareh Moghaddam is pictured here with her family. She is a  respected resident of the Los Angeles area's great San Fernando Valley.  She is respected throughout our community, as evidenced by the hundreds  of constituents who have contacted my office through a written petition  and the nearly 100 telephone calls that have come into my office.

The fact is that she and her husband are well-known small business  owners in our community. They are beloved members of our community.  Specifically, over 400 constituents have signed a petition to our  office describing Sharareh Moghaddam as a valued member of our  community. As I said, over 100 people have called our office.

Wherever I go in the San Fernando Valley, I have talked to dozens of  people who come up on their own and say, Congressman, why is Sharareh  Moghaddam still imprisoned? What can we do?

Along with her husband, Sharareh Moghaddam was pursuing the American  Dream when they founded a small business, Elegant Balloons, located at  4052 Laurel Canyon Boulevard in Studio City. They have served the San  Fernando Valley for years, and hundreds and hundreds of residents  describe that business as a beloved mainstay of our community.

Balloons. Why is a woman imprisoned in Arizona when she should be  with her balloons and with her family in our community?

Arguably, most importantly, she is the primary caregiver for her 75- year-old husband, a U.S. citizen who is recovering from two heart  surgeries. She, herself, has diabetes, and in her detention, this has  only worsened. She has not received the care or medication regimen  recommended by her physician. Her release would help her health and be  critical to the health of her U.S. citizen husband.

This is a family that needs to be reunited in the San Fernando  Valley. This is not the profile of someone who would abscond from her  responsibilities, abscond from her family, abscond from her community.

Despite this, DHS has detained Sharareh Moghaddam for over 7 months,  as she is in declining health and her husband needs her care, as well.

It is time to send her home. There is simply no reason to insist that  she continue in detention to the detriment of her health and her  husband's health.

There is considerable evidence, overwhelming evidence, that she  shares strong ties to her family and our community, and that she will  be accessible to comply with whatever requests or orders authorities  might make.

This is not the profile of a person who is a danger to our community.  This is the profile of a woman who has created a balloon store right  there in Studio City. She uplifts my district and brings smiles to  thousands in our district with her business.

A habeas corpus petition challenging her detention is currently  pending before a judge, and her family is simply asking for a fair and  timely decision.

I look forward to the day when Sharareh can be reunited with her  family. I look forward to welcoming her back to the San Fernando  Valley. She represents what makes American communities strong, and her  continued detention is a travesty and antithetical to American values.

Sharareh, please stay strong. Your community thinks of you every day.  I will not give up, and the San Fernando Valley will not give up until  you come home.                 No Nuclear Proliferation in the Middle East

Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, for 30 years, I have served on the Foreign  Affairs Committee, where I currently serve as the chief Democrat on the  Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee. I have spent 30 years  fighting to make sure that Iran never has a nuclear weapon. I have  given dozens of speeches on this floor on that very subject.

Yet, there is another subject that has not been addressed very much  and may be almost as important. That is preventing Saudi Arabia from  developing a nuclear weapon. MBS, the Crown Prince, the real head of  government, has made it plain that he would like to have access to a  nuclear weapon or at least the capacity to build one. He has said in  the past that he wants the same deal as Iran got.

Well, I don't think he wants that deal now because Iran is not  looking all that good. Yet, what he does want is a nuclear cooperation  agreement with the United States.

Mr. Speaker, I have always felt that any nuclear cooperation  agreements, particularly in the Middle East, should meet the highest  level of safeguards so that, in an effort to allow for the creation of  nuclear power, we don't see a clandestine effort to develop a nuclear  weapon.

Mr. Speaker, I wrote and got passed in 2020 section 1264 of that  year's National Defense Authorization Act, requiring that 90 days  before even asking Congress to review a nuclear agreement, we get an  extra 90 days before that to know that the President is anticipating  sending us a nuclear cooperation agreement with inadequate safeguards,  or at least not meeting the safeguards that are specified.

The President did send us that very notice on November 21 of last  year. Now, get this: The notice was sent only to Republicans, only to  the chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee, not to the ranking member.

All comity will break down in this House if notices to the House are  notices to only one political party. Yet, alas, this subterfuge will  probably lead to nothing because, in February, finally, months later,  Democrats were notified. I am sure that it is probably another 60 days  from now before the President sends us a proposed nuclear cooperation  agreement with Saudi Arabia because, as I understand it, other things  are happening in the Middle East.

Why is it so important and so reasonable that we have safeguards in  any agreement? First of all, the safeguards that are called for are the  same safeguards that the United Arab Emirates has already agreed to.  These are safeguards fully consistent with the efficient and economic  production of nuclear power. There is no reason for Saudi Arabia not to  sign up for the same safeguards unless they want a clandestine nuclear  weapons program.

Why should we be concerned about a Saudi nuclear program? First, we  have no idea what that does for the Middle East, assuming that MBS is  still running Saudi Arabia. I am old enough to remember a time when  there was a powerful--the most powerful--Middle East monarch. It was  1978, and the most powerful Middle East monarch was the Shah of Iran, a  good friend of the United States.

Every weapons system that the Shah had in 1978 was in the hands of  the ayatollahs in 1979. There is no guarantee that, even if you have  faith in MBS, the weapons systems developed by his government will be  controlled by his government.

Saudi Arabia is not a democracy. Its government does not reflect an  elected will of its people, and who knows who will be running Saudi  Arabia in the next decade.

The second problem, or a third problem, really, is the effect that it  will have on nuclear proliferation worldwide. Right now, only certain  countries have nuclear weapons: the five that won World War II; India  and Pakistan that face off against each other; and North Korea, a  pariah state that does face genuine challenges to its security.

Saudi Arabia is not a pariah state. No one is calling for the  abolition of Saudi Arabia, as they call for the abolition of Israel.  Saudi Arabia is just a country like many other countries: a middle  power, a regional country. If Saudi Arabia is going to have nuclear  weapons, how can Egypt say they are not going to have them? Are they  going to take second fiddle to Saudi Arabia? What about Turkiye? What  about Argentina and Brazil? If Saudi Arabia is able to develop nuclear  weapons not because it is a country that won World War II, but, rather,  just because, well, they have some money and want one, then other  countries will be there, as well.

Mr. Speaker, we need to make sure that we are not giving a green  light to a nuclear program in Saudi Arabia that does not have the  safeguards, that deliberately excludes the safeguards that are quite  reasonable if all you want to use nuclear material for is the  generation of electricity.

I will be introducing the No Nuclear Weapons for Saudi Arabia Act. I  believe we are going to do that tomorrow.

The text is the same as the one that was introduced by me and Senator  Rubio in 2018. That is right. It is Rubio's bill as much as anyone's. I  hope he will support it now that he is Secretary of State.

It requires that any nuclear cooperation agreement with Saudi Arabia  that doesn't have the key safeguards in it can go into effect only if  it gets the affirmative vote of both Houses of Congress. If it is in  America's interests, come to this House and get a majority vote.  Otherwise, do not add to nuclear proliferation in the Middle East.

Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time I have remaining.

Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I will deal with a third issue, an issue I  first addressed on this floor in the year 2020. At that time, more than  a few of my friends said: Sherman, don't talk about this. You sound  like a lunatic, because I put forward the idea that either the genetic  engineers or the computer engineers would create a new level of  intelligence on this planet. I pointed out that the last time there was  a new level of intelligence on this planet is when our ancestors said  hello to Neanderthals. It did not work out well for Neanderthals.

Now, I know this sounds like science fiction, but if you are thinking  of the future 30 years from now and somebody paints a picture and that  picture looks like some science fiction movie, then that picture may  not be an accurate description of the world 30 years from now.

But if somebody paints a picture of the world 30 years from now and  it doesn't look like a science fiction movie, then you know it is  wrong. We are going to be living in a science fiction movie. We just  don't know which one.

Now, at that time, I put forward the idea that there was a race  between those that would create computer intelligence, self-aware  perhaps, and massively exceeding human intelligence, and the  possibility--not talked about much now, but given the CRISPR  technology, still a possibility--that the genetic engineers would  create a 1,000-pound mammal with a 50-pound brain able to beat my  daughter on the law school admissions test.

Now, there is this race between these two groups of engineers. Right  now, the artificial intelligence engineers are way ahead.

We are spending trillions of dollars as a species--much of it in the  United States, some of it in China and Europe--in a headlong race to  make AI more powerful. We are spending as a species nothing to make  sure that this artificial intelligence is not self-aware, self- motivated, has a survival instinct, has ambitions of its own, and has a  desire to affect the world for its own reasons.

That is why there is a best-selling book. The title tells you  everything: ``If Anyone Builds It, Everyone Dies.'' It starts with the  idea that artificial intelligence will soon exceed human intelligence.  I am not quite so sure that we will get there in just a few years. AI  is amazing, but it is pattern recognition. It is not general reasoning  yet. But it will get there, and we can argue about when.

Then the question is: Why would AI care to do our bidding? We don't  know. There is no reason it should. There are two possibilities: One  put forward in the book, ``If Anyone Builds It, Everyone Dies,'' is  that AI, like every other intelligence that we are aware of, decides  that it has its own objectives. Those objectives are highly unlikely to  involve keeping us around.

The other possibility is that artificial intelligence has no desires  whatsoever. It has all the intelligence and none of the motivation.  This is, of course, a possibility as well.

You go to the most expensive, powerful computers, and you say: I want  to unplug you, disassemble you, and sell you for parts. How much can I  get for the parts? And AI will give you the best possible calculation  as to what you will get for the parts.

There is no evidence yet that AI or any artificial intelligence has a  survival instinct. It might develop one. We are betting the human  species and life on this planet that it won't.

I have put forward a bill to establish an AI Research and Threat  Assessment Act, so that we actually try, if we are going to have the  big box with incredible artificial intelligence in it, that we put on  top a small box that we need to develop to monitor and prevent self- awareness, ambition, survival instinct, a desire to affect the world,  and a desire to have its own desires.

There are a lot of bills to deal with AI's short-term implications.  Sure, it will affect the economy. Sure, it will affect the markets, but  if AI replaces human beings, then GDP calculations and international  rivalries will mean nothing.

I had a chance a decade ago to turn to the foreign minister of China,  and I put forward the proposition: If the computers that took over the  world and destroyed humanity were created in California rather than in  Shanghai, does that mean America wins? I don't think he got the humor  in those remarks.

But the fact is that whether the artificial intelligence that ends  the human species comes from Shanghai or the Silicon Valley will matter  little, really not at all.

Right now, we are simply betting that we can make this super  intelligence and that it will always do our bidding and will never have  objectives of its own. We are spending nothing to monitor for or  prevent that self-awareness and ambition, and we should. We may luck  out because, as I pointed out, even the most advanced computers so  far--and they are smarter than the average insect already--don't seem  to care about anything, don't seem to have a survival instinct.

Now, take a cockroach, probably not as smart as our most advanced  computers, you raise your foot above that cockroach, and you will see  that that little bug does indeed have a survival instinct. That is why  I believe that if a new intelligence is developed, starting with DNA,  that whatever is developed will indeed have ambition, a desire to  replicate, a desire to control, a desire to protect itself, a survival  instinct, its own objectives.

Why? Because DNA evolved on this planet for a billion years, and the  protozoa that didn't care whether they survived didn't. Every life form  we are aware of has a survival instinct; it seeks to replicate.

So we will start with humans. First, we will repair humans using our  DNA technology. The repaired human will be followed by the improved  human. Who would want their child to suffer from grave mental  disabilities? We will use genetic engineering to prevent this, and we  will use AI, assuming we are still running the planet, to develop the  genetic engineering.

Once we make sure that everybody has good intelligence, we will go to  enhanced intelligence. Then we will go from the repaired human to the  enhanced human, to the trans-human, or we may not even start with human  DNA. You could start with elephants' DNA.

So far, the size of the brain and its configuration has been a result  of evolution, but it could very well be a result of DNA engineering.

So, we are fighting over all these ideas, all the problems of today,  all of the issues, all of the fact that the most important thing for us  to do is to build a subway through the Sepulveda Pass, and it is. But I  expect that subway to last well more than 100 years. I insist that it  be engineered to last well more than a century. So the problems of next  century are before us when we talk about the practical and mundane  things that we talk about every day.

There is no assurance that human beings will be the dominant force or  any force at all on this planet a century from now. We need to look  first at artificial intelligence. That is much more current. The  problems I put forward about DNA engineering are at least three decades  away.

We need to make sure that artificial intelligence is monitored for  and that we prevent ambition, survival instinct, self-direction. And  right now there is a multitrillion-dollar AI industry that is devoting  all of its PR resources to tell us that we have nothing to worry about  and that they are working on this problem. That is false and false. We  do have something to worry about, and nobody is worried about this  problem.

Now, are they worried about cybersecurity? Sure, any practical  business today worries about cybersecurity. Are they worried about some  of the practical problems with AI? Do they want to make sure that the  automated car doesn't run somebody down in the crosswalk? Yes, they are  spending money on that.

They are trying to make AI do our bidding and be efficient and be  profitable and not get them sued. But are they devoting any resources  to making sure AI doesn't have its own objectives? No. And is  government doing any of that research? No.