Taiwan Non-Discrimination Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692795/taiwan-non-discrimination-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 910, the Taiwan Non- Discrimination Act of 2025, sponsored by Representative Kim from  California and cosponsored by Representative Green of Texas.

H.R. 910 requires the United States to advocate for Taiwan's  membership and participation in the International Monetary Fund, also  known as the IMF.

Taiwan is currently seeking to join the IMF, and I believe we should  support this effort.

The IMF was formed in 1944 to encourage economic cooperation and  stability after World War II. Today, the IMF offers technical  assistance related to sustainable economic growth and an international  reserve to provide liquidity, among other services it provides to its  member states. It is an essential institution for security and  cooperation on global economic matters.

Taiwan has a big impact in the world: vibrant culture, delicious  food, and a highly-educated population. Taiwan is also an essential  economic and trade partner of the United States and so many other  countries around the world.

According to the World Trade Organization, Taiwan was the 16th  largest exporter and the 21st largest merchandise importer in 2023.  Those exports, especially for information and communications technology  products, make Taiwan a critical partner to the United States and to  our industry and workers.

Thus, it seems obvious that such a pivotal part of the global economy  should not be excluded from engagement in one of our most important  international financial institutions.

As H.R. 910 requires, the U.S. would be an advocate that the IMF  admit Taiwan as a member, allowing the IMF to monitor and evaluate the  health of Taiwan's economy, provide technical support to Taiwanese  officials, and support employment opportunities at the IMF for Taiwan  nationals.

Given its contribution to the global economy, Taiwan should certainly  not be locked out of membership. Not only will this benefit Taiwan, it  will benefit America and the entire world economy.

It should be noted, however, that while this legislation will assist  Taiwan, some Republicans are ignoring what the administration is doing  that will hurt our economy and that of Taiwan.

In February 2025, in one of his first actions as President, President  Trump issued an executive order seeking to withdraw the United States  from several international organizations and calling for  recommendations on exiting the U.S. from its membership in certain  other organizations, including the IMF.

Clearly our ability to advocate for Taiwan at the IMF, to carry out  the purposes of this bill, is undermined by the fact that Donald Trump  is examining withdrawing us from the IMF. Setting aside the central  point that the President has no authority whatsoever to withdraw the  United States from international financial institutions, that review,  which is due in August, has not been completed.

While the IMF funding was included in the recent budget proposal,  comments by the administration and the Secretary of the Treasury  confirm that Trump has not decided whether to try to use what powers he  has as President to withdraw us from the IMF.

Most significantly, Trump has refused to reiterate the policy that  the U.S. has had in place since 1979, standing with the people and  security of Taiwan. When asked if the U.S. will maintain its decades- old commitment to Taiwan, Trump has repeatedly avoided the easy answer,  declaring loudly that he won't provide a direct response.

We should pass this bill, but we should also urge our President to  not undermine Taiwan and not undermine the world economy by talking  about withdrawing the United States from the IMF.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve the balance  of my time.

Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield  myself the balance of my time to close.

H.R. 910 is a bipartisan bill that requires that the United States  use its vote and its voice at the IMF to support Taiwan's membership.  Taiwan has been an excellent contributor to the global economy and  should not be absent from organizations such as the IMF.

Congress should support this bill, and I urge my Republican  colleagues not only to urge that Donald Trump carry this bill out but  also support the people of Taiwan and support the role of the IMF as we  go forward.

I again recommend to my colleagues that they support this bill, and I  yield back the balance of my time.