Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, this is the Republican wreckonciliation  because it makes a wreck of our Nation's finances and it makes a wreck  of the lives of so many of our fellow Americans.

Republicans are so very troubled about our Nation's debt that they  want to add trillions more to it. In fact, according to the bipartisan  Citizens for a Responsible Federal Budget, they want to make it bigger  by about $4 trillion deeper in debt.

Elon Musk's DOGE--it is dodge also--is a sideshow for a multi-ring  circus of deception and lies designed to create the illusion that  billions are being saved from waste, fraud, and abuse when DOGE itself  is the abuse.

Even with these fake savings, the insatiable demand of these  Republicans for additional billionaire tax breaks requires denying  opportunities to middle-class families; denying access to a family  physician, first by slashing hundreds of millions from Medicaid for  which Trump professes to love and cherish; wrecking Medicaid which pays  for half the babies born at Seton hospital in Austin and half the  children that go to the Children's Hospital there.

Millions of Americans will lose health protection, and millions more  will lose educational opportunity. For those who are facing a dreaded  disease like cancer, Republicans are cutting innovative medical  research in the hope for a cure. With the looming threat of a flu  pandemic, there would be a 40 percent cut of staff at the Centers for  Disease Control and Prevention, CDC. All of this represents more  Republican broken promises.

Remember last month when Trump was going to drastically bring down  grocery prices? The only thing that is drastic is the pain of this  Republican budget. Now Trump tells us we will have a golden age in  America. With this budget imposing so many burdens on our finances, the  sick, the hungry, and students, we see who gets the gold. It is those  billionaires that were on the front seat of his inauguration as working  families are betrayed.