Providing for Consideration of H.R. Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Do No Harm in Medicaid Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protect Children's Innocence Act; and Relating to Consideration of H.R. Standardizing Permitting and Expediting Economic Development Act


Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, in a bill that they call ``big'' and  ``beautiful,'' Republicans have approved the biggest reduction in  access to healthcare in American history. They rejected my amendment in  committee to maintain the tax credits that make the Affordable Care Act  truly affordable.

Now, after shutting down the government for weeks, delaying further  weeks, they offer this sorry bill, this loser, wrapped up in a bow for  Christmas.

To Andrew and his family down in Austin, this phony bill means zero  relief on premiums, premiums that are going to spike for his family by  nearly $2,000 per month. It means nothing for Russell, a prostate  cancer survivor just 2 years away from Medicare, wondering how he will  afford the screenings and any necessary care.

For a mother in Austin, who contacted me about the stop-loss  provision that is reinforced in this bill, it means the possibility  that after her 3-year-old child was diagnosed with cancer, they will  lose all their coverage.

These are real-life stories from my neighbors who have been forgotten  by Republicans in their rush to provide more tax benefits for their  billionaire buddies. They forget the struggles of so many working  Americans.

Republicans have made over 70 attempts to destroy the Affordable Care  Act, which they all opposed. They peddled junk insurance policies that  would deny essential consumer protection benefits under the Affordable  Care Act.

They could even make matters worse with one provision in this bill  that will allow the reinstituting of preexisting conditions that were  used to bar coverage for so many people before the Affordable Care Act.

This is their commitment to deny healthcare, to provide no relief on  premiums that are soaring. In short, it means replacing ObamaCare with  nothingcare.

Mr. DOGGETT. While we are thankful for this belated decision of four  Republicans here at the last minute to join the discharge petition,  unless they join us in voting in favor of this action on the previous  question, there is nothing that can be done this year because the  Speaker will continue to obstruct premium relief for Americans.

Mr. DOGGETT. This would be the key vote?