Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the fiscal year  2026 Energy and Water Appropriations Act.

As vice chair of the Energy and Water Development and Related  Agencies Subcommittee, I am encouraged by this bill's historic  commitment to unleashing American energy dominance, while also  responsibly stewarding taxpayer dollars.

We are at a time when our Nation is at an energy crossroads.  Certainly, as we work to win the AI race against China, energy  dominance is mandatory. This bill appropriately allocates resources to  invest in our nuclear capabilities, mining production, water resources,  and more.

Specifically, this bill repurposes wasteful Biden administration  spending on things like unproductive carbon capture toward real  infrastructure and energy production capabilities. This includes $1.785  billion in total resources for nuclear energy technology, $720 million  in investments for fossil energy production, and $190 million to  improve cybersecurity and grid resilience.

Unleashing American energy dominance means truly building our  production and infrastructure to meet the modern demands, not just  coming up with more and more regulation.

A prime example of real building is found in the $10.435 billion  secured for the Army Corps of Engineers and their projects such as  improvements to the Matagorda and Corpus Christi Ship Channels in south  Texas. The Port of Corpus Christi, for example, is the leading energy  exporter in the country, and its strength is essential to our Nation's  energy security.

In addition to these critical energy investments, this bill points  investments toward desalination projects, drought response, and rural  water supplies so that our communities can receive much-needed relief  and long-term stability.

This bill gets us on the right path in accomplishing the Trump  administration's goal of energy dominance and leaves behind wasteful  and destructive, often counterproductive, Biden administration spending  and regulation that created things like the Office of Energy Justice  and Equity and crippled our efficient and cost-saving energy production  capabilities.

Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Speaker, I applaud the Chair for his diligent work on  this piece, and I thank him for his guidance on this committee. I look  forward to our continued work, and I encourage support of this  legislation.