Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Chairman, listening to our friends on the other side  of the aisle reminds me of what one of my favorite Presidents of the  United States said, Mr. Reagan. He said: You know, our friends on the  other side of the aisle, they know so much that just isn't so.

Mr. Chair, I am proud to support this much-needed effort to modernize  our Nation's water permitting system. I thank Chairman Graves, Water  Resources and Environment Subcommittee Chairman Collins, and many  members of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure who have  worked to develop this package.

I also appreciate the inclusion of three bills that I authored: The  Nationwide Permitting Improvement Act, the Reducing Regulatory Burdens  Act, and the Improving Water Quality Certifications and American Energy  Infrastructure Act.

Each addresses well-documented breakdowns in our Nation's permitting  process which delay critical projects, drive up costs, and do nothing  to actually improve water quality.

The Nationwide Permitting Improvement Act narrows the scope of the  Clean Water Act section 401 certifications to actual water quality  impacts and establishes timelines and procedural guardrails of State- level review to prevent misuse and delay.

The Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act removes the need for duplicative  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permits for pesticide  use if the pesticide is already EPA approved and used according to  label requirements, which will reduce costs without weakening  environmental protections.

Finally, the Improving Water Quality Certifications and American  Energy Infrastructure Act codifies the historic nationwide permit  process under section 404, extends permit validity to 10 years, and  clarifies jurisdiction over dredge-and-fill discharges, providing  predictability for infrastructure and energy developers.

Together, the enactment of all these bills will result in clear rules  and predictable timelines that will cut costs and promote economic  growth while maintaining environmental protections. That is how you  battle inflation.

Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of the amendment offered by  Mr. Babin.

Let's be very clear about this. This amendment builds directly on the  critical Clean Water Act section 401 certification reforms that I  authored in the underlying bill. These are reforms that refocus the 401  certification process on its original and proper purpose, and that is:  protecting water quality.

Unfortunately, in recent years, certain States have abused this  process, using it as a tool to block or indefinitely delay  infrastructure projects for reasons that have absolutely nothing to do  with water quality.

Mr. Babin's amendment strengthens judicial review for 401  certifications on major energy infrastructure projects by curbing  frivolous lawsuits and, two, ensuring expedited consideration when  legitimate challenges are brought.

Mr. Chair, that is all there is to it. It is very simple and  straightforward. It is actually exceptionally pro-environment, and I  support this amendment.

Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition to the  amendment, even though I am not opposed to it.

Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Chairman, although I claim time in the opposition, I  do not oppose the amendment. I rise, in fact, in support of the  amendment No. 8 offered by my colleague from California (Mr. Peters),  as it would allow the United States section of the International  Boundary and Water Commission, or IBWC as they call it, to receive  additional funding from other Federal and non-Federal partners to  support water and wastewater infrastructure.

This amendment will give the IBWC access to additional funding  sources, enabling it to properly maintain these assets and, in turn,  support cleaner training waters for our warfighters while strengthening  security along our southern border.

This amendment is the same text as H.R. 1948, which was favorably  reported out of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and  passed the House by voice vote earlier this Congress.

Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Chair, this is a good amendment. I urge adoption of  it, and I yield back the balance of my time.