Expressing Condolences to the Families, Friends, and Loved Ones of the Victims of the Crash of American Eagle Flight 5342 and Pat 25


Mr. ESTES. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Mann for managing the  floor time on this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 153, a resolution honoring  the victims of Flight 5342 and Black Hawk PAT 25 and offering  condolences to the families, friends, and loved ones.

First, I offer my own condolences, prayers, and support to those who  are mourning the loss of a loved one. While it has been a little more  than a month since this tragic incident, there are still no words to  adequately express the heartbreak we all feel at their loss and no  words that can properly console them. I pray that, in time, God would  give them and all those impacted a peace that would surpass all  understanding.

Just as we stand with those suffering now in their time of loss, we  will continue to stand with them as we continue to understand what  happened on that tragic night of January 29. I hope the answers that  are uncovered will help bring some closure to those grieving and help  ensure that a tragedy like this never happens again.

Mr. Speaker, as we honor the 67 lives cut short by this accident, I  also thank the countless first responders who rushed to the scene to  first try to rescue and then recover those aboard Flight 5342 and PAT  25. Thanks to their tireless and selfless efforts, the bodies of all 67  victims have been recovered.

Additionally, I extend thanks to the staff of Wichita's Dwight D.  Eisenhower National Airport and to the greater Wichita community, where  Flight 5342 originated, for their efforts to embrace and lift up those  impacted by that crash. In towns and cities across the Nation and the  world, countless other communities have banded together to similarly  show support to the members of their community who lost a loved one on  that tragic night.

It is in each home, school, workplace, and community where each of  the 67 victims was known and loved that they will continue to be  remembered, celebrated, and honored. As we have learned more about the  individual passengers aboard the plane, as well as the pilots and  flight crew of Flight 5342 and the crew of the Black Hawk, we have come  to know how much they meant to the people around them and how much they  will be missed.

We commit to honoring their memory by doing the best we can to carry  out a thorough investigation and make whatever changes are deemed  necessary.

I am grateful to the National Transportation Safety Board, the FAA,  the Army, and all the other involved agencies for the swift progress  they have made thus far and for the work they are committed to carrying  out.

I also extend my thanks to Transportation and Infrastructure  Committee Chairman Sam Graves for his help in bringing this resolution  to the floor and to all the Members who have offered their support  during this time.

The devastating plane crash coincided with Kansas Day, the day our  State was founded 164 years ago. It is typically a day of recognizing  the State's heritage and when schoolchildren across the State learn  Kansas facts and symbols. Beyond the sunflower, western meadowlark, and  ``Home on the Range,'' our State is known for something else not found  in a textbook or school worksheet: our compassion and care for one  another.

Kansas is a special place to call home. After a tragedy like what  happened on January 29, we not only grieve with the families and  friends we know, but we grieve for all those who lost their lives that  evening.

More than a month has passed since the events of January 29, but that  is a date that will be forever etched in the minds and hearts of the  American people.

As their Representatives in Congress and the Representative of the  Air Capital of the World, we come together today to offer our sincerest  condolences to each person who is grieving the loss of a loved one and  to honor the victims of Flight 5342 and PAT 25.

Mr. Speaker, may they rest in peace.