Recognizing Debbie Luper's Tenure As District Director for the Fourth District of Kansas


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690554/recognizing-debbie-lupers-tenure-as-district-director-for-the-fourth-district-of-kansas


Mr. ESTES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a friend and fellow  fiscal hawk on her last day of work, my district director, Debbie  Luper.

How can I possibly frame up the service and political activities of  Debbie Luper in one short floor speech? Her presence in Kansas politics  is deep, and a great number of elected officials at the State, local,  and Federal levels have consulted with Debbie or sought her advice at  some point in her career.

Many Kansans know Debbie and have appreciated her dedication to  serving the people of the Fourth District of Kansas. She is a pillar in  Kansas politics and has been repeatedly recognized for her service,  most recently receiving the Spirit of Unity Award from the Sedgwick  County Black Republican Council. She has also twice received the Kansas  Republican Party's Huck Boyd Volunteer of the Year Award.

She has been an integral member of winning campaigns locally and  statewide. She served as the chief of staff for the Kansas Senate Ways  and Means Committee before joining my staff to lead my district office.

Debbie is a battle-tested, stalwart conservative who is trusted by  many throughout Kansas, and her conservatism isn't a fad or a political  front, but it is who she really is. In fact, I have been known as a  fiscal hawk throughout my time in public service, but she is pretty  comparable, giving me a run for my money on that banner.

Debbie has also been a bridge builder and mentor. Even when factions  arise, Kansans continue to trust her leadership and count on her to  help bring people together. It is one of the reasons why she has made  such a phenomenal district director.

The staff in my office in Wichita has learned from her guidance and  decades of experience, and she has fostered a family and not just a  group of employees.

Debbie was my very first hire following my special election in 2017.  As district director, Debbie was always focused on what was best for  Kansans, particularly in the Fourth Congressional District.

She ensured that constituents were helped, whether they had a problem  with a government agency, they had an opinion on an issue, or they just  wanted to express a complaint or sometimes a compliment. Business  groups, schools, healthcare providers, and farmers and ranchers can all  count on Debbie to help them.

Today is her last day as a full-time employee, but retirement for  Debbie doesn't mean an end to a busy and engaged life. She is  transitioning to more time in her favorite roles as wife, mother,  grandmother, and daughter. She will be spending far more time with  family while still having some time for her favorite hobby: helping  with campaigns. I am confident that Kansans will still seek her advice  and consultation, or at least they will if they know what is best for  them.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Debbie for 8 years of serving as my district  director. More than that, I thank her for her decades of friendship.  She has watched  my kids grow up and been part of my family. Her presence will be missed  in the office each day, but I am grateful I will still see her around.  I wish a happy retirement to Debbie.