Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025


Mr. GRAVES. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 4275) to authorize appropriations for the Coast Guard, to  establish the Secretary of the Coast Guard, and for other purposes, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4275

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

(a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Coast       Guard Authorization Act of 2025''.

(b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act       is as follows:  Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. Sec. 2. Commandant defined.                            TITLE I--COAST GUARD                Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations  Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations. Sec. 102. Authorized levels of military strength and training.                         Subtitle B--Accountability  Sec. 111. Annual report on progress of certain homeporting projects. Sec. 112. Major acquisitions. Sec. 113. Quarterly acquisition brief requirements. Sec. 114. Overdue reports. Sec. 115. Requirement for Coast Guard to provide analysis of                alternatives for aircraft. Sec. 116. Oversight of funds provided pursuant to Public Law 119-21. Sec. 117. Regular polar security cutter updates. Sec. 118. Annual plan for Coast Guard operations in the Pacific.  TITLE II--ORGANIZATION, AUTHORITIES, ACQUISITION, AND PERSONNEL OF THE                                COAST GUARD                          Subtitle A--Organization  Sec. 201. Secretary of the Coast Guard. Sec. 202. Reappointment of Commandant. Sec. 203. Special Advisor to Commandant for Tribal and Native Hawaiian                Affairs. Sec. 204. Reinstatement of training course on workings of Congress. Sec. 205. Services and use of funds for, and leasing of, the National                Coast Guard Museum.                          Subtitle B--Authorities  Sec. 211. Public availability of information. Sec. 212. Cyber coordination and support in foreign territories. Sec. 213. Modification of treatment of minor construction and                improvement project management. Sec. 214. Preparedness plans for Coast Guard properties located in                tsunami inundation zones. Sec. 215. Additional Pribilof Island transition completion actions. Sec. 216. Scientific mission for USCGC Storis. Sec. 217. Coast Guard access to Department of the Treasury fund.                          Subtitle C--Acquisition  Sec. 231. Modification of prohibition on use of lead systems                integrators. Sec. 232. Acquisition improvements. Sec. 233. Restriction on acquisition, procurement, or construction of                vessels in foreign shipyards. Sec. 234. Great Lakes icebreaking. Sec. 235. Entity other than the Coast Guard.                           Subtitle D--Personnel  Sec. 241. Family leave policies for Coast Guard. Sec. 242. Modifications to career flexibility program. Sec. 243. Direct hire authority for certain personnel. Sec. 244. Command sponsorship for dependents of members of Coast Guard                assigned to Unalaska, Alaska. Sec. 245. Authorization for maternity uniform allowance for officers. Sec. 246. Consolidation of authorities for college student                precommissioning initiative. Sec. 247. Additional available guidance and considerations for reserve                selection boards. Sec. 248. Behavioral health. Sec. 249. Travel allowance for members of Coast Guard assigned to                Alaska. Sec. 250. Tuition Assistance and Advanced Education Assistance Pilot                Program. Sec. 251. Recruitment, relocation, and retention incentive program for                civilian firefighters employed by Coast Guard in remote                locations. Sec. 252. Notification.                      Subtitle E--Coast Guard Academy  Sec. 261. Modification of Board of Visitors. Sec. 262. Study on Coast Guard Academy oversight. Sec. 263. Electronic locking mechanisms to ensure Coast Guard Academy                cadet room security. Sec. 264. Report on existing behavioral health and wellness support                services facilities at Coast Guard Academy. Sec. 265. Required posting of information. Sec. 266. Installation of multipurpose medical privacy rooms. Sec. 267. Coast Guard Academy room reassignment. Sec. 268. Authorization for use of Coast Guard Academy facilities and                equipment by covered foundations. Sec. 269. Concurrent jurisdiction at Coast Guard Academy.                      Subtitle F--Reports and Policies  Sec. 271. Policy and briefing on availability of naloxone to treat                opioid, including fentanyl, overdoses. Sec. 272. Policy on methods to reduce incentives for illicit maritime                drug trafficking. Sec. 273. Report on condition of aids to navigation. Sec. 274. Feasibility study on supporting additional port visits and                deployments in support of Operation Blue Pacific. Sec. 275. Study and gap analysis with respect to Coast Guard Air                Station Corpus Christi aviation hangar. Sec. 276. Report on impacts of joint travel regulations on members of                Coast Guard who rely on ferry systems. Sec. 277. Report on Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps program. Sec. 278. Report and briefings on implementing section 564 of title 14. Sec. 279. Report on role of Coast Guard. Sec. 280. Report on Coast Guard personnel skills. Sec. 281. Report on Coast Guard search and rescue operations. Sec. 282. Report on alternative sites for the location of Station St.                Thomas. Sec. 283. Report on East Rockaway inlet navigation.                     TITLE III--SHIPPING AND NAVIGATION                  Subtitle A--Merchant Mariner Credentials  Sec. 301. Merchant mariner credentialing. Sec. 302. Nonoperating individual.                         Subtitle B--Vessel Safety  Sec. 311. Grossly negligent operations of a vessel. Sec. 312. Performance driven examination schedule. Sec. 313. Fishing vessel and fisherman training safety. Sec. 314. Designating pilotage waters for the Straits of Mackinac. Sec. 315. Study of amphibious vessels. Sec. 316. St. Lucie River railroad bridge. Sec. 317. Large recreational vessel regulations.                             Subtitle C--Ports  Sec. 321. Ports and waterways safety. Sec. 322. Study on Bering Strait vessel traffic projections and                emergency response posture at ports of the United States. Sec. 323. Improving Vessel Traffic Service monitoring. Sec. 324. Controlled substance onboard vessels. Sec. 325. Cyber-incident training. Sec. 326. Navigational protocols. Sec. 327. Anchorages.              Subtitle D--Matters Involving Autonomous Systems  Sec. 331. Establishment of National Advisory Committee on Autonomous                Maritime Systems. Sec. 332. Pilot program for governance and oversight of small uncrewed                maritime systems. Sec. 333. Coast Guard training course. Sec. 334. NOAA membership on Autonomous Vessel Policy Council.  Sec. 335. Technology pilot program. Sec. 336. Uncrewed systems capabilities report. Sec. 337. Medium unmanned aircraft systems capabilities study. Sec. 338. Comptroller General report on Coast Guard acquisition and                deployment of unmanned systems. Sec. 339. National Academies of Sciences report on unmanned systems and                use of data. Sec. 340. Unmanned aircraft systems.                         Subtitle E--Other Matters  Sec. 341. Information on type approval certificates. Sec. 342. Clarification of authorities. Sec. 343. Amendments to passenger vessel security and safety                requirements. Sec. 344. Extension of pilot program to establish a cetacean desk for                Puget Sound region. Sec. 345. Suspension of enforcement of use of devices broadcasting on                AIS for purposes of marking fishing gear. Sec. 346. Classification societies. Sec. 347. Abandoned and derelict vessel removals. Sec. 348. Offshore operations. Sec. 349. Administrative costs. Sec. 350. Briefing on deployment of Special Purpose Craft - Heavy                Weather second generation (SPC-HWX II) vessels in Pacific                Northwest.                      TITLE IV--OIL POLLUTION RESPONSE  Sec. 401. Vessel response plans. Sec. 402. Use of marine casualty investigations. Sec. 403. Timing of review. Sec. 404. Online incident reporting system. Sec. 405. Investment of Exxon Valdez oil spill court recovery in high                yield investments and marine research. Sec. 406. Additional response assets. Sec. 407. International maritime oil spill response.           TITLE V--SEXUAL ASSAULT AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT RESPONSE  Sec. 501. Independent review of Coast Guard reforms. Sec. 502. Comprehensive policy and procedures on retention and access                to evidence and records relating to sexual misconduct and                other misconduct. Sec. 503. Consideration of request for transfer of a cadet at the Coast                Guard Academy who is the victim of a sexual assault or                related offense. Sec. 504. Designation of officers with particular expertise in military                justice or healthcare. Sec. 505. Safe-to-Report policy for Coast Guard. Sec. 506. Modification of reporting requirements on covered misconduct                in Coast Guard. Sec. 507. Modifications to the officer involuntary separation process. Sec. 508. Review of discharge characterization. Sec. 509. Convicted sex offender as grounds for denial. Sec. 510. Definition of covered misconduct. Sec. 511. Notification of changes to Uniform Code of Military Justice                or Manual for Courts Martial relating to covered                misconduct. Sec. 512. Complaints of retaliation by victims of sexual assault or                sexual harassment and related persons. Sec. 513. Development of policies on military protective orders. Sec. 514. Coast Guard implementation of independent review commission                recommendations on addressing sexual assault and sexual                harassment in the military. Sec. 515. Policy relating to care and support of victims of covered                misconduct. Sec. 516. Establishment of special victim capabilities to respond to                allegations of certain special victim offenses. Sec. 517. Members asserting post-traumatic stress disorder, sexual                assault, or traumatic brain injury. Sec. 518. Participation in CATCH a Serial Offender program. Sec. 519. Accountability and transparency relating to allegations of                misconduct against senior leaders. Sec. 520. Confidential reporting of sexual harassment. Sec. 521. Report on policy on whistleblower protections. Sec. 522. Review and modification of Coast Guard Academy policy on                sexual harassment and sexual violence. Sec. 523. Coast Guard and Coast Guard Academy access to defense sexual                assault incident database. Sec. 524. Director of Coast Guard Investigative Service. Sec. 525. Modifications and revisions relating to reopening retired                grade determinations. Sec. 526. Inclusion and command review of information on covered                misconduct in personnel service records. Sec. 527. Flag officer review of, and concurrence in, separation of                members who have reported sexual misconduct. Sec. 528. Expedited transfer in cases of sexual misconduct or domestic                violence. Sec. 529. Access to temporary separation program for victims of alleged                sex-related offenses. Sec. 530. Policy and program to expand prevention of sexual misconduct. Sec. 531. Continuous vetting of security clearances. Sec. 532. Training and education programs for covered misconduct                prevention and response. Sec. 533. Requirement to report sexual offenses.                   TITLE VI--COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORTS  Sec. 601. Comptroller General report on Coast Guard research,                development, and innovation program. Sec. 602. Comptroller General review of quality and availability of                Coast Guard behavioral health care and resources for                personnel wellness. Sec. 603. Comptroller General study on Coast Guard efforts to reduce                prevalence of missing or incomplete medical records and                sharing of medical data with Department of Veterans                Affairs and other entities. Sec. 604. Comptroller General study on Coast Guard training facility                infrastructure. Sec. 605. Comptroller General study on Coast Guard basic allowance for                housing. Sec. 606. Comptroller General report on safety and security                infrastructure at Coast Guard Academy. Sec. 607. Comptroller General study and report on permanent change of                station process.                           TITLE VII--AMENDMENTS  Sec. 701. Amendments.       SECTION 2. COMMANDANT DEFINED.

In this Act, the term ``Commandant'' means the Commandant       of the Coast Guard.                            TITLE I--COAST GUARD                Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations       SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

Section 4902 of title 14, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking       ``fiscal years 2022 and 2023'' and inserting ``fiscal years       2025, 2026, 2027, 2028, and 2029'';

(2) in paragraph (1)--

(A) in subparagraph (A) by striking clauses (i) and (ii)       and inserting the following:

``(i) $11,287,500,000 for fiscal year 2025;

``(ii) $11,851,875,000 for fiscal year 2026;

``(iii) $13,500,000,000 for fiscal year 2027;

``(iv) $14,500,000,000 for fiscal year 2028; and

``(v) $15,500,000,000 for fiscal year 2029.'';

(B) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``$23,456,000'' and       inserting ``$25,570,000''; and

(C) in subparagraph (C) by striking ``subparagraph (A)(ii),       $24,353,000'' and inserting ``clauses (ii), (iii), (iv), and       (v) of subparagraph (A), respectively, $26,848,500'';

(3) in paragraph (2)(A) by striking clauses (i) and (ii)       and inserting the following:

``(i) $3,627,600,000 for fiscal year 2025;

``(ii) $3,651,480,000 for fiscal year 2026;

``(iii) $3,700,000,000 for fiscal year 2027;

``(iv) $3,750,000,000 for fiscal year 2028; and

``(v) $3,800,000,000 for fiscal year 2029.'';

(4) in paragraph (3) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B)       and inserting the following:

``(A) $15,415,000 for fiscal year 2025;

``(B) $67,701,000 for fiscal year 2026;

``(C) $70,000,000 for fiscal year 2027;

``(D) $75,000,000 for fiscal year 2028; and

``(E) $80,000,000 for fiscal year 2029.''; and

(5) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:

``(4) For retired pay, including the payment of obligations       otherwise chargeable to lapsed appropriations for purposes of       retired pay, payments under the Retired Serviceman's Family       Protection and Survivor Benefits Plans, payment for career       status bonuses, payment of continuation pay under section 356       of title 37, concurrent receipts, combat-related special       compensation, and payments for medical care of retired       personnel and their dependents under chapter 55 of title 10--

``(A) $1,147,244,000 for fiscal year 2025;

``(B) $1,057,929,000 for fiscal year 2026;

``(C) $1,215,000,000 for fiscal year 2027;

``(D) $1,380,000,000 for fiscal year 2028; and

``(E) $1,650,000,000 for fiscal year 2029.''.       SEC. 102. AUTHORIZED LEVELS OF MILITARY STRENGTH AND                     TRAINING.

(a) In General.--Section 4904 of title 14, United States       Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (a) by striking ``44,500 for each of       fiscal years 2022 and 2023'' and inserting ``50,000 for each       of fiscal years 2025 and 2026, 55,000 for fiscal year 2027,       and 60,000 for each of fiscal years 2028 and 2029''; and

(2) in subsection (b)--

(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking ``for       each of fiscal years 2022 and 2023'';

(B) in paragraph (1) by striking ``2,500 student years''       and inserting ``4,000 student years for each of fiscal years       2025 through 2029'';

(C) in paragraph (2) by striking ``165 student years'' and       inserting ``250 student years for each of fiscal years 2025       through 2029'';

(D) in paragraph (3) by striking ``385 student years'' and       inserting ``700 student years       for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2029''; and

(E) in paragraph (4) by striking ``1,200 student years''       and inserting ``1,600 student years for each of fiscal years       2025 through 2029''.

(b) Reporting Requirement.--In any fiscal year in which the       submission required under section 1105 of title 31, United       States Code, does not include a proportional increase in the       Operations and Support funding under section 4902(1)(A) of       title 14, United States Code, to support the end strengths       authorized under the amendments made by subsection (a)--

(1) the Commandant shall provide to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate a report on the plan of the       Coast Guard to achieve growth in the Coast Guard's military       strength to 60,000, which shall include--

(A) proposed missions and purposes for the growth of the       Coast Guard in military strength;

(B) the additional estimated cost of salaries and benefits       for each fiscal year beginning in the first fiscal year for       which such proportional increase is not included through       2032;

(C) an explanation for why the estimated cost in       subparagraph (B) was not included in the submission required       under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code;

(D) estimated recruiting resources and costs for each       fiscal year from 2027 through 2032; and

(E) estimated resources and costs required to achieve       sufficient training capacity for growth in enlisted and       officer corps for each fiscal year from 2027 through 2032;       and

(2) the Commandant may not delegate the briefing required       in paragraph (1).

(c) Rule of Applicability.--Section 517(a) of title 10,       United States Code, shall not apply with respect to the Coast       Guard until October 1, 2027.                         Subtitle B--Accountability       SEC. 111. ANNUAL REPORT ON PROGRESS OF CERTAIN HOMEPORTING                     PROJECTS.

(a) In General.--Section 5102 of title 14, United States       Code, is amended--

(1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and

(2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:

``(c) Briefing.--

``(1) In general.--If the Commandant fails to submit the       report required under this section, the Commandant shall       brief the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of       the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate on the steps being       taken to produce the report not less than once every 30 days       until the required report is produced.

``(2) Requirements.--The briefing under paragraph (1) shall       be made in person and may not be delegated by the       Commandant.''.

(b) Report.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate a report on the status of       shore infrastructure required to homeport or station all       surface and aviation assets to be delivered as part of Level       1 or Level 2 acquisitions that have entered the obtain phase       as authorized under section 1132(b) of title 14, United       States Code.

(2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1)       shall include--

(A) a description of the current homeports and stations to       which of Coast Guard cutters and aircraft are assigned;

(B) a description of cutters or aircrafts that are able to       be located by the homeport or station to which they are       assigned;

(C) the current number of aircraft and cutters planned for       the program of record of the Coast Guard;

(D) a description of cutter and aircraft which are       scheduled to be decommissioned or put in special commission       status; and

(E) a description of where new cutters and aircraft being       acquired as part of the program of record of the Coast Guard       will be assigned, including--

(i) an assessment of the shoreside and infrastructure needs       for such cutters and aircrafts; and

(ii) an assessment of whether existing facilities are       adequate to support such cutter and aircraft, and the costs       of planning, engineering, design construction, land       acquisition, and environmental remediation.

(c) Initial Report.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall issue a report       detailing the progress of all approved Coast Guard cutter       homeporting projects within the Coast Guard Arctic District       with respect to each of the following:

(A) Fast Response Cutters.

(B) Offshore Patrol Cutters.

(C) The USCGC Storis procured pursuant to section 11223 of       the Don Young Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2022 (14       U.S.C. 561 note).

(2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1)       shall include, with respect to each homeporting project       described in such paragraph, the following:

(A) A description of--

(i) the status of funds appropriated for the project;

(ii) activities carried out toward completion of the       project; and

(iii) activities anticipated to be carried out during the       subsequent 1-year period to advance completion of the       project.

(B) An updated timeline, including key milestones, for the       project.

(d) Subsequent Reports.--Not later than July 1 of the first       calendar year after the year in which the report required       under subsection (c)(1) is submitted, and each July 1       thereafter until July 2, 2031, or the date on which all       projects described in subsection (c)(1) are completed, the       Commandant shall issue an updated report, with respect to       each Coast Guard cutter homeporting project described in       subsection (b)(1) (including any such project approved on a       date after the date of enactment of this Act and before the       submission of the applicable report), containing each element       described in subsection (b)(2).

(c) Report on Capacity of Coast Guard Base Ketchikan.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall complete a report       detailing the cost of and time frame for expanding the       industrial capacity of Coast Guard Base Ketchikan to do out       of water repairs on Fast Response Cutters.

(2) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate the report required under       paragraph (1).

(d) Public Availability.--The Commandant shall publish each       report issued under this section on a publicly accessible       website of the Coast Guard.

(e) Homeporting Project Defined.--In this section, the term       ``homeporting project''--

(1) means the facility infrastructure modifications,       upgrades, new construction, and real property and land       acquisition associated with homeporting new or modified       cutters; and

(2) includes shoreside and waterfront facilities, cutter       maintenance facilities, housing, child development       facilities, and any other associated infrastructure directly       required as a result of homeporting new or modified cutters.       SEC. 112. MAJOR ACQUISITIONS.

(a) In General.--Section 5103 of title 14, United States       Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (a) by striking ``major acquisition       programs'' and inserting ``Level 1 acquisitions or Level 2       acquisitions'';

(2) in subsection (b) by striking ``major acquisition       program'' and inserting ``Level 1 acquisition or Level 2       acquisition''; and

(3) by amending subsection (f) to read as follows:

``(f) Definitions.--In this section:

``(1) Level 1 acquisition.--The term `Level 1 acquisition'       has the meaning given such term in section 1171.

``(2) Level 2 acquisition.--The term `Level 2 acquisition'       has the meaning given such term in section 1171.''.

(b) Major Acquisition Program Risk Assessment.--Section       5107 of title 14, United States Code, is amended by striking       ``section 5103(f)'' and inserting ``section 1171''.       SEC. 113. QUARTERLY ACQUISITION BRIEF REQUIREMENTS.

(a) In General.--Section 5107 of title 14, United States       Code, is amended to read as follows:       ``Sec. 5107. Quarterly acquisition reports and major

acquisition program risk assessment

``(a) In General.--Not later than 45 days after the end of       each fiscal quarter, the Commandant shall provide to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate a briefing on all Level 1       and Level 2 acquisition programs, as such terms are defined       in section 1171.

``(b) Additional Briefing.--Not later than 1 week before       taking procurement actions that will significantly impact the       costs or timelines of a Level 1 or Level 2 acquisition       program, the Commandant shall brief the committees described       in subsection (a).

``(c) Elements.--Each briefing required under subsection       (a) or (b) shall include, for each program--

``(1) a description of the purpose of the program,       including the capabilities being acquired;

``(2) the total number of units, as appropriate, to be       acquired annually until procurement is complete under the       current acquisition program baseline;

``(3) the Acquisition Review Board status, including--

``(A) the current acquisition phase by increment, as       applicable;

``(B) the date of the most recent review; and

``(C) whether the program has been paused or is in breach       status;

``(4) a comparison between the initial Department-approved       acquisition program baseline cost, schedule, and performance       thresholds and objectives and the current such thresholds and       objectives of the program, if applicable;

``(5) the lifecycle cost estimate, adjusted for comparison       to the Future Coast Guard Program, including--

``(A) the confidence level for the estimate;

``(B) the fiscal years included in the estimate;

``(C) a breakout of the estimate for the prior five years,       the current year, and the budget year;

``(D) a breakout of the estimate by appropriation account       or other funding source; and

``(E) a description of and rationale for any changes to the       estimate as compared to the previously approved baseline, as       applicable, and during the prior fiscal year;

``(6) a summary of the findings of any independent       verification and validation of the items to be acquired or an       explanation for why no such verification and validation has       been performed;

``(7) a table displaying the obligation of all program       funds by prior fiscal year, the estimated obligation of funds       for the current fiscal year, and an estimate for the planned       carryover of funds into the subsequent fiscal year;

``(8) a listing of prime contractors and major       subcontractors; and

``(9) narrative descriptions of risks to cost, schedule, or       performance that could result in a program breach if not       successfully mitigated, including--

``(A) the current risks to such program;

``(B) any failure of such program to demonstrate a key       performance parameter or threshold during operational test       and evaluation conducted during the previous fiscal year;

``(C) whether there has been any decision in such fiscal       year to order full-rate production before all key performance       parameters or thresholds are met;

``(D) whether there has been any breach of major       acquisition program cost (as such term is defined in the       manual of the Coast Guard titled `Major Systems Acquisition       Manual' (COMDTINST M5000.10C)) in such fiscal year; and

``(E) whether there has been any breach of major       acquisition program schedule (as such term is defined in the       manual of the Coast Guard titled `Major Systems Acquisition       Manual' (COMDTINST M5000.10C)) during such fiscal year.

``(d) Memorandum Deadline.--Not later than 5 business days       after the date on which the Secretary approves an Acquisition       Decision Memorandum for programs described in this section,       the Commandant shall submit such memorandum to the Committee       on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 51 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by striking the item       relating to section 5107 and inserting the following:  ``5107. Quarterly acquisition reports and major acquisition program                risk assessment.''.       SEC. 114. OVERDUE REPORTS.

(a) In General.--Chapter 51 of title 14, United States       Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:       ``Sec. 5116. Status of overdue reports

``(a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of       enactment of this section, and not later than March 1 of each       year thereafter, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee       on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate a report on the status of       reports or briefings required under this chapter that have       not been delivered to Congress.

``(b) Contents.--The report required under section (a)       shall contain the following:

``(1) The status of each required report or briefing that       has not been delivered to Congress, including the date the       report or briefing is due, and if applicable, the number of       days the Coast Guard has exceeded the required completion       date.

``(2) A plan and timeline for the next steps to be taken to       complete such outstanding reports or briefings.

``(3) The name of the flag officer responsible for the       completion of each report or briefing.

``(c) Briefing.--

``(1) In general.--If the Commandant fails to submit the       report required under this section, the Commandant shall       brief the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of       the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate on the steps being       taken to produce the report not less than once every 30 days       until the required report is produced.

``(2) Requirements.--The briefing under paragraph (1) shall       be made in person and may not be delegated by the       Commandant.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 51 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end       the following:  ``5116. Status of overdue reports.''.       SEC. 115. REQUIREMENT FOR COAST GUARD TO PROVIDE ANALYSIS OF                     ALTERNATIVES FOR AIRCRAFT.

(a) In General.--Not later than 6 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate a report on the status of       the implementation of the recommendations contained in the       report of the Government Accountability Office titled       ``Aircraft Fleet and Aviation Workforce Assessments Needed,''       and issued April 9, 2024 (GAO-24-106374).

(b) Contents.--The report required under section (a) shall       contain the following:

(1) An assessment of the type of helicopters the Coast       Guard requires to meet the mission demands of the Coast       Guard.

(2) An analysis of alternatives, including an analytical       study comparing the operational effectiveness, costs, and       risks to determine the best suited aircraft to meet mission       needs.

(3) A fleet mix analysis to identify the necessary number       of helicopters to meet the mission needs of the Coast Guard       across all districts.

(c) Limitation of Aircraft Expenses.--No funds authorized       to be appropriated under section 4902(2)(A) of title 14,       United States Code (as added by section 101(3)(A)), may be       obligated or expended in fiscal years 2027 through 2029 for       the procurement or modernization of helicopters until the       Commandant submits the report required under this section,       unless the Commandant provides a weekly, in-person briefing       on the status of the report, which the Commandant may not       delegate.

(d) Minimum Rotary Wing Fleet.--

(1) In general.--The Commandant shall maintain an       operational, geographically dispersed rotary wing fleet of       not less than 140 aircraft for the purpose of meeting minimum       operational capabilities until the Commandant submits the       report required under this section.

(2) Report.--In the event the operational rotary wing fleet       of the Coast Guard falls below the requirements of this       subsection, the Commandant shall provide to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate a notification not later than 5       business days after the inability of the Commandant to meet       the requirement.       SEC. 116. OVERSIGHT OF FUNDS PROVIDED PURSUANT TO PUBLIC LAW                     119-21.

(a) In General.--The Commandant may not expend or obligate       funds--

(1) appropriated pursuant to Public Law 119-21 during any       fiscal year in which the Commandant is not compliant with       sections 5102 and 5103 (excluding section 5103(e)) of title       14, United States Code; and

(2) that are provided in Public Law 119-21 until the       Commandant provides the report required under section 11217       of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for       Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate.

(b) Notification Requirement.--Not less than 1 week before       taking any procurement action impacting estimated costs or       timelines for acquisitions or procurements appropriated       pursuant to Public Law 119-21, the Commandant shall notify       the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the       House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate of such action.

(c) Expenditure Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the       date of enactment of Public Law 119-21, the Commandant shall       submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives and the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a       detailed expenditure plan, including projected project time       lines for each acquisition and procurement appropriated under       such Act and a list of project locations to be funded under       such Act.

(d) Exception.--If the President authorizes an exception       under section 1151(b) of title 14, United States Code, for       any Coast Guard vessel, or the hull or superstructure of such       vessel for which funds are appropriated under Public Law 119-      21, no such funds shall be obligated until the President       submits to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives and the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a written       explanation of the circumstances requiring such an exception       in the national security interest, including--

(1) a confirmation that there are insufficient qualified       United States shipyards to meet the national security       interest without such exception; and

(2) actions taken by the President to enable qualified       United States shipyards to meet national security       requirements prior to the issuance of such an exception.

(e) Certifications and Classification.--Notwithstanding       Public Law 119-21, the Commandant shall ensure any cutters or       aircraft procured with appropriations made available by such       Act meet the requirements of section 1133(c) of title 14,       United States Code.       SEC. 117. REGULAR POLAR SECURITY CUTTER UPDATES.

(a) Report.--

(1) Report to congress.--Not later than 120 days after the       date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant and the Chief       of Naval Operations shall submit to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate, and the Committees on Armed       Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a       report on the status of acquisition of Polar Security       Cutters.

(2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall       include--

(A) a detailed timeline for the acquisition process of       Polar Security Cutters, including       expected milestones and a projected commissioning date for       the first 3 Polar Security Cutters;

(B) an accounting of the previously appropriated funds       spent to date on the Polar Security Cutter Program, updated       cost projections for Polar Security Cutters, and projections       for when additional funds will be required;

(C) potential factors and risks that could further delay or       imperil the completion of Polar Security Cutters; and

(D) a review of the acquisition of Polar Security Cutters       to date, including factors that led to substantial cost       overruns and delivery delays.

(b) Briefings.--

(1) Provision to congress.--Not later than 90 days after       the submission of the report under subsection (a), and not       less frequently than every 90 days thereafter, the Commandant       and the Chief of Naval Operations shall provide to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate, and the Committees on Armed       Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a       briefing on the status of the Polar Security Cutter       acquisition process until Polar Security Cutter 2 achieves       full operational capability.

(2) Timeline.--The briefings under paragraph (1) shall       occur after any key milestone in the Polar Security Cutter       acquisition process, but not less frequently than every 90       days.

(3) Elements.--Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall       include--

(A) a summary of acquisition progress since the most recent       previous briefing conducted pursuant to paragraph (1);

(B) an updated timeline and budget estimate for acquisition       and building of pending Polar Security Cutters; and

(C) an explanation of any delays or additional costs       incurred in the acquisition progress.

(c) Notifications.--In addition to the briefings required       under subsection (b), the Commandant and the Chief of Naval       Operations shall notify the Committee on Transportation and       Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, the Committee       on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and       the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House       of Representatives within 3 business days of any significant       change to the scope or funding level of the Polar Security       Cutter acquisition strategy of such change.       SEC. 118. ANNUAL PLAN FOR COAST GUARD OPERATIONS IN THE                     PACIFIC.

(a) In General.--Chapter 51 of title 14, United States       Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:       ``Sec. 5116. Annual plan for Coast Guard operations in the

Pacific

``(a) In General.--Not later than December 31, 2025, and       annually thereafter, the Commandant of the Coast Guard, in       consultation with the Secretary of State and Secretary of       Defense, shall submit to the appropriate congressional       committees a plan for Coast Guard operations in the Pacific       region for the year after the year during which the plan is       submitted. Such plan shall include, for the year covered by       the plan, each of the following elements:

``(1) A list of objectives for Coast Guard engagement in       the Pacific region in support of Department of State and       Department of Defense missions.

``(2) An assessment of the capabilities of the Coast Guard       to support Department of State and Department of Defense       missions in the Pacific region.

``(3) A list of any areas in the Pacific region where an       increased Coast Guard presence would better support       Department of State and Department of Defense missions.

``(4) The projected demand for Coast Guard engagement in       the Pacific region from the Department of State and the       Department of Defense for the year covered by the plan and       the subsequent 10 years.

``(5) An assessment of whether the Coast Guard will be able       to meet such projected demand for the year covered by the       plan, including--

``(A) a list of any factors limiting the ability of the       Coast Guard to meet such projected demand; and

``(B) an analysis of the location from which any Coast       Guard assets used to carry out missions in the Pacific, in       addition to assets available in the year prior to the year in       which the plan is submitted, will be transferred and any       associated gaps in Coast Guard mission coverage any such       transfers will create.

``(6) A summary of the resources needed for the Coast Guard       to meet such projected demand for the year covered by the       plan, including--

``(A) staff;

``(B) infrastructure, including shore infrastructure;

``(C) administrative and logistical support; and

``(D) technology.

``(7) Any other matter as determined relevant by the       Commandant.

``(b) Form.--Each plan under subsection (a) shall be       submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified       annex.

``(c) Briefing Required.--Not later than February 15, 2026,       and annually thereafter, the Commandant shall provide to the       appropriate congressional committees a briefing on the annual       plan required under subsection (a) submitted during the       preceding year.

``(d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In       this section, the term `appropriate congressional committees'       means--

``(1) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of       the House of Representatives;

``(2) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of       Representatives;

``(3) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of       Representatives;

``(4) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate;

``(5) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and

``(6) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.       ``Sec. 5117. Annual budget display for Coast Guard operations

in the Pacific

``(a) In General.--Not later than February 15, 2026, and       annually thereafter, the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall       submit to the appropriate congressional committees a detailed       budget display for Coast Guard operations in the Pacific       region for the fiscal year after the fiscal year during which       the budget display is submitted. The Commandant shall base       such budget display on the projected demand for Coast Guard       engagement in the Pacific region as identified in the most       recent annual plan developed under section 5116 of this       title. Such budget display shall include, for the year       covered by the budget display, the following information:

``(1) With respect to procurement accounts, amounts       displayed by account, budget activity, line number, line       item, and line item title.

``(2) With respect to research, development, test, and       evaluation accounts, amounts displayed by account, budget       activity, line number, program element, and program element       title.

``(3) With respect to operation and maintenance accounts,       amounts displayed by account title, budget activity title,       line number, and subactivity group title.

``(4) With respect to military personnel accounts, amounts       displayed by account, budget activity, budget subactivity,       and budget subactivity title.

``(b) Form.--Each display under subsection (a) shall be       submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified       annex.

``(c) Briefing Required.--Not later than February 15, 2026,       and annually thereafter, the Commandant shall provide to the       appropriate congressional committees a briefing on the budget       display required by subsection (a) for the fiscal year after       the fiscal year during which the briefing is provided.

``(d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In       this section, the term `appropriate congressional committees'       has the meaning given such term in section 5116.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 51 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end       the following:  ``5116. Annual plan for Coast Guard operations in the Pacific. ``5117. Annual budget display for Coast Guard operations in the                Pacific.''.  TITLE II--ORGANIZATION, AUTHORITIES, ACQUISITION, AND PERSONNEL OF THE                                COAST GUARD                          Subtitle A--Organization       SEC. 201. SECRETARY OF THE COAST GUARD.

(a) In General.--Section 102 of title 14, United States       Code, is repealed.

(b) Transfer.--Section 888(a) of Public Law 107-296 is       transferred to appear after section 101 of title 14, United       States Code, redesignated as section 102, and amended to read       as follows:       ``Sec. 102. Primary duties

``(a) In General.--The Coast Guard shall administer laws,       promulgate and enforce regulations, and engage in operations       and activities, with due regard to the requirements of       national defense, in support of the following:

``(1) Non-homeland security missions.--

``(A) Marine safety.--Engage in oceanographic research,       ensure the safe operation of and facilitate the economical       movement of goods through the Marine Transportation System,       and develop, establish, maintain, and operate rescue       facilities for the promotion of safety on, under, and over       the high seas and waters subject to the jurisdiction of the       United States and protect the lives and safety of those on       the sea.

``(B) Search and rescue.--Respond to maritime disasters,       natural or man-made, and render aid to people in distress to       protect the lives and promote the safety of life and property       on, under, and over the high seas and waters subject to the       jurisdiction of the United States, covering all matters not       specifically delegated by law to some other executive       department.

``(C) Aids to navigation.--Develop, establish, maintain and       operate aids to maritime navigation to promote the safe       operation of the Marine Transportation System, pursuant to       subchapter III of chapter 5, on, under, and over the high       seas and waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United       States.

``(D) Living marine resources (fisheries law       enforcement).--Safeguard fish and wildlife, including       threatened and endangered species, from unlawful acts and       environmental degradation under, and over the high seas and       waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

``(E) Marine environmental protection.--Safeguard United       States marine resources       and the ocean from unlawful acts and environmental       degradation on, under, and over the high seas and waters       subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

``(F) Ice operations.--Develop, establish, maintain, and       operate icebreaking facilities on, under, and over waters       other than the high seas and waters subject to the       jurisdiction of the United States.

``(2) Homeland security missions.--

``(A) Ports, waterways and coastal security.--Conduct       maritime recovery operations in the aftermath of incidents of       national significance to ensure the continuity of commerce       and critical port and waterway functions, protect the United       States maritime domain and the Marine Transportation System,       and deny the use and exploitation of the maritime domain as a       means for attacks on United States territory, population,       vessels, and critical infrastructure.

``(B) Drug interdiction.--Engage in maritime air       surveillance or maritime interdiction to enforce or assist in       the enforcement of laws of the United States regarding       controlled substances on, under, and over the high seas and       waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

``(C) Migrant interdiction.--Engage in maritime air       surveillance or maritime interdiction of the maritime border       and approaches to enforce or assist in the enforcement of       laws of the United States, including the immigration laws of       the United States on, under, and over the high seas and       waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

``(D) Defense readiness.--Defend United States national       interests in the maritime domain against hostile acts through       military action, and maintain a state of readiness to assist       in the defense of the United States, including when       functioning as a specialized service in the Navy pursuant to       section 103.

``(E) Other law enforcement.--Enforce or assist in the       enforcement of all applicable Federal laws on, under, and       over the high seas and waters subject to the jurisdiction of       the United States.

``(b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall       be construed to limit the powers authorized in chapter 5.''.

(c) Section 888.--Section 888 of Public Law 107-296 is       amended--

(1) in subsection (d)--

(A) by striking ``No mission'' and inserting ``No primary       duty described in section 102 of title 14, United States       Code,'';

(B) by inserting ``, whether requested or tasked by the       Department on behalf of another agency or requested by       another agency,'' after ``Department''; and

(C) by striking ``missions.'' and inserting ``such       duties.''; and

(2) in subsection (e) by striking paragraph (1) and       inserting the following:

``(1) Prohibition.--Except as specified in subsequent Acts,       the Secretary--

``(A) may not substantially or significantly reduce--

``(i) the primary duties of the Coast Guard described in       section 102 of title 14, United States Code; or

``(ii) the capability of the Coast Guard to perform such       duties; and

``(B) shall ensure the preservation and execution of such       duties.''.

(d) Technical Amendments.--

(1) Members asserting post-traumatic stress disorder or       traumatic brain injury.--Section 2516 of title 14, United       States Code, is amended--

(A) in subsection (a) by inserting ``described in section       102'' after ``Coast Guard operations''; and

(B) by striking subsection (d).

(2) Clarification of eligibility of members of coast guard       for combat-related special compensation.--Section 221 of the       Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016 (10 U.S.C. 1413a note)       is amended by striking ``section 888(a) of the Homeland       Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 468(a))'' and inserting       ``section 102 of title 14, United States Code''.

(e) Plan.--

(1) In general.--Prior to the President implementing       section 201 of title 14, United States Code, as amended by       this Act, and appointing a Secretary of the Coast Guard, the       Commandant, in coordination with the Secretary of the       Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, shall--

(A) develop a plan on the structure, feasibility of the       Secretary of the Coast Guard position and the reorganization       and restructuring of the Coast Guard needed to incorporate       the new position; and

(B) submit such plan to the Committee on Transportation and       Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the       Committee of Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate.

(2) Contents.--The plan required under paragraph (1) shall       include--

(A) a complete organizational chart, to include the       creation of the Office of the Secretary of the Coast Guard       and the directorates that report to the Commandant of the       Coast Guard;

(B) a description of each new position created within the       Office of the Secretary;

(C) a description of the offices and policies which each       new position would be responsible for and how those offices       would interact with the offices of the Commandant;

(D) a delineation of powers reserved for the Commandant,       outside of current statutory authorizations, not previously       reserved or delegated;

(E) a transition plan to ensure the continuity of the       execution of all Coast Guard missions; and

(F) recommendations for statutory and legislative changes.

(f) Review of Plan.--

(1) In general.--The Commandant shall provide the plan       developed in subsection (e) to the Comptroller General of the       United States.

(2) Report.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 6 months after the       transmission of the plan prepared under paragraph (1), the       Comptroller General shall review such plan and provide       recommendations to the Commandant in a report.

(B) Contents.--The report shall include--

(i) a compilation of the responsibilities and duties       assigned to the Commandant of the Coast Guard and the       Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is       operating, and potential responsibilities and duties that can       be moved to the Secretary of the Coast Guard;

(ii) a detailed list of all responsibilities and duties       assigned to the Commandant and the Secretary of the       department in which the Coast Guard is operating, and how       those duties overlap or remain distinct;

(iii) a detailed analysis of the responsibilities in clause       (i) that should be reassigned or delegated to the Secretary       of the Coast Guard and the Commandant of the Coast Guard;

(iv) a detailed analysis of the proper separation and       oversight of duties in the chain of command between the       Secretary, the Secretary of the Coast Guard, and the       Commandant of the Coast Guard;

(v) an analysis of the feasibility of the reorganization of       the service in order to preserve the integrity of the       military chain of command;

(vi) a comparison to the structure and authorities of other       service Secretaries, including but not limited to the       Secretary of the Navy, and whether the proposed application       to the Coast Guard is appropriate; and

(vii) other matters deemed relevant by the Comptroller       General.

(3) Submission.--The Comptroller General shall provide to       the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the       House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate the report       developed pursuant to paragraph (2).

(4) Responses.--In addition to the plan and report, the       Commandant shall provide responses to the recommendations in       the report under paragraph (2) to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate to include--

(A) a description of the recommendations that the service       intends to implement;

(B) a justification for each recommendation that the       service does not intend to implement; and

(C) an implementation strategy and timeline.

(g) Secretary of the Coast Guard.--Subtitle I of title 14,       United States Code, is amended--

(1) by redesignating section 106 as section 107;

(2) by inserting after section 105 the following:       ``Sec. 106. Secretary of the Coast Guard defined

``In this title, the term `Secretary of the Coast Guard'       means the Secretary of the Coast Guard established in section       201.''; and

(3) by inserting after section 107, as so redesignated, the       following:                 ``CHAPTER 2--SECRETARY OF THE COAST GUARD  ``201. Secretary of the Coast Guard.       ``Sec. 201. Secretary of the Coast Guard

``(a) Secretary of the Coast Guard.--

``(1) In general.--There is a Secretary of the Coast Guard,       appointed from civilian life by the President, by and with       the advice and consent of the Senate.

``(2) Not operating as a service in the navy.--Subject to       section 103(c) of Public Law 107-296 and when the Coast Guard       is not operating as a service in the Navy, the Secretary of       the Coast Guard shall report directly to the Secretary       without being required to report through any other official       of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating. The       Secretary of the Coast Guard shall not be required to report       to any other position in the department in which the Coast       Guard is operating, military or civilian, including any other       under secretaries, or assistant secretaries.

``(3) Qualification.--The Secretary of the Coast Guard       shall, to the greatest extent practicable, be appointed from       among persons most highly qualified for the position by       reason of background and experience, including persons with       appropriate management or leadership experience.

``(4) Disqualification.--A person may not be appointed as       Secretary of the Coast Guard within 7 years after relief from       active duty as a commissioned officer of a regular component       of an armed force.

``(b) Powers.--

``(1) In general.--Subject to the authority, direction, and       control of the Secretary, the Secretary of the Coast Guard       shall exercise the powers of the Secretary in this title,       except as may be reserved by the Secretary and reserved for       the Commandant pursuant to sections 504 and 505.

``(2) Authority.--

``(A) In general.--The Secretary of the Coast Guard is       responsible for and has the authority necessary to conduct       all affairs of the Coast Guard.

``(B) Authorities and functions.--Notwithstanding any other       provision of law, the authorities and functions prescribed in       paragraphs (2) through (5) of section 701(a) of Public Law       107-296 as such authorities and functions pertain to the       Coast Guard shall be reserved for the Secretary of the Coast       Guard.

``(3) Responsibilities.--Subject to the authority,       direction, and control of the Secretary, the Secretary of the       Coast Guard is also responsible to the Secretary for--

``(A) the functioning and efficiency of the Coast Guard;

``(B) the formulation of policies and programs by the Coast       Guard that are fully consistent with national security       objectives and policies established by the President or the       Secretary;

``(C) the effective and timely implementation of policy,       program, and budget decisions and instructions of the       President or the Secretary relating to the functions of the       Coast Guard;

``(D) carrying out the functions of the Coast Guard so as       to fulfill the current and future operational requirements of       the unified and specified combatant commands;

``(E) effective cooperation and coordination between the       Coast Guard and the other military departments and agencies       of the Department of Defense with regards to defense       readiness missions to provide for more effective, efficient,       and economical administration and to eliminate duplication;

``(F) the presentation and justification of the positions       of the Coast Guard on the plans, programs, and policies of       the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating;

``(G) the effective supervision and control of the       intelligence activities of the Coast Guard; and

``(H) such other activities and duties as may be prescribed       by law or by the President or Secretary, in directing the       Coast Guard.

``(4) Recommendations.--After first informing the       Secretary, the Secretary of the Coast Guard may make such       recommendations to appropriate congressional committees, as       defined in section 1171, as the Secretary of the Coast Guard       considers appropriate.

``(5) Assignment of functions, powers, and duties.--

``(A) Delegation.--

``(i) In general.--The Secretary of the Coast Guard may       assign such of the functions, powers, and duties as the       Secretary of the Coast Guard considers appropriate, to the       Under Secretary of the Coast Guard, and to not more than 4       Assistant Secretaries of the Coast Guard.

``(ii) Appointment.--The Under Secretary and the Assistant       Secretaries shall be appointed from civilian life by the       President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

``(B) Secretary of the coast guard's staff.--The Secretary       of the Coast Guard's staff shall be limited in the roles and       responsibilities of such staff to the execution of the powers       vested in the Secretary of the Coast Guard. The size of the       Secretary of the Coast Guard's staff may not exceed the size       necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the office of       the Secretary of the Coast Guard.

``(C) Reporting to secretary of the coast guard.--Officers       of the Coast Guard shall, as directed by the Secretary,       report on any matter to the Secretary of the Coast Guard, the       Under Secretary, or any Assistant Secretary.

``(6) Additional powers.--The Secretary of the Coast Guard       may--

``(A) assign, detail, and prescribe the duties of members       of the Coast Guard and civilian personnel of the Coast Guard;

``(B) change the title of any officer or activity of the       Coast Guard not prescribed by law; and

``(C) prescribe regulations to carry out the functions,       powers, and duties of the Secretary of the Coast Guard under       this title.

``(7) Prohibitions.--

``(A) In general.--The Secretary of the Coast Guard may not       eliminate, materially alter the scope of, or privatize any of       the primary duties described in section 102.

``(B) Report.--The Secretary of the Coast Guard shall       submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives and the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate an annual       report demonstrating compliance with subparagraph (A).

``(c) Limitations.--No officer serving in an appointment       described in subsections (a) through (e) of section 103 of       Public Law 107-296 may perform the duties of the Secretary of       the Coast Guard.

``(d) Commandant Reporting.--The Commandant shall report       directly to the Secretary of the Coast Guard. The Commandant       shall not be required to report to any other position in the       department in which the Coast Guard is operating, military or       civilian, including under secretaries, or assistant       secretaries.''.

(h) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 1 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended--

(1) by striking the item relating to section 102 and       inserting the following:  ``102. Primary duties.''; and

(2) by striking the item relating to section 106 and       inserting the following:  ``106. Secretary of the Coast Guard defined. ``107. Commandant defined.''.

(i) Clarifying Amendment.--Section 505 of title 14, United       States Code, is amended by striking ``Secretary'' and       inserting ``Secretary of the Coast Guard''.

(j) Public Law 107-296.--Public Law 107-296 is amended--

(1) in section 103--

(A) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:

``(c) Secretary of the Coast Guard.--When the Coast Guard       is operating as a service within the Department of Homeland       Security, to assist the Secretary in the performance of the       Secretary's functions, there is a Secretary of the Coast       Guard who shall be appointed as provided in section 201 of       title 14, United States Code, and who shall report directly       to the Secretary.''; and

(B) in subsection (g)(1)--

(i) by striking ``Notwithstanding'' and inserting the       following:

``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding'';

(ii) by striking ``the Under Secretary for Management'' and       inserting ``the Secretary of the Coast Guard''; and

(iii) by adding at the end the following:

``(B) Under secretary of management.--The Under Secretary       of Management shall serve in this capacity in the event that       the Secretary of the Coast Guard has transferred to the       Department of the Navy.''; and

(2) in section 888--

(A) by redesignating subsections (b) through (g) as       subsections (a) through (f), respectively; and

(B) in subsection (e), as so redesignated, by striking       ``Commandant'' and inserting ``the Secretary of the Coast       Guard''.

(k) Chief Prosecutor of the Coast Guard; Inspector General       of the Coast Guard.--

(1) In general.--Chapter 3 of title 14, United States Code,       is amended by adding at the end the following:       ``Sec. 324. Chief Prosecutor of the Coast Guard

``(a) In General.--There shall be in the Coast Guard a       Chief Prosecutor of the Coast Guard selected by the       Commandant under policies established by the Secretary and       who meets the qualifications set forth in subsection (b).

``(b) Qualifications.--The Chief Prosecutor of the Coast       Guard shall be a commissioned officer of the Coast Guard       who--

``(1) is a member in good standing of the bar of a Federal       court or the highest court of a State;

``(2) is a judge advocate in the grade not lower than O-7;       and

``(3) is certified to be qualified, by reason of education,       training, experience, and temperament, for duty as Chief       Prosecutor of the Coast Guard by the Judge Advocate General       of the Coast Guard.

``(c) Duties and Authorities.--

``(1) In general.--The Chief Prosecutor of the Coast Guard       shall carry out the duties under chapter 47 of title 10 (the       Uniform Code of Military Justice) and shall perform the       duties assigned as determined by the Secretary and consistent       with the policy, regulations, or other guidance promulgated       under section 824a of title 10 (article 24a of the Uniform       Code of Military Justice).

``(2) Determination of covered offense; related charges.--

``(A) Authority.--The Chief Prosecutor of the Coast Guard       shall have exclusive authority to determine whether a       reported offense is a covered offense and shall exercise       authority over any such offense in accordance with chapter 47       of title 10 (the Uniform Code of Military Justice). Any       determination to prefer or refer charges shall not act to       disqualify the Chief Prosecutor of the Coast Guard as an       accuser.

``(B) Known and related offenses.--If the Chief Prosecutor       of the Coast Guard determines that a reported offense is a       covered offense, the Chief Prosecutor of the Coast Guard may       also exercise authority over any offense that the special       trial counsel determines to be related to the covered offense       and any other offense alleged to have been committed by a       person alleged to have committed the covered offense.

``(3) Dismissal; referral; plea bargains.--Subject to       paragraph (5), with respect to charges and specifications       alleging any offense over which the Chief Prosecutor of the       Coast Guard exercises authority, the Chief Prosecutor of the       Coast Guard shall have exclusive authority to, in accordance       with this chapter and with chapter 47 of title 10 (the       Uniform Code of Military Justice)--

``(A) on behalf of the Government, withdraw or dismiss the       charges and specifications or make a motion to withdraw or       dismiss the charges and specifications;

``(B) refer the charges and specifications for trial by a       special or general court-martial;

``(C) enter into a plea agreement; and

``(D) determine if an authorized rehearing is       impracticable.

``(4) Binding determination.--The determination of the       Chief Prosecutor of the Coast Guard to refer charges and       specifications to a court-martial for trial shall be binding       on any applicable convening authority for the referral of       such charges and specifications.

``(5) Deferral to commander or convening authority.--If the       Chief Prosecutor of the Coast Guard exercises authority over       an offense and elects not to prefer charges and       specifications for such offense or, with respect to charges       and specifications for such offense preferred by a person       other than the Chief Prosecutor of the Coast Guard, elects       not to refer such charges and specifications,       a commander or convening authority may exercise any of the       authorities of such commander or convening authority under       chapter 47 of title 10 (the Uniform Code of Military       Justice), with respect to such offense, except that such       commander or convening authority may not refer charges and       specifications for a covered offense for trial by special or       general court-martial.

``(d) Covered Offense Defined.--In this section, the term       `covered offense' has the meaning given such term in section       801 of title 10.       ``Sec. 325. Office of the Inspector General of the Coast

Guard

``(a) In General.--There is in the Office of the Secretary       of the Coast Guard an Inspector General of the Coast Guard,       who shall be detailed to such position by the Secretary. The       Inspector General of the Coast Guard shall be detailed from       officers on the active-duty list in the line of the Coast       Guard serving in grades above captain. An officer may not be       detailed to such position for a tour of duty of more than 4       years, except that the Secretary of the Coast Guard may       extend such a tour of duty if the Secretary of the Coast       Guard makes a special finding that the extension is necessary       and in the public interest.

``(b) Duties.--When directed by the Secretary of the Coast       Guard or the Commandant, the Inspector General shall inquire       into and report upon any matter that affects the discipline,       military efficiency, or economy of the Coast Guard.

``(c) Recommendations.--The Inspector General shall       periodically propose programs of inspections to the Secretary       of the Coast Guard and shall recommend additional inspections       and investigations as may appear appropriate.

``(d) Cooperation.--The Inspector General shall cooperate       fully with the Inspector General of the Department of       Homeland Security in connection with the performance of any       duty or function by the Inspector General of the Department       of Homeland Security under section 103 of Public Law 107-296       regarding the Coast Guard.

``(e) Duties.--In addition to the responsibilities       described in paragraph (2), the Inspector General shall       periodically propose programs of inspections to the Secretary       of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, the       Secretary of the Coast Guard, and the appropriate committees       of Congress and shall recommend additional inspections and       investigations as may appear appropriate.''.

(2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 3 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end       the following:  ``324. Chief Prosecutor of the Coast Guard. ``325. Office of the Inspector General of the Coast Guard.''.       SEC. 202. REAPPOINTMENT OF COMMANDANT.

Section 302 of title 14, United States Code, is amended in       the first sentence by striking ``further periods of four       years'' and inserting ``one further period of four years''.       SEC. 203. SPECIAL ADVISOR TO COMMANDANT FOR TRIBAL AND NATIVE                     HAWAIIAN AFFAIRS.

(a) Reorganization.--Chapter 3 of title 14, United States       Code, is amended by redesignating sections 312 through 325 as       sections 313 through 326, respectively.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 3 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by redesignating the       items relating to sections 312 through 325 as relating to       sections 313 through 326, respectively.

(c) Special Advisor to Commandant for Tribal and Native       Hawaiian Affairs.--Chapter 3 of title 14, United States Code,       is further amended by inserting after section 311 the       following:       ``Sec. 312. Special Advisor to Commandant for Tribal and

Native Hawaiian Affairs

``(a) In General.--In accordance with Federal trust       responsibilities and treaty obligations, laws, and policies       relevant to Indian Tribes and in support of the principles of       self-determination, self-governance, and co-management with       respect to Indian Tribes, and to support engagement with       Native Hawaiians, there shall be in the Coast Guard a Special       Advisor to the Commandant for Tribal and Native Hawaiian       Affairs (in this section referred to as the `Special       Advisor'), who shall--

``(1) be selected by the Secretary and the Commandant       through a competitive search process;

``(2) have expertise in Federal Indian law and policy,       including government-to-government consultation;

``(3) to the maximum extent practicable, have expertise in       legal and policy issues affecting Native Hawaiians; and

``(4) have an established record of distinguished service       and achievement working with Indian Tribes, Tribal       organizations, and Native Hawaiian organizations.

``(b) Career Reserved Position.--The position of Special       Advisor shall be a career reserved position at the GS-15       level or greater.

``(c) Duties.--The Special Advisor shall--

``(1) ensure the Federal government upholds the Federal       trust responsibility and conducts consistent, meaningful, and       timely government-to-government consultation and engagement       with Indian Tribes, which shall meet or exceed the standards       of the Federal Government and the Coast Guard;

``(2) ensure meaningful and timely engagement with--

``(A) Native Hawaiian organizations; and

``(B) Tribal organizations;

``(3) advise the Commandant on all policies of the Coast       Guard that have Tribal implications in accordance with       applicable law and policy, including Executive Orders;

``(4) work to ensure that the policies of the Federal       Government regarding consultation and engagement with Indian       Tribes and engagement with Native Hawaiian organizations and       Tribal organizations are implemented in a meaningful manner,       working through Coast Guard leadership and across the Coast       Guard, together with--

``(A) liaisons located within Coast Guard districts;

``(B) the Director of Coast Guard Governmental and Public       Affairs; and

``(C) other Coast Guard leadership and programs and other       Federal partners; and

``(5) support Indian Tribes, Native Hawaiian organizations,       and Tribal organizations in all matters under the       jurisdiction of the Coast Guard.

``(d) Direct Access to Secretary and Commandant.--No       officer or employee of the Coast Guard or the Department of       Homeland Security may interfere with the ability of the       Special Advisor to give direct and independent advice to the       Secretary and the Commandant on matters related to this       section.

``(e) Definitions.--In this section:

``(1) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian Tribe' has the       meaning given such term in section 4 of the Indian Self-      Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).

``(2) Native hawaiian organization.--The term `Native       Hawaiian organization' has the meaning given such term in       section 6207 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of       1965 (20 U.S.C. 7517) except the term includes the Department       of Hawaiian Home Lands and the Office of Hawaiian Affairs.

``(3) Tribal organization.--The term `Tribal organization'       has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian       Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C.       5304).''.

(d) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 3 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by inserting after       the item relating to section 311 the following:  ``312. Special Advisor to Commandant for Tribal and Native Hawaiian                Affairs.''.

(e) Briefings.--

(1) Initial briefing.--Not later than 120 days after the       date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall brief the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the       Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate and the Committee       on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives on the manner in which the Special Advisor       for Tribal and Native Hawaiian Affairs will be incorporated       into the governance structure of the Coast Guard, including a       timeline for the incorporation that is completed not later       than 1 year after date of enactment of this Act.

(2) Annual briefings on special advisor to the commandant       to tribal and native hawaiian affairs.--Not later than 1 year       after the date of the establishment of the position of the       Special Advisor to the Commandant for Tribal and Native       Hawaiian Affairs under section 313 of title 14, United States       Code, and annually thereafter for 2 years, the Commandant       shall provide the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Technology and the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate       and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the       House of Representatives with a briefing on the duties,       responsibilities, and actions of the Special Advisor to the       Commandant for Tribal and Native Hawaiian Affairs, including       management of best practices.

(3) Briefing on collaboration with tribes on research       consistent with coast guard mission requirements.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall provide the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Technology and the       Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate and the Committee       on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives with a briefing on potential collaborations       on and research and use of indigenous place-based knowledge       and research.

(B) Element.--In providing the briefing under subparagraph       (A), the Commandant shall identify current and potential       future opportunities to improve coordination with Indian       Tribes, Native Hawaiian organizations, and Tribal       organizations to support--

(i) Coast Guard mission needs, such as the potential for       research or knowledge to enhance maritime domain awareness,       including opportunities through the ADAC-ARCTIC Center of       Excellence of the Department of Homeland Security; and

(ii) Coast Guard efforts to protect indigenous place-based       knowledge and research.

(4) Definitions.--In this subsection:

(A) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the       meaning given such term in section 4 of the Indian Self-      Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).

(B) Native hawaiian organization.--The term ``Native       Hawaiian organization'' has the meaning given such term in       section 6207 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of       1965 (20 U.S.C. 7517) except the term includes the Department       of Hawaiian Home Lands and the Office of Hawaiian Affairs.

(C) Tribal organization.--The term ``Tribal organization''       has the meaning given the such in section 4 of the Indian       Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C.       5304).

(f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section, or an       amendment made by this section, shall be construed to       impact--

(1) the right of any Indian Tribe (as defined in section 4       of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act       (25 U.S.C. 5304); or

(2) any government-to-government consultation.

(g) Conforming Amendments.--

(1) Section 11237 of the Don Young Coast Guard       Authorization Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-263) is amended--

(A) in subsection (a), by striking ``section 312 of title       14'' and inserting ``section 313 of title 14''; and

(B) in subsection (b)(2)(A), by striking ``section 312 of       title 14'' and inserting ``section 313 of title 14''.

(2) Section 807(a) of the Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard       Authorization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-282) is amended by       striking ``section 313 of title 14'' and inserting ``section       314 of title 14''.

(3) Section 3533(a) of the National Defense Authorization       Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118-31) is amended by       striking ``section 315 of title 14'' and inserting ``section       316 of title 14''.

(4) Section 311(j)(9)(D) of the Federal Water Pollution       Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(j)(9)(D)) is amended by striking       ``section 323 of title 14'' each place it appears and       inserting ``section 324 of title 14'' each such place.       SEC. 204. REINSTATEMENT OF TRAINING COURSE ON WORKINGS OF                     CONGRESS.

(a) In General.--Section 316 of title 14, United States       Code, as so redesignated, is amended to read as follows:       ``Sec. 316. Training courses on workings of Congress

``(a) In General.--

``(1) Training course.--The Commandant, and such other       individuals and organizations as the Commandant considers       appropriate, shall develop a training course on the workings       of Congress and offer such training course at least once each       year.

``(2) Course subject matter.--The training course required       by this section shall provide an overview and introduction to       Congress and the Federal legislative process, including--

``(A) the history and structure of Congress and the       committee systems of the House of Representatives and the       Senate, including the functions and responsibilities of the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate;

``(B) the documents produced by Congress, including bills,       resolutions, committee reports, and conference reports, and       the purposes and functions of such documents;

``(C) the legislative processes and rules of the House of       Representatives and the Senate, including similarities and       differences between the 2 processes and 2 sets of rules,       including--

``(i) the congressional budget process;

``(ii) the congressional authorization and appropriation       processes;

``(iii) the Senate advice and consent process for       Presidential nominees; and

``(iv) the Senate advice and consent process for treaty       ratification;

``(D) the roles of Members of Congress and congressional       staff in the legislative process; and

``(E) the concept and underlying purposes of congressional       oversight within the governance framework of separation of       powers.

``(3) Lecturers and panelists.--

``(A) Outside experts.--The Commandant shall ensure that       not less than 60 percent of the lecturers, panelists, and       other individuals providing education and instruction as part       of the training course required under this section are       experts on Congress and the Federal legislative process who       are not employed by the executive branch of the Federal       Government.

``(B) Authority to accept pro bono services.--In satisfying       the requirement under paragraph (1), the Commandant shall       seek, and may accept, educational and instructional services       of lecturers, panelists, and other individuals and       organizations provided to the Coast Guard on a pro bono       basis.

``(4) Effect of law.--

``(A) In general.--The training required by this section       shall replace the substantially similar training that was       required by the Commandant on the day before the date of       enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025.

``(B) Previous training recipients.--A Coast Guard flag       officer or a Coast Guard Senior Executive Service employee       who, not more than 3 years before the date of the enactment       of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025, completed the       training that was required by the Commandant on the day       before such date of enactment, shall not be required to       complete the training required by this section.

``(b) Training for Congressional Affairs Personnel.--

``(1) In general.--The Commandant shall develop a training       course, which shall be administered in person, on the       workings of Congress for any member of the Coast Guard       selected for a position as a fellow, liaison, counsel, or       administrative staff for the Coast Guard Office of       Congressional and Governmental Affairs or as any Coast Guard       district or area governmental affairs officer.

``(2) Course subject matter.--

``(A) In general.--The training course required under this       section shall provide an overview and introduction to       Congress and the Federal legislative process, including--

``(i) the congressional budget process;

``(ii) the congressional appropriations process;

``(iii) the congressional authorization process;

``(iv) the Senate advice and consent process for       Presidential nominees;

``(v) the Senate advice and consent process for treaty       ratification;

``(vi) the roles of Members of Congress and congressional       staff in the legislative process;

``(vii) the concept and underlying purposes of       congressional oversight within the governance framework of       separation of powers;

``(viii) the roles of Coast Guard fellows, liaisons,       counsels, governmental affairs officers, the Coast Guard       Office of Program Review, the Coast Guard Headquarters       program offices, and any other entity the Commandant       considers relevant; and

``(ix) the roles and responsibilities of Coast Guard public       affairs and external communications personnel with respect to       Members of Congress and the staff of such Members necessary       to enhance communication between Coast Guard units, sectors,       and districts and Member offices and committees of       jurisdiction so as to ensure visibility of Coast Guard       activities.

``(3) Detail within coast guard office of budget and       programs.--

``(A) In general.--At the written request of a receiving       congressional office, the training course required under this       section shall include a multi-day detail within the Coast       Guard Office of Budget and Programs to ensure adequate       exposure to Coast Guard policy, oversight, and requests from       Congress.

``(B) Nonconsecutive detail permitted.--A detail under this       paragraph is not required to be consecutive with the balance       of the training.

``(4) Completion of required training.--A member of the       Coast Guard selected for a position described in subsection       (a) shall complete the training required by this section       before the date on which such member reports for duty for       such position.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 3 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by striking the item       relating to section 316 and inserting the following:  ``316. Training courses on workings of Congress.''.       SEC. 205. SERVICES AND USE OF FUNDS FOR, AND LEASING OF, THE                     NATIONAL COAST GUARD MUSEUM.

Section 317 of title 14, United States Code, as so       redesignated, is amended--

(1) in subsection (b)--

(A) in paragraph (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and       inserting ``Except as provided in paragraph (2), the       Secretary''; and

(B) in paragraph (2) by striking ``on the engineering and       design of a Museum.'' and inserting ``on--''

``(A) the design of the Museum; and

``(B) engineering, construction administration, and quality       assurance services for the Museum.'';

(2) in subsection (e), by amending paragraph (2)(A) to read       as follows:

``(2)(A) for the purpose of conducting Coast Guard       operations, lease from the Association--

``(i) the Museum; and

``(ii) any property owned by the Association that is       adjacent to the railroad tracks that are adjacent to the       property on which the Museum is located; and''; and

(3) by amending subsection (g) to read as follows:

``(g) Services.--With respect to the services related to       the construction, maintenance, and operation of the Museum,       the Commandant may, from nonprofits entities including the       Association,--

``(1) solicit and accept services; and

``(2) enter into contracts or memoranda of agreement to       acquire such services.''.                          Subtitle B--Authorities       SEC. 211. PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION.

(a) In General.--Section 11269 of the Don Young Coast Guard       Authorization Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-263) is--

(1) transferred to appear at the end of subchapter II of       chapter 5 of title 14, United States Code;

(2) redesignated as section 529; and

(3) amended--

(A) by striking the section enumerator and heading and       inserting the following:       ``Sec. 529. Public availability of information'';

(B) by striking ``Not later than'' and inserting the       following:

``(a) In General.--Not later than'';

(C) by striking ``the number of migrant'' and inserting       ``the number of drug and person''; and

(D) by adding at the end the following:

``(b) Contents.--In making information about interdictions       publicly available under subsection (a), the Commandant shall       include a description of the following:

``(1) The number of incidents in which drugs were       interdicted, the amount and type of drugs interdicted, and       the Coast Guard sectors and geographic areas of       responsibility in which such incidents occurred.

``(2) The number of incidents in which persons were       interdicted, the number of persons interdicted, the number of       those persons who were unaccompanied minors, and the Coast       Guard sectors and geographic areas of responsibility in which       such incidents occurred.

``(c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this provision       shall be construed to require       the Coast Guard to collect the information described in       subsection (b), and nothing in this provision shall be       construed to require the Commandant to publicly release       confidential, classified, law enforcement sensitive, or       otherwise protected information.''.

(b) Clerical Amendments.--

(1) Title 14.--The analysis for chapter 5 of title 14,       United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item       relating to section 528 the following:  ``529. Public availability of information on monthly drug and migrant                interdictions.''.

(2) James m. inhofe national defense authorization act for       fiscal year 2023.--The table of contents for the James M.       Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year       2023 (Public Law 117-263) is amended by striking the item       relating to section 11269.

(3) Don young coast guard authorization act of 2022.--The       table of contents for the Don Young Coast Guard Authorization       Act of 2022 (division K of Public Law 117-263) is amended by       striking the item relating to section 11269.       SEC. 212. CYBER COORDINATION AND SUPPORT IN FOREIGN                     TERRITORIES.

(a) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 14, United States Code,       is amended by inserting after section 721 the following:       ``Sec. 722. Cyber coordination in foreign territories

``(a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the       Commandant, may coordinate with a foreign entity to provide       cyber prevention and response assistance related to the       marine transportation systems and assets located outside the       United States that have a nexus to the United States Marine       Transportation System or illegal, unreported, and unregulated       fishing.

``(b) Types of Support.--The Commandant may conduct cyber       assessments, audits, inspections, operations, or other       activities as provided under subsection (a).

``(c) Coordination.--The Secretary may provide support       under subsections (a) and (b) after coordination with the       Secretary of State.

``(d) Reimbursement Authority.--The Secretary may require       reimbursement from a foreign entity for costs incurred by the       Coast Guard for assistance provided under subsection (a).

``(e) Definition.--In this section, the term `foreign       entity' includes foreign governments and intergovernmental       organizations the Secretary considers appropriate.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 7 of such       title is further amended by inserting after the item relating       to section 721 the following:  ``722. Cyber coordination in foreign territories.''.       SEC. 213. MODIFICATION OF TREATMENT OF MINOR CONSTRUCTION AND                     IMPROVEMENT PROJECT MANAGEMENT.

Section 903(d)(1) of title 14, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``$1,500,000'' and inserting       ``$4,000,000''.       SEC. 214. PREPAREDNESS PLANS FOR COAST GUARD PROPERTIES                     LOCATED IN TSUNAMI INUNDATION ZONES.

(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant, in consultation with       the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric       Administration and the heads of other appropriate Federal       agencies, shall develop a location-specific tsunami       preparedness plan for each property concerned.

(b) Requirements.--In developing each preparedness plan       under subsection (a), the Commandant shall ensure that the       plan--

(1) minimizes the loss of human life;

(2) maximizes the ability of the Coast Guard to meet the       mission of the Coast Guard;

(3) is included in the emergency action plan for each Coast       Guard unit or sector located within the applicable tsunami       inundation zone;

(4) designates an evacuation route to an assembly area       located outside the tsunami inundation zone;

(5) takes into consideration near-shore and distant tsunami       inundation of the property concerned;

(6) includes--

(A) maps of all applicable tsunami inundation zones;

(B) evacuation routes and instructions for all individuals       located on the property concerned;

(C) procedures to begin evacuations as expeditiously as       possible upon detection of a seismic or other tsunamigenic       event;

(D) evacuation plans for Coast Guard aviation and afloat       assets; and

(E)(i) routes for evacuation on foot from any location       within the property concerned; or

(ii) if an on-foot evacuation is not possible, an       assessment of whether there is a need for vertical evacuation       refuges that would allow evacuation on foot;

(7) in the case of a property concerned that is at risk for       a near-shore tsunami, is able to be completely executed       within 15 minutes of detection of a seismic event, or if       complete execution is not possible within 15 minutes, within       a timeframe the Commandant considers reasonable to minimize       the loss of life; and

(8) not less frequently than annually, is--

(A) exercised by each Coast Guard unit and sector located       in the applicable tsunami inundation zone;

(B) communicated through an annual in-person training to       Coast Guard personnel and dependents located or living on the       property concerned; and

(C) evaluated by the relevant District Commander for each       Coast Guard unit and sector located within the applicable       tsunami inundation zone.

(c) Consultation.--In developing each preparedness plan       under subsection (a), the Commandant shall consult relevant       State, Tribal, and local government entities, including       emergency management officials.

(d) Briefing.--Not later than 14 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall provide a       briefing to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives on each plan developed under subsection (a),       including the status of implementation and feasibility of       each such plan.

(e) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Property concerned.--The term ``property concerned''       means any real property owned, operated, or leased by the       Coast Guard within a tsunami inundation zone.

(2) Tsunamigenic event.--The term ``tsunamigenic event''       means any event, such as an earthquake, volcanic eruption,       submarine landslide, coastal rockfall, or other event, with       the magnitude to cause a tsunami.

(3) Vertical evacuation refuge.--The term ``vertical       evacuation refuge'' means a structure or earthen mound       designated as a place of refuge in the event of a tsunami,       with sufficient height to elevate evacuees above the tsunami       inundation depth, designed and constructed to resist tsunami       load effects.       SEC. 215. ADDITIONAL PRIBILOF ISLAND TRANSITION COMPLETION                     ACTIONS.

Section 11221 of the Don Young Coast Guard Authorization       Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-263) is amended by adding at the       end the following:

``(e) Additional Reports on Status of Use of Facilities and       Helicopter Basing.--Beginning with the first quarterly report       required under subsection (a) submitted after the date of       enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025, the       Secretary shall include in each such report--

``(1) the status of the use of recently renovated Coast       Guard housing facilities, food preparation facilities, and       maintenance and repair facilities on St. Paul Island, Alaska,       including a projected date for full use and occupancy of such       facilities in support of Coast Guard missions in the Bering       Sea; and

``(2) a detailed plan for the acquisition and construction       of a hangar in close proximity to existing St. Paul airport       facilities for the prosecution of Coast Guard operational       missions, including plans for the use of land needed for such       hangar.''.       SEC. 216. SCIENTIFIC MISSION FOR USCGC STORIS.

Section 11223 of Don Young Coast Guard Authorization Act of       2022 (14 U.S.C. 561 note) is amended--

(1) in subsection (d)--

(A) in paragraph (2)--

(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) by striking       ``retrofitting'';

(ii) in subparagraph (A)--

(I) by inserting ``retrofitting,'' before ``maintenance'';       and

(II) by striking ``the science party'' and inserting       ``costs described in paragraph (3)''; and

(B) by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows:

``(4) Memoranda of agreement.--

``(A) In general.--The Commandant--

``(i) shall enter into a memorandum of agreement with the       Under Secretary to allow the Under Secretary to use any       vessel acquired under this section to conduct research, and       facilitate science activities, data collection, and other       procedures necessary to carry out the purposes described in       subsection (c); and

``(ii) may enter into a memorandum of agreement with any       other Federal, State, local government entity, institution of       higher education, or research institution to use any vessel       acquired under this section to conduct research to facilitate       science activities, data collection, and other procedures       necessary to allow such an entity or institution to carry out       the purposes described in subsection (c).

``(B) Prohibition.--The Commandant may not charge the Under       Secretary or any other entity with whom the Commandant enters       into a memorandum of agreement under subparagraph (A) any fee       related to use or operation of any vessel acquired under this       section.

``(C) Restriction.--The Commandant may only allow the use       of any vessel acquired under this section under any       memorandum of agreement entered into under this paragraph if       such use is not inconsistent with the missions of the Coast       Guard.''; and

(2) in subsection (j) by striking ``through (c)'' and       inserting ``and (b)''.       SEC. 217. COAST GUARD ACCESS TO DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY                     FUND.

(a) Inclusion of Coast Guard as Department of the Treasury       Law Enforcement Organization.--Section 9705 of title 31,       United States Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph       (1) by striking ``the Department of the Treasury or the       United       States Coast Guard'' and inserting ``a Department of the       Treasury law enforcement organization'';

(2) in subsection (a)(2)(B)--

(A) in clause (iv) by striking ``and'' at the end;

(B) in clause (v) by inserting ``and'' after the semicolon;       and

(C) by adding at the end the following:

``(vi) the United States Coast Guard with respect to any       law of the United States which the Coast Guard is authorized       to enforce, assist in the enforcement of, or administer       pursuant to section 102, 522, or 525 of title 14;'';

(3) in subsection (a)(2)(H) by striking ``the Department of       the Treasury'' and inserting ``a Department of the Treasury       law enforcement organization'';

(4) in subsection (d)(2) by striking ``or the United States       Coast Guard'' each place it appears;

(5) in subsection (f)(1)(A)(ii) by striking ``or the United       States Coast Guard'';

(6) in subsection (h)(1) by striking ``the Department of       the Treasury'' and inserting ``a Department of the Treasury       law enforcement organization'';

(7) in subsection (j)(1) by striking ``the Department of       the Treasury or the United States Coast Guard'' and inserting       ``a Department of the Treasury law enforcement       organization'';

(8) in subsection (l) by striking ``the Department of the       Treasury'' and inserting ``a Department of the Treasury law       enforcement organization''; and

(9) in subsection (o)(1) by inserting ``the United States       Coast Guard,'' before ``the United States Customs Service,''.

(b) Elimination of Separate Funds for the Coast Guard.--      Section 9705 of title 31, United States Code, is amended--

(1) by striking subsection (c);

(2) in subsection (g)(2) by striking ``and (c)'';

(3) by redesignating subsections (d) through (o) as       subsections (c) through (n), respectively;

(4) by striking ``subsection (d)'' each place it appears       and inserting ``subsection (c)'';

(5) by striking ``subsection (e)'' each place it appears       and inserting ``subsection (d)''; and

(6) by striking ``subsection (h)'' each place it appears       and inserting ``subsection (g)''.

(c) Technical Corrections.--Section 9705 of title 31,       United States Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (f)(3)(C), as so redesignated, by       striking ``section 4(B) of 9703(g)'' and inserting       ``paragraph (4)(B)'';

(2) in subsection (f)(4)(B), as so redesignated, by       striking ``for transfers pursuant to subparagraph (A)(ii)       and'';

(3) in subsection (g)(2), as so redesignated, by striking       ``seizure of forfeiture'' and inserting ``seizure or       forfeiture''; and

(4) in subsection (l), as so redesignated, by striking       ``524(c)(11)'' and inserting ``524(c)''.

(d) Updates to Cross-references.--

(1) Title 28.--Section 524(c) of title 28, United States       Code, is amended--

(A) in paragraph (4)(C) by striking ``9705(g)(4)(A)'' and       inserting ``9705(f)(4)(A)''; and

(B) in paragraph (10) by striking ``9705(o)'' and inserting       ``9705(n)''.

(2) Title 31.--Section 5340(1) of title 31, United States       Code, is amended by striking ``9705(o)'' and inserting       ``9705(n)''.

(3) Title 39.--Section 2003(e)(1) of title 39, United       States Code, is amended by striking ``9705(o)'' and inserting       ``9705(n)''.                          Subtitle C--Acquisition       SEC. 231. MODIFICATION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF LEAD SYSTEMS                     INTEGRATORS.

Section 1105 of title 14, United States Code, is amended by       adding at the end the following:

``(c) Lead Systems Integrator Defined.--In this section,       the term `lead systems integrator' has the meaning given such       term in section 805(c) of the National Defense Authorization       Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163).''.       SEC. 232. ACQUISITION IMPROVEMENTS.

(a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 11 of title 14,       United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the       following:       ``Sec. 1138. Service life extension programs

``(a) In General.--Requirements for a Level 1 or Level 2       acquisition project or program under sections 1131 through       1134 shall not apply to an acquisition by the Coast Guard       that is a service life extension program.

``(b) Service Life Extension Program Defined.--In this       section, the term `service life extension program' means a       capital investment that is solely intended to extend the       service life and address obsolescence of components or       systems of a particular capability or asset.       ``Sec. 1139. Consideration of life-cycle cost estimates for

acquisition and procurement

``In carrying out the acquisition and procurement of       vessels and aircraft, the Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating, acting through the       Commandant, shall consider the life-cycle cost estimates of       vessels and aircraft, as applicable, during the design and       evaluation processes to the maximum extent practicable.       ``Sec. 1140. Contracts that provide best value for taxpayer

``(a) In General.--In carrying out a Level 1 or Level 2       acquisition project or program under this subchapter, the       Commandant shall publicly announce all construction, design,       and engineering requirements and negotiate contracts for       construction, design, and engineering services on the basis       of demonstrated competence and qualification for the type of       professional services required and at fair and reasonable       prices.

``(b) Selection Procedure.--The following procedures shall       apply to the procurement of Level 1 or Level 2 acquisition       project or program under this subchapter:

``(1) Statements of qualification and performance.--The       Commandant shall require prospective contractors to submit a       statement of qualifications and performance data.

``(2) Evaluation.--For each proposed project, the       Commandant shall--

``(A) evaluate statements of qualifications and performance       submitted by firms regarding the proposed project; and

``(B) conduct discussions with at least 3 firms to consider       anticipated concepts and compare alternative methods for       furnishing services.

``(3) Selection.--From the firms with which discussions       have been conducted under paragraph (2)(B), the Commandant       shall select, in order of preference, at least 3 firms that       the Commandant considers most highly qualified to provide the       services required, based on criteria established and       published by the Commandant.

``(c) Negotiation of Contract.--

``(1) In general.--The Commandant shall negotiate a       contract for construction, design, and engineering services       under this section at compensation which the Commandant       determines is fair and reasonable to the Federal Government.

``(2) Fair and reasonable compensation.--In determining       fair and reasonable compensation, the Commandant shall       consider the scope, complexity, professional nature, and       estimated value of the services to be rendered.

``(3) Negotiation.--The Commandant shall attempt to       negotiate a contract with the most highly qualified firm       selected under subsection (b).

``(4) Further negotiation.--If the Commandant is unable to       negotiate a satisfactory contract with the firm under       paragraph (3), the Commandant shall formally terminate       negotiations with such firm and undertake negotiations with       the next most qualified of the selected firms, continuing the       process until an agreement is reached.

``(5) Additional firms.--If the Commandant is unable to       negotiate a satisfactory contract with any of the selected       firms, the Commandant shall select additional firms in order       of competence and qualification and continue negotiations in       accordance with this section until an agreement is       reached.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 11 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by inserting after       the item relating to section 1137 the following:  ``1138. Service life extension programs. ``1139. Consideration of life-cycle cost estimates for acquisition and                procurement. ``1140. Contracts that provide best value for taxpayer.''.       SEC. 233. RESTRICTION ON ACQUISITION, PROCUREMENT, OR                     CONSTRUCTION OF VESSELS IN FOREIGN SHIPYARDS.

(a) In General.--Section 1151 of title 14, United States       Code, is amended to read as follows:       ``Sec. 1151. Restriction on acquisition, procurement, or

construction of vessels in foreign shipyards

``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b),       the Commandant may not lease, charter, or otherwise procure a       vessel which contains a major component of the hull or       superstructure constructed in a foreign shipyard.

``(b) Exceptions.--

``(1) In general.--The President may authorize exceptions       to the prohibition in subsection (a) when the President       determines that it is in the national security interest of       the United States to address an immediate adverse effect on       Coast Guard missions.

``(2) Timing.--An exception made by the President under       paragraph (1) shall not take effect until the President       submits to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives and the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a written       explanation of the circumstances requiring such an exception       in the national security interest, including--

``(A) a confirmation that there are insufficient qualified       shipyards to meet the national security interest without such       an exception; and

``(B) actions taken by the President to enable qualified       United States shipyards to meet national security       requirements prior to the issuance of such an exception''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 11 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by striking the item       relating to section 1151 and inserting the following:  ``1151. Restriction on acquisition, procurement, or construction of                vessels in foreign shipyards.''.       SEC. 234. GREAT LAKES ICEBREAKING.

(a) Great Lakes Icebreaker and Icebreaking Tugs.--

(1) Strategy.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives a strategy detailing how the       Coast Guard will complete design and construction of a Great       Lakes icebreaker at least as capable as the Coast Guard       cutter Mackinaw (WLBB-30) as expeditiously as possible after       funding is provided for such icebreaker, including providing       a cost estimate and an estimated delivery timeline that would       facilitate the expedited delivery detailed in the strategy.

(2) Report on bay class icebreaking tug fleet       replacement.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate--

(A) a report that describes the strategy of the Coast Guard       with respect to the replacement of the Bay class icebreaking       tug fleet;

(B) in the case of such a strategy that results in the       replacement of the last Bay class icebreaking tug on a date       that is more than 15 years after such date of enactment, a       plan to maintain the operational capabilities of the Bay       class icebreaking tug fleet until the date on which such       fleet is projected to be replaced; and

(C) in the case of such a plan that does not include the       replacement of the main propulsion engines and marine gear       components of the Bay class icebreaking tug fleet, an       assessment of the manner in which not replacing such engines       and gear components will effect the future operational       availability of such fleet.

(b) Great Lakes Icebreaker Pilot Program.--Section 11212(a)       of the Don Young Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2022       (Public Law 117-263) is amended by adding at the end the       following:

``(4) Pilot program.--

``(A) In general.--During the 5 ice seasons beginning after       the date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall       conduct a pilot program to determine the extent to which the       Coast Guard Great Lakes icebreaking cutter fleet is capable       of maintaining tier one and tier two waterways open 95       percent of the time during an ice season.

``(B) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the end of       each of the 5 ice seasons beginning after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives a report that details--

``(i) the results of the pilot program required under       subparagraph (A); and

``(ii) any relevant new performance measures implemented by       the Coast Guard, including the measures described in pages 5       through 7 of the report of the Coast Guard titled `Domestic       Icebreaking Operations' and submitted to Congress on July 26,       2024, as required by section 11212(a)(3) of the Don Young       Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-263),       and the results of the implementation of such measures.''.

(c) Modification to Reporting Requirement Relating to       Icebreaking Operations in Great Lakes.--

(1) In general.--Section 11213(f) of the Don Young Coast       Guard Authorization Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-263) is       amended to read as follows:

``(f) Public Report.--Not later than July 1 after the first       winter in which the Commandant has submitted the report       required by paragraph (3) of section 11212(a), the Commandant       shall publish on a publicly accessible website of the Coast       Guard a report on the cost to the Coast Guard of meeting the       proposed standards described in paragraph (2) of such       section.''.

(2) Public report.--Section 11272(c) of the James M. Inhofe       National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 is       amended by adding at the end the following:

``(7) Public report.--

``(A) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of       enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025, the       Commandant shall brief the Committee on Transportation and       Infrastructure of the House or Representatives and the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate on the cost to the Coast Guard of meeting the       requirements of section 564 of title 14, United States Code,       in fiscal year 2024.

``(B) Secondary briefings.--Not later than November 1, 2025       and November, 1, 2026, the Commandant shall brief the       committees described in subparagraph (A) on the cost to the       Coast Guard of meeting the requirements of section 564 of       title 14, United States Code, in fiscal years 2025 and 2026,       respectively.''.       SEC. 235. ENTITY OTHER THAN THE COAST GUARD.

Notwithstanding section 1105(a) of title 14, United States       Code, the Commandant may provide for an entity other than the       Coast Guard to contract for the acquisition, procurement, or       construction of--

(1) the Arctic Security Cutters for which funds were       appropriated under section 40001 of Public Law 119-21; and

(2) all other vessels for which funds were appropriated       under section 40001 of Public Law 119-21.                           Subtitle D--Personnel       SEC. 241. FAMILY LEAVE POLICIES FOR COAST GUARD.

(a) In General.--Section 2512 of title 14, United States       Code, is amended--

(1) in the section heading by striking ``Leave'' and       inserting ``Family leave'';

(2) in subsection (a)--

(A) by striking ``, United States Code,'' and inserting       ``or, with respect to the reserve component of the Coast       Guard, the Secretary of Defense promulgates a new regulation       for members of the reserve component of the Coast Guard       pursuant to section 711 of title 10,'';

(B) by striking ``or adoption of a child'' and inserting       ``or placement of a minor child with the member for adoption       or long term foster care'';

(C) by striking ``and enlisted members'' and inserting ``,       enlisted members, and members of the reserve component''; and

(D) by inserting ``or, with respect to members of the       reserve component of the Coast Guard, the Secretary of       Defense'' after ``provided by the Secretary of the Navy'';

(3) in subsection (b)--

(A) in the subsection heading by striking ``Adoption of       Child'' and inserting ``Placement of Minor Child With Member       for Adoption or Long Term Foster Care'';

(B) by striking ``and 704'' and inserting ``, 704, and       711'';

(C) by striking ``and enlisted members'' and inserting ``,       enlisted members, and members of the reserve component'';

(D) by striking ``the birth or adoption'' inserting ``the       birth, adoption, or long term foster care'';

(E) by striking ``immediately'';

(F) by striking ``such birth or adoption'' and inserting       ``such birth, placement of a minor child with the member for       long-term foster care, or adoption,''; and

(G) by striking ``enlisted member'' and inserting ``,       enlisted member, or member of the reserve component''; and

(4) by adding at the end the following:

``(c) Period of Leave.--

``(1) In general.--The Secretary of the department in which       the Coast Guard is operating, may authorize leave described       under subparagraph (b) to be taken after the one-year period       described in subparagraph (b) in the case of a member       described in subsection (b) who, except for this       subparagraph, would lose unused family leave at the end of       the one-year period described in subparagraph (A) as a result       of--

``(A) operational requirements;

``(B) professional military education obligations; or

``(C) other circumstances that the Secretary determines       reasonable and appropriate.

``(2) Extended deadline.--The regulation, rule, policy, or       memorandum prescribed under paragraph (a) shall require that       any leave authorized to be taken after the one-year period       described in subparagraph (c)(1)(A) shall be taken within a       reasonable period of time, as determined by the Secretary of       the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, after       cessation of the circumstances warranting the extended       deadline.

``(d) Member of the Reserve Component of the Coast Guard       Defined.--In this section, the term `member of the reserve       component of the Coast Guard' means a member of the Coast       Guard who is a member of--

``(1) the selected reserve who is entitled to compensation       under section 206 of title 37; or

``(2) the individual ready reserve who is entitled to       compensation under section 206 of title 37 when attending or       participating in a sufficient number of periods of inactive-      duty training during a year to count the year as a qualifying       year of creditable service toward eligibility for retired       pay.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 25 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by striking the item       relating to section 2512 and inserting the following:  ``2512. Family leave policies for the Coast Guard.''.

(c) Compensation.--Section 206(a)(4) of title 37, United       States Code, is amended by inserting before the period at the       end ``or family leave under section 2512 of title 14''.       SEC. 242. MODIFICATIONS TO CAREER FLEXIBILITY PROGRAM.

Section 2514 of title 14, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (c)(3) by striking ``2 months'' and       inserting ``30 days''; and

(2) in subsection (h)--

(A) in paragraph (1) by striking ``and'' at the end;

(B) in paragraph (2) by striking the period and inserting a       semicolon; and

(C) by adding at the end the following:

``(3) the entitlement of the member and of the survivors of       the member to all death benefits under subchapter II of       chapter 75 of title 10;

``(4) the provision of all travel and transportation       allowances to family members of a deceased member to attend       the repatriation, burial, or memorial ceremony of a deceased       member as provided in section 453(f) of title 37;

``(5) the eligibility of the member for general benefits as       provided in part II of title 38; and

``(6) in the case of a victim of an alleged sex-related       offense (as such term is defined in section 1044e(h) of title       10) to the maximum extent practicable, maintaining access       to--

``(A) Coast Guard behavioral health resources;

``(B) sexual assault prevention and response resources and       programs of the Coast Guard; and

``(C) Coast Guard legal resources, including, to the extent       practicable, special victims' counsel.''.       SEC. 243. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN PERSONNEL.

(a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 25 of title 14,       United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the       following:       ``Sec. 2517. Direct hire authority for certain personnel

``(a) In General.--The Commandant may appoint, without       regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 (other       than sections 3303 and 3328 of such chapter) of title 5,       qualified candidates to any of the following positions in the       competitive service (as defined in section 2102 of title 5)       in the Coast Guard:

``(1) Any category of medical or health professional       positions within the Coast Guard.

``(2) Any childcare services position.

``(3) Any position in the Coast Guard housing office of a       Coast Guard installation, the primary function of which is       supervision of Coast Guard housing covered by subchapter III       of chapter 29 of this title.

``(4) Any nonclinical specialist position the purpose of       which is the integrated primary prevention of harmful       behavior, including suicide, sexual assault, harassment,       domestic abuse, and child abuse.

``(5) Any special agent position of the Coast Guard       Investigative Service.

``(6) The following positions at the Coast Guard Academy:

``(A) Any civilian faculty member appointed under section       1941.

``(B) A position involving the improvement of cadet health       or well-being.

``(b) Noncompetitive Appointment.--The Secretary may,       without regard to the appointment requirements of title 5,       noncompetitively appoint a highly qualified candidate to a       faculty position in the excepted service.

``(c) Limitation.--The Commandant shall only appoint       qualified candidates under the authority provided by       subsections (a) and (b) if the Commandant determines that       there is a shortage of qualified candidates for the positions       described in such subsection or a critical hiring need for       such positions.

``(d) Briefing Requirement.--Not later than 1 year after       the date of enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of       2025, and annually thereafter for the following 5 years, the       Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Homeland       Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives a written briefing which describes the use       of the authority provided under this section on an annual       basis, including the following:

``(1) The number of employees hired under the authority       provided under this section within the year for which the       briefing is provided.

``(2) The positions and grades for which employees were       hired.

``(3) A justification for the Commandant's determination       that such positions involved a shortage of qualified       candidates or a critical hiring need.

``(4) The number of employees who were hired under the       authority provided under this section who have separated from       the Coast Guard.

``(5) Steps the Coast Guard has taken to engage with the       Office of Personnel Management under subpart B of part 337 of       title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, for positions for which       the Commandant determines a direct hire authority remains       necessary.

``(e) Sunset.--The authority provided under subsection (a)       shall expire on September 30, 2030.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 25 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by inserting after       the item relating to 2516 the following:  ``2517. Direct hire authority for certain personnel.''.       SEC. 244. COMMAND SPONSORSHIP FOR DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF                     COAST GUARD ASSIGNED TO UNALASKA, ALASKA.

(a) In General.--Chapter 25 of title 14, United States       Code, is further amended by inserting after section 2517 (as       added by this Act) the following:       ``Sec. 2518. Command sponsorship

``On request by a member of the Coast Guard assigned to       Unalaska, Alaska, the Commandant shall grant command       sponsorship to the dependents of such member.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 25 of       title 14, United States Code, is further amended by inserting       after the item relating to section 2517 the following:  ``2518. Command sponsorship.''.       SEC. 245. AUTHORIZATION FOR MATERNITY UNIFORM ALLOWANCE FOR                     OFFICERS.

Section 2708 of title 14, United States Code, is amended by       adding at the end the following:

``(c) The Coast Guard may provide a cash allowance, in such       amount as the Secretary shall determine by policy, to be paid       to pregnant officer personnel for the purchase of maternity-      related uniform items, if such uniform items are not so       furnished to the member by the Coast Guard.''.       SEC. 246. CONSOLIDATION OF AUTHORITIES FOR COLLEGE STUDENT                     PRECOMMISSIONING INITIATIVE.

(a) In General.--Section 3710 of title 14, United States       Code, is amended to read as follows:       ``Sec. 3710. College student precommissioning initiative

``(a) In General.--There is authorized within the Coast       Guard a college student precommissioning initiative program       (in this section referred to as the `Program') for eligible       undergraduate students to enlist in the Coast Guard Reserve       and receive a commission as a Reserve officer.

``(b) Criteria for Selection.--To be eligible for the       Program an applicant shall meet the following requirements       upon submitting an application:

``(1) Age.--The applicant shall be not less than 19 years       old and not more than 31 years old as of September 30 of the       fiscal year in which the Program selection panel selecting       such applicant convenes, or an age otherwise determined by       the Commandant.

``(2) Character.--

``(A) In general.--The applicant shall be of outstanding       moral character and meet any other character requirement set       forth by the Commandant.

``(B) Coast guard applicants.--Any applicant serving in the       Coast Guard may not be commissioned if in the 36 months prior       to the first Officer Candidate School class convening date in       the selection cycle, such applicant was convicted by a court-      martial or assigned nonjudicial punishment, or did not meet       performance or character requirements set forth by the       Commandant.

``(3) Citizenship.--The applicant shall be a United States       citizen.

``(4) Clearance.--The applicant shall be eligible for a       secret clearance.

``(5) Education.--The applicant shall be enrolled in a       college degree program at--

``(A) an institution of higher education described in       section 371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.       1067q(a));

``(B) an institution of higher education (as defined in       section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.       1001)) that, at the time of the application has had for 3       consecutive years an enrollment of undergraduate full-time       equivalent students (as defined in section 312(e) of such Act       (20 U.S.C. 1058(e))) that is a total of at least 50 percent       Black American, Hispanic American, Asian American (as defined       in section 371(c) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1067q(c))), Native       American Pacific Islander (as defined in such section), or       Native American (as defined in such section), among other       criteria, as determined by the Commandant; or

``(C) an institution that meets the eligibility       requirements for funding as a rural-serving institution of       higher education under section 861 of the Higher Education       Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1161q).

``(6) Location.--The institution at which the applicant is       an undergraduate shall be within 100 miles of a Coast Guard       unit or Coast Guard Recruiting Office unless otherwise       approved by the Commandant.

``(7) Records.--The applicant shall meet credit and grade       point average requirements set forth by the Commandant.

``(8) Medical and administrative.--The applicant shall meet       other medical and administrative requirements as set forth by       the Commandant.

``(c) Financial Assistance.--

``(1) In general.--The Commandant may provide financial       assistance to enlisted members of the Coast Guard Reserve on       active duty participating in the Program, for expenses of the       enlisted member while the enlisted member is enrolled, on a       full-time basis, in a college degree program approved by the       Commandant at a college, university, or institution of higher       education described in subsection (b)(5) that leads to--

``(A) a baccalaureate degree in not more than 5 academic       years; or

``(B) a post-baccalaureate degree.

``(2) Written agreements.--To be eligible for financial       assistance under this section, an enlisted member of the       Coast Guard Reserve shall enter into a written agreement with       the Coast Guard that notifies the Reserve enlisted member of       the obligations of that member under this section, and in       which the member agrees to the following:

``(A) The member shall complete an approved college degree       program at a college, university, or institution of higher       education described in subsection (b)(5).

``(B) The member shall satisfactorily complete all required       Coast Guard training and participate in monthly military       activities of the Program as required by the Commandant.

``(C) Upon graduation from the college, university, or       institution of higher education described in subsection       (b)(5), the member shall--

``(i) accept an appointment, if tendered, as a commissioned       officer in the Coast Guard Reserve; and

``(ii) serve a period of obligated active duty for a       minimum of 3 years immediately after such appointment as       follows:

``(I) Members participating in the Program shall be       obligated to serve on active duty 3 months for each month of       instruction for which they receive financial assistance       pursuant to this section for the first 12 months and 1 month       for each month thereafter, or 3 years, whichever is greater.

``(II) The period of obligated active duty service incurred       while participating in the Program shall be in addition to       any other obligated service a member may incur due to       receiving other bonuses or other benefits as part of any       other Coast Guard program.

``(III) If an appointment described in clause (i) is not       tendered, the member will remain       in the Reserve component until completion of the member's       enlisted service obligation.

``(D) The member shall agree to perform such duties or       complete such terms under the conditions of service specified       by the Coast Guard.

``(3) Expenses.--Expenses for which financial assistance       may be provided under this section are the following:

``(A) Tuition and fees charged by the college, university,       or institution of higher education at which a member is       enrolled on a full-time basis.

``(B) The cost of books.

``(C) In the case of a program of education leading to a       baccalaureate degree, laboratory expenses.

``(D) Such other expenses as the Commandant considers       appropriate, which may not exceed $25,000 for any academic       year.

``(4) Time limit.--Financial assistance may be provided to       a member under this section for up to 5 consecutive academic       years.

``(5) Breach of agreement.--

``(A) In general.--The Secretary may retain in the Coast       Guard Reserve, and may order to active duty for such period       of time as the Secretary prescribes (but not to exceed 4       years), a member who breaches an agreement under paragraph       (2). The period of time for which a member is ordered to       active duty under this paragraph may be determined without       regard to section 651(a) of title 10.

``(B) Appropriate enlisted grade or rating.--A member who       is retained in the Coast Guard Reserve under subparagraph (A)       shall be retained in an appropriate enlisted grade or rating,       as determined by the Commandant.

``(6) Repayment.--A member who does not fulfill the terms       of the obligation to serve as specified under paragraph (2),       or the alternative obligation imposed under paragraph (5),       shall be subject to the repayment provisions of section       303a(e) of title 37.

``(d) Briefing.--

``(1) In general.--Not later than August 15 of each year       following the date of the enactment of the Coast Guard       Authorization Act of 2025 through 2028, the Commandant shall       provide a briefing to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives on the Program.

``(2) Contents.--The briefing required under paragraph (1)       shall describe--

``(A) outreach and recruitment efforts over the previous       year; and

``(B) demographic information of enrollees.''.

(b) Repeal.--Section 2131 of title 14, United States Code,       is repealed.

(c) Clerical Amendments.--

(1) The analysis for chapter 21 of title 14, United States       Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section       2131.

(2) The analysis for chapter 37 of title 14, United States       Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section       3710. and inserting the following:  ``3710. College student precommissioning initiative.''.       SEC. 247. ADDITIONAL AVAILABLE GUIDANCE AND CONSIDERATIONS                     FOR RESERVE SELECTION BOARDS.

Section 3740(f) of title 14, United States Code, is amended       by striking ``section 2117'' and inserting ``sections 2115       and 2117''.       SEC. 248. BEHAVIORAL HEALTH.

(a) Coast Guard Embedded Behavioral Health Technician       Program.--

(1) Establishment.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant, in coordination with       the Assistant Commandant for Health, Safety, and Work Life,       shall establish and conduct a pilot program, to be known as       the ``Coast Guard Embedded Behavioral Health Technician       Program'' (referred to in this section as the ``Pilot       Program''), to integrate behavioral health technicians       serving at Coast Guard units for the purposes of--

(i) facilitating, at the clinic level, the provision of       integrated behavioral health care for members of the Coast       Guard;

(ii) providing, as a force extender under the supervision       of a licensed behavioral health care provider, at the clinic       level--

(I) psychological assessment and diagnostic services, as       appropriate;

(II) behavioral health services, as appropriate;

(III) education and training related to promoting positive       behavioral health and well-being; and

(IV) information and resources, including expedited       referrals, to assist members of the Coast Guard in dealing       with behavioral health concerns;

(iii) improving resilience and mental health care among       members of the Coast Guard who respond to extraordinary calls       of duty, with the ultimate goals of preventing crises and       addressing mental health concerns before such concerns evolve       into more complex issues that require care at a military       treatment facility;

(iv) increasing--

(I) the number of such members served by behavioral health       technicians; and

(II) the proportion of such members returning to duty after       seeking behavioral health care; and

(v) positively impacting the Coast Guard in a cost-      effective manner by extending behavioral health services to       the workforce and improving access to care.

(B) Briefing.--Not later than 120 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall provide the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives with a briefing regarding a       plan to establish and conduct the Pilot Program.

(2) Selection of coast guard clinics.--The Commandant shall       select, for participation in the Pilot Program, 3 or more       Coast Guard clinics that support units that have       significantly high operational tempos or other force       resiliency risks, as determined by the Commandant.

(3) Placement of staff at coast guard clinics.--

(A) In general.--Under the Pilot Program, a Coast Guard       health services technician with a grade of E-5 or higher, or       an assigned civilian behavioral health specialist, shall be--

(i) assigned to each selected Coast Guard clinic; and

(ii) located at a unit with high operational tempo.

(B) Training.--

(i) Health services technicians.--Before commencing an       assignment at a Coast Guard clinic under subparagraph (A), a       Coast Guard health services technician shall complete       behavioral health technician training and independent duty       health services training.

(ii) Civilian behavioral health specialists.--To qualify       for an assignment at a Coast Guard clinic under subparagraph       (A), a civilian behavioral health specialist shall have at       least the equivalent behavioral health training as the       training required for a Coast Guard behavioral health       technician under clause (i).

(4) Administration.--The Commandant, in coordination with       the Assistant Commandant for Health, Safety, and Work Life,       shall administer the Pilot Program through the Health,       Safety, and Work-Life Service Center.

(5) Data collection.--

(A) In general.--The Commandant shall collect and analyze       data concerning the Pilot Program for purposes of--

(i) developing and sharing best practices for improving       access to behavioral health care; and

(ii) providing information to the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee       on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives regarding the implementation of the Pilot       Program and related policy issues.

(B) Plan.--Not later than 270 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives a plan for carrying out       subparagraph (A).

(6) Annual report.--Not later than September 1 of each year       until the date on which the Pilot Program terminates under       paragraph (7), the Commandant shall submit to the Committee       on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and       the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the       House of Representatives a report on the Pilot Program that       includes the following:

(A) An overview of the implementation of the Pilot Program       at each applicable Coast Guard clinic, including--

(i) the number of members of the Coast Guard who received       services on site by a behavioral health technician assigned       to such clinic;

(ii) feedback from all members of the Coast Guard empaneled       for their medical care under the Pilot Program;

(iii) an assessment of the deployability and overall       readiness of members of the applicable operational unit; and

(iv) an estimate of potential costs and impacts on other       Coast Guard health care services of supporting the Pilot       Program at such units and clinics.

(B) The data and analysis required under paragraph (5)(A).

(C) A list and detailed description of lessons learned from       the Pilot Program as of the date of on which the report is       submitted.

(D) The feasibility, estimated cost, and impacts on other       Coast Guard health care services of expanding the Pilot       Program to all Coast Guard clinics, and a description of the       personnel, fiscal, and administrative resources that would be       needed for such an expansion.

(7) Termination.--The Pilot Program shall terminate on       September 30, 2029.

(b) Behavioral Health Specialist.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall hire, train, and       deploy not fewer than 5 additional behavioral health       specialists, in addition to the personnel required under       section 11412(a) of the Don Young Coast Guard Authorization       Act of 2022 (14 U.S.C. 504 note).

(2) Requirement.--The Commandant shall ensure that not       fewer than 35 percent of behavioral health specialists       required to be deployed under paragraph (1) have experience       in--

(A) behavioral health care related to military sexual       trauma; and

(B) behavioral health care for the purpose of supporting       members of the Coast Guard with needs for mental health care       and counseling services for post-traumatic stress disorder       and co-occurring disorders related to military sexual trauma.

(3) Accessibility.--The support provided by the behavioral       health specialists hired pursuant to paragraph (1)--

(A) may include care delivered via telemedicine; and

(B) shall be made widely available to members of the Coast       Guard.

(4) Notification.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall notify the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives if the Coast Guard has not       completed hiring, training, and deploying--

(i) the personnel referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2);       and

(ii) the personnel required under section 11412(a) of the       Don Young Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2022 (14 U.S.C.       504 note).

(B) Contents.--The notification required under subparagraph       (A) shall include--

(i) the date of publication of the hiring opportunity for       all such personnel;

(ii) the General Schedule grade level advertised in the       publication of the hiring opportunity for all such personnel;

(iii) the number of personnel to whom the Coast Guard       extended an offer of employment in accordance with the       requirements of this section and section 11412(a) of the Don       Young Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2022 (14 U.S.C. 504       note), and the number of such personnel who accepted or       declined such offer of employment;

(iv) a summary of the efforts by the Coast Guard to       publicize, advertise, or otherwise recruit qualified       candidates in accordance with the requirements of this       section and section 11412(a) of such Act; and

(v) any recommendations and a detailed plan to ensure full       compliance with the requirements of this section and section       11412(a) of such Act, which may include special payments       discussed in the report of the Government Accountability       Office titled ``Federal Pay: Opportunities Exist to Enhance       Strategic Use of Special Payments'', published on December 7,       2017 (GAO-18-91), which may be made available to help ensure       full compliance with all such requirements in a timely       manner.       SEC. 249. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE FOR MEMBERS OF COAST GUARD                     ASSIGNED TO ALASKA.

(a) Establishment.--The Commandant shall implement a policy       that provides for reimbursement to eligible members of the       Coast Guard for the cost of airfare for such members to       travel to a place within the United States or the territories       of the United States at the request of such member during the       period specified in subsection (g).

(b) Eligible Members.--A member of the Coast Guard is       eligible for a reimbursement under subsection (a) if--

(1) the member is assigned to a duty location in Alaska;       and

(2) an officer in a grade above O-5 in the chain of command       of the member authorizes the travel of the member.

(c) Treatment of Time as Leave.--The time during which an       eligible member is absent from duty for travel reimbursable       under subsection (a) shall be treated as leave for purposes       of section 704 of title 10, United States Code.

(d) Restriction.--The Commandant shall not deny       reimbursement for travel authorized under subsection (b)(2)       to the respective member.

(e) Justification.--If a member requests to travel to a       place that is not the home of record, or state of legal       residence, of such member, the approving official under       subsection (b)(2) may require a justification of the request       by such member and shall not unreasonably deny such request.

(f) Briefing Required.--Not later than February 1, 2027,       the Commandant shall provide to the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee       on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives a briefing on--

(1) the use and effectiveness of reimbursements under       subsection (a);

(2) the calculation and use of the cost of living allowance       for a member assigned to a duty location in Alaska; and

(3) the use of special pays and other allowances as       incentives for cold weather proficiency or duty locations.

(g) Period Specified.--The period specified in this       subsection is the period--

(1) beginning on the date of enactment of this Act; and

(2) ending on the later of--

(A) December 31, 2029; or

(B) the date on which the authority under section 352 of       title 37, United States Code, to grant assignment or special       duty pay to members of the uniform services terminates under       subsection (g) of such section.       SEC. 250. TUITION ASSISTANCE AND ADVANCED EDUCATION                     ASSISTANCE PILOT PROGRAM.

(a) Establishment.--Not later than 120 days after the date       of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating, acting through the       Commandant, shall establish a tuition assistance pilot       program for active-duty members of the Coast Guard, to be       known as the ``Tuition Assistance and Advanced Education       Assistance Pilot Program for Sea Duty'' (referred to in this       section as the ``pilot program'').

(b) Formal Agreement.--A member of the Coast Guard       participating in the pilot program shall enter into a formal       agreement with the Secretary of the department in which the       Coast Guard is operating that provides that, upon the       successful completion of a sea duty tour by such member, the       Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is       operating shall, for a period equal to the length of the sea       duty tour, beginning on the date on which the sea duty tour       concludes--

(1) reduce by 1 year the service obligation incurred by       such member as a result of participation in the advanced       education assistance program under section 2005 of title 10,       United States Code, or the tuition assistance program under       section 2007 of such title; and

(2) increase the tuition assistance cost cap for such       member to not more than double the amount of the standard       tuition assistance cost cap set by the Commandant for the       applicable fiscal year.

(c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date on which       the pilot program is established, and annually thereafter       through the date on which the pilot program is terminated       under subsection (d), the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives a report that--

(1) evaluates and compares--

(A) the Coast Guard's retention, recruitment, and filling       of sea duty billets for all members of the Coast Guard; and

(B) the Coast Guard's retention, recruitment, and filling       of sea duty billets for all members of the Coast Guard       participating in the pilot program;

(2) includes the number of participants in the pilot       program as of the date of the report, disaggregated by       officer and enlisted billet type; and

(3) assesses the progress made by such participants in       their respective voluntary education programs, in accordance       with their degree plans, during the period described in       subsection (b).

(d) Termination.--The pilot program shall terminate on the       date that is 6 years after the date on which the pilot       program is established.       SEC. 251. RECRUITMENT, RELOCATION, AND RETENTION INCENTIVE                     PROGRAM FOR CIVILIAN FIREFIGHTERS EMPLOYED BY                     COAST GUARD IN REMOTE LOCATIONS.

(a) Identification of Remote Locations.--The Commandant       shall identify locations to be considered remote locations       for purposes of this section, which shall include, at a       minimum, each Coast Guard fire station located in an area in       which members of the Coast Guard and the dependents of such       members are eligible for the TRICARE Prime Remote program.

(b) Incentive Program.--

(1) In general.--To ensure uninterrupted operations by       civilian firefighters employed by the Coast Guard in remote       locations, the Commandant shall establish an incentive       program for such firefighters consisting of--

(A) recruitment and relocation bonuses consistent with       section 5753 of title 5, United States Code; and

(B) retention bonuses consistent with section 5754 of title       5, United States Code.

(2) Eligibility criteria.--The Commandant, in coordination       with the Director of the Office of Personnel and Management,       shall establish eligibility criteria for the incentive       program established under paragraph (1), which shall include       a requirement that a firefighter described in paragraph (1)       may only be eligible for the incentive program under this       section if, with respect to the applicable remote location,       the Commandant has made a determination that incentives are       appropriate to address an identified recruitment, retention,       or relocation need.

(c) Annual Report.--Not less frequently than annually for       the 5-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this       Act, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on       Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and       the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the       House of Representatives a report that--

(1) details the use and effectiveness of the incentive       program established under this section; and

(2) includes--

(A) the number of participants in the incentive program;

(B) a description of the distribution of incentives under       such program; and

(C) a description of the impact of such program on civilian       firefighter recruitment and retention by the Coast Guard in       remote locations.       SEC. 252. NOTIFICATION.

(a) In General.--The Commandant shall provide to the       appropriate committees of Congress notification as described       in subsection (b)--

(1) not later than the date that is 10 days before the       final day of each fiscal year; or

(2) in the case of a continuing resolution that, for a       period of more than 10 days, provides appropriated funds in       lieu of an appropriations Act, not later than the date that       is 10 days before the final day of the period that such       continuing resolution covers.

(b) Elements.--Notification under subsection (a) shall       include--

(1) the status of funding for the Coast Guard during the       subsequent fiscal year or at the end of the continuing       resolution if other appropriations measures are not enacted,       as applicable;

(2) the status of the Coast Guard as a component of the       Armed Forces;

(3) the number of members currently serving overseas and       otherwise supporting missions related to title 10, United       States Code;

(4) the fact that members of the Armed Forces have service       requirements unlike those of other Federal employees, which       require them to continue to serve even if unpaid;

(5) the impacts of historical shutdowns of the Federal       Government on members of the Coast Guard; and

(6) other relevant matters, as determined by the       Commandant.

(c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this       section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress''       means--

(1) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation       of the Senate;

(2) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;

(3) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of       the House of Representatives; and

(4) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of       Representatives.                      Subtitle E--Coast Guard Academy       SEC. 261. MODIFICATION OF BOARD OF VISITORS.

Section 1903 of title 14, United States Code, is amended--

(1) by striking subsections (a) through (c) and inserting       the following:

``(a) In General.--The Commandant shall establish a Board       of Visitors to the Coast Guard Academy to review and make       recommendations on the operation of the Academy.

``(b) Membership.--

``(1) In general.--The membership of the Board shall       consist of the following:

``(A) The chairperson of the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate, or a member of       such Committee designated by such chairperson.

``(B) The chairperson of the Committee on Transportation       and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, or a       member of such Committee designated by such chairperson.

``(C) 3 Senators appointed by the Vice President.

``(D) 4 Members of the House of Representatives appointed       by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.

``(E) 2 Senators appointed by the Vice President, each of       whom shall be selected from among members of the Committee on       Appropriations of the Senate.

``(F) 2 Members of the House of Representatives appointed       by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, each of whom       shall be selected from among members of the Committee on       Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

``(G) 6 individuals designated by the President.

``(2) Timing of appointments of members.--

``(A) If any member of the Board described in paragraph       (1)(C) is not appointed by the date that is 180 days after       the date on which the first session of each Congress       convenes, the chair and ranking member of the subcommittee of       the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate with jurisdiction over the authorization of       appropriations of the Coast Guard shall be members of the       Board until the date on which the second session of such       Congress adjourns sine die.

``(B) If any member of the Board described in paragraph       (1)(D) is not appointed by the date that is 180 days after       the date on which the first session of each Congress       convenes, the chair and ranking member of the subcommittee of       the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the       House of Representatives with jurisdiction over the       authorization of appropriations for the Coast Guard shall be       members of the Board until the date on which the second       session of such Congress adjourns sine die.

``(C) If any member of the Board described in paragraph       (1)(E) is not appointed by the date that is 180 days after       the date on which the first session of each Congress       convenes, the chair and ranking member of the subcommittee of       the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate with       jurisdiction over appropriations for the Coast Guard shall be       members of the Board until the date on which the second       session of such Congress adjourns sine die.

``(D) If any member of the Board described in paragraph       (1)(F) is not appointed by the date that is 180 days after       the date on which the first session of each Congress       convenes, the chair and ranking member of the subcommittee of       the Committee on Appropriations of the House of       Representatives with jurisdiction over appropriations for the       Coast Guard shall be members of the Board until the date on       which the second session of such Congress adjourns sine die.

``(3) Chairperson.--

``(A) In general.--On a biennial basis and subject to       paragraph (4), the Board shall select from among the members       of the Board a Member of Congress to serve as the Chair of       the Board.

``(B) Rotation.--A Member of the House of Representatives       and a Member of the Senate shall alternately be selected as       the Chair of the Board.

``(C) Term.--An individual may not serve as Chairperson of       the Board for consecutive terms.

``(4) Length of service.--

``(A) Members of congress.--A Member of Congress designated       as a member of the Board under paragraph (1) shall be       designated as a member in the first session of the applicable       Congress and shall serve for the duration of such Congress.

``(B) Individuals designated by the president.--Each       individual designated by the President under paragraph (1)(G)       shall serve as a member of the Board for 3 years, except that       any such member whose term of office has expired shall       continue to serve until a successor is appointed by the       President.

``(C) Death or resignation of a member.--If a member of the       Board dies or resigns, a successor shall be designated for       any unexpired portion of the term of the member by the       official who designated the member.

``(c) Duties.--

``(1) Annual visit.--The Commandant shall invite each       member of the Board, and any designee of a member of the       Board, to visit the Coast Guard Academy at least once       annually to review the operation of the Academy.

``(2) Additional visits.--With the approval of the       Secretary, the Board or any members of the Board in       connection with the duties of the Board may--

``(A) make visits to the Academy in addition to the visits       described in paragraph (1); or

``(B) consult with--

``(i) the Superintendent of the Academy; or

``(ii) the faculty, staff, or cadets of the Academy.

``(3) Access.--The Commandant shall ensure that the Board       or any members of the Board who visits the Academy under this       paragraph is provided reasonable access to the grounds,       facilities, cadets, faculty, staff, and other personnel of       the Academy for the purpose of carrying out the duties of the       Board.'';

(2) by striking subsections (e) through (g) and inserting       the following:

``(e) Administrative Matters.--

``(1) Meetings.--

``(A) In general.--Not less frequently than annually, the       Board shall meet at a location chosen by the Commandant, in       consultation with the Board, to conduct the review required       by subsection (d).

``(B) Chairperson and charter.--The Federal officer       designated under subsection (g)(1)(B) shall organize a       meeting of the Board for the purposes of--

``(i) selecting a Chairperson of the Board under subsection       (b)(3);

``(ii) adopting an official charter for the Board, which       shall establish the schedule of meetings of the Board; and

``(iii) any other matter such designated Federal officer or       the Board considers appropriate.

``(C) Scheduling.--In scheduling a meeting of the Board,       such designated Federal officer shall coordinate, to the       greatest extent practicable, with the members of the Board to       determine the date and time of the meeting.

``(D) Notification.--Not less than 30 days before each       scheduled meeting of the Board, such designated Federal       officer shall notify each member of the Board of the time,       date, and location of the meeting.

``(2) Staff.--

``(A) Designation.--The chairperson and the ranking member       of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of       the Senate and the chairperson and the ranking member of the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives may each designate 1 staff member of each       such Committees.

``(B) Role.--Staff designated under subparagraph (A)--

``(i) may attend and participate in visits and carry out       consultations described under subsection (c)(1) and attend       and participate in meetings described under paragraph (1);       and

``(ii) may not otherwise carry out duties or take actions       reserved to members of the Board under this section.

``(3) Advisors.--If approved by the Secretary, the Board       may consult with advisors in carrying out the duties of the       Board under this section.

``(4) Reports.--

``(A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date on       which the Board conducts a meeting of the Board under       paragraph (1), the Commandant, in consultation with the       Board, shall submit a report on the actions of the Board       during the meeting and the recommendations of the Board       pertaining to the Academy to--

``(i) the Secretary;

``(ii) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation and the Committee on Armed Services of the       Senate; and

``(iii) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of       Representatives.

``(B) Publication.--Each report submitted under this       paragraph shall be published on a publicly accessible website       of the Coast Guard.

``(f) Disclosure.--The Commandant and the Superintendent of       the Academy shall ensure candid and complete disclosure to       the Board, consistent with applicable laws relating to       disclosure of information, with respect to--

``(1) each issue described in subsection (d); and

``(2) any other issue the Board or the Commandant considers       appropriate.

``(g) Coast Guard Support.--

``(1) In general.--The Commandant shall--

``(A) provide support to the Board, as Board considers       necessary for the performance of the duties of the Board;

``(B) designate a Federal officer to support the       performance of the duties of the Board; and

``(C) in cooperation with the Superintendent of the       Academy, advise the Board of any institutional issues,       consistent with applicable laws concerning the disclosure of       information.

``(2) Reimbursement.--Each member of the Board and each       advisor consulted by the Board under subsection (e)(3) shall       be reimbursed, to the extent permitted by law, by the Coast       Guard for actual expenses incurred while engaged in duties as       a member or advisor.

``(h) Notification.--Not later than 30 days after the date       on which the first session of each Congress convenes, the       Commandant shall provide to the chairperson and ranking       member of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate and the chairperson and ranking       member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives, and the President       notification of the requirements of this section.''.       SEC. 262. STUDY ON COAST GUARD ACADEMY OVERSIGHT.

(a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant, in consultation with       relevant stakeholders, shall conduct a study on the       governance of the Coast Guard Academy, including examining       the roles, responsibilities, authorities, advisory functions,       and membership qualifications and expertise of the Annual       Board of Visitors established under section 1903 of title 14,       United States Code, and Board of Trustees established under       the United States Coast Guard Academy Board of Trustees       Charter.

(b) Contents.--In conducting the study under subsection       (a), the Commandant shall examine--

(1) the authorities regarding Coast Guard and department in       which the Coast Guard is operating oversight of the Coast       Guard Academy, including considerations of how the Coast       Guard and department may impact accreditation review at the       Academy;

(2) the roles and responsibilities of the Board of Trustees       and Board of Visitors of such Academy;

(3) the Coast Guard roles and responsibilities with respect       to management and facilitation of the Board of Trustees and       Board of Visitors of such Academy;

(4) the advisory functions of the Board of Trustees and       Board of Visitors of such Academy; and

(5) the membership of the Board of Trustees and Board of       Visitors for the 10-year period preceding the date of       enactment of this Act, to include expertise, objectiveness,       and effectiveness in conducting oversight of such Academy.

(c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives a report that contains--

(1) the results of the study required under subsection (a);       and

(2) recommendations to improve governance at the Coast       Guard Academy.       SEC. 263. ELECTRONIC LOCKING MECHANISMS TO ENSURE COAST GUARD                     ACADEMY CADET ROOM SECURITY.

(a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant, in consultation with       the Superintendent of the Coast Guard Academy (referred to in       this section as the ``Superintendent''), shall--

(1) install an electronic locking mechanism for each room       at the Coast Guard Academy within which 1 or more Coast Guard       Academy cadets reside overnight;

(2) test each such mechanism not less than once every 6       months for proper function and maintained in proper working       order; and

(3) use a system that electronically records the date,       time, and identity of each individual who accesses a cadet       room using an electronic access token, code, card, or other       electronic means, which shall be maintained in accordance       with the general schedule for records retention, or a period       of five years, whichever is later.

(b) Electronic Locking Mechanisms.--

(1) In general.--Each electronic locking mechanism       described in subsection (a) shall be coded in a manner that       provides access to a room described in such subsection only       to--

(A) the 1 or more cadets assigned to the room; and

(B) such Coast Guard Academy officers, administrators,       staff, or security personnel, including personnel of the       Coast Guard Investigative Service, as are necessary to access       the room in the event of an emergency.

(2) Existing mechanisms.--Not later than 30 days after the       date of enactment of this Act, the Superintendent shall       ensure that electronic locking mechanisms installed in       academic buildings of the Coast Guard Academy, Chase Hall       common spaces, and in any other location at the Coast Guard       Academy are maintained in proper working order.

(c) Access Policy Instruction.--Not later than 1 year after       the date of enactment of this Act, the Superintendent shall       promulgate a policy regarding cadet room security policies       and procedures, which shall include, at a minimum--

(1) a prohibition on sharing with any other cadet,       employee, or other individual electronic access tokens,       codes, cards, or other electronic means of accessing a cadet       room;

(2) procedures for resetting electronic locking mechanisms       in the event of a lost, stolen, or otherwise compromised       electronic access token, code, card, or other electronic       means of accessing a cadet room;

(3) procedures to maintain the identity of each individual       who accesses a cadet room using an electronic access token,       code, card, or other electronic means, while ensuring the       security of personally identifiable information and       protecting the privacy of any such individual, as       appropriate;

(4) procedures by which cadets may report to the chain of       command the malfunction of an electronic locking mechanism;       and

(5) a schedule of testing to ensure the proper functioning       of electronic locking mechanisms.

(d) Minimum Training Requirements.--The Superintendent       shall ensure that each Coast Guard Academy cadet receives,       not later than 1 day after the date of the initial arrival of       the cadet at the Coast Guard Academy, an initial training       session, and any other training the Superintendent considers       necessary, on--

(1) the use of electronic locking mechanisms installed       under this section; and

(2) the policy promulgated under subsection (c).       SEC. 264. REPORT ON EXISTING BEHAVIORAL HEALTH AND WELLNESS                     SUPPORT SERVICES FACILITIES AT COAST GUARD                     ACADEMY.

(a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant, shall submit to the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives a report on existing       behavioral health and wellness support services facilities at       the Coast Guard Academy in which Coast Guard Academy cadets       and officer candidates, respectively, may receive timely and       independent behavioral health and wellness support services,       including via telemedicine.

(b) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1)       shall include--

(1) an identification of each building at the Coast Guard       Academy that contains a dormitory or other overnight       accommodations for cadets or officer candidates; and

(2)(A) an identification of additional behavioral health or       wellness support services that would be beneficial to cadets       and officer candidates, such as additional facilities with       secure access to telemedicine;

(B) a description of the benefits that such services would       provide to cadets and officer candidates, particularly to       cadets and officer candidates who have experienced sexual       assault or sexual harassment; and

(C) a description of the resources necessary to provide       such services.       SEC. 265. REQUIRED POSTING OF INFORMATION.

The Commandant shall ensure that, in each building at the       Coast Guard Academy that contains a dormitory or other       overnight accommodations for cadets or officer candidates,       written information is posted in a visible location with       respect to--

(1) the methods and means by which a cadet or officer       candidate may report a crime, including harassment, sexual       assault, sexual harassment, and any other offense;

(2) the contact information for the Coast Guard       Investigative Service;

(3) external resources for--

(A) wellness support;

(B) work-life;

(C) medical services; and

(D) support relating to behavioral health, civil rights,       sexual assault, and sexual harassment; and

(4) cadet and officer candidate rights with respect to       reporting incidents to the Coast Guard Investigative Service,       civilian authorities, the Office of the Inspector General of       the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, and any       other applicable entity.       SEC. 266. INSTALLATION OF MULTIPURPOSE MEDICAL PRIVACY ROOMS.

(a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating shall install or construct       at the Coast Guard Academy not fewer than 2 rooms to be used       for the purpose of providing privacy to cadets and officer       candidates seeking medical or other health-related services.

(b) Standards of Rooms.--Each room installed or constructed       under this section shall--

(1) be equipped--

(A) in a manner that ensures the protection of the privacy       of cadets and officer candidates, consistent with law and       policy;

(B) with a telephone and computer to allow for the       provision of telehealth appointments or other services both       virtual and in person; and

(C) with an accessible and private wireless internet       connection for the use of personal communications devices at       the discretion of the cadet or officer candidate concerned;       and

(2) to the extent practicable and consistent with good       order and discipline, be accessible to cadets and officer       candidates at all times; and

(3) contain the written information described in section       265, which shall be posted in a visible location.       SEC. 267. COAST GUARD ACADEMY ROOM REASSIGNMENT.

Section 1902 of title 14, United States Code, is amended by       adding at the end the following:

``(f) Room Reassignment.--Coast Guard Academy cadets may       request room reassignment if experiencing discomfort due to       Coast Guard Academy rooming assignments, consistent with       policy.''.       SEC. 268. AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF COAST GUARD ACADEMY                     FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT BY COVERED                     FOUNDATIONS.

(a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 19 of title 14,       United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the       following:       ``Sec. 1908. Authorization for use of Coast Guard Academy

facilities and equipment by covered foundations

``(a) Authority.--Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the       Secretary, with the concurrence of the Superintendent of the       Coast Guard Academy, may authorize a covered foundation to       use, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis as determined       by the Secretary, facilities or equipment of the Coast Guard       Academy.

``(b) Prohibition.--The Secretary may not authorize any use       of facilities or equipment under subsection (a) if such use       may jeopardize the health, safety, or well-being of any       member of the Coast Guard or cadet of the Coast Guard       Academy.

``(c) Limitations.--The Secretary may only authorize the       use of facilities or equipment under subsection (a) if such       use--

``(1) is without any liability of the United States to the       covered foundation;

``(2) does not--

``(A) affect the ability of any official or employee of the       Coast Guard, or any member of the armed forces, to carry out       any responsibility or duty in a fair and objective manner;

``(B) compromise the integrity or appearance of integrity       of any program of the Coast Guard, or any individual involved       in any such program; or

``(C) include the participation of any cadet of the Coast       Guard Academy at an event of the covered foundation, other       than participation of such a cadet in an honor guard;

``(3) complies with any applicable ethics regulation; and

``(4) has been reviewed and approved by an attorney of the       Coast Guard.

``(d) Issuance of Policies.--The Secretary shall issue       Coast Guard policies to carry out this section.

``(e) Briefing.--For any fiscal year in which the Secretary       exercises the authority under subsection (a), not later than       the last day of such fiscal year, the Commandant shall       provide a briefing to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives on the number of events or activities of a       covered foundation supported by such exercise of authority       during the fiscal year.

``(f) Covered Foundation Defined.--In this section, the       term `covered foundation' means an organization that--

``(1) is a charitable, educational, or civic nonprofit       organization under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue       Code of 1986; and

``(2) the Secretary determines operates exclusively to       support--

``(A) recruiting activities with respect to the Coast Guard       Academy;

``(B) parent or alumni development in support of the Coast       Guard Academy;

``(C) academic, leadership, or character development of       Coast Guard Academy cadets;

``(D) institutional development of the Coast Guard Academy;       or

``(E) athletics in support of the Coast Guard Academy.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 19 of       title 14, United States Code, is further amended by inserting       after the item relating to item 1907 the following:  ``1908. Authorization for use of Coast Guard Academy facilities and                equipment by covered foundations.''.       SEC. 269. CONCURRENT JURISDICTION AT COAST GUARD ACADEMY.

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary       of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating may       establish concurrent jurisdiction between the Federal       Government and the State of Connecticut over the lands       constituting the Coast Guard Academy in New London,       Connecticut, as necessary to facilitate the ability of the       State of Connecticut and City of New London to investigate       and prosecute any crimes cognizable under Connecticut law       that are committed on such Coast Guard Academy property.                      Subtitle F--Reports and Policies       SEC. 271. POLICY AND BRIEFING ON AVAILABILITY OF NALOXONE TO                     TREAT OPIOID, INCLUDING FENTANYL, OVERDOSES.

(a) Policy.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall update the policy       of the Coast Guard regarding the use of medication to treat       drug overdoses, including the use of naloxone or other       similar medication to treat opioid, including fentanyl,       overdoses.

(b) Availability.--The updated policy required under       subsection (a) shall require naloxone or other similar       medication be available for members of the Coast Guard--

(1) on all Coast Guard installations; and

(2) in each operational environment.

(c) Participation in Tracking System.--Not later than 1       year after the earlier of the date of enactment of this Act       or the date on which the tracking system established under       section 706 of the National Defense Authorization Act for       Fiscal Year 2024 (10 U.S.C. 1090 note) is established, the       Commandant shall ensure the participation of the Coast Guard       in the such tracking system.

(d) Memorandum of Understanding.--Not later than 1 year       after the earlier of the date of enactment of this Act or the       date on which the tracking system established under section       706 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year       2024 (10 U.S.C. 1090 note) is established, the Secretary of       the department in which the Coast Guard is operating when not       operating as a service in the Navy and the Secretary of       Defense shall finalize a memorandum of understanding to       facilitate Coast Guard access such tracking system.

(e) Briefing.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall provide the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives a briefing on the use, by       members and personnel of the Coast Guard at Coast Guard       facilities, onboard Coast Guard assets, and during Coast       Guard operations, of--

(A) naloxone or other similar medication to treat opioid,       including fentanyl, overdoses; and

(B) opioids, including fentanyl.

(2) Elements.--The briefing required under paragraph (1)       shall include the following:

(A) A description of--

(i) the progress made in the implementation of the updated       policy required under subsection (a);

(ii) the prevalence and incidence of the illegal use of       fentanyl and other controlled substances in the Coast Guard       during the 5-year period preceding the briefing;

(iii) processes of the Coast Guard to mitigate substance       abuse in the Coast Guard, particularly with respect to       fentanyl; and

(iv) the status of the memorandum of understanding required       under subsection (d).

(B) For the 5-year period preceding the briefing, a review       of instances in which naloxone or other similar medication       was used to treat opioid, including fentanyl, overdoses at a       Coast Guard facility, onboard a Coast Guard asset, or during       a Coast Guard operation.

(f) Privacy.--In carrying out the requirements of this       section, the Commandant shall ensure compliance with all       applicable privacy law, including section 552a of title 5,       United States Code (commonly referred to as the ``Privacy       Act''), and the privacy regulations promulgated under section       264(c) of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability       Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2 note).

(g) Rule of Construction.--For purposes of the availability       requirement under subsection (b), with respect to a Coast       Guard installation comprised of multiple Coast Guard       facilities or units, naloxone or other similar medication       available at a single Coast Guard facility within the       installation shall be considered to be available to all Coast       Guard facilities or units on the installation if appropriate       arrangements are in place to ensure access, at all times       during operations, to the naloxone or other similar       medication contained within such single Coast Guard facility.       SEC. 272. POLICY ON METHODS TO REDUCE INCENTIVES FOR ILLICIT                     MARITIME DRUG TRAFFICKING.

(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant, in consultation with       the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, the       Secretary of State, and the Secretary of Defense, shall       develop a policy, consistent with the Constitution of the       United States, as well as domestic and international law, to       address, disincentivize, and interdict illicit trafficking by       sea of controlled substances (and precursors of controlled       substances) being transported to produce illicit synthetic       drugs.

(b) Elements.--The policy required under subsection (a)       shall--

(1) include a requirement that, to the maximum extent       practicable, a vessel unlawfully transporting a controlled       substance or precursors of a controlled substance being       transported to produce illicit synthetic drugs, be seized or       appropriately disposed of consistent with domestic and       international law, as well as any international agreements to       which the United States is a party; and

(2) aim to reduce incentives for illicit maritime drug       trafficking on a global scale, including in the Eastern       Pacific Ocean, the Indo-Pacific region, the Caribbean, and       the Middle East.

(c) Briefing.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall brief the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the       Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Homeland       Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, the Committee       on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Homeland Security of       the House of Representatives on--

(1) the policy developed pursuant to subsection (a); and

(2) recommendations with respect to--

(A) additional methods for reducing illicit drug       trafficking; and

(B) additional resources necessary to implement the policy       required under subsection (a) and methods recommended under       subparagraph (A).       SEC. 273. REPORT ON CONDITION OF AIDS TO NAVIGATION.

(a) Provision to Congress.--Not later than 270 days after       the date of enactment of       this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate a report on the condition of       dayboards and the placement of buoys on the Missouri River,       the Coast Guard Northeast District, and the Coast Guard       Northwest District.

(b) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall       include--

(1) a list of the most recent date on which each dayboard       and buoy was serviced by the Coast Guard;

(2) an overview of the plan of the Coast Guard to       systematically service each dayboard and buoy on the Missouri       River;

(3) an overview of the plan of the Coast Guard to       systematically service each buoy located in the Coast Guard       Northeast District;

(4) an overview of the plan of the Coast Guard to       systematically service each buoy located in the Coast Guard       Northwest District; and

(5) assigned points of contact.

(c) Limitation.--Beginning on the date of enactment of this       Act, the Commandant may not remove the aids to navigation       covered in subsection (a), unless there is an imminent threat       to life or safety, until a period of 180 days has elapsed       following the date on which the Commandant submits the report       required under subsection (a).

(d) Study on Reliance on Aids to Navigation.--

(1) In general.--The Commandant shall conduct a study on       the extent to which physical aids to navigation, including       buoys and dayboards, are relied upon by maritime users in the       Missouri River, Coast Guard Northeast District, and Coast       Guard Northwest District.

(2) Requirements.--In the study conducted under paragraph       (1), the Commandant shall include the following:

(A) An analysis of the extent to which physical aids to       navigation serve as primary navigational references for       operators of vessels that lack electronic or satellite-based       systems, including small commercial vessels, recreational       boats, sailboats, and skiffs.

(B) An assessment of the role physical aids to navigation       play in supporting safe vessel operation during outages,       disruptions, or inaccuracies in electronic or satellite-based       navigation systems.

(C) An assessment of mariner perspectives on the       availability, visibility, and reliability of physical aids to       navigation, based on input from recreational boaters,       commercial fishermen, pilot associations, port authorities,       and other relevant waterway users.

(D) A summary of reported incidents or near-miss events       from the past five years in which the presence or absence of       physical aids to navigation played a contributory role in       navigational outcomes, including collisions, groundings, or       deviations from intended routes.

(E) Recommendations for enhancing navigational safety for       mariners who rely exclusively on, or supplement electronic       systems with, traditional visual aids to navigation.

(F) A cost-benefit analysis of the continued maintenance of       physical aids to navigation, and the projected consequences       of their removal, including--

(i) an estimate of the potential increase in maritime       accidents, search and rescue operations, environmental       incidents, and Coast Guard response missions that could       result from the reduction or removal of physical aids to       navigation;

(ii) a comparison of the anticipated costs associated with       such increased Coast Guard response operations to the ongoing       costs of maintaining and servicing buoys and dayboards,       particularly in high-traffic areas or locations with limited       access to electronic navigation systems;

(iii) an assessment of the role physical aids to navigation       play in preventing incidents involving vessels with limited       or no reliance on GPS or electronic systems; and

(iv) an assessment of the indirect costs and operational       impacts associated with the removal of physical aids to       navigation, including increased risk of vessel groundings,       prolonged Coast Guard response times, and diminished mariner       trust in navigational infrastructure.

(3) Submission to congress.--Not later than 18 months after       the date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall       submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives and the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate the       results of the study conducted under paragraph (1).       SEC. 274. FEASIBILITY STUDY ON SUPPORTING ADDITIONAL PORT                     VISITS AND DEPLOYMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OPERATION                     BLUE PACIFIC.

Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this       Act, the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard       is operating when not operating as a service in the Navy, in       consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall--

(1) complete a study on the feasibility and advisability of       supporting additional Coast Guard port visits and       deployments, including the homeporting of fast response       cutters in the Northern Mariana Islands, in support of       Operation Blue Pacific, or any successor operation oriented       toward Oceania;

(2) include, as part of the study under paragraph (1), an       analysis of where any Coast Guard assets used for port visits       and deployments in support of Operation Blue Pacific, or any       successor operation oriented toward Oceania, will be       transferred from and any associated gaps in Coast Guard       coverage any such transfer will create; and

(3) submit to the Committee on Armed Services and the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee       on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives a report on the findings of such study.       SEC. 275. STUDY AND GAP ANALYSIS WITH RESPECT TO COAST GUARD                     AIR STATION CORPUS CHRISTI AVIATION HANGAR.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall commence a study       and gap analysis with respect to the aviation hangar at Coast       Guard Air Station Corpus Christi and the capacity of such       hangar to accommodate the aircraft currently assigned to       Coast Guard Air Station Corpus Christi and any aircraft       anticipated to be so assigned in the future.

(b) Elements.--The study and gap analysis required by       subsection (a) shall include the following:

(1) An identification of hangar infrastructure requirements       needed--

(A) to meet mission requirements for all aircraft currently       assigned to Coast Guard Air Station Corpus Christi; and

(B) to accommodate the assignment of an additional HC-144       Ocean Sentry aircraft to Coast Guard Air Station Corpus       Christi.

(2) An assessment as to whether the aviation hangar at       Coast Guard Air Station Corpus Christi is sufficient to       accommodate all rotary-wing assets assigned to Coast Guard       Air Station Corpus Christi.

(3) In the case of an assessment that such hangar is       insufficient to accommodate all such rotary-wing assets, a       description of the facility modifications that would be       required to do so.

(4) An assessment of the facility modifications of such       hangar that would be required to accommodate all aircraft       assigned to Coast Guard Air Station Corpus Christi upon       completion of the transition from the MH-65 rotary-wing       aircraft to the MH-60T rotary-wing aircraft.

(5) An evaluation with respect to which fixed-wing assets       assigned to Coast Guard Air Station Corpus Christi should be       enclosed in such hangar so as to most effectively mitigate       the effects of corrosion while meeting mission requirements.

(6) An evaluation as to whether, and to what extent, the       storage of fixed-wing assets outside such hangar would       compromise the material condition and safety of such assets.

(7) An evaluation of the extent to which any material       condition and safety issue identified under paragraph (6) may       be mitigated through the use of gust locks, chocks, tie-      downs, or related equipment.

(c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the commencement       of the study and gap analysis required under subsection (a),       the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee       on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives a report on the results of the study and gap       analysis.       SEC. 276. REPORT ON IMPACTS OF JOINT TRAVEL REGULATIONS ON                     MEMBERS OF COAST GUARD WHO RELY ON FERRY                     SYSTEMS.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant, in coordination with       the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness,       shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a       report on the impacts of the Joint Travel Regulations on       members of the Coast Guard who are commuting, on permanent       change of station travel, or on other official travel to or       from locations served by ferry systems.

(b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a)       shall include an analysis of the impacts on such members of       the Coast Guard of the following policies under the Joint       Travel Regulations:

(1) The one-vehicle shipping policy.

(2) The unavailability of reimbursement of costs incurred       by such members due to ferry schedule unavailability, sailing       cancellations, and other sailing delays during commuting,       permanent change of station travel, or other official travel.

(3) The unavailability of local infrastructure to support       vehicles or goods shipped to duty stations in locations       outside the contiguous United States that are not connected       by the road system, including locations served by the Alaska       Marine Highway System.

(c) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term       ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--

(A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Subcommittee on       Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation of the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives.

(2) Joint travel regulations.--The term ``Joint Travel       Regulations'', with respect to official travel, means the       terms, rates, conditions, and regulations maintained under       section 464 of title 37, United States Code.       SEC. 277. REPORT ON JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS                     PROGRAM.

(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation       of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and       Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on       the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps program.

(b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a)       shall include the following:

(1) A description of the standards and criteria prescribed       by the Coast Guard for educational institution participation       in the Coast Guard Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps       program.

(2) With respect to each educational institution offering a       Coast Guard Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps program--

(A) a description of--

(i) the training and course of military instruction       provided to students;

(ii) the facilities and drill areas used for the program;

(iii) the type and amount of Coast Guard Junior Reserve       Officers' Training Corps program resources provided by the       Coast Guard;

(iv) the type and amount of Coast Guard Junior Reserve       Officers' Training Corps program resources provided by the       educational institution; and

(v) any other matter relating to program requirements the       Commandant considers appropriate;

(B) an assessment as to whether the educational institution       is located in an educationally and economically deprived area       (as described in section 2031 of title 10, United States       Code);

(C) beginning with the year in which the program was       established at the educational institution, the number and       demographics of students who have participated in the       program; and

(D) an assessment of the participants in the program,       including--

(i) the performance of the participants in the program;

(ii) the number of participants in the program who express       an intent to pursue a commission or enlistment in the Coast       Guard; and

(iii) a description of any other factor or matter       considered by the Commandant to be important in assessing the       success of program participants at the educational       institution.

(3) With respect to any unit of the Coast Guard Junior       Reserve Officers' Training Corps suspended or placed on       probation pursuant to section 2031(h) of title 10, United       States Code--

(A) a description of the unit;

(B) the reason for such suspension or placement on       probation;

(C) the year the unit was so suspended or placed on       probation; and

(D) with respect to any unit that was reinstated after       previously being suspended or placed on probation, a       justification for the reinstatement of such unit.

(4) A description of the resources and personnel required       to maintain, implement, and provide oversight for the Coast       Guard Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps program at each       participating educational institution and within the Coast       Guard, including the funding provided to each such       educational institution, disaggregated by educational       institution and year.

(5) A recommendation with respect to--

(A) whether the number of educational institutions       participating in the Coast Guard Junior Reserve Officers'       Training Corps program should be increased; and

(B) in the case of a recommendation that such number should       be increased, additional recommendations relating to such an       increase, including--

(i) the number of additional educational institutions that       should be included in the program;

(ii) the locations of such institutions;

(iii) any additional authorities or resources necessary for       such an increase; and

(iv) any other matter the Commandant considers appropriate.

(6) Any other matter the Commandant considers necessary in       order to provide a full assessment of the effectiveness of       the Coast Guard Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps       program.       SEC. 278. REPORT AND BRIEFINGS ON IMPLEMENTING SECTION 564 OF                     TITLE 14.

Section 11272(c) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense       Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263)       is amended by adding at the end the following:

``(7) Public report.--

``(A) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of       enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025, the       Commandant shall brief the Committee on Transportation and       Infrastructure of the House or Representatives and the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate on the cost to the Coast Guard of meeting the       requirements of section 564 of title 14, United States Code,       in fiscal year 2024.

``(B) Secondary briefings.--Not later than November 1, 2025       and November, 1, 2026, the Commandant shall brief the       committees described in subparagraph (A) on the cost to the       Coast Guard of meeting the requirements of section 564 of       title 14, United States Code, in fiscal years 2025 and 2026,       respectively.''.       SEC. 279. REPORT ON ROLE OF COAST GUARD.

Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this       Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the       Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is       operating when it is not operating as a Service in the Navy,       shall prepare a report on the role the Coast Guard is       expected to play in the 5, 10, and 20 years after the date of       enactment of this Act in providing assistance to the military       departments in--

(1) working with the navies and domestic coast guard of       nations located in the Indo-Pacific region on building       capacity to protect the territorial waters of such nations       from incursions by other nations;

(2) providing a presence in the Arctic and Antarctic to       protect United States sovereign national security interests       in the regions; and

(3) providing law enforcement capabilities which the       military departments do not possess for national security,       piracy, alien and drug interdiction, and fishery law       enforcement on the high seas.       SEC. 280. REPORT ON COAST GUARD PERSONNEL SKILLS.

Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this       Act, the Commandant, in consultation with Assistant Secretary       of the Army (Civil Works), shall submit to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate a report that includes the       following:

(1) An analysis of the skills and experience of Coast Guard       personnel, particularly such personnel with backgrounds in       engineering, navigation, heavy equipment operation, and       maintenance, that are directly transferable to the dredging       industry.

(2) A plan for developing and implementing targeted       outreach and recruitment strategies to connect separating or       retiring Coast Guard personnel with employment opportunities,       including registered apprentice programs, in the dredging       industry.

(3) An evaluation of the potential for establishing       programs to recognize the skills of Coast Guard personnel for       the merchant mariner credentials necessary for employment in       the dredging industry.

(4) A description of any existing or planned coordination       with the Corps of Engineers, employers, relevant labor       organizations, and other relevant agencies to facilitate the       transition of Coast Guard personnel into the dredging       industry.       SEC. 281. REPORT ON COAST GUARD SEARCH AND RESCUE OPERATIONS.

(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the       Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Transportation       and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate a report detailing the search and rescue operations at       impacted Coast Guard facilities that contains the following:

(1) The number of impacted Coast Guard facilities.

(2) The number of active Coast Guard facilities operating       as scheduled mission stations.

(3) The number of active search and rescue personnel at       each impacted Coast Guard facility.

(4) The number of search and rescue personnel at each       impacted Coast Guard facility beginning in 2021 and accounted       for annually thereafter.

(5) A description of active and past first responder       cooperative agreements made between each impacted Coast Guard       facility and local law enforcement or first responders for       search and rescue operations.

(6) The average response time for all search and rescue       operations at each impacted Coast Guard facility beginning in       2021 and accounted for annually thereafter.

(7) The number of lives lost during search and rescue       operations at each impacted Coast Guard facility beginning in       2021 and accounted for annually thereafter.

(8) The number of vessel safety checks administered by an       impacted Coast Guard facility beginning in 2021 and accounted       for annually thereafter.

(9) The number of search and rescue incidents in which a       facility responded to a search and rescue incident in an area       previously covered by an impacted Coast Guard facility but       was unable to fulfill the mission, including--

(A) the distance traveled to the destination of each       incident;

(B) the duration time traveled to reach the destination of       each incident;

(C) whether the incident resulted in a loss of life;

(D) whether the search and rescue team was able to reach       the destination of the incident to complete operations;

(E) whether the Coast Guard had to rely on local       authorities to address the incident due to operational       limitations for Coast Guard; and

(F) identifying the local authorities addressing search and       rescue incidents under subparagraph (E).

(10) The number of ice rescue missions taken by impacted       Coast Guard facilities beginning in 2021 and accounted for       annually thereafter.

(11) The area of responsibility covered by each impacted       Coast Guard facility.

(12) Any other metrics determined to be relevant by the       Commandant to convey the changes to search and rescue       operations at impacted Coast Guard facilities.

(b) Definition of Impacted Coast Guard Facility.--In this       section, the term ``impacted Coast Guard facility'' means a       facility or station that was designated as a schedule mission       station or closed under either the Assignment Year 2024 Force       Alignment Initiative or the Assignment Year 2025 Force       Alignment Initiative.            SEC. 282. REPORT ON ALTERNATIVE SITES FOR THE LOCATION OF                     STATION ST. THOMAS.

Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this       Act, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate a report that--

(1) examines alternative sites on St. Thomas, Virgin Island       for the location of Station St. Thomas, St. Thomas, Virgin       Islands;

(2) analyzes geographic threats and opportunities on St.       Thomas, Virgin Islands to Coast Guard mission objectives; and

(3) provides a cost estimate on the cost of acquiring an       alternative site which meets the mission needs of Station St.       Thomas, including the cost of--

(A) land acquisition;

(B) pier and shoreside facility construction;

(C) relocation of the existing facility, personnel, and       equipment, including environmental remediation at the       existing site; and

(D) impacts (both positive and negative) on Coast Guard       mission readiness of a move to a new site on St. Thomas,       Virgin Islands.       SEC. 283. REPORT ON EAST ROCKAWAY INLET NAVIGATION.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate a report of the navigable       waterway of the East Rockaway Inlet located on Long Island,       New York.

(b) Contents.--The report under subsection (a) shall       include--

(1) an evaluation of potential hazards to navigation       present in the East Rockaway Inlet;

(2) a map of current and future aids to navigation in the       East Rockaway Inlet;

(3) an evaluation of the effects of the current channel       hazards on commercial navigation and safety;

(4) recommendations on addressing hazards to navigation       present in the East Rockaway Inlet; and

(5) recommendations on updates to the necessary to aids       navigation in order to maintain safety.                     TITLE III--SHIPPING AND NAVIGATION                  Subtitle A--Merchant Mariner Credentials       SECTION 301. MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIALING.

(a) Reduction of Lengths of Certain Periods of Service.--      Section 3534 of the National Defense Authorization Act for       Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118-31) is amended--

(1) by redesignating subsection (k) as subsection (u); and

(2) by striking subsection (j) and inserting the following:

``(j) Revising Merchant Mariner Deck Training       Requirements.--Section 2101 of title 46, United States Code,       is amended--

``(1) by redesignating paragraphs (20) through (56) as       paragraphs (21), (22), (24), (25), (26), (27), (28), (29),       (30), (31), (32), (33), (34), (35), (36), (37), (38), (39),       (40), (41), (42), (43), (44), (45), (46), (47), (48), (49),       (50), (51), (52), (53), (54), (55), (56), (57), and (58),       respectively; and

``(2) by inserting after paragraph (19) the following:

`` `(20) ``merchant mariner credential'' means a merchant       mariner license, certificate, or document that the Secretary       is authorized to issue pursuant to this title.'; and

``(3) by inserting after paragraph (22), as so       redesignated, the following:

`` `(23) ``nautical school program'' means a program that--

`` `(A) offers a comprehensive program of training that       includes substantial sea service on nautical school vessels       or merchant vessels of the United States primarily to train       individuals for service in the merchant marine; and

`` `(B) is approved by the Secretary for purposes of       section 7315, in accordance with regulations promulgated by       the Secretary.'.

``(k) Noncitizenship Nationality.--

``(1) Citizenship or noncitizen nationality.--Section 7102       of title 46, United States Code, is amended--

``(A) in the section heading by inserting `or noncitizen       nationality' after `Citizenship'; and

``(B) by inserting `or noncitizen nationals (as such term       is described in section 308 of the Immigration and       Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1408))' after `citizens'.

``(2) Conforming amendments.--

``(A) In general.--Section 7304 of title 46, United States       Code, is amended--

``(i) in the section heading by inserting `or noncitizen       nationality' after `Citizenship'; and

``(ii) by inserting `or noncitizen nationals (as such term       is described in section 308 of the Immigration and       Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1408))' after `citizens'.

``(B) Citizenship and navy reserve requirements.--Section       8103 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--

``(i) in the section heading by inserting `or noncitizen       nationality' after `Citizenship';

``(ii) in subsection (a) by inserting `or noncitizen       national' after `citizen';

``(iii) in subsection (b)--

``(I) in paragraph (1)(A)(i) by inserting `or noncitizen       national' after `citizen';

``(II) in paragraph (3) by inserting `or noncitizen       nationality' after `citizenship'; and

``(III) in paragraph (3)(C) by inserting `or noncitizen       nationals' after `citizens';

``(iv) in subsection (c) by inserting `or noncitizen       nationals' after `citizens';

``(v) in subsection (d)--

``(I) in paragraph (1) by inserting `or noncitizen       nationals' after `citizens'; and

``(II) in paragraph (2) by inserting `or noncitizen       national' after `citizen' each place it appears;

``(vi) in subsection (e) by inserting `or noncitizen       national' after `citizen' each place it appears;

``(vii) in subsection (i)(1)(A) by inserting `or noncitizen       national' after `citizen';

``(viii) in subsection (k)--

``(I) in paragraph (1)(A) by inserting `or noncitizen       national' after `citizen'; and

``(II) in paragraph (2)--

``(aa) by striking `Not more than' and inserting the       following:

`` `(A) Not more than'; and

``(bb) by adding at the end the following:

`` `(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), for the period       beginning on the date of enactment of the Coast Guard       Authorization Act of 2025 and ending on December 31, 2065,       not more than 50 percent of the unlicensed seamen on a vessel       described in paragraph (1) may be aliens referred to in       subparagraph (B) or (C) of such paragraph. '; and

``(ix) by adding at the end the following:

`` `(l) Noncitizen National Defined.--In this section, the       term ``noncitizen national'' means an individual described in       section 308 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.       1408).'.

``(C) Command of documented vessels.--Section 12131(a) of       title 46, United States Code, is amended by inserting `or       noncitizen national (as such term is described in section 308       of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1408))'       after `citizen'.

``(D) Invalidation of certificates of documentation.--      Section 12135(2) of title 46, United States Code, is amended       by inserting `or noncitizen national (as such term is       described in section 308 of the Immigration and Nationality       Act (8 U.S.C. 1408))' after `citizen'.

``(3) Clerical amendments.--

``(A) In general.--The analysis for chapter 71 of title 46,       United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating       to section 7102 and inserting the following:  `` `7102. Citizenship or noncitizen nationality.'.

``(B) Section 7304.--The analysis for chapter 73 of title       46, United States Code, is amended by striking the item       relating to section 7304 and inserting the following:  `` `7304. Citizenship or noncitizen nationality notation on merchant                mariners' documents.'.

``(C) Section 8103.--The analysis for chapter 81 of title       46, United States Code, is amended by striking the item       relating to section 8103 and inserting the following:  `` `8103. Citizenship or noncitizen nationality and Navy Reserve                requirements.'.

``(l) Examinations.--Section 7116 of title 46, United       States Code, is amended by striking subsection (c).

``(m) Merchant Mariners Documents.--Chapter 73 of title 46,       United States Code is amended--

``(1) by amending section 7306 to read as follows:       `` `Sec. 7306. General requirements and classifications for

members of deck departments

`` `(a) In General.--The Secretary may issue a merchant       mariner credential, to members of the deck department in the       following classes:

`` `(1) Able Seaman-Unlimited.

`` `(2) Able Seaman-Limited.

`` `(3) Able Seaman-Special.

`` `(4) Able Seaman-Offshore Supply Vessels.

`` `(5) Able Seaman-Sail.

`` `(6) Able Seaman-Fishing Industry.

`` `(7) Ordinary Seaman.

`` `(b) Classification of Credentials.--The Secretary may       classify the merchant mariner credential issued under       subsection (a) based on--

`` `(1) the tonnage and means of propulsion of vessels;

`` `(2) the waters on which vessels are to be operated; or

`` `(3) other appropriate standards.

`` `(c) Qualifications.--To qualify for a credential under       this section, an applicant shall provide satisfactory proof       that the applicant--

`` `(1) is at least 18 years of age;

`` `(2) has the service required by the applicable section       of this part;

`` `(3) is qualified professionally as demonstrated by an       applicable examination or educational requirements;

`` `(4) is qualified as to sight, hearing, and physical       condition to perform the seafarer's duties; and

`` `(5) has satisfied any additional requirements       established by the Secretary, including career patterns and       service appropriate to the particular service, industry, or       job functions the individual is engaged.';

``(2) in section 7307 by striking `3 years' and inserting       `18 months';

``(3) in section 7308 by striking `18 months' and inserting       `12 months';

``(4) in section 7309 by striking `12 months' and inserting       `6 months';

``(5) in section 7313--

``(A) in subsection (b) by striking `and coal passer'; and

``(B) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the       following:

`` `(c) Classification of Credentials.--The Secretary may       classify the merchant mariner credential issued under       subsection (a) based on--

`` `(1) the tonnage and means of propulsion of vessels;

`` `(2) the waters on which vessels are to be operated; or

`` `(3) other appropriate standards.

`` `(d) Qualifications.--To qualify for a credential under       this section, an applicant shall provide satisfactory proof       that the applicant--

`` `(1) is at least 18 years of age;

`` `(2) has a minimum of 6-months service in the related       entry rating;

`` `(3) is qualified professionally as demonstrated by an       applicable examination or educational requirements; and

`` `(4) is qualified as to sight, hearing, and physical       condition to perform the member's duties.'; and

``(6) by amending section 7315 to read as follows:       `` `Sec. 7315. Training

`` `(a) Nautical School Program.--Graduation from a       nautical school program may be substituted for the sea       service requirements under sections 7307 through 7311a and       7313 of this title.

`` `(b) Other Approved Training Programs.--The satisfactory       completion of a training program approved by the Secretary       may be substituted for not more than one-half of the sea       service requirements under sections 7307 through 7311a and       7313 of this title in accordance with subsection (c).

`` `(c) Training Days.--For purposes of subsection (b),       training days undertaken in connection with training programs       approved by the Secretary may be substituted for days of       required sea service under sections 7307 through 7311a and       7313 of this title as follows:

`` `(1) Each shore-based training day in the form of       classroom lectures may be substituted for 2 days of sea       service requirements.

`` `(2) Each training day of laboratory training, practical       demonstrations, and other similar training, may be       substituted for 4 days of sea service requirements.

`` `(3) Each training day of full mission simulator       training may be substituted for 6 days of sea service       requirements.

`` `(4) Each training day underway on a vessel while       enrolled in an approved training program may be substituted       for 1\1/2\ days of sea service requirements, as long as--

`` `(A) the structured training provided while underway on       a vessel is--

`` `(i) acceptable to the Secretary as part of the approved       training program; and

`` `(ii) fully completed by the individual; and

`` `(B) the tonnage of such vessel is appropriate to the       endorsement being sought.

`` `(d) Definition.--In this section, the term ``training       day'' means a day that consists of not less than 7 hours of       training.'.

``(n) Implementation.--

``(1) In general.--The Secretary of the department in which       the Coast Guard is operating shall implement the requirements       under subsection (c) of section 7306 of title 46, United       States Code (as amended by this section), without regard to       chapters 5 and 6 of title 5, United States Code, and       Executive Orders 12866 and 13563 (5 U.S.C. 601 note).

``(2) Section 7315.--The Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating shall implement the       requirements of section 7315 of title 46, United States Code,       as amended by this subsection, without regard to chapters 5       and 6 of title 5, United States Code, and Executive Orders       12866 and 13563 (5 U.S.C. 601 note) and 14094 (88 Fed. Reg.       21879).

``(o) Repeal.--Section 7314 of title 46, United States       Code, and the item relating to such section in the analysis       for chapter 73 of such title, are repealed.

``(p) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 73 of       title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking the item       relating to section 7306 and inserting the following:  `` `7306. General requirements and classifications for members of deck                departments.'.

``(q) Amendments to Chapter 75.--Chapter 75 of title 46,       United States Code, is amended--

``(1) in section 7507 by adding at the end the following:

`` `(d) Renewal.--With respect to any renewal of an active       merchant mariner credential issued under this part that is       not an extension under subsection (a) or (b), such credential       shall begin the day after the expiration of the active       credential of the credential holder.'; and

``(2) in section 7510(c)--

``(A) in the subsection heading by striking `Exam Review'       and inserting `Working Group';

``(B) in paragraph (1)--

``(i) by striking `90 days' and inserting `180 days';

``(ii) by striking `Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016'       and insert `Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025';

``(iii) by striking `new questions for inclusion in' and       inserting `questions, content, and relevancy of';

``(iv) by redesignating subparagraphs (E), (F), and (G) as       subparagraphs (G), (H), and (I), respectively; and

``(v) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:

`` `(E) at least 2 individuals that have taken and passed       the examination in the 5 years before the commissioning of       the working group;

`` `(F) at least 1 representative from the United States       Merchant Marine Academy; ';

``(C) in paragraph (4)--

``(i) in the paragraph heading by striking `Baseline       review' and inserting `Review';

``(ii) in subparagraph (A)--

``(I) by striking `Within 1 year' and inserting `Not later       than 270 days';

``(II) by striking `Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016'       and inserting `Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025';

``(III) by striking `Secretary' and inserting `Commandant';

``(IV) by redesignating clauses (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv)       as clauses (ii), (iii), (iv), and (vii), respectively;

``(V) in clause (iv), as so redesignated, by striking `;       and' and inserting a semicolon;

``(VI) by inserting before clause (ii) the following:

`` `(i) industry standards, practices, and technology to be       considered in the Merchant Mariner Credentialing Examination;       '; and

``(VII) by inserting after clause (iv) the following:

`` `(v) the relevancy of examination topics and contents;

`` `(vi) any redundancy of core competencies between the       Merchant Mariner Credentialing Examination and Standards of       Training, Certification, and Watchingkeeping competencies;       and';

``(iii) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the       following:

`` `(B) Report to commandant.--Upon completion of the       review under this paragraph, a report shall be provided to       the Commandant which shall include findings of the review       with recommendations for updates to the Merchant Marine       Credentialling Examination. ';

``(D) by striking paragraphs (3), (5), and (8);

``(E) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (9) as paragraphs       (5) and (8), respectively; and

``(F) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:

`` `(3) Meeting of working group.--

`` `(A) In general.--The Commandant shall convene the       working group annually or at the creation of new examination       questions, whichever occurs sooner.

`` `(B) Remote participation.--The Commandant shall allow       any member of the working group to participate remotely if       the member of the working group does not have the means to       participate in person.

`` `(4) Use of questions.--The Commandant may not use       questions developed for use in the Merchant Mariner       Credentialing Examination until such questions are reviewed       and approved by the working group.'.

``(r) Plan.--

``(1) Requirement.--Not later than 270 days after the       completion of the review under paragraph (4) of subsection       (c), the Commandant shall develop a plan to update and       modernize the Merchant Mariner Credentialing Examination and       implement the recommendations developed by the review under       such paragraph.

``(2) Contents.--The plan developed under paragraph (1)       shall not diminish demonstrated competency standards and       shall include--

``(A) the elimination of redundant topics between the       Merchant Mariner Credentialing Examination and other       examinations required to obtain a Merchant Mariner       Credential;

``(B) the elimination or updating of outdated topics,       contents, core competencies, or questions covered by the       Merchant Mariner Credentialing Examination;

``(C) the modernization of testing procedures consistent       with contemporary procedures for standardized testing       administration and evaluation; and

``(D) the development of methods to analyze examination       data related to the effectiveness of questions in determining       competency.

``(3) Coordination.--In developing the plan under paragraph       (1), the Commandant shall develop such plan in consultation       with the working group and individuals with expertise in       modern best practices for relevant standardized testing.

``(4) Briefing required.--Not later than 1 year after the       date of enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of       2025, the Coast Guard shall provide to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate a briefing on the review and       plan developed under this subsection.

``(s) Amendments to Chapter 77.--Section 7702(d)(1) of       title 46, United States Code, is amended--

``(1) in subparagraph (B) by redesignating clauses (i)       through (iv) as subclauses (I) through (IV), respectively       (and by conforming the margins accordingly);

``(2) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses       (i) and (ii), respectively (and by conforming the margins       accordingly);

``(3) by striking `an individual if--' and inserting the       following: `an individual--

`` `(A) if--';

``(4) in subparagraph (A)(ii)(IV), as so redesignated, by       striking the period at the end and inserting `; or'; and

``(5) by adding at the end the following:

`` `(B) if there is probable cause to believe that the       individual has violated company policy and is a security risk       that poses a threat to other individuals on the vessel.'.

``(t) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--

``(1) Title 46.--Title 46, United States Code, is amended--

``(A) in section 2101(47)(B) by striking `; and' and       inserting `; or';

``(B) in section 2113(3) by striking `section 2101(53)(A)'       and inserting `section 2101(55)(A)';

``(C) in section 3202(a)(1)(A) by striking `section       2101(29)(A)' and inserting `section 2101(31)(A)';

``(D) in section 3507(k)(1) by striking `section 2101(31)'       and inserting `section 2101(33)';

``(E) in section 4105(d) by striking `section 2101(53)(A)'       and inserting `section 2101(55)(A)';

``(F) in section 12119(a)(3) by striking `section 2101(26)'       and inserting `section 2101(28)'; and

``(G) in section 51706(c)(6)(C)(ii) by striking `section       2101(24)' and inserting `section 2101(26)'.

``(2) Other laws.--

``(A) Section 3(3) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery       Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1802(3)) is       amended by striking `2101(30) of title 46' and inserting       `2101 of title 46'.

``(B) Section 1992(d)(7) of title 18, United States Code,       is amended by striking `section 2101(31) of title 46' and       inserting `section 2101 of title 46'.

``(C) Section 311(a)(26)(D) of the Federal Water Pollution       Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(a)(26)(D)) is amended by striking       `section 2101(23)' and inserting `section 2101'.

``(D) Section 1101 of title 49, United States Code, is       amended by striking `Section 2101(23)' and inserting `Section       2101(24)'.''.

(b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a)       shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.       SEC. 302. NONOPERATING INDIVIDUAL.

Section 8313(b) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National       Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law       116-283) is amended by striking ``2025'' and inserting       ``2029''.                         Subtitle B--Vessel Safety       SEC. 311. GROSSLY NEGLIGENT OPERATIONS OF A VESSEL.

Section 2302(b) of title 46, United States Code, is amended       to read as follows:

``(b) Grossly Negligent Operation.--

``(1) Misdemeanor.--A person operating a vessel in a       grossly negligent manner that endangers the life, limb, or       property of a person commits a class A misdemeanor.

``(2) Felony.--A person operating a vessel in a grossly       negligent manner that results in serious bodily injury, as       defined in section 1365(h)(3) of title 18--

``(A) commits a class E felony; and

``(B) may be assessed a civil penalty of not more than       $35,000.''.       SEC. 312. PERFORMANCE DRIVEN EXAMINATION SCHEDULE.

(a) Amendments.--Section 3714 of title 46, United States       Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (a)(1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and       inserting ``Except as provided in subsection (c), the       Secretary'';

(2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and

(3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:

``(c) Performance-driven Examination Schedule.--

``(1) In general.--With respect to examinations of foreign       vessels to which this chapter applies, and subject to       paragraph (3), the Secretary may adopt a performance-driven       examination schedule to which such vessels are to be examined       and the frequency with which such examinations occur,       including the frequency of examinations for each vessel. Such       schedule shall be consistent with the Secretary's assessment       of the safety performance of such vessels, including each       vessel participating in the performance-driven examination       schedule, in accordance with paragraph (2).

``(2) Considerations.--In developing an examination       schedule under paragraph (1) and subject to paragraph (3),       with respect to each vessel in determining eligibility to       participate in the performance based examination schedule--

``(A) the Secretary shall consider--

``(i) certificate of compliance and examination history, to       include those conducted by foreign countries;

``(ii) history of violations, vessel detentions, incidents,       and casualties;

``(iii) history of notices of violation issued by the Coast       Guard;

``(iv) safety related information provided by the flag       state of the vessel;

``(v) owner and operator history;

``(vi) historical classification society data, which may       include relevant surveys;

``(vii) cargo-specific documentation;

``(viii) data from port state control safety exams; and

``(ix) relevant repair and maintenance history; and

``(B) the Secretary may consider--

``(i) data from relevant vessel quality assurance and risk       assessment programs including Quality Shipping for the 21st       Century (QUALSHIP 21);

``(ii) data from industry inspection regimes;

``(iii) data from vessel self assessments submitted to the       International Maritime Organization or other maritime       organizations; and

``(iv) other safety relevant data or information as       determined by the Secretary.

``(3) Eligibility.--In developing an examination schedule       under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall not consider a       vessel eligible to take part in a performance-driven       examination schedule under paragraph (1) if, within the last       36 months, the vessel has--

``(A) been detained by the Coast Guard;

``(B) a record of a violation issued by the Coast Guard       against the owners or operators with a finding of proved; or

``(C) suffered a marine casualty that, as determined by the       Secretary, involves the safe operation of the vessel and       overall performance of the vessel.

``(4) Restrictions.--The Secretary may not adopt a       performance-driven examination schedule under paragraph (1)       until the Secretary has--

``(A) conducted the assessment recommended in the       Government Accountability Office report submitted under       section 8254(a) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National       Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law       116-283);

``(B) concluded through such assessment that a performance-      driven examination schedule provides not less than the level       of safety provided by the annual examinations required under       subsection (a)(1); and

``(C) provided the results of such assessment to the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives.''.

(b) Career Incentive Pay for Marine Inspectors.--Subsection       (a) of section 11237 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense       Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (37 U.S.C. 352 note)       is amended as follows:

``(a) Authority to Provide Assignment Pay or Special Duty       Pay.--For the purposes of addressing an identified shortage       of marine inspectors, the Secretary may provide assignment       pay or special duty pay under section 352 of title 37, United       States Code, to a member of the Coast Guard serving in a       prevention position that--

``(1) is assigned in support of or is serving as a marine       inspector pursuant to section 312 of title 14, United States       Code; and

``(2) is assigned to a billet that is difficult to fill due       to geographic location, requisite experience or       certifications, or lack of sufficient candidates, as       determined by the Commandant, in an effort to address       inspector workforce gaps.''.

(c) Briefing.--Not later than 6 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, and annually for 2 years after the       implementation of a performance-driven examination schedule       program under section 3714(c) of title 46, United States       Code, the Commandant shall brief the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee       on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives on--

(1) the status of utilizing the performance-driven       examination schedule program, including the quantity of       examinations conducted and duration between examinations for       each individual vessel examined under the performance-driven       examination schedule;

(2) an overview of the size of the Coast Guard marine       inspector workforce, including any personnel shortages       assessed by the Coast Guard, for inspectors that conduct       inspections under section 3714 of such title; and

(3) recommendations for the inspection, governance, or       oversight of vessels inspected under section 3714 of such       title.       SEC. 313. FISHING VESSEL AND FISHERMAN TRAINING SAFETY.

Section 4502 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (i)--

(A) in paragraph (1)--

(i) in subparagraph (A)(ii) by striking ``; and'' and       inserting a semicolon;

(ii) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C);       and

(iii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following:

``(B) to conduct safety and prevention training that       addresses behavioral and physical health risks, to include       substance use disorder and worker fatigue, facing fishing       vessel operators and crewmembers; and'';

(B) in paragraph (2)--

(i) by striking ``, in consultation with and based on       criteria established by the Commandant of the Coast Guard'';       and

(ii) by striking ``subsection on a competitive basis'' and       inserting the following: ``subsection--

``(A) on a competitive basis; and

``(B) based on criteria developed in consultation with the       Commandant of the Coast Guard''; and

(C) in paragraph (4) by striking ``$3,000,000 for fiscal       year 2023'' and inserting ``to the Secretary of Health and       Human Services $6,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025, and       2026, 2027, 2028, and 2029''; and

(2) in subsection (j)--

(A) in paragraph (1) by inserting ``, and understanding and       mitigating behavioral and physical health risks, to include       substance use disorder and worker fatigue, facing members of       the commercial fishing industry'' after ``weather       detection'';

(B) in paragraph (2)--

(i) by striking ``, in consultation with and based on       criteria established by the Commandant of the Coast Guard,'';       and

(ii) by striking ``subsection on a competitive basis'' and       inserting the following: ``subsection--

``(A) on a competitive basis; and

``(B) based on criteria developed in consultation with the       Commandant of the Coast Guard''; and

(C) in paragraph (4) by striking ``$3,000,000 for fiscal       year 2023'' and inserting ``to the Secretary of Health and       Human Services $6,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 , and       2026, 2027, 2028, and 2029''.       SEC. 314. DESIGNATING PILOTAGE WATERS FOR THE STRAITS OF                     MACKINAC.

(a) In General.--Section 9302(a)(1)(A) of title 46, United       States Code, is amended by striking ``in waters'' and       inserting ``in the Straits of Mackinac and in all other       waters''.

(b) Definition of the Straits of Mackinac.--Section 9302 of       title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end       the following:

``(g) Definition of the Straits of Mackinac.--In this       section, the term `Straits of Mackinac' includes all of the       United States navigable waters bounded by longitudes 84       degrees 20 minutes west and 85 degrees 10 minutes west and       latitudes 45 degrees 39 minutes north and 45 degrees 54       minutes north, including Gray's Reef Passage, the South       Channel, and Round Island Passage, and approaches thereto.''.       SEC. 315. STUDY OF AMPHIBIOUS VESSELS.

(a) In General.--The Commandant shall conduct a study to       determine the applicability of current safety regulations       that apply to commercial amphibious vessels.

(b) Elements.--The study required under subsection (a)       shall include the following:

(1) An overview and analysis that identifies safety       regulations that apply to commercial amphibious vessels;

(2) An evaluation of whether safety gaps and risks exist       associated with the application of regulations identified in       subsection (b)(1) to the operation of commercial amphibious       vessels;

(3) An evaluation of whether aspects of the regulations       established in section 11502 of the James M. Inhofe National       Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (46 U.S.C.       3306 note) should apply to amphibious commercial vessels; and

(4) Recommendations on potential regulations that should       apply to commercial amphibious vessels.

(c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate a report containing the       findings, conclusions, and recommendations from the study       required under subsection (a).

(d) Definition of Amphibious Vessel.--In this section, the       term ``amphibious vessel'' means a vessel which is operating       as a small passenger vessel in waters subject to the       jurisdiction of the United States, as defined in section 2.38       of title 33, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor       regulation) and is operating as a motor vehicle as defined in       section 216 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7550) and that is       not a DUKW amphibious passenger vessel as defined in section       11502 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization       Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (46 U.S.C. 3306 note).       SEC. 316. ST. LUCIE RIVER RAILROAD BRIDGE.

Regarding Docket Number USCG-2022-0222, before adopting a       final rule, the Commandant shall conduct an independent boat       traffic study at mile 7.4 of the St. Lucie River.       SEC. 317. LARGE RECREATIONAL VESSEL REGULATIONS.

Section 3529(a)(3) of the John S. McCain National Defense       Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232)       is amended by striking ``this Act'' and inserting ``the Coast       Guard Authorization Act of 2025''.                             Subtitle C--Ports       SEC. 321. PORTS AND WATERWAYS SAFETY.

(a) In General.--Section 8343 of the William M. (Mac)       Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year       2021 (46 U.S.C. 70034 note) is amended--

(1) by striking ``2-year pilot program'' and inserting       ``pilot program'';

(2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(c) Authorization.--The pilot program under subsection       (a) is authorized for fiscal years 2025, 2026, 2027, 2028,       and 2029.''.

(b) Waterfront Safety.--Section 70011(a) of title 46,       United States Code, is amended--

(1) in paragraph (1) by inserting ``, including damage or       destruction resulting from cyber incidents, transnational       organized crime, or foreign state threats'' after ``adjacent       to such waters''; and

(2) in paragraph (2) by inserting ``or harm resulting from       cyber incidents, transnational organized crime, or foreign       state threats'' after ``loss''.

(c) Facility Visit by State Sponsor of Terrorism.--Section       70011(b) of title 46, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in paragraph (3) by striking ``and'' at the end;

(2) in paragraph (4) by striking the period at the end and       inserting ``; and''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(5) prohibiting a representative of a government of       country that the Secretary of State has determined has       repeatedly provided support for acts of international       terrorism under section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of       1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371) from visiting a facility for which a       facility security plan is required under section 70103(c).''.

(d) Great Lakes and Saint Lawrence Seaway Navigation.--      Section 70032 of title 46, United States Code, is amended to       read as follows:       ``Sec. 70032. Delegation of ports and waterways authorities

in Saint Lawrence Seaway

``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b),       the authority granted to the Secretary under sections 70001,       70002, 70003, 70004, and 70011 may not be delegated with       respect to the Saint Lawrence Seaway to any agency other than       the Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation.       Any other authority granted the Secretary under subchapters I       through III and this subchapter shall be delegated by the       Secretary to the Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development       Corporation to the extent the Secretary determines such       delegation is necessary for the proper operation of the Saint       Lawrence Seaway.

``(b) Exception.--The Secretary of the department in which       the Coast Guard is operating, after consultation with the       Secretary or the head of an agency to which the Secretary has       delegated the authorities in subsection (a), may--

``(1) issue and enforce special orders in accordance with       section 70002;

``(2) establish water or waterfront safety zones, or other       measures, for limited, controlled, or conditional access and       activity when necessary for the protection of any vessel       structure, waters, or shore area, as permitted in section       70011(b)(3); and

``(3) take actions for port, harbor, and coastal facility       security in accordance with section 70116.''.

(e) Regulation of Anchorage and Movement of Vessels During       National Emergency.--Section 70051 of title 46, United States       Code, is amended by inserting ``or cyber incidents, or       transnational organized crime, or foreign state threats,''       after ``threatened war, or invasion, or insurrection, or       subversive activity,''.

(f) Great Lakes and Saint Lawrence River Cooperative Vessel       Traffic Service.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating shall issue or amend such       regulations as are necessary to address any applicable       arrangements with the Canadian Coast Guard regarding vessel       traffic services cooperation and vessel traffic management       data exchanges within the Saint Lawrence Seaway and the Great       Lakes.

(g) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 700 of       title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking the item       relating to section 70032 and inserting the following:  ``70032. Delegation of ports and waterways authorities in Saint                Lawrence Seaway.''.       SEC. 322. STUDY ON BERING STRAIT VESSEL TRAFFIC PROJECTIONS                     AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE POSTURE AT PORTS OF THE                     UNITED STATES.

(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall seek to enter       into an agreement with the National Academies of Science,       Engineering, and Medicine, under which the Marine Board of       the Transportation Research Board (in this section referred       to as the ``Board'') shall conduct a study to--

(1) analyze commercial vessel traffic that transits through       the Bering Strait and projections for the growth of such       traffic during the 10-year period beginning after such date       of enactment; and

(2) assess the adequacy of emergency response capabilities       and infrastructure at the Port of Point Spencer, Alaska, to       address navigation safety risks and geographic challenges       necessary to conduct emergency maritime response operations       in the Arctic environment.

(b) Elements.--The study required under subsection (a)       shall include the following:

(1) An analysis of the volume and types of domestic and       international commercial vessel traffic through the Bering       Strait and the projected growth of such traffic, including a       summary of--

(A) the sizes, ages, and flag states of vessels; and

(B) the oil and product tankers that are--

(i) in transit to or from Russia or China; or

(ii) owned or operated by a Russian or Chinese entity.

(2) An assessment of the state and adequacy of vessel       traffic services and oil spill and emergency response       capabilities in the vicinity of the Bering Strait, including       its approaches.

(3) A risk assessment of the projected growth in commercial       vessel traffic in the Bering Strait and higher probability of       increased frequency in the number of maritime accidents,       including spill events, and the potential impacts to the       Arctic maritime environment and Native Alaskan village       communities in the vicinity of the Bering Strait.

(4) An evaluation of the ability of the Port of Point       Spencer, Alaska, to serve as a port of refuge and as a       staging, logistics, and operations center to conduct and       support maritime emergency and spill response activities.

(5) Recommendations for practical actions that can be taken       by the Congress, Federal agencies, the State of Alaska,       vessel carriers and operators, the marine salvage and       emergency response industry, and other relevant stakeholders       to mitigate risks, upgrade infrastructure, and improve the       posture of the Port of Point Spencer, Alaska, to function as       a strategic staging and logistics center for maritime       emergency and spill response operations in the Bering Strait       region.

(c) Consultation.--In conducting the study required under       subsection (a), the Board shall consult with--

(1) the Department of Transportation;

(2) the Corps of Engineers;

(3) the National Transportation Safety Board;

(4) relevant ministries of the government of Canada;

(5) the Port Coordination Council for the Port of Point       Spencer; and

(6) non-government entities with relevant expertise in       monitoring and characterizing vessel traffic in the Arctic.

(d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after initiating the       study under subsection (a), the Board shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate a report containing the       findings and recommendations of the study.

(e) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Arctic.--The term ``Arctic'' has the meaning given such       term in section 112 of the Arctic Research and Policy Act of       1984 (15 U.S.C. 4111).

(2) Port coordination council for the port of point       spencer.--The term ``Port Coordination Council for the Port       of Point Spencer'' means the Council established under       section 541 of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015       (Public Law 114-120).       SEC. 323. IMPROVING VESSEL TRAFFIC SERVICE MONITORING.

(a) Proximity of Anchorages to Pipelines.--

(1) Implementation of restructuring plan.--Not later than 1       year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant       shall implement the November 2021 proposed plan of the Vessel       Traffic Service Los Angeles-Long Beach for restructuring the       Federal anchorages in San Pedro Bay described on page 54 of       the Report of the National Transportation Safety Board titled       ``Anchor Strike of Underwater Pipeline and Eventual Crude Oil       Release'' and issued January 2, 2024.

(2) Study.--The Secretary of the department in which the       Coast Guard is operating shall conduct a study to identify       any anchorage grounds other than the San Pedro Bay Federal       anchorages in which the distance between the center of an       approved anchorage ground and a pipeline is less than 1 mile.

(3) Report.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate a report on the results of       the study required under paragraph (2).

(B) Contents.--The report under subparagraph (A) shall       include--

(i) a list of the anchorage grounds described under       paragraph (2);

(ii) whether it is possible to move each such anchorage       ground to provide a minimum distance of 1 mile; and

(iii) a recommendation of whether to move any such       anchorage ground and explanation for the recommendation.

(b) Proximity to Pipeline Alerts.--

(1) Audible and visual alarms.--The Commandant shall       consult with the providers of vessel monitoring systems to       add to the monitoring systems for vessel traffic services       audible and visual alarms that alert the watchstander when an       anchored vessel is encroaching on a pipeline.

(2) Notification procedures.--Not later than 1 year after       the date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall       develop procedures for all vessel traffic services to notify       pipeline and utility operators following potential incursions       on submerged pipelines within the vessel traffic service area       of responsibility.

(3) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, and annually for the subsequent 3       years, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate a report on the implementation       of paragraphs (1) and (2).       SEC. 324. CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ONBOARD VESSELS.

Section 70503(a) of title 46, United States Code, is       amended--

(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking       ``While on board a covered vessel, an'' and inserting ``An'';

(2) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:

``(1) manufacture or distribute, possess with intent to       manufacture or distribute, or place or cause to be placed       with intent to manufacture or distribute a controlled       substance on board a covered vessel;'';

(3) in paragraph (2) by inserting ``on board a covered       vessel'' before the semicolon; and

(4) in paragraph (3) by inserting ``while on board a       covered vessel'' after ``such individual''.       SEC. 325. CYBER-INCIDENT TRAINING.

Section 70103(c) of title 46, United States Code, is       amended by adding at the end the following:

``(9) The Secretary may conduct no-notice exercises in       Captain of the Port Zones (as described in part 3 of title       33, Code of Federal Regulations as in effect on the date of       enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025)       involving a facility or vessel required to maintain a       security plan under this subsection.''.       SEC. 326. NAVIGATIONAL PROTOCOLS.

The Commandant, in consultation with the Undersecretary of       Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, shall examine the       navigational protocols used for foreign allied nations       governing port and vessel operations in fog and low       visibility operations and how those nations utilize advanced       navigation technologies such as remote sensing, radar,       tracking, and unmanned aerial vehicles to monitor visibility       and manage port and vessels operations.       SEC. 327. ANCHORAGES.

(a) In General.--The Secretary of the department in which       the Coast Guard is operating shall suspend the establishment       of new anchorage grounds on the Hudson River between       Palisades, New York, and Germantown, New York, under section       7 of the Rivers and Harbors Appropriations Act of 1915 (33       U.S.C. 471) or chapter 700 of title 46, United States Code.

(b) Port of New York Boundary Points.--The boundary points       for the Port of New York existing prior to the issuance of       Coast Guard Marine Safety Information Bulletin 2023-001 shall       remain in place for a period of 20 years.              Subtitle D--Matters Involving Autonomous Systems       SEC. 331. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON                     AUTONOMOUS MARITIME SYSTEMS.

(a) In General.--Chapter 151 of title 46, United States       Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:       ``Sec. 15110. Establishment of National Advisory Committee on

Autonomous Maritime Systems

``(a) Establishment.--There is established a National       Advisory Committee on Autonomous Maritime Systems (in this       section referred to as the `Committee').

``(b) Function.--The Committee shall advise the Secretary       on matters relating to the regulation and use of Autonomous       Systems within the territorial waters of the United States.

``(c) Membership.--

``(1) In general.--The Committee shall consist of 15       members appointed by the Secretary in accordance with this       section and section 15109.

``(2) Expertise.--Each member of the Committee shall have       particular expertise, knowledge, and experience in matters       relating to the function of the Committee.

``(3) Representation.--Each of the following groups shall       be represented by at least 1 member on the Committee:

``(A) Marine safety or security entities.

``(B) Vessel design and construction entities.

``(C) Entities engaged in the production or research of       uncrewed vehicles, including drones, autonomous or semi-      autonomous vehicles, or any other product or service integral       to the provision, maintenance, or management of such products       or services.

``(D) Port districts, authorities, or terminal operators.

``(E) Vessel operators.

``(F) National labor unions representing merchant mariners.

``(G) Maritime pilots.

``(H) Commercial space transportation operators.

``(I) Academic institutions.

``(J) National labor unions representing longshore       workers.''.

(b) Clerical Amendments.--The analysis for chapter 151 of       title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end       the following:  ``15110. Establishment of National Advisory Committee on Autonomous                Maritime Systems.''.

(c) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date       of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating shall establish the       Committee under section 15110 of title 46, United States Code       (as added by this section).       SEC. 332. PILOT PROGRAM FOR GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT OF SMALL                     UNCREWED MARITIME SYSTEMS.

(a) Limitation.--Notwithstanding any other provision of       law, for the period beginning on the date of enactment of       this Act and ending on the date that is 2 years after such       date of enactment, small uncrewed maritime systems owned,       operated, or chartered by the National Oceanic and       Atmospheric Administration, or that are performing specified       oceanographic surveys on behalf of and pursuant to a contract       or other written agreement with the National Oceanic and       Atmospheric Administration, shall not be subject to any       vessel inspection, design, operations, navigation (except for       chapter 551 of title 46, United States Code), credentialing,       or training requirement, law, or regulation, that the       Assistant Administrator of the Office of Marine and Aviation       Operations of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric       Administration determines will harm real-time operational       extreme weather oceanographic and atmospheric data collection       and predictions.

(b) Other Authority.--Nothing in this section shall limit       the authority of the Secretary of the department in which the       Coast Guard is operating, acting through the Commandant, if       there is an immediate safety or security concern regarding       small uncrewed maritime systems.

(c) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Small uncrewed maritime systems.--The term ``small       uncrewed maritime systems'' means unmanned maritime systems       (as defined in section 2 of the CENOTE Act of 2018 (33 U.S.C.       4101)), that--

(A) are not greater than 35 feet overall in length;

(B) are operated remotely or autonomously; and

(C) exclusively perform oceanographic surveys or scientific       research.

(2) Uncrewed system.--The term ``uncrewed system''--

(A) means an uncrewed surface, undersea, or aircraft system       and associated elements (including communication links and       the components that control the uncrewed system) that are       required for the operator to operate the system safely and       efficiently; and

(B) includes an unmanned aircraft system (as such term is       defined in section 44801 of title 49, United States Code).       SEC. 333. COAST GUARD TRAINING COURSE.

(a) In General.--For the period beginning on the date of       enactment of this Act and ending on the date that is 3 years       after such date of enactment, the Commandant, or such other       individual or organization as the Commandant considers       appropriate, shall develop a training course on small       uncrewed maritime systems and offer such training course at       least once each year for Coast Guard personnel working with       or regulating small uncrewed maritime systems.

(b) Course Subject Matter.--The training course developed       under subsection (a) shall--

(1) provide an overview and introduction to small uncrewed       maritime systems, including examples of those used by the       Federal Government, in academic settings, and in commercial       sectors;

(2) address the benefits and disadvantages of use of small       uncrewed maritime systems;

(3) address safe navigation of small uncrewed maritime       systems, including measures to ensure collision avoidance;

(4) address the ability of small uncrewed maritime systems       to communicate with and alert other vessels in the vicinity;

(5) address the ability of small uncrewed maritime systems       to respond to system alarms and failures to ensure control       commensurate with the risk posed by the systems;

(6) provide present and future capabilities of small       uncrewed maritime systems; and

(7) provide an overview of the role of the International       Maritime Organization in the governance of small uncrewed       maritime systems.

(c) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Small uncrewed maritime systems.--The term ``small       uncrewed maritime systems'' means unmanned maritime systems       (as defined in section 2 of the CENOTE Act of 2018 (33 U.S.C.       4101)), that--

(A) are not greater than 35 feet overall in length;

(B) are operated remotely or autonomously; and

(C) exclusively perform oceanographic surveys or scientific       research.

(2) Uncrewed system.--The term ``uncrewed system''--

(A) means an uncrewed surface, undersea, or aircraft system       and associated elements (including communication links and       the components that control the uncrewed system) that are       required for the operator to operate the system safely and       efficiently; and

(B) includes an unmanned aircraft system (as such term is       defined in section 44801 of title 49, United States Code).       SEC. 334. NOAA MEMBERSHIP ON AUTONOMOUS VESSEL POLICY                     COUNCIL.

Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this       Act, the Commandant, with the concurrence of the Assistant       Administrator of the Office of Marine and Aviation Operations       of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, shall       establish the permanent membership of a National Oceanic and       Atmospheric Administration employee to the Automated and       Autonomous Vessel Policy Council of the Coast Guard.       SEC. 335. TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAM.

Section 319(b)(1) of title 14, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``2 or more'' and inserting ``up to 4''.       SEC. 336. UNCREWED SYSTEMS CAPABILITIES REPORT.

(a) In General.--

(1) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate a report that outlines a       plan for establishing an uncrewed systems capabilities office       within the Coast Guard responsible for the acquisition and       development of uncrewed system and counter-uncrewed system       technologies and to expand the capabilities of the Coast       Guard with respect to such technologies.

(2) Contents.--The report required under paragraph (1)       shall include the following:

(A) A management strategy for the acquisition, development,       and deployment of uncrewed system and counter-uncrewed system       technologies.

(B) A service-wide coordination strategy to synchronize and       integrate efforts across the Coast Guard in order to--

(i) support the primary duties of the Coast Guard pursuant       to section 102 of title 14, United States Code; and

(ii) pursue expanded research, development, testing, and       evaluation opportunities and funding to expand and accelerate       identification and transition of uncrewed system and counter-      uncrewed system technologies.

(C) The identification of contracting and acquisition       authorities needed to expedite the development and deployment       of uncrewed system and counter-uncrewed system technologies.

(D) A detailed list of commercially available uncrewed       system and counter-uncrewed system technologies with       capabilities determined to be useful for the Coast Guard.

(E) A cross-agency collaboration plan to engage with the       Department of Defense and other relevant agencies to identify       common requirements and opportunities to partner in       acquiring, contracting, and sustaining uncrewed system and       counter-uncrewed system capabilities.

(F) Opportunities to obtain and share uncrewed system data       from government and commercial sources to improve maritime       domain awareness.

(G) The development of a concept of operations for a data       system that supports and integrates uncrewed system and       counter-uncrewed system technologies with key enablers,       including enterprise communications networks, data storage       and management, artificial intelligence and machine learning       tools, and information sharing and dissemination       capabilities.

(b) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Counter-uncrewed system.--The term ``counter-uncrewed       system''--

(A) means a system or device capable of lawfully and safely       disabling, disrupting, or seizing control of an uncrewed       system; and

(B) includes a counter-UAS system (as such term is defined       in section 44801 of title 49, United States Code).

(2) Uncrewed system.--The term ``uncrewed system''--

(A) means an uncrewed surface, undersea, or aircraft system       and associated elements (including communication links and       the components that control the uncrewed system) that are       required for the operator to operate the system safely and       efficiently; and

(B) includes an unmanned aircraft system (as such term is       defined in section 44801 of title 49, United States Code).       SEC. 337. MEDIUM UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS CAPABILITIES                     STUDY.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall conduct a study       to determine the feasibility of expanding the National       Security Cutter's medium unmanned aircraft system       capabilities to Medium Endurance Cutters and Offshore Patrol       Cutters.

(b) Report.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate a written report that       contains the results of the study conducted under subsection       (a).

(2) Contents.--In submitting the study under paragraph (1),       the Commandant shall determine--

(A) the feasibility of equipping Offshore Patrol Cutters       and Medium Endurance Cutters with medium unmanned aircraft       systems;

(B) the missions capabilities that would be strengthen by       the use of such systems; and

(V) projected procurement and operational costs for       acquiring such systems.       SEC. 338. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON COAST GUARD                     ACQUISITION AND DEPLOYMENT OF UNMANNED SYSTEMS.

(a) In General.--Not later than 18 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and       Infrastructure of the House and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the Senate the first of       multiple reports of the use and acquisition of the Coast       Guard of unmanned systems, with subsequent reports submitted       after the first report.

(b) Elements.--The reports required by subsection (a) shall       include the following:

(1) An inventory of the current unmanned systems of the       Coast Guard, including the missions and assets on which such       systems are deployed.

(2) Cost, schedule, and performance status of the unmanned       system acquisition programs of the Coast Guard.

(3) The extent to which the Coast Guard has assessed how       the use of such systems support the primary duties of the       Coast Guard pursuant to section 102 of title 14, United       States Code.

(4) An evaluation of the acquisition strategy of the Coast       Guard for unmanned systems, including the extent to which the       Coast Guard has evaluated the benefits and costs of       acquiring--

(A) commercially available systems; and

(B) autonomous capabilities.

(5) An evaluation of the progress of the Coast Guard in       establishing an unmanned systems capabilities office       responsible for the acquisition and development of unmanned       system technologies, and the effectiveness of such office,       including the ability to--

(A) support the acquisition, development, leasing, and       deployment of unmanned systems technologies, including       autonomous capabilities;

(B) execute a service-wide coordination strategy to       synchronize and integrate efforts across the Coast Guard;

(C) pursue expanded research, development, experimentation,       testing, and evaluation opportunities and funding to expand       and       accelerate identification and transition of unmanned system       technologies; and

(D) execute cross-agency collaboration to engage with the       Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Defense,       and other relevant agencies to identify common requirements       and opportunities to partner in acquiring, contracting, and       sustaining unmanned system capabilities.

(6) Recommendations to improve the ability of the Coast       Guard to evaluate, acquire, and deploy unmanned systems       technologies.

(c) Consultation.--In developing the report required under       subsection (a), the Comptroller General may consult with--

(1) the maritime and aviation industries;

(2) Federal Government agencies familiar with the use and       deployment of unmanned systems; and

(3) any relevant--

(A) federally funded research institutions;

(B) nongovernmental organizations; and

(C) manufactures of unmanned systems.       SEC. 339. NATIONAL ACADEMIES OF SCIENCES REPORT ON UNMANNED                     SYSTEMS AND USE OF DATA.

(a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall seek to enter       into an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences       under which the Academy shall prepare an assessment of       available unmanned, autonomous, or remotely-controlled       maritime domain awareness technologies for use by the Coast       Guard.

(b) Assessment.--In carrying out the assessment under       subsection (a), the National Academy of Sciences shall--

(1) describe the potential benefits and limitations of       current and emerging unmanned, autonomous, or remotely       controlled systems used in the maritime domain for--

(A) ocean observation;

(B) vessel monitoring and identification;

(C) weather observation;

(D) search and rescue operations;

(E) to the extent practicable for consideration by the       Academy, intelligence gathering, surveillance, and       reconnaissance; and

(F) communications;

(2) assess how technologies described in paragraph (1) can       help prioritize Federal investment by examining--

(A) affordability, including acquisition, operations,       maintenance and lifecycle costs;

(B) reliability;

(C) versatility;

(D) efficiency; and

(E) estimated service life and persistence of effort;

(3) analyze whether the use of new and emerging maritime       domain awareness technologies can be used to--

(A) effectively carry out Coast Guard missions at lower       costs and reduced manpower needs;

(B) expand the scope and range of Coast Guard maritime       domain awareness; and

(C) allow the Coast Guard to more efficiently and       effectively allocate Coast Guard vessels, aircraft, and       personnel;

(4) evaluate the extent to which such systems have moved       from the research and development phase to effective       operations since the National Academy of Sciences published       the study titled ``Leveraging Unmanned Systems for Coast       Guard Missions'' and issued in 2020; and

(5) identify adjustments that would be necessary in Coast       Guard authorities, policies, procedures, and protocols to       incorporate unmanned technologies to enhance efficiency.

(c) Report to Congress.--Not later than 1 year after       entering into an arrangement under subsection (a), the       National Academy of Sciences shall submit to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate the assessment prepared under       this section.

(d) Use of Information.--In formulating costs pursuant to       subsection (b), the National Academy of Sciences may utilize       information from other Coast Guard reports, assessments, or       analyses regarding existing Coast Guard manpower requirements       or other reports, assessments, or analyses for the       acquisition of unmanned, autonomous, or remotely-controlled       technologies by the Federal Government.       SEC. 340. UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.

(a) In General.--Subchapter IV of chapter 5 of title 14,       United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the       following:       ``Sec. 565. Use of unmanned aircraft systems

``With respect to any unmanned aircraft system procured by       the Coast Guard, the Commandant shall ensure that such system       be used to support the primary duties of the Coast Guard       pursuant to section 102.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 5 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end       the following:  ``565. Use of unmanned aircraft systems.''.                         Subtitle E--Other Matters       SEC. 341. INFORMATION ON TYPE APPROVAL CERTIFICATES.

(a) In General.--Title IX of the Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard       Authorization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-282) is amended by       adding at the end the following:       ``SEC. 904. INFORMATION ON TYPE APPROVAL CERTIFICATES.

``Unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Commandant of the       Coast Guard shall, upon request by any State, the District of       Columbia, any Indian Tribe, or any territory of the United       States, provide all data possessed by the Coast Guard for a       ballast water management system with a type approval       certificate approved by the Coast Guard pursuant to subpart       162.060 of title 46, Code of Federal Regulations, as in       effect on the date of enactment of the Coast Guard       Authorization Act of 2025 pertaining to--

``(1) challenge water (as defined in section 162.060-3 of       title 46, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on the       date of enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of       2025) quality characteristics;

``(2) post-treatment water quality characteristics;

``(3) challenge water (as defined in section 162.060-3 of       title 46, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on the       date of enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of       2025) biologic organism concentrations data; and

``(4) post-treatment water biologic organism concentrations       data.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the       Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (Public       Law 115-282) is amended by inserting after the item relating       to section 903 the following:  ``Sec. 904. Information on type approval certificates.''.       SEC. 342. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES.

(a) In General.--Section 5(a) of the Deepwater Port Act of       1974 (33 U.S.C. 1504(a)) is amended by striking the first       sentence and inserting ``Notwithstanding section 888(b) of       the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 468(b)), the       Secretary shall have the authority to issue regulations to       carry out the purposes and provisions of this Act, in       accordance with the provisions of section 553 of title 5,       United States Code, without regard to subsection (a)       thereof.''.

(b) NEPA Compliance.--Section 5 of the Deepwater Port Act       of 1974 (33 U.S.C. 1504) is amended by striking subsection       (f) and inserting the following:

``(f) NEPA Compliance.--

``(1) Definition of lead agency.--In this subsection, the       term `lead agency' has the meaning given the term in section       111 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42       U.S.C. 4336e).

``(2) Lead agency.--

``(A) In general.--For all applications, the Maritime       Administration shall be the Federal lead agency for purposes       of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C.       4321 et seq.).

``(B) Effect of compliance.--Compliance with the National       Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) in       accordance with subparagraph (A) shall fulfill the       requirement of the Federal lead agency in carrying out the       responsibilities under the National Environmental Policy Act       of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) pursuant to this Act.''.

(c) Regulations.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall transfer the       authorities provided to the Coast Guard in part 148 of title       33, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of       enactment of this Act), except as provided in paragraph (2),       to the Secretary of Transportation.

(2) Retention of authority.--The Commandant shall retain       responsibility for authorities pertaining to design,       construction, equipment, and operation of deepwater ports and       navigational safety.

(3) Updates to authority.--As soon as practicable after the       date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of       Transportation shall issue such regulations as are necessary       to reflect the updates to authorities prescribed by this       subsection.

(d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section, or the       amendments made by this section, may be construed to limit       the authorities of other governmental agencies previously       delegated authorities of the Deepwater Port Act of 1974 (33       U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or any other law.

(e) Applications.--Nothing in this section, or the       amendments made by this section, shall apply to any       application submitted before the date of enactment of this       Act.       SEC. 343. AMENDMENTS TO PASSENGER VESSEL SECURITY AND SAFETY                     REQUIREMENTS.

(a) Maintenance of Supplies That Prevent Sexually       Transmitted Diseases.--Section 3507(d)(1) of title 46, United       States Code, is amended by inserting ``(taking into       consideration the length of the voyage and the number of       passengers and crewmembers that the vessel can accommodate)''       after ``a sexual assault''.

(b) Crew Access to Passenger Staterooms; Procedures and       Restrictions.--Section 3507(f) of title 46, United States       Code, is amended--

(1) in paragraph (1)--

(A) in subparagraph (A) by striking ``and'' at the end; and

(B) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:

``(C) a system that electronically records the date, time,       and identity of each crew member accessing each passenger       stateroom; and''; and

(2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:

``(2) ensure that the procedures and restrictions are--

``(A) fully and properly implemented;

``(B) reviewed annually; and

``(C) updated as necessary.''.       SEC. 344. EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM TO ESTABLISH A CETACEAN                     DESK FOR PUGET SOUND REGION.

Section 11304(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Don Young Coast Guard       Authorization Act of 2022 (16 U.S.C. 1390 note) is amended by       striking ``4 years'' and inserting ``6 years''.            SEC. 345. SUSPENSION OF ENFORCEMENT OF USE OF DEVICES                     BROADCASTING ON AIS FOR PURPOSES OF MARKING                     FISHING GEAR.

Section 11320 of the Don Young Coast Guard Authorization       Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 4092) is amended       by striking ``during the period'' and all that follows       through the period at the end and inserting ``until December       31, 2029.''.       SEC. 346. CLASSIFICATION SOCIETIES.

Section 3316(d) of title 46, United States Code, is       amended--

(1) by amending paragraph (2)(B)(i) to read as follows:

``(i) the government of the foreign country in which the       foreign society is headquartered--

``(I) delegates that authority to the American Bureau of       Shipping; or

``(II) does not delegate that authority to any       classification society; or''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

``(5) Clarification on authority.--Nothing in this       subsection authorizes the Secretary to make a delegation       under paragraph (2) to a classification society from the       People's Republic of China.''.       SEC. 347. ABANDONED AND DERELICT VESSEL REMOVALS.

(a) In General.--Chapter 47 of title 46, United States       Code, is amended--

(1) in the chapter heading by striking ``BARGES'' and       inserting ``VESSELS'';

(2) by inserting before section 4701 the following:                       ``SUBCHAPTER I--BARGES''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:                     ``SUBCHAPTER II--NON-BARGE VESSELS       ``Sec. 4710. Definitions

``In this subchapter:

``(1) Abandon.--The term `abandon' means to moor, strand,       wreck, sink, or leave a covered vessel unattended for longer       than 45 days.

``(2) Covered vessel.--The term `covered vessel' means a       vessel that is not a barge to which subchapter I applies.

``(3) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian Tribe' has the       meaning given such term in section 4 of the Indian Self-      Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).

``(4) Native hawaiian organization.--The term `Native       Hawaiian organization' has the meaning given such term in       section 6207 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of       1965 (20 U.S.C. 7517) except the term includes the Department       of Hawaiian Home Lands and the Office of Hawaiian Affairs.       ``Sec. 4711. Abandonment of vessels prohibited

``(a) In General.--An owner or operator of a covered vessel       may not abandon such vessel on the navigable waters of the       United States.

``(b) Determination of Abandonment.--

``(1) Notification.--

``(A) In general.--With respect to a covered vessel that       appears to be abandoned, the Commandant of the Coast Guard       shall--

``(i) attempt to identify the owner using the vessel       registration number, hull identification number, or any other       information that can be reasonably inferred or gathered; and

``(ii) notify such owner--

``(I) of the penalty described in subsection (c); and

``(II) that the vessel will be removed at the expense of       the owner if the Commandant determines that the vessel is       abandoned and the owner does not remove or account for the       vessel.

``(B) Form.--The Commandant shall provide the notice       required under subparagraph (A)--

``(i) if the owner can be identified, via certified mail or       other appropriate forms determined by the Commandant; or

``(ii) if the owner cannot be identified, via an       announcement in a local publication and on a website       maintained by the Coast Guard.

``(2) Determination.--The Commandant shall make a       determination not earlier than 45 days after the date on       which the Commandant provides the notification required under       paragraph (1) of whether a covered vessel described in such       paragraph is abandoned.

``(c) Penalty.--

``(1) In general.--The Commandant may assess a civil       penalty of not more than $500 against an owner or operator of       a covered vessel determined to be abandoned under subsection       (b) for a violation of subsection (a).

``(2) Liability in rem.--The owner or operator of a covered       vessel shall also be liable in rem for a penalty imposed       under paragraph (1).

``(3) Limitation.--The Commandant shall not assess a       penalty if the Commandant determines the vessel was abandoned       due to major extenuating circumstances of the owner or       operator of the vessel, including long term medical       incapacitation of the owner or operator.

``(d) Vessels Not Abandoned.--The Commandant may not       determine that a covered vessel is abandoned under this       section if--

``(1) such vessel is located at a federally approved or       State approved mooring area;

``(2) such vessel is located on private property with the       permission of the owner of such property;

``(3) the owner or operator of such vessel provides a       notification to the Commandant that--

``(A) indicates the location of the vessel;

``(B) indicates that the vessel is not abandoned; and

``(C) contains documentation proving that the vessel is       allowed to be in such location; or

``(4) the Commandant determines that such an abandonment       determination would not be in the public interest.       ``Sec. 4712. Inventory of abandoned vessels

``(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025, the       Commandant, in consultation with the Administrator of the       National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and relevant       State agencies, shall establish and maintain a national       inventory of covered vessels that are abandoned.

``(b) Contents.--The inventory established and maintained       under subsection (a) shall include data on each vessel,       including geographic information system data related to the       location of each such vessel.

``(c) Publication.--The Commandant shall make the inventory       established under subsection (a) publicly available on a       website of the Coast Guard.

``(d) Reporting of Potentially Abandoned Vessels.--In       carrying out this section, the Commandant shall develop a       process by which--

``(1) a State, Indian Tribe, Native Hawaiian organization,       or person may report a covered vessel that may be abandoned       to the Commandant for potential inclusion in the inventory       established under subsection (a);

``(2) the Commandant shall review any such report and add       such vessel to the inventory if the Commandant determines       that the reported vessel is abandoned pursuant to section       4711.

``(e) Clarification.--Except in a response action carried       out under section 311(j) of the Federal Water Pollution       Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321) or in the case of imminent       threat to life and safety, the Commandant shall not be       responsible for removing any covered vessels listed on the       inventory established and maintained under subsection (a).''.

(b) Rulemaking.--The Secretary of the department in which       the Coast Guard is operating, in consultation with the       Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers,       and the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Under       Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere, shall issue regulations       with respect to the procedures for determining that a vessel       is abandoned for the purposes of subchapter II of chapter 47       of title 46, United States Code (as added by this section).

(c) Conforming Amendments.--Chapter 47 of title 46, United       States Code, is amended--

(1) in section 4701--

(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking       ``chapter'' and inserting ``subchapter''; and

(B) in paragraph (2) by striking ``chapter'' and inserting       ``subchapter'';

(2) in section 4703 by striking ``chapter'' and inserting       ``subchapter'';

(3) in section 4704 by striking ``chapter'' each place it       appears and inserting ``subchapter''; and

(4) in section 4705 by striking ``chapter'' and inserting       ``subchapter''.

(d) Clerical Amendments.--The analysis for chapter 47 of       title 46, United States Code, is amended--

(1) by inserting before the item relating to section 4701       the following:                        ``subchapter i--barges''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:                     ``subchapter ii--non-barge vessels  ``4710. Definitions. ``4711. Abandonment of vessels prohibited. ``4712. Inventory of abandoned vessels.''.       SEC. 348. OFFSHORE OPERATIONS.

(a) In General.--Section 3702(b) of title 46, United States       Code, is amended--

(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking       ``offshore drilling or production facilities in the oil       industry'' and inserting ``exploration, development, or       production of offshore drilling or production facilities in       the oil industry and non-mineral energy production''; and

(2) in paragraph (2) by striking ``oil exploitation'' and       inserting ``exploration, development, or production of       offshore energy resources''.

(b) Oil Fuel Tank Protection.--

(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law       and not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of       this Act, the Commandant shall amend section 125.115(b) of       title 46, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on such       date of enactment), to reflect the amendment made in       subsection (a).

(2) Application.--If the Commandant fails to amend the       section described in paragraph (1) by the date that is 60       days after the date of enactment of this Act, then, in lieu       of the application of such section, the Secretary shall allow       vessels to which section 3702 of title 46, United States       Code, applies to transfer fuel from the fuel supply tanks of       such vessel to offshore facilities in support of exploration,       development, or production of offshore energy resources.

(c) Outer Continental Shelf Activities.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall amend section       G6.3.a of the United States Coast Guard Marine Safety Manual,       Volume II titled ``Materiel Inspection: Outer Continental       Shelf Activities'', issued September 20, 2021 (COMDTINST       M16000.76) (as in effect on such       date of enactment), to reflect the amendment made in       subsection (a).

(2) Application.--If the Commandant fails to amend the       section described in paragraph (1) by the date that is 60       days after the date of enactment of this Act, then the       Secretary shall in lieu of such section not apply section       3702 of title 46, United States Code, to a documented vessel       transferring fuel from the fuel supply tanks of such vessel       to an offshore facility if such vessel is not a tanker and is       in the service of exploration, development, or production of       offshore energy resources.       SEC. 349. ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.

Section 9(b) of the Marine Debris Act (33 U.S.C. 1958) is       amended by striking ``, of which not more than 5 percent is       authorized for each fiscal year for administrative costs''.       SEC. 350. BRIEFING ON DEPLOYMENT OF SPECIAL PURPOSE CRAFT -                     HEAVY WEATHER SECOND GENERATION (SPC-HWX II)                     VESSELS IN PACIFIC NORTHWEST.

Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this       Act, the Commandant shall provide to the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives a briefing on--

(1) the status of the acquisition and procurement of       second-generation Special Purpose Craft - Heavy Weather (SPC-      HWX II) vessels;

(2) the timeline for the deployment of such vessels to       stations in the Pacific Northwest previously served by the       first-generation Special Purpose Craft - Heavy Weather       vessels; and

(3) any outstanding barriers to the timeliness of such       deployment.                      TITLE IV--OIL POLLUTION RESPONSE       SEC. 401. VESSEL RESPONSE PLANS.

(a) Salvage and Marine Firefighting Response Capability.--      Section 311(j) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33       U.S.C. 1321(j)) is amended by adding at the end the       following:

``(10) Salvage and marine firefighting response       capability.--

``(A) In general.--The President, acting through the       Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is       operating unless otherwise delegated by the President, may       require--

``(i) periodic inspection of vessels and salvage equipment,       firefighting equipment, and other major marine casualty       response equipment on or associated with vessels;

``(ii) periodic verification of capabilities to       appropriately, and in a timely manner, respond to a marine       casualty, including--

``(I) drills, with or without prior notice;

``(II) review of contracts and relevant third-party       agreements;

``(III) testing of equipment;

``(IV) review of training; and

``(V) other evaluations of marine casualty response       capabilities, as determined appropriate by the President; and

``(iii) carrying of appropriate response equipment for       responding to a marine casualty that employs the best       technology economically feasible and that is compatible with       the safe operation of the vessel.

``(B) Definitions.--In this paragraph:

``(i) Marine casualty.--The term `marine casualty' means a       marine casualty that is required to be reported pursuant to       paragraph (3), (4), or (5) of section 6101 of title 46,       United States Code.

``(ii) Salvage equipment.--The term `salvage equipment'       means any equipment that is capable of being used to assist a       vessel in potential or actual danger in order to prevent loss       of life, damage or destruction of the vessel or its cargo, or       release of its contents into the marine environment.''.

(b) Report to Congress.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and       Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate a report on--

(A) the state of marine firefighting authorities,       jurisdiction, and plan review; and

(B) other considerations with respect to fires at       waterfront facilities (including vessel fires) and vessel       fires on the navigable waters (as such term is defined in       section 502 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33       U.S.C. 1362)).

(2) Contents.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the       Comptroller General shall--

(A) examine--

(i) collaboration among Federal and non-Federal entities       for purposes of reducing the risks to local communities of       fires described in paragraph (1);

(ii) the prevalence and frequency of such fires; and

(iii) the extent to which firefighters and marine       firefighters are aware of the dangers of lithium-ion battery       fires, including lithium-ion batteries used for vehicles, and       how to respond to such fires;

(B) review methods of documenting and sharing best       practices throughout the maritime community for responding to       vessel fires; and

(C) make recommendations for--

(i) preparing for, responding to, and training for such       fires;

(ii) clarifying roles and responsibilities of Federal and       non-Federal entities in preparing for, responding to, and       training for such fires; and

(iii) other topics for consideration.       SEC. 402. USE OF MARINE CASUALTY INVESTIGATIONS.

Section 6308 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (a) by striking ``initiated'' and       inserting ``conducted''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

``(e) For purposes of this section, an administrative       proceeding conducted by the United States includes       proceedings under section 7701 and claims adjudicated under       section 1013 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C.       2713).''.       SEC. 403. TIMING OF REVIEW.

Section 1017 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C.       2717) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``(g) Timing of Review.--Before the date of completion of a       removal action, no person may bring an action under this Act,       section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33       U.S.C. 1321), or chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code,       challenging any decision relating to such removal action that       is made by an on-scene coordinator appointed under the       National Contingency Plan.''.       SEC. 404. ONLINE INCIDENT REPORTING SYSTEM.

(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the National Response Center shall       submit to Congress a plan to design, fund, and staff the       National Response Center to develop and maintain a web-based       application by which the National Response Center may receive       notifications of oil discharges or releases of hazardous       substances.

(b) Development of Application.--Not later than 2 years       after the date on which the plan is submitted under       subsection (a), the National Response Center shall--

(1) complete development of the application described in       such subsection; and

(2) allow notifications described in such subsection that       are required under Federal law or regulation to be made       online using such application.

(c) Use of Application.--In carrying out subsection (b),       the National Response Center may not require the notification       of an oil discharge or release of a hazardous substance to be       made using the application developed under such subsection.       SEC. 405. INVESTMENT OF EXXON VALDEZ OIL SPILL COURT RECOVERY                     IN HIGH YIELD INVESTMENTS AND MARINE RESEARCH.

Section 350 of Public Law 106-113 (43 U.S.C. 1474b note) is       amended--

(1) by striking paragraph (5);

(2) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (6), and (7)       as subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g), respectively, and       indenting the subsections appropriately;

(3) in paragraph (1)--

(A) by striking ``(1) Notwithstanding any other provision       of law and subject to the provisions of paragraphs (5) and       (7)'' and inserting the following:

``(a) Definitions.--In this section:

``(1) Consent decree.--The term `Consent Decree' means the       consent decree issued in United States v. Exxon Corporation,       et al. (No. A91-082 CIV) and State of Alaska v. Exxon       Corporation, et al. (No. A91-083 CIV).

``(2) Fund.--The term `Fund' means the Natural Resource       Damage Assessment and Restoration Fund established pursuant       to title I of the Department of the Interior and Related       Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992 (43 U.S.C. 1474b).

``(3) Outside account.--The term `outside account' means       any account outside the United States Treasury.

``(4) Trustee.--The term `Trustee' means a Federal or State       natural resource trustee for the Exxon Valdez oil spill.

``(b) Deposits.--

``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of       law and subject to subsection (g)'';

(4) in subsection (b)(1) (as so designated)--

(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) by striking       ``issued in United States v. Exxon Corporation, et al. (No.       A91-082 CIV) and State of Alaska v. Exxon Corporation, et al.       (No. A91-083 CIV) (hereafter referred to as the `Consent       Decree'),'';

(B) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) and inserting the       following:

``(A) the Fund;

``(B) an outside account; or''; and

(C) in the undesignated matter following subparagraph (C)--

(i) by striking ``the Federal and State natural resource       trustees for the Exxon Valdez oil spill (`trustees')'' and       inserting ``the Trustees''; and

(ii) by striking ``Any funds'' and inserting the following:

``(2) Requirement for deposits in outside accounts.--Any       funds'';

(5) in subsection (c) (as redesignated by paragraph (2)) by       striking ``(c) Joint'' and inserting the following:

``(c) Transfers.--Any joint'';

(6) in subsection (d) (as redesignated by paragraph (2)) by       striking ``(d) The transfer'' and inserting the following:

``(d) No Effect on Jurisdiction.--The transfer'';

(7) in subsection (e) (as redesignated by paragraph (2))--

(A) by striking ``(e) Nothing herein shall affect'' and       inserting the following:

``(e) Effect on Other Law.--Nothing in this section       affects''; and

(B) by striking ``trustees'' and inserting ``Trustees'';

(8) in subsection (f) (as redesignated by paragraph (2))--

(A) by striking ``(f) The Federal trustees and the State       trustees'' and inserting the following:

``(f) Grants.--The Trustees''; and

(B) by striking ``this program'' and inserting ``this       section, prioritizing the issuance of grants to facilitate       habitat protection and habitat restoration programs''; and

(9) in subsection (g) (as redesignated by paragraph (2))--

(A) in the second sentence, by striking ``Upon the       expiration of the authorities granted in this section all''       and inserting the following:

``(2) Return of funds.--On expiration of the authority       provided in this section, all''; and

(B) by striking ``(g) The authority'' and inserting the       following:

``(g) Expiration.--

``(1) In general.--The authority''.       SEC. 406. ADDITIONAL RESPONSE ASSETS.

(a) Exemption and Requirements.--Section 3302 of title 46,       United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the       following:

``(o) Additional Response Assets.--

``(1) Vessels exempt from inspection.--Except as otherwise       provided in this subsection, a qualified vessel engaged in a       qualified oil spill response shall not be subject to       inspection if the qualified vessel--

``(A) has--

``(i) an agreement by contract or other approved means with       an oil spill removal organization to support a response plan       under section 311(j) of the Federal Water Pollution Control       Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(j)), including training and exercises       related to oil spill response activities; or

``(ii) been approved by the Secretary to respond to a       discharge of oil or to participate in training and exercises       related to oil spill response activities;

``(B) is normally and substantially involved in activities       other than, and not adapted to, spill response;

``(C) complies with all applicable laws for the use of such       vessel in the activities for which such vessel is normally       and substantially operated, including any inspection       requirement under this title for such use; and

``(D) has at least 1 crewmember possessing certifications       for, or who are in training for, applicable hazardous waste       operations and emergency response.

``(2) Allowances.--A qualified vessel under paragraph (1)       may--

``(A) unless otherwise inspected as a towing vessel under       this title, tow only--

``(i) another vessel or a device, including a bladder,       designed to carry oil or oil residues with the capacity of       less than 250 barrels; or

``(ii) oil spill response equipment, including boom,       skimmers, or other response equipment;

``(B) carry--

``(i) temporary storage containers on board for recovered       oil or oil-contaminated materials collected during an oil       spill response, including bags, drums, and totes as approved       by the Secretary;

``(ii) oil spill response equipment; or

``(iii) no more than 6 passengers for hire in support of a       response plan under Section 311(j) of the Federal Water       Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(j)) approved by the       Secretary unless the vessel has been inspected under       paragraph (4) or (8) of section 3301 or is authorized by the       Secretary to carry more than 6 passengers for hire;

``(C) if the qualified vessel is a tank vessel, be used for       storage of recovered oil only if not carrying oil as cargo at       the time of an oil spill response; or

``(D) conduct any other operation, or engage in training or       exercises, in support of a response plan under section 311(j)       of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.       1321(j)) approved by the Secretary.

``(3) Definitions.--In this subsection:

``(A) Qualified vessel.--The term `qualified vessel' means       a vessel operating in any part of the area of       responsibility--

``(i) of the Western Alaska Captain of the Port Zone as in       effect of the date of enactment of the Coast Guard       Authorization Act of 2025; or

``(ii) the Prince William Sound Captain of the Port Zone as       in effect of the date of enactment of the Coast Guard       Authorization Act of 2025.

``(B) Qualified oil spill.--The term `qualified oil spill'       means an oil spill occurring in any part of the area of       responsibility--

``(i) of the Western Alaska Captain of the Port Zone as in       effect of the date of enactment of the Coast Guard       Authorization Act of 2025; or

``(ii) the Prince William Sound Captain of the Port Zone as       in effect of the date of enactment of the Coast Guard       Authorization Act of 2025.''.

(b) Repeal.--Section 11316 of the James M. Inhofe National       Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law       117-263) is repealed.       SEC. 407. INTERNATIONAL MARITIME OIL SPILL RESPONSE.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall, in coordination       with the Secretary of State, review and update the Canada-US       Joint Maritime Pollution Contingency Plan.

(b) Requirements.--In carrying out subsection (a), the       Commandant shall--

(1) review each geographic annex within the contingency       plan;

(2) analyze the vessel traffic patterns, including the       types of vessels transiting the area, and assess the risks of       a pollution incident; and

(3) determine if any of the areas should be expanded or       modified.

(c) Exercises.--The Commandant, in coordination with the       Secretary of State, shall conduct a joint training exercise       not less than once a year to determine emergency response       capabilities and identify other types of support necessary to       effectuate a successful oil spill response, in accordance       with the Canada-US Joint Maritime Pollution Contingency Plan.           TITLE V--SEXUAL ASSAULT AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT RESPONSE       SEC. 501. INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF COAST GUARD REFORMS.

(a) Government Accountability Office Report.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall report to the Committee on Transportation and       Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate on the efforts of the Coast Guard to mitigate cases of       sexual assault and sexual harassment within the service.

(2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1)       shall--

(A) evaluate--

(i) the efforts of the Commandant to implement the directed       actions from enclosure 1 of the memorandum titled       ``Commandant's Directed Actions--Accountability and       Transparency'' dated November 27, 2023;

(ii) whether the Commandant met the reporting requirements       under section 5112 of title 14, United States Code; and

(iii) the effectiveness of the actions of the Coast Guard,       including efforts outside of the actions described in the       memorandum titled ``Commandant's Directed Actions--      Accountability and Transparency'' dated November 27, 2023, to       mitigate instances of sexual assault and sexual harassment       and improve the enforcement relating to such instances within       the Coast Guard, and how the Coast Guard is overcoming       challenges in implementing such actions;

(B) make recommendations to the Commandant for improvements       to the efforts of the service to mitigate instances of sexual       assault and sexual harassment and improve the enforcement       relating to such instances within the Coast Guard; and

(C) make recommendations to the Committee on Transportation       and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate to mitigate instances of sexual assault and sexual       harassment in the Coast Guard and improve the enforcement       relating to such instances within the Coast Guard, including       proposed changes to any legislative authorities.

(b) Report by Commandant.--Not later than 90 days after the       date on which the Comptroller General completes all actions       under subsection (a), the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate a report that includes the       following:

(1) A plan for Coast Guard implementation, including       interim milestones and timeframes, of any recommendation made       by the Comptroller General under subsection (a)(2)(B) with       which the Commandant concurs.

(2) With respect to any recommendation made under       subsection (a)(2)(B) with which the Commandant does not       concur, an explanation of the reasons why the Commandant does       not concur.       SEC. 502. COMPREHENSIVE POLICY AND PROCEDURES ON RETENTION                     AND ACCESS TO EVIDENCE AND RECORDS RELATING TO                     SEXUAL MISCONDUCT AND OTHER MISCONDUCT.

(a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 9 of title 14,       United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the       following:       ``Sec. 955. Comprehensive policy and procedures on retention

and access to evidence and records relating to sexual

misconduct and other misconduct

``(a) Issuance of Policy.--Not later than 1 year after the       date of enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of       2025, the Secretary, in consultation with the Office of the       Inspector General of the department in which the Coast Guard       is operating and the Office of the Inspector General of the       Department of Defense, shall issue a comprehensive policy for       the Coast Guard on the retention of and access to evidence       and records relating to covered misconduct involving members       of the Coast Guard.

``(b) Objectives.--The comprehensive policy required by       subsection (a) shall revise existing policies and procedures,       including systems of records, as necessary to ensure       preservation of such evidence and records for periods       sufficient--

``(1) to ensure that members of the Coast Guard who were       victims of covered misconduct are able to pursue claims for       veterans benefits;

``(2) to support administrative processes, criminal       proceedings, and civil litigation conducted by military or       civil authorities; and

``(3) for such other purposes relating to the documentation       of an incident of covered misconduct in the Coast Guard as       the Secretary considers appropriate.

``(c) Elements.--

``(1) In general.--In developing the comprehensive policy       required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall, at a       minimum--

``(A) identify records relating to an incident of covered       misconduct that shall be retained;

``(B) with respect to records relating to covered       misconduct involving members of the Coast Guard that are not       records of the Coast Guard, identify such records known to or       in the possession of the Coast Guard, and set forth       procedures for Coast Guard coordination with the custodian of       such records for proper retention of the records;

``(C) set forth criteria for the collection and retention       of records relating to covered misconduct involving members       of the Coast Guard;

``(D) identify physical evidence and nondocumentary forms       of evidence relating to covered misconduct that shall be       retained;

``(E) set forth the period for which evidence and records       relating to covered misconduct involving members of the Coast       Guard, including Coast Guard Form 6095, shall be retained,       except that--

``(i) any physical or forensic evidence relating to rape or       sexual assault, as described in sections 920(a) and 920(b) of       title 10 (articles 120(a) and 120(b) of the Uniform Code of       Military Justice), shall be retained not less than 50 years,       and for other covered misconduct not less than the statute of       limitations of the alleged offense under the Uniform Code of       Military Justice; and

``(ii) documentary evidence relating to rape or sexual       assault, as described in sections 920(a) and 920(b) of title       10 (articles 120(a) and 120(b) of the Uniform Code of       Military Justice), shall be retained not less than 50 years;

``(F) consider locations in which such records shall be       stored;

``(G) identify media and methods that may be used to       preserve and ensure access to such records, including       electronic systems of records;

``(H) ensure the protection of privacy of--

``(i) individuals named in records and status of records       under section 552 of title 5 (commonly referred to as the       `Freedom of Information Act') and section 552a of title 5       (commonly referred to as the `Privacy Act'); and

``(ii) individuals named in restricted reporting cases;

``(I) designate the 1 or more positions within the Coast       Guard that shall have the responsibility for such record       retention by the Coast Guard;

``(J) require education and training for members and       civilian employees of the Coast Guard on record retention       requirements under this section;

``(K) set forth criteria for access to such records       relating to covered misconduct involving members of the Coast       Guard, including whether the consent of the victim should be       required, by--

``(i) victims of covered misconduct;

``(ii) law enforcement authorities;

``(iii) the Department of Veterans Affairs; and

``(iv) other individuals and entities, including alleged       assailants;

``(L) require uniform collection of data on--

``(i) the incidence of covered misconduct in the Coast       Guard; and

``(ii) disciplinary actions taken in substantiated cases of       covered misconduct in the Coast Guard; and

``(M) set forth standards for communications with, and       notifications to, victims, consistent with--

``(i) the requirements of any applicable Department of       Defense policy; and

``(ii) to the extent practicable, any applicable policy of       the department in which the Coast Guard is operating.

``(2) Retention of certain forms and evidence in connection       with restricted reports and unrestricted reports of sexual       assault involving members of the coast guard.--

``(A) In general.--The comprehensive policy required by       subsection (a) shall require all unique or original copies of       Coast Guard Form 6095 filed in connection with a restricted       or unrestricted report on an alleged incident of rape or       sexual assault, as described in sections 920(a) and 920(b) of       title 10 (articles 120(a) and 120(b) of the Uniform Code of       Military Justice), involving a member of the Coast Guard to       be retained for the longer of--

``(i) 50 years commencing on the date of signature of the       covered person on Coast Guard Form 6095; or

``(ii) the time provided for the retention of such form in       connection with unrestricted and restricted reports on       incidents of sexual assault involving members of the Coast       Guard under Coast Guard policy.

``(B) Protection of confidentiality.--Any Coast Guard form       retained under subparagraph (A) shall be retained in a manner       that protects the confidentiality of the member of the Coast       Guard concerned in accordance with Coast Guard policy.

``(3) Retention of case notes in investigations of covered       misconduct involving members of the coast guard.--

``(A) Required retention of all investigative records.--The       comprehensive policy required by subsection (a) shall       require, for all criminal investigations relating to an       alleged incident of covered misconduct involving a member of       the Coast Guard, the retention of all elements of the case       file.

``(B) Elements.--The elements of the case file to be       retained under subparagraph (A) shall include, at a minimum--

``(i) the case activity record;

``(ii) the case review record;

``(iii) investigative plans; and

``(iv) all case notes made by any investigating agent.

``(C) Retention period.--All elements of the case file       shall be retained for not less than 50 years for cases       involving rape or sexual assault, as described in sections       920(a) and 920(b) of title 10 (articles 120(a) and 120(b) of       the Uniform Code of Military Justice), and not less than the       statute of limitations of the alleged offense under the       Uniform Code of Military Justice for other covered       misconduct, and no element of any such case file may be       destroyed until the expiration of such period.

``(4) Return of personal property upon completion of       related proceedings in unrestricted reporting cases.--      Notwithstanding the records and evidence retention       requirements described in paragraphs (1)(E) and (2), personal       property retained as evidence in connection with an incident       of rape or sexual assault, as described in sections 920(a)       and 920(b) of title 10 (articles 120(a) and 120(b) of the       Uniform Code of Military Justice), involving a member of the       Coast Guard may be returned to the rightful owner of such       property after the conclusion of all legal, adverse action,       and administrative proceedings related to such incident, as       determined by the Commandant.

``(5) Return of personal property in restricted reporting       cases.--

``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall prescribe procedures       under which a victim who files a restricted report of an       incident of sexual assault may request, at any time, the       return of any personal property of the victim obtained as       part of the sexual assault forensic examination.

``(B) Requirements.--The procedures required by       subparagraph (A) shall ensure that--

``(i) a request by a victim for the return of personal       property described under subparagraph (A) may be made on a       confidential basis and without affecting the restricted       nature of the restricted report; and

``(ii) at the time of the filing of the restricted report,       a Special Victims' Counsel, Sexual Assault Response       Coordinator, or Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim       Advocate--

``(I) informs the victim that the victim may request the       return of personal property as described in such       subparagraph; and

``(II) advises the victim that such a request for the       return of personal property may negatively impact a       subsequent case adjudication if the victim later decides to       convert the restricted report to an unrestricted report.

``(C) Rule of construction.--Except with respect to       personal property returned to a victim under this paragraph,       nothing in this paragraph may be construed to affect the       requirement to retain a sexual assault forensic examination       kit for the period specified in paragraph (2).

``(6) Victim access to records.--With respect to victim       access to records after all final disposition actions and any       appeals have been completed, as applicable, the comprehensive       policy required by subsection (a) shall provide that, to the       maximum extent practicable, and in such a manner that will       not jeopardize an active investigation or an active case--

``(A) a victim of covered misconduct in a case in which       either the victim or alleged perpetrator is a covered person       shall have access to all records that are directly related to       the victim's case, or related to the victim themselves, in       accordance with the policy issued under subsection (a) and       subject to required protections under sections 552 and 552a       of title 5;

``(B) a victim of covered misconduct who requests access to       records under section 552 or 552a of title 5 concerning the       victim's case shall be determined to have a compelling need,       and the records request shall be processed under expedited       processing procedures, if in the request for such records the       victim indicates that the records concerned are related to       the covered misconduct case;

``(C) in applying sections 552 and 552a of title 5 to the       redaction of information related to a records request by a       victim of covered misconduct made under such sections after       all final disposition actions and any appeals have been       completed--

``(i) any such redaction shall be applied to the minimum       extent possible so as to ensure the provision of the maximum       amount of unredacted information to the victim that is       permissible by law; and

``(ii) any such redaction shall not be applied to--

``(I) receipt by the victim of the victim's own statement;       or

``(II) the victim's information from an investigation; and

``(D) in the case of such a records request for which the       timelines for expedited processing are not met, the       Commandant shall provide to the Secretary, the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives a briefing that explains the reasons for       the denial or the delay in processing, as applicable.

``(d) Definition of Covered Person.--In this section, the       term `covered person' includes--

``(1) a member of the Coast Guard on active duty;

``(2) a member of the Coast Guard Reserve with respect to       crimes investigated by or reported to the Secretary on any       date on       which such member is in a military status under section 802       of title 10 (article 2 of the Uniform Code of Military       Justice);

``(3) a former member of the Coast Guard with respect to       crimes investigated by or reported to the Secretary; and

``(4) in the case of an investigation of covered misconduct       conducted by, or an incident of covered misconduct reported       to, the Coast Guard involving a civilian employee of the       Coast Guard, any such civilian employee of the Coast Guard.

``(e) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section authorizes       or requires, or shall be construed to authorize or require,       the discovery, inspection, or production of reports,       memoranda, or other internal documents or work product       generated by counsel, an attorney for the Government, or       their assistants or representatives.''.

(b) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 9 of title 14,       United States Code, is further amended by adding at the end       the following:       ``Sec. 956. Requirement to maintain certain records

``(a) In General.--The Commandant shall maintain all work       product related to documenting a disposition decision on an       investigation by the Coast Guard Investigative Service or       other law enforcement entity investigating a Coast Guard       member accused of an offense against chapter 47 of title 10.

``(b) Record Retention Period.--Work product documents and       the case action summary described in subsection (c) shall be       maintained for a period of not less than 7 years from the       date of the disposition decision.

``(c) Case Action Summary.--Upon a final disposition action       for cases described in subsection (a), except for offenses of       wrongful use or possession of a controlled substance under       section 912a of title 10 (article 112a of the Uniform Code of       Military Justice), where the member accused is an officer of       pay grade O-4 and below or an enlisted member of pay grade E-      7 and below, a convening authority shall sign a case action       summary that includes the following:

``(1) The disposition actions.

``(2) The name and command of the referral authority.

``(3) Records documenting when a referral authority       consulted with a staff judge advocate or special trial       counsel, as applicable, before a disposition action was       taken, to include the recommendation of the staff judge       advocate or special trial counsel.

``(4) A reference section listing the materials reviewed in       making a disposition decision.

``(5) The Coast Guard Investigative Service report of       investigation.

``(6) The completed Coast Guard Investigative Service       report of adjudication included as an enclosure.

``(d) Definition.--In this section, the term `work product'       includes--

``(1) a prosecution memorandum;

``(2) emails, notes, and other correspondence related to a       disposition decision; and

``(3) the contents described in paragraphs (1) through (6)       of subsection (c).

``(e) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section authorizes       or requires, or shall be construed to authorize or require,       the discovery, inspection, or production of reports,       memoranda, or other internal documents or work product       generated by counsel, an attorney for the Government, or       their assistants or representatives.''.

(c) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 9 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end       the following:  ``Sec. 955. Comprehensive policy and procedures on retention and access                to evidence and records relating to sexual misconduct and                other misconduct. ``Sec. 956. Requirement to maintain certain records.''.       SEC. 503. CONSIDERATION OF REQUEST FOR TRANSFER OF A CADET AT                     THE COAST GUARD ACADEMY WHO IS THE VICTIM OF A                     SEXUAL ASSAULT OR RELATED OFFENSE.

Section 1902 of title 14, United States Code, is further       amended by adding at the end the following:

``(g) Consideration of Request for Transfer of Cadet Who Is       the Victim of Sexual Assault or Related Offense.--

``(1) In general.--The Commandant shall provide for timely       consideration of and action on a request submitted by a cadet       appointed to the Coast Guard Academy who is the victim of an       alleged sexual assault or other offense covered by section       920, 920c, or 930 of title 10 (article 120, 120c, or 130 of       the Uniform Code of Military Justice) for transfer to another       military service academy or to enroll in a Senior Reserve       Officers' Training Corps program affiliated with another       institution of higher education.

``(2) Regulations.--The Commandant, in consultation with       the Secretary of Defense, shall establish policies to carry       out this subsection that--

``(A) provide that the Superintendent shall ensure that any       cadet who has been appointed to the Coast Guard Academy is       informed of the right to request a transfer pursuant to this       subsection, and that any formal request submitted by a cadet       who alleges an offense referred to in paragraph (1) is       processed as expeditiously as practicable through the chain       of command for review and action by the Superintendent;

``(B) direct the Superintendent, in coordination with the       Superintendent of the military service academy to which the       cadet requests to transfer--

``(i) to take action on a request for transfer under this       subsection not later than 72 hours after receiving the formal       request from the cadet;

``(ii) to approve such request for transfer unless there       are exceptional circumstances that require denial of the       request;

``(iii) upon approval of such request for transfer, to take       all necessary and appropriate action to effectuate the       transfer of the cadet to the military service academy       concerned as expeditiously as possible, subject to the       considerations described in clause (iv); and

``(iv) in determining the transfer date of the cadet to the       military service academy concerned, to take into account--

``(I) the preferences of the cadet, including any       preference to delay transfer until the completion of any       academic course in which the cadet is enrolled at the time of       the request for transfer; and

``(II) the well-being of the cadet; and

``(C) direct the Superintendent of the Coast Guard Academy,       in coordination with the Secretary of the military department       that sponsors the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps       program at the institution of higher education to which the       cadet requests to transfer--

``(i) to take action on a request for transfer under this       subsection not later than 72 hours after receiving the formal       request from the cadet;

``(ii) subject to the cadet's acceptance for admission to       the institution of higher education to which the cadet wishes       to transfer, to approve such request for transfer unless       there are exceptional circumstances that require denial of       the request;

``(iii) to take all necessary and appropriate action to       effectuate the cadet's enrollment in the institution of       higher education to which the cadet wishes to transfer and to       process the cadet for participation in the relevant Senior       Reserve Officers' Training Corps program as expeditiously as       possible, subject to the considerations described in clause       (iv); and

``(iv) in determining the transfer date of the cadet to the       institution of higher education to which the cadet wishes to       transfer, to take into account--

``(I) the preferences of the cadet, including any       preference to delay transfer until the completion of any       academic course in which the cadet is enrolled at the time of       the request for transfer; and

``(II) the well-being of the cadet.

``(3) Review.--If the Superintendent denies a request for       transfer under this subsection, the cadet may request review       of the denial by the Secretary, who shall take action on such       request for review not later than 72 hours after receipt of       such request.

``(4) Confidentiality.--The Secretary shall ensure that all       records of any request, determination, transfer, or other       action under this subsection remain confidential, consistent       with applicable law and regulation.

``(5) Effect of other law.--A cadet who transfers under       this subsection may retain the cadet's appointment to the       Coast Guard Academy or may be appointed to the military       service academy to which the cadet transfers without regard       to the limitations and requirements set forth in sections       7442, 8454, and 9442 of title 10.

``(6) Commission as officer in the coast guard.--

``(A) In general.--Upon graduation, a graduate of the       United States Military Academy, the United States Air Force       Academy, or the United States Naval Academy who transferred       to that academy under this subsection is entitled to be       accepted for appointment as a permanent commissioned officer       in the Regular Coast Guard in the same manner as graduates of       the Coast Guard Academy, as set forth in section 2101 of this       title.

``(B) Commission as officer in other armed force.--

``(i) In general.--A cadet who transfers under this       subsection to the United States Military Academy, the United       States Air Force Academy, or the United States Naval Academy       and indicates a preference pursuant to clause (ii) may be       appointed as a commissioned officer in an armed force       associated with the academy from which the cadet graduated.

``(ii) Statement of preference.--A cadet seeking       appointment as a commissioned officer in an armed force       associated with the academy from which the cadet graduated       under clause (i) shall, before graduating from that academy,       indicate to the Commandant that the cadet has a preference       for appointment to that armed force.

``(iii) Consideration by coast guard.--The Commandant shall       consider a preference of a cadet indicated pursuant to clause       (ii), but may require the cadet to serve as a permanent       commissioned officer in the Regular Coast Guard instead of       being appointed as a commissioned officer in an armed force       associated with the academy from which the cadet graduated.

``(iv) Treatment of service agreement.--With respect to a       service agreement entered into under section 1925 of this       title by a cadet who transfers under this subsection to the       United States Military Academy, the United States Air Force       Academy, or the United States Naval Academy and is appointed       as a commissioned officer in an armed force associated with       that academy,       the service obligation undertaken under such agreement shall       be considered to be satisfied upon the completion of 5 years       of active duty service in the service of such armed force.

``(C) Senior reserve officers' training corps program.--A       cadet who transfers under this subsection to a Senior Reserve       Officers' Training Corps program affiliated with another       institution of higher education is entitled upon graduation       from the Senior Reserve Officers' Training program to       commission into the Coast Guard, as set forth in section       3738a of this title.''.       SEC. 504. DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS WITH PARTICULAR EXPERTISE                     IN MILITARY JUSTICE OR HEALTHCARE.

(a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 21 of title 14,       United States Code is amended by adding at the end the       following:       ``Sec. 2132. Designation of officers with particular

expertise in military justice or healthcare

``(a) Secretary Designation.--The Secretary may designate a       limited number of officers of the Coast Guard as having       particular expertise in--

``(1) military justice; or

``(2) healthcare.

``(b) Promotion and Grade.--An individual designated under       this section--

``(1) shall not be included on the active duty promotion       list;

``(2) shall be promoted under section 2126; and

``(3) may not be promoted to a grade higher than       captain.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 21 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by inserting after       the item relating to section 2131 the following:  ``2132. Designation of officers with particular expertise in military                justice or healthcare.''.

(c) Conforming Amendments.--

(1) Section 2102(a) of title 14, United States Code, is       amended, in the second sentence by striking ``and officers of       the permanent commissioned teaching staff of the Coast Guard       Academy'' and inserting ``officers of the permanent       commissioned teaching staff of the Coast Guard Academy, and       officers designated by the Secretary pursuant this section''.

(2) Subsection (e) of section 2103 of title 14, United       States Code, is amended to read as follows:

``(e) Secretary To Prescribe Numbers for Certain       Officers.--The Secretary shall prescribe the number of       officers authorized to be serving on active duty in each       grade of--

``(1) the permanent commissioned teaching staff of the       Coast Guard Academy;

``(2) the officers designated by the Secretary pursuant to       this section; and

``(3) the officers of the Reserve serving in connection       with organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or       training the reserve components.''.

(3) Section 2126 of title 14, United States Code, is       amended, in the second sentence, by inserting ``and as to       officers designated by the Secretary pursuant to this       section'' after ``reserve components''.

(4) Section 3736(a) of title 14, United States Code, is       amended--

(A) in the first sentence by striking ``promotion list and       the'' and inserting ``promotion list, officers designated by       the Secretary pursuant to this section, and the officers on       the''; and

(B) in the second sentence by striking ``promotion list or       the'' and inserting ``promotion list, officers designated by       the Secretary pursuant to this section, or the officers on       the''.       SEC. 505. SAFE-TO-REPORT POLICY FOR COAST GUARD.

(a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 19 of title 14,       United States Code, is further amended by adding at the end       the following:       ``Sec. 1909. Safe-to-Report policy for Coast Guard

``(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025, the       Commandant shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of the       military departments, establish and maintain a safe-to-report       policy described in subsection (b) that applies with respect       to all members of the Coast Guard (including members of the       reserve and auxiliary components of the Coast Guard), cadets       at the Coast Guard Academy, and any other individual       undergoing training at an accession point of the Coast Guard.

``(b) Safe-to-Report Policy.--The safe-to-report policy       described in this subsection is a policy that--

``(1) prescribes the handling of minor collateral       misconduct, involving a member of the Coast Guard who is the       alleged victim or reporting witness of a sexual assault; and

``(2) applies to all such individuals, regardless of--

``(A) to whom the victim makes the allegation or who       receives the victim's report of sexual assault; or

``(B) whether the report, investigation, or prosecution is       handled by military or civilian authorities.

``(c) Mitigating and Aggravating Circumstances.--In issuing       the policy under subsection (a), the Commandant shall specify       mitigating circumstances that decrease the gravity of minor       collateral misconduct or the impact of such misconduct on       good order and discipline and aggravating circumstances that       increase the gravity of minor collateral misconduct or the       impact of such misconduct on good order and discipline for       purposes of the safe-to-report policy.

``(d) Tracking of Collateral Misconduct Incidents.--In       conjunction with the issuance of the policy under subsection       (a), the Commandant shall develop and implement a process to       anonymously track incidents of minor collateral misconduct       that are subject to the safe-to-report policy.

``(e) Minor Collateral Misconduct Defined.--In this       section, the term `minor collateral misconduct' means any       minor misconduct that is potentially punishable under chapter       47 of title 10 that--

``(1) is committed close in time to or during a sexual       assault and directly related to the incident that formed the       basis of the allegation of sexual assault allegation;

``(2) is discovered as a direct result of the report of       sexual assault or the ensuing investigation into such sexual       assault; and

``(3) does not involve aggravating circumstances (as       specified in the policy issued under subsection (a)) that       increase the gravity of the minor misconduct or the impact of       such misconduct on good order and discipline.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 19 of       title 14, United States Code, is further amended by inserting       after the item relating to section 1908 (as added by this       Act) the following:  ``1909. Safe-to-Report policy for Coast Guard.''.       SEC. 506. MODIFICATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS ON COVERED                     MISCONDUCT IN COAST GUARD.

(a) Assessment of Policy on Covered Misconduct.--Section       1902 of title 14, United States Code, is further amended--

(1) in the section heading by striking ``Policy on sexual       harassment and sexual violence'' and inserting ``Academy       policy and report on covered misconduct''; and

(2) by striking subsections (c) through (e) and inserting       the following:

``(c) Assessment.--

``(1) In general.--The Commandant shall direct the       Superintendent of the Coast Guard Academy to conduct at the       Coast Guard Academy during each Academy program year an       assessment to determine the effectiveness of the policies of       the Academy with respect to covered misconduct involving       cadets or other military or civilian personnel of the       Academy.

``(2) Biennial survey.--For the assessment at the Academy       under paragraph (1) with respect to an Academy program year       that begins in an odd-numbered calendar year, the       Superintendent shall conduct a survey of cadets and other       military and civilian personnel of the Academy--

``(A) to measure the incidence, during such program year--

``(i) of covered misconduct events, on or off the Academy       campus, that have been reported to an official of the       Academy;

``(ii) of covered misconduct events, on or off the Academy       campus, that have not been reported to an official of the       Academy; and

``(iii) of retaliation related to a report of a covered       misconduct event, on or off the Academy campus; and

``(B) to assess the perceptions of the cadets and other       military and civilian personnel of the Academy with respect       to--

``(i) the Academy's policies, training, and procedures on       covered misconduct involving cadets and other military and       civilian personnel of the Academy;

``(ii) the enforcement of such policies;

``(iii) the incidence of covered misconduct involving       cadets and other military and civilian personnel of the       Academy; and

``(iv) any other issues relating to covered misconduct       involving cadets and other military and civilian personnel of       the Academy.

``(d) Report.--

``(1) In general.--Not earlier than 1 year after the date       of enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025,       and each March 1 thereafter through March 1, 2031, the       Commandant shall direct the Superintendent to submit to the       Commandant a report on incidents of covered misconduct and       retaliation for reporting of covered misconduct involving       cadets or other military and civilian personnel of the       Academy.

``(2) Elements.--

``(A) In general.--Each report required under paragraph (1)       shall include the following:

``(i) Information and data on all incidents of covered       misconduct and retaliation described in paragraph (1)       reported to the Superintendent or any other official of the       Academy during the preceding Academy program year (referred       to in this subsection as a `reported incident'),

``(ii) The number of reported incidents committed against a       cadet or any other military or civilian personnel of the       Academy.

``(iii) The number of reported incidents committed by a       cadet or any other military or civilian personnel of the       Academy.

``(iv) Information on reported incidents, in accordance       with the policy prescribed under section 549G(b) of the       National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (10       U.S.C. 1561 note), to the maximum extent practicable.

``(v) The number of reported incidents that were entered       into the Catch a Serial Offender system, including the number       of such incidents that resulted in the identification of a       potential or confirmed match.

``(vi) The number of reported incidents that were       substantiated (referred to in this subsection as a       `substantiated reported incident').

``(vii) A synopsis of each substantiated reported incident       that includes--

``(I) a brief description of the nature of the incident;

``(II) whether the accused cadet or other military or       civilian personnel of the Academy had previously been       convicted of sexual assault; and

``(III) whether alcohol or other controlled or prohibited       substances were involved in the incident, and a description       of the involvement.

``(viii) The type of case disposition associated with each       substantiated reported incident, such as--

``(I) conviction and sentence by court-martial, including       charges and specifications for which convicted;

``(II) acquittal of all charges at court-martial;

``(III) as appropriate, imposition of a nonjudicial       punishment under section 815 of title 10 (article 15 of the       Uniform Code of Military Justice);

``(IV) as appropriate, administrative action taken,       including a description of each type of such action imposed;

``(V) dismissal of all charges, including a description of       each reason for dismissal and the stage at which dismissal       occurred; and

``(VI) whether the accused cadet or other military or       civilian personnel of the Academy was administratively       separated or, in the case of an officer, allowed to resign in       lieu of court martial, and the characterization (honorable,       general, or other than honorable) of the service of the       military member upon separation or resignation.

``(ix) With respect to any incident of covered misconduct       involving cadets or other military and civilian personnel of       the Academy reported to the Superintendent or any other       official of the Academy during the preceding Academy program       year that involves a report of retaliation relating to the       incident--

``(I) a narrative description of the retaliation claim;

``(II) the nature of the relationship between the       complainant and the individual accused of committing the       retaliation; and

``(III) the nature of the relationship between the       individual accused of committing the covered misconduct and       the individual accused of committing the retaliation.

``(x) With respect to any investigation of a reported       incident--

``(I) whether the investigation is in open or completed       status;

``(II) an identification of the investigating entity;

``(III) whether a referral has been made to outside law       enforcement entities;

``(IV) in the case of an investigation that is complete, a       description of the results of such an investigation and       information with respect to whether the results of the       investigation were provided to the complainant; and

``(V) whether the investigation substantiated an offense       under chapter 47 of title 10 (the Uniform Code of Military       Justice).

``(B) Format.--With respect to the information and data       required under subparagraph (A), the Commandant shall report       such information and data separately for each type of covered       misconduct offense, and shall not aggregate the information       and data for multiple types of covered misconduct offenses.

``(3) Trends.--Subject to subsection (f), beginning on the       date of enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of       2025, each report required under paragraph (1) shall include       an analysis of trends in incidents described in paragraph       (1), as applicable, since the date of enactment of the Coast       Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2012 (Public Law       112-213).

``(4) Response.--Each report required under paragraph (1)       shall include, for the preceding Academy program year, a       description of the policies, procedures, processes,       initiatives, investigations (including overarching       investigations), research, or studies implemented by the       Commandant in response to any incident described in paragraph       (1) involving a cadet or any other military or civilian       personnel of the Academy.

``(5) Plan.--Each report required under paragraph (1) shall       include a plan for actions to be taken during the year       following the Academy program year covered by the report to       enhance the prevention of and response to incidents of       covered misconduct and retaliation for reporting of covered       misconduct involving cadets or other military or civilian       personnel of the Academy.

``(6) Covered misconduct prevention and response       activities.--Each report required under paragraph (1) shall       include an assessment of the adequacy of covered misconduct       prevention and response carried out by the Academy during the       preceding Academy program year.

``(7) Contributing factors.--Each report required under       paragraph (1) shall include, for incidents of covered       misconduct and retaliation for reporting of covered       misconduct involving cadets or other military or civilian       personnel of the Academy--

``(A) an analysis of the factors that may have contributed       to such incidents;

``(B) an assessment of the role of such factors in       contributing to such incidents during such Academy program       year; and

``(C) recommendations for mechanisms to eliminate or reduce       such contributing factors.

``(8) Biennial survey.--Each report under paragraph (1) for       an Academy program year that begins in an odd-numbered       calendar year shall include the results of the survey       conducted under subsection (c)(2) in such Academy program       year.

``(9) Focus groups.--For each Academy program year with       respect to which the Superintendent is not required to       conduct a survey at the Academy under subsection (c)(2), the       Commandant shall require focus groups to be conducted at the       Academy for the purpose of ascertaining information relating       to covered misconduct issues at the Academy.

``(10) Submission of report; briefing.--

``(A) Submission.--Not later than 270 days after the date       on which the Commandant receives a report from the       Superintendent under paragraph (1), the Commandant shall       submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives, as an enclosure or appendix to the report       required by section 5112--

``(i) the report of the Superintendent;

``(ii) the comments of the Commandant with respect to the       report; and

``(iii) relevant information gathered during a focus group       under subparagraph (A) during the Academy program year       covered by the report, as applicable.

``(B) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date on       which the Commandant submits a report under subparagraph (A),       the Commandant shall provide a briefing on the report       submitted under subparagraph (A) to--

``(i) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives; and

``(ii) the Secretary of Homeland Security.

``(e) Victim Confidentiality.--To the extent that       information collected or reported under the authority of this       section, such information shall be provided in a form that is       consistent with applicable privacy protections under Federal       law and does not jeopardize the confidentiality of victims.

``(f) Continuity of Data and Reporting.--In carrying out       this section, the Commandant shall ensure the continuity of       data collection and reporting such that the ability to       analyze trends is not compromised.''.

(b) Covered Misconduct in Coast Guard.--Section 5112 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:       ``Sec. 5112. Covered misconduct in Coast Guard

``(a) In General.--Not later than March 1 each year, the       Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee       on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives a report on incidents of covered misconduct       involving members of the Coast Guard, including recruits and       officer candidates, and claims of retaliation related to the       reporting of any such incident.

``(b) Continuity of Data and Reporting.--In carrying out       this section, the Commandant shall ensure the continuity of       data collection and reporting such that the ability to       analyze trends is not compromised.

``(c) Contents.--

``(1) Incidents involving members.--

``(A) Information and data.--

``(i) In general.--Each report required under subsection       (a) shall include, for the preceding calendar year,       information and data on--

``(I) incidents of covered misconduct; and

``(II) incidents of retaliation against a member of the       Coast Guard related to the reporting of covered misconduct,       disaggregated by type of retaliation claim.

``(ii) Inclusions.--The information and data on the       incidents described in clause (i) shall include the       following:

``(I) All incidents of covered misconduct and retaliation       described in clause (i) reported to the Commandant or any       other official of the Coast Guard during the preceding       calendar year (referred to in this subsection as a `reported       incident').

``(II) The number of reported incidents committed against       members of the Coast Guard.

``(III) The number of reported incidents committed by       members of the Coast Guard.

``(IV) Information on reported incidents, in accordance       with the policy prescribed under section 549G(b) of the       National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (10       U.S.C. 1561 note), to the maximum extent practicable.

``(V) The number of reported incidents that were entered       into the Catch a Serial Offender system, including the number       of such incidents that resulted in the identification of a       potential or confirmed match.

``(VI) The number of reported incidents that were       substantiated (referred to in this subsection as a       `substantiated reported incident').

``(VII) A synopsis of each substantiated reported incident       that includes--

``(aa) a brief description of the nature of the incident;

``(bb) whether the accused member has previously been       convicted of sexual assault; and

``(cc) whether alcohol or other controlled or prohibited       substances were involved in the incident, and a description       of the involvement.

``(VIII) The type of case disposition associated with each       substantiated reported incident, such as--

``(aa) conviction and sentence by court-martial, including       charges and specifications for which convicted;

``(bb) acquittal of all charges at court-martial;

``(cc) as appropriate, imposition of a nonjudicial       punishment under section 815 of title 10 (article 15 of the       Uniform Code of Military Justice);

``(dd) as appropriate, administrative action taken,       including a description of each type of such action imposed;

``(ee) dismissal of all charges, including a description of       each reason for dismissal and the stage at which dismissal       occurred; and

``(ff) whether the accused member was administratively       separated or, in the case of an officer, allowed to resign in       lieu of court-martial, and the characterization (honorable,       general, or other than honorable) of the service of the       member upon separation or resignation.

``(IX) With respect to any incident of covered misconduct       reported to the Commandant or any other official of the Coast       Guard during the preceding calendar year that involves a       report of retaliation relating to the incident--

``(aa) a narrative description of the retaliation claim;

``(bb) the nature of the relationship between the       complainant and the individual accused of committing the       retaliation; and

``(cc) the nature of the relationship between the       individual accused of committing the covered misconduct and       the individual accused of committing the retaliation.

``(X) The disposition of or action taken by the Coast Guard       or any other Federal, State, local, or Tribal entity with       respect to a substantiated reported incident.

``(XI) With respect to any investigation of a reported       incident--

``(aa) the status of the investigation or information       relating to any referral to outside law enforcement entities;

``(bb) the official or office of the Coast Guard that       received the complaint;

``(cc) a description of the results of such an       investigation or information with respect to whether the       results of the investigation were provided to the       complainant; or

``(dd) whether the investigation substantiated an offense       under chapter 47 of title 10 (the Uniform Code of Military       Justice).

``(iii) Format.--With respect to the information and data       required under clause (i), the Commandant shall report such       information and data separately for each type of covered       misconduct offense, and shall not aggregate the information       and data for multiple types of covered misconduct offenses.

``(B) Trends.--Subject to subsection (b), beginning on the       date of enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of       2025, each report required by subsection (a) shall include,       for the preceding calendar year, an analysis or assessment of       trends in the occurrence, as applicable, of incidents       described in subparagraph (A)(i), since the date of enactment       of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2012       (Public Law 112-213).

``(C) Response.--Each report required under subsection (a)       shall include, for the preceding calendar year, a description       of the policies, procedures, processes, initiatives,       investigations (including overarching investigations),       research, or studies implemented by the Commandant in       response to any incident described in subparagraph (A)(i)       involving a member of the Coast Guard.

``(D) Plan.--Each report required under subsection (a)       shall include a plan for actions to be taken during the year       following the year covered by the report to enhance the       prevention of and response to incidents described in       subparagraph (A)(i) involving members of the Coast Guard.

``(E) Covered misconduct prevention and response       activities.--Each report required under subsection (a) shall       include an assessment of the adequacy of covered misconduct       prevention and response activities related to incidents       described in subparagraph (A)(i) carried out by the Coast       Guard during the preceding calendar year.

``(F) Contributing factors.--Each report required under       subsection (a) shall include, for incidents described in       subparagraph (A)(i)--

``(i) an analysis of the factors that may have contributed       to such incidents;

``(ii) an assessment of the role of such factors in       contributing to such incidents during such year; and

``(iii) recommendations for mechanisms to eliminate or       reduce such contributing factors.

``(2) Incidents involving recruits and officer       candidates.--

``(A) Information and data.--

``(i) In general.--Subject to subsection (b), each report       required under subsection (a) shall include, as a separate       appendix or enclosure, for the preceding calendar year,       information and data on--

``(I) incidents of covered misconduct involving a recruit       of the Coast Guard at Training Center Cape May or an officer       candidate at the Coast Guard Officer Candidate School; and

``(II) incidents of retaliation against such a recruit or       officer candidate related to the reporting of covered       misconduct, disaggregated by type of retaliation claim.

``(ii) Inclusions.--

``(I) In general.--The information and data on the       incidents described in clause (i) shall include the       following:

``(aa) All incidents of covered misconduct and retaliation       described in clause (i) reported to the Commandant or any       other official of the Coast Guard during the preceding       calendar year (referred to in this subsection as a `reported       incident').

``(bb) The number of reported incidents committed against       recruits and officer candidates described in clause (i)(I).

``(cc) The number of reported incidents committed by such       recruits and officer candidates.

``(dd) Information on reported incidents, in accordance       with the policy prescribed under section 549G(b) of the       National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (10       U.S.C. 1561 note), to the maximum extent practicable.

``(ee)(AA) The number of reported incidents that were       entered into the Catch a Serial Offender system.

``(BB) Of such reported incidents entered into such system,       the number that resulted in the identification of a potential       or confirmed match.

``(ff) The number of reported incidents that were       substantiated (referred to in this subsection as a       `substantiated reported incident').

``(gg) A synopsis of each substantiated reported incident       that includes--

``(AA) a brief description of the nature of the incident;       and

``(BB) whether alcohol or other controlled or prohibited       substances were involved in the incident, and a description       of the involvement.

``(hh) The type of case disposition associated with each       substantiated reported incident, such as--

``(AA) conviction and sentence by court-martial, including       charges and specifications for which convicted;

``(BB) acquittal of all charges at court-martial;

``(CC) as appropriate, imposition of a nonjudicial       punishment under section 815 of title 10 (article 15 of the       Uniform Code of Military Justice);

``(DD) as appropriate, administrative action taken,       including a description of each type of such action imposed;

``(EE) dismissal of all charges, including a description of       each reason for dismissal and the stage at which dismissal       occurred; and

``(FF) whether the accused member was administratively       separated or, in the case of an officer, allowed to resign in       lieu of court-martial, and the characterization (honorable,       general, or other than honorable) of the service of the       member upon separation or resignation.

``(ii) With respect to any incident of covered misconduct       involving recruits or officer candidates reported to the       Commandant or any other official of the Coast Guard during       the preceding calendar year that involves a report of       retaliation relating to the incident--

``(AA) a narrative description of the retaliation claim;

``(BB) the nature of the relationship between the       complainant and the individual accused of committing the       retaliation; and

``(CC) the nature of the relationship between the       individual accused of committing the covered misconduct and       the individual accused of committing the retaliation.

``(jj) The disposition of or action taken by the Coast       Guard or any other Federal, State, local, or Tribal entity       with respect to a substantiated reported incident.

``(kk) With respect to any investigation of a reported       incident--

``(AA) the status of the investigation or information       relating to any referral to outside law enforcement entities;

``(BB) the official or office of the Coast Guard that       received the complaint;

``(CC) a description of the results of such an       investigation or information with respect to whether the       results of the investigation were provided to the       complainant; or

``(DD) whether the investigation substantiated an offense       under chapter 47 of title 10 (the Uniform Code of Military       Justice).

``(II) Format.--With respect to the information and data       required under clause (i), the Commandant shall report such       information and data separately for each type of covered       misconduct offense, and shall not aggregate the information       and data for multiple types of covered misconduct offenses.

``(B) Trends.--Subject to subsection (b), beginning on the       date of enactment of Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025,       each report required by subsection (a) shall include, for the       preceding calendar year, an analysis or assessment of trends       in the occurrence, as applicable, of incidents described in       subparagraph (A)(i), since the date of enactment of the Coast       Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2012 (Public Law       112-213).

``(C) Response.--Each report required under subsection (a)       shall include, for the preceding calendar year, a description       of the policies, procedures, processes, initiatives,       investigations (including overarching investigations),       research, or studies implemented by the Commandant in       response to any incident described in subparagraph (A)(i)       involving--

``(i) a recruit of the Coast Guard at Training Center Cape       May; or

``(ii) an officer candidate at the Coast Guard Officer       Candidate School.

``(D) Plan.--Each report required under subsection (a)       shall include a plan for actions to be taken during the year       following the year covered by the report to enhance the       prevention of and response to incidents described in       subparagraph (A)(i) involving a recruit of the Coast Guard at       Training Center Cape May or an officer candidate at the Coast       Guard Officer Candidate School.

``(E) Covered misconduct prevention and response       activities.--Each report required       under subsection (a) shall include an assessment of the       adequacy of covered misconduct prevention and response       activities related to incidents described in subparagraph       (A)(i) of this paragraph carried out by the Coast Guard       during the preceding calendar year.

``(F) Contributing factors.--Each report required under       subsection (a) shall include, for incidents described in       subparagraph (A)(i)--

``(i) an analysis of the factors that may have contributed       to such incidents;

``(ii) an assessment of the role of such factors in       contributing to such incidents during such year; and

``(iii) recommendations for mechanisms to eliminate or       reduce such contributing factors.

``(3) Implementation status of accountability and       transparency review directed actions.--Each report required       under subsection (a) submitted during the 5-year period       beginning on March 1, 2025, shall include information on the       implementation by the Commandant of the directed actions       described in the memorandum of the Coast Guard titled       `Commandant's Directed Actions--Accountability and       Transparency', issued on November 27, 2023, including--

``(A) a description of actions taken to address each       directed action during the year covered by the report;

``(B) the implementation status of each directed action;

``(C) in the case of any directed action that has not been       implemented--

``(i) a detailed action plan for implementation of the       recommendation;

``(ii) an estimated timeline for implementation of the       recommendation;

``(iii) description of changes the Commandant intends to       make to associated Coast Guard policies so as to enable the       implementation of the recommendation; and

``(iv) any other information the Commandant considers       appropriate;

``(D) a description of the metrics and milestones used to       measure completion, accountability, and effectiveness of each       directed action;

``(E) a description of any additional actions the       Commandant is taking to mitigate instances of covered       misconduct within the Coast Guard;

``(F) any legislative change proposal necessary to       implement the directed actions; and

``(G) a detailed list of funding necessary to implement the       directed actions in a timely and effective manner, including       a list of personnel needed for such implementation.

``(d) Victim Confidentiality.--To the extent that       information collected under the authority of this section is       reported or otherwise made available to the public, such       information shall be provided in a form that is consistent       with applicable privacy protections under Federal law and       does not jeopardize the confidentiality of victims.

``(e) Substantiated Defined.--In this section, the term       `substantiated' has the meaning given the term under section       1631(c) of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act       for Fiscal Year 2011 (10 U.S.C. 1561 note).''.

(c) Clerical Amendments.--

(1) Chapter 19.--The analysis for chapter 19 of title 14,       United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating       to section 1902 and inserting the following:  ``1902. Academy policy and report on covered misconduct.''.

(2) Chapter 51.--The analysis for chapter 51 of title 14,       United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating       to section 5112 and inserting the following:  ``5112. Covered misconduct in the Coast Guard.''.       SEC. 507. MODIFICATIONS TO THE OFFICER INVOLUNTARY SEPARATION                     PROCESS.

(a) Review of Records.--Section 2158 of title 14, United       States Code, is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1)       by striking ``may at any time convene a board of officers''       and inserting ``shall prescribe, by regulation, procedures''.

(b) Boards of Inquiry.--Section 2159(c) of title 14, United       States Code, is amended by striking ``send the record of its       proceedings to a board of review'' and inserting ``recommend       to the Secretary that the officer not be retained on active       duty''.

(c) Repeal of Boards of Review.--Section 2160 of title 14,       United States Code, is repealed.

(d) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--

(1) Title 14, United States Code, is amended--

(A) in section 2161 by striking ``section 2158, 2159, or       2160'' each place it appears and inserting ``section 2158 or       2159'';

(B) in section 2163, in the first sentence by striking       ``board of review under section 2160 of this title'' and       inserting ``board of inquiry under section 2159 of this       title''; and

(C) in section 2164(a), in the matter preceding paragraph       (1), by striking ``or 2160''.

(2) The analysis at the beginning of chapter 21 of title       14, United States Code, is amended by striking the item       relating to section 2160.       SEC. 508. REVIEW OF DISCHARGE CHARACTERIZATION.

(a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 25 of title 14,       United States Code, is further amended by adding at the end       the following:       ``Sec. 2519. Review of discharge characterization

``(a) Downgrade.--

``(1) In general.--The decision to conduct a case review       under this section shall be at the discretion of the       Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is       operating.

``(2) Board of review.--In addition to the requirements of       section 1553 of title 10, a board of review for a former       member of the Coast Guard established pursuant to such       section and under part 51 of title 33, Code of Federal       Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of the       Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025), may upon a motion of       the board and subject to review by the Secretary of the       department in which the Coast Guard is operating, downgrade       an honorable discharge to a general (under honorable       conditions) discharge upon a finding that a former member of       the Coast Guard, while serving on active duty as a member of       the armed forces, committed sexual assault or sexual       harassment in violation of section 920, 920b, or 934 of title       10 (article 120, 120b, or 134 of the Uniform Code of Military       Justice).

``(3) Evidence.--Any downgrade under paragraph (2) shall be       supported by clear and convincing evidence.

``(4) Limitation.--The review board under paragraph (2) may       not downgrade a discharge of a former member of the Coast       Guard if the same action described in paragraph (2) was       considered prior to separation from active duty by an       administrative board in determining the characterization of       discharge as otherwise provided by law and in accordance with       regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating.

``(b) Procedural Rights.--

``(1) In general.--A review by a board established under       section 1553 of title 10 and under part 51 of title 33, Code       of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment       of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025), shall be based       on the records of the Coast Guard, and with respect to a       member who also served in another one of the armed forces,       the records of the armed forces concerned and such other       evidence as may be presented to the board.

``(2) Evidence by witness.--A witness may present evidence       to the board in person or by affidavit.

``(3) Appearance before board.--A person who requests a       review under this section may appear before the board in       person or by counsel or an accredited representative of an       organization recognized by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs       under chapter 59 of title 38.

``(4) Notification.--A former member of the Coast Guard who       is subject to a downgrade in discharge characterization       review under subsection (a) shall be notified in writing of       such proceedings, afforded the right to obtain copies of       records and documents relevant to the proceedings, and the       right to appear before the board in person or by counsel or       an accredited representative of an organization recognized by       the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under chapter 59 of title       38.''.

(b) Rulemaking.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall initiate a       rulemaking to implement this section.

(2) Deadline for regulations.--The regulations issued under       paragraph (1) shall take effect not later than 180 days after       the date on which the Commandant promulgates a final rule       pursuant to such paragraph.

(c) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 25 of       title 14, United States Code, is further amended by adding at       the end the following:  ``2519. Review of discharge characterization.''.       SEC. 509. CONVICTED SEX OFFENDER AS GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.

Section 7511(a) of title 46, United States Code, is       amended--

(1) in paragraph (1) by striking ``or'';

(2) in paragraph (2) by striking ``State, local, or Tribal       law'' and inserting ``Federal, State, local, or Tribal law'';

(3) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and

(4) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:

``(2) section 920 or 920b of title 10 (article 120 and 120b       of the Uniform Code of Military Justice); or''.       SEC. 510. DEFINITION OF COVERED MISCONDUCT.

(a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 25 of title 14,       United States Code, is further amended by adding at the end       the following:       ``Sec. 2520. Covered misconduct defined

``In this title, the term `covered misconduct' means--

``(1) rape and sexual assault, as described in sections       920(a) and 920(b) of title 10 (articles 120(a) and 120(b) of       the Uniform Code of Military Justice);

``(2) sexual harassment, as described in Executive Order       14062 dated January 26, 2022, and enumerated under section       934 of title 10 (article 134 of the Uniform Code of Military       Justice);

``(3) abusive sexual contact and aggravated sexual contact,       as described in sections 920(c) and 920(d) of title 10       (articles 120(c) and 120(d) of the Uniform Code of Military       Justice);

``(4) wrongful broadcast, dissemination, or creation of       content as described in sections 917 and 920c of title 10       (articles 117a and 120c of the Uniform Code of Military       Justice);

``(5) the child pornography offenses as described in       section 934 of title 10 (article 134 of the Uniform Code of       Military Justice);

``(6) rape and sexual assault of a child, other sexual       misconduct, and stalking, as described in sections 920b,       920c(a), and 930 of title 10 (articles 120b, 120c, and 130 of       the Uniform Code of Military Justice); and

``(7) domestic violence, as described in section 928b of       title 10 (article 128b of the Uniform Code of Military       Justice).''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 25 of       title 14, United States Code, is further amended by adding at       the end the following:  ``2520. Covered misconduct defined.''.       SEC. 511. NOTIFICATION OF CHANGES TO UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY                     JUSTICE OR MANUAL FOR COURTS MARTIAL RELATING                     TO COVERED MISCONDUCT.

(a) In General.--Chapter 51 of title 14, United States       Code, is further amended by adding at the end the following:       ``Sec. 5117. Notification of changes to Uniform Code of

Military Justice or Manual for Courts Martial relating to

covered misconduct

``Beginning on March 30, 2026, and annually thereafter, the       Commandant shall notify the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives with respect to each of the following:

``(1) Whether the Uniform Code of Military Justice (chapter       47 of title 10) has been amended--

``(A) to add any sex-related offense as a new article; or

``(B) to remove an article relating to covered misconduct       described in any of paragraphs (1) through (7) of section       301.

``(2) Whether the Manual for Courts Martial has been       modified--

``(A) to add any sex-related offense as an offense       described under an article of the Uniform Code of Military       Justice; or

``(B) to remove as an offense described under an article of       the Uniform Code of Military Justice covered misconduct       described in any of paragraphs (1) through (7) of section       301.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 51 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end       the following:  ``5117. Notification of changes to Uniform Code of Military Justice Or                Manual for Courts Martial relating to covered                misconduct.''.       SEC. 512. COMPLAINTS OF RETALIATION BY VICTIMS OF SEXUAL                     ASSAULT OR SEXUAL HARASSMENT AND RELATED                     PERSONS.

Section 1562a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (a)--

(A) by striking ``The Secretary of Defense shall'' and       inserting the following:

``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall''; and

(B) by adding at the end the following:

``(2) Coast guard.--The Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating shall designate the       Commandant of the Coast Guard to be responsible for carrying       out the requirements of this section with respect to members       of the Coast Guard when the Coast Guard is not operating as a       service in the Navy.'';

(2) in subsection (b)--

(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting       ``and the Commandant of the Coast Guard'' after       ``Secretary'';

(B) in paragraph (8) by inserting before the period at the       end ``or with respect to the Coast Guard, the component       designated by the Commandant of the Coast Guard''; and

(C) in paragraph (4) by striking ``Department of Defense'';       and

(3) in subsection (c)(2)--

(A) in subparagraph (A) by inserting ``, the Inspector       General of the Department of Homeland Security,'' before ``or       any other inspector general'';

(B) in subparagraph (D) by striking ``military'' and       inserting ``armed force''; and

(C) in subparagraph (E) by inserting ``or department in       which the Coast Guard is operating when not operating as a       service in the Navy for members of the Coast Guard'' after       ``Department of Defense''.       SEC. 513. DEVELOPMENT OF POLICIES ON MILITARY PROTECTIVE                     ORDERS.

(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall issue updated       policies of the Coast Guard relating to military protective       orders that are consistent with the law and policies of the       Department of Defense.

(2) Elements.--The policies developed under paragraph (1)       shall require--

(A) that any denial of a request for a military protective       order shall include a written explanation for the denial,       which shall be--

(i) forwarded to the next flag officer in the chain of       command of the commanding officer or other approving       authority who denied the request; and

(ii) provided to the member who submitted the request; and

(B) the recusal of an approving authority from       participating in the granting or denying of a military       protective order, if such authority was, at any time--

(i) the subject of a complaint of any form of assault,       harassment, or retaliation filed by the member requesting the       military protective order or the member who is the subject of       the military protective order; or

(ii) associated with the member requesting the military       protective order or the member who is the subject of the       military protective order in a manner that presents as an       actual or apparent conflict of interest.

(3) Notification requirement.--The Commandant shall develop       a policy to ensure that sexual assault response coordinators,       victim advocates, and other appropriate personnel shall       inform victims of the process by which the victim may request       an expedited transfer, a no-contact order, or a military or       civilian protective order.       SEC. 514. COAST GUARD IMPLEMENTATION OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW                     COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS ON ADDRESSING SEXUAL                     ASSAULT AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN THE MILITARY.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall review the report       of the Independent Review Commission titled ``Hard Truths and       the Duty to Change: Recommendations from the Independent       Review Commission on Sexual Assault in the Military''       referred to in the memorandum of the Department of Defense       titled ``Memorandum for Senior Pentagon Leadership Commanders       of the Combatant Commands Defense Agency and DoD Field       Activity Directors'', dated September 22, 2021, (relating to       commencing Department of Defense actions and implementation       of the recommendations of the Independent Review Commission       to address sexual assault and sexual harassment in the       military).

(b) Strategy and Action Plan.--On completion of the review       required under subsection (a), and not later than 1 year       after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall       submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives a strategy and action plan that--

(1)(A) identifies any recommendation set forth in the       report by the Independent Review Commission described in       subsection (a) that addresses a matter that is not within the       jurisdiction of the Coast Guard, does not apply to the Coast       Guard, or otherwise would not be beneficial to members of the       Coast Guard, as determined by the Commandant; and

(B) includes a brief rationale for such determination; and

(2) with respect to each recommendation set forth in such       report that is not identified under paragraph (1), includes--

(A)(i) a detailed action plan for implementation of the       recommendation;

(ii) a description of changes the Commandant will make to       associated Coast Guard policies so as to enable the       implementation of the recommendation;

(iii) an estimated timeline for implementation of the       recommendation;

(iv) the estimated cost of the implementation;

(v) legislative proposals for such implementation, as       appropriate; and

(vi) any other information the Commandant considers       appropriate; or

(B) in the case of such a recommendation that the       Commandant is unable to implement, an explanation of the       reason the recommendation cannot be implemented.

(c) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter through       2028, the Commandant shall provide the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee       on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives with a briefing on the status of the       implementation of this section and any modification to the       strategy and plan submitted under subsection (b).       SEC. 515. POLICY RELATING TO CARE AND SUPPORT OF VICTIMS OF                     COVERED MISCONDUCT.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall issue Coast Guard       policy relating to the care and support of members of the       Coast Guard who are alleged victims covered misconduct.

(b) Elements.--The policy required by subsection (a) shall       require, to the maximum extent practicable, that--

(1) a member of the Coast Guard who is an alleged victim of       covered misconduct and discloses such covered misconduct to       the appropriate individual of the Coast Guard responsible for       providing victim care and support--

(A) shall receive care and support from such individual;       and

(B) such individual shall not deny or unreasonably delay       providing care and support; and

(2) in the case of such an alleged victim to whom care and       support cannot be provided by the appropriate individual       contacted by the alleged victim based on programmatic       eligibility criteria or any other reason that affects the       ability of such appropriate individual to provide care and       support (such as being stationed at a remote unit or serving       on a vessel currently underway) the alleged victim shall       receive, with the permission of the alleged victim--

(A) an in-person introduction to appropriate service       providers, for which the alleged victim is physically       present, which shall occur at the discretion of the alleged       victim; and

(B) access to follow-up services from the appropriate 1 or       more service providers.

(c) Applicability.--The policy issued under subsection (a)       shall apply to--

(1) all Coast Guard personnel responsible for the care and       support of victims of covered misconduct; and

(2) any other Coast Guard personnel the Commandant       considers appropriate.

(d) Revision of Policy Relating to Domestic Abuse.--Not       later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act,       the Commandant shall issue or revise any Coast       Guard policy or process relating to domestic abuse so as to       define the term ``intimate partner'' to have the meaning       given such term in section 930 of title 10, United States       Code.

(e) Training.--

(1) In general.--All Coast Guard personnel responsible for       the care and support of members of the Coast Guard who are       alleged victims of covered misconduct shall receive training       in accordance with professional standards of practice to       ensure that such alleged victims receive adequate care that       is consistent with the policy issued under subsection (a).

(2) Elements.--The training required by paragraph (1)--

(A) shall include--

(i) instructions on specific procedures for implementing       the policy issued under subsection (a); and

(ii) information on resources and personnel critical for       the implementation of such policy; and

(B) to the maximum extent practicable, shall be provided in       person.

(f) Covered Misconduct.--In this section, the term       ``covered misconduct'' shall have the meaning given such term       in section 2519 of title 14, United States Code (as added by       this Act).       SEC. 516. ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL VICTIM CAPABILITIES TO                     RESPOND TO ALLEGATIONS OF CERTAIN SPECIAL                     VICTIM OFFENSES.

(a) In General.--Section 573 of the National Defense       Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (10 U.S.C. 1561 note)       is amended--

(1) in subsection (a)--

(A) by inserting ``or the Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating when not operating as a       service in the Navy'' after ``Secretary of Defense''; and

(B) by striking ``Secretary of each military department''       and inserting ``Secretary concerned'';

(2) in subsection (b) by striking ``or Air Force Office of       Special Investigations'' and inserting ``, Air Force Office       of Special Investigations, or Coast Guard Investigative       Services'';

(3) in subsection (c) by inserting ``or the Secretary of       the department in which the Coast Guard is operating when not       operating as a service in the Navy'' after ``Secretary of       Defense'';

(4) in subsection (d)--

(A) in paragraph (1)--

(i) by inserting ``or the Commandant of the Coast Guard''       after ``Secretary of a military department''; and

(ii) by inserting ``or the Coast Guard'' after ``within the       military department'';

(B) in paragraph (2) by inserting ``or the Coast Guard''       after ``within a military department''; and

(5) by adding at the end the following:

``(h) Time for Establishment for Coast Guard.--Not later       than 120 days after the date of enactment of the Coast Guard       Authorization Act of 2025, the Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating, the Secretary shall       submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives a report containing all the items described       in subsections (e) and (f) as applied to the Coast Guard.''.

(b) Briefing.--Not later than 270 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall provide the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives with a briefing on the       Commandant's assessment and implementation, as appropriate,       of the recommendations included in the Center for Naval       Analyses report titled ``Assessing the USCG's Special       Victims' Counsel Program'', issued in June 2024, including--

(1) the implementation status of each adopted       recommendation, as appropriate;

(2) for each adopted recommendation, a description of       actions taken to implement such recommendation;

(3) in the case of an adopted recommendation that has not       been fully implemented--

(A) a description of actions taken or planned to address       such recommendation;

(B) an estimated completion date; and

(C) a description of the milestones necessary to complete       the recommendation;

(4) a description of any recommendation that will not be       adopted and an explanation of the reason the recommendation       will not be adopted;

(5) a description of the metrics and milestones used to       ensure completion and effectiveness of each adopted       recommendation;

(6) a description of any additional actions the Commandant       is taking to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the       Special Victims' Counsel program of the Coast Guard;

(7) any legislative change proposal necessary to implement       the adopted recommendations; and

(8) an overview of any funding or resource necessary to       implement each adopted recommendation in a timely and       effective manner, including a list of personnel needed for       such implementation.       SEC. 517. MEMBERS ASSERTING POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER,                     SEXUAL ASSAULT, OR TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY.

Section 2516 of title 14, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (a)--

(A) in paragraph (1)--

(i) by striking ``or has been sexually assaulted during the       preceding 2-year period''; and

(ii) by striking ``or based on such sexual assault, the       influence of'' and inserting ``the signs and symptoms of       either'';

(B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as       paragraphs (3) through (5), respectively;

(C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:

``(2) Mental, behavioral, or emotional disorder.--A member       of the Coast Guard who has been sexually assaulted during the       preceding 5-year period and who alleges, based on such sexual       assault, the signs and symptoms of a diagnosable mental,       behavioral, or emotional disorder described within the most       recent edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of       Mental Disorders published by the American Psychiatric       Association--

``(A) is provided the opportunity to request a medical       examination to clinically evaluate such signs and symptoms;       and

``(B) receives such a medical examination to evaluate a       diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain       injury, or diagnosable mental, behavioral, or emotional       disorder described within the most recent edition of the       Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders       published by the American Psychiatric Association.'';

(D) in paragraph (3) by striking ``paragraph (1)'' and       inserting ``this subsection''; and

(E) in paragraph (4), as so redesignated--

(i) by inserting ``or a diagnosable mental, behavioral, or       emotional disorder'' before ``under this subsection'';

(ii) by inserting ``performed by'' after ``shall be''; and

(iii) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) and inserting       the following:

``(A) a board-certified psychiatrist;

``(B) a licensed doctorate-level psychologist;

``(C) any other appropriate licensed or certified       healthcare professional designated by the Commandant; or

``(D) a psychiatry resident or board-eligible psychologist       who--

``(i) has completed a 1-year internship or residency; and

``(ii) is under the close supervision of a board-certified       psychiatrist or licensed doctorate-level psychologist.'';

(2) in subsection (b) by inserting ``or a diagnosable       mental, behavioral, or emotional disorder'' after ``traumatic       brain injury''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(e) Notification of Right to Request Medical       Examination.--

``(1) In general.--Any member of the Coast Guard who       receives a notice of involuntary administrative separation       shall be advised at the time of such notice of the right of       the member to request a medical examination under subsection       (a) if any condition described in such subsection applies to       the member.

``(2) Policy.--The Commandant shall--

``(A) develop and issue a clear policy for carrying out the       notification required under paragraph (1) with respect to any       member of the Coast Guard described in that paragraph who has       made an unrestricted report of sexual assault; and

``(B) provide information on such policy to sexual assault       response coordinators of the Coast Guard for the purpose of       ensuring that such policy is communicated to members of the       Coast Guard who may be eligible for a medical examination       under this section.''.       SEC. 518. PARTICIPATION IN CATCH A SERIAL OFFENDER PROGRAM.

(a) In General.--The Secretary of the department in which       the Coast Guard is operating when not operating as a service       in the Navy, acting through the Commandant, shall ensure the       participation of the Coast Guard in the Catch a Serial       Offender program (referred to in this section as the ``CATCH       program'') of the Department of Defense established in       accordance with section 543 of the Carl Levin and Howard P.       ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal       Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291).

(b) Memorandum of Understanding.--Not later than 60 days       after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the       department in which the Coast Guard is operating and the       Secretary of Defense shall finalize a memorandum of agreement       to facilitate Coast Guard access to and participation in the       CATCH program.       SEC. 519. ACCOUNTABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY RELATING TO                     ALLEGATIONS OF MISCONDUCT AGAINST SENIOR                     LEADERS.

(a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 25 of title 14,       United States Code, is amended by redesignating section 2521       as section 2531.

(b) Accountability and Transparency Relating to Allegations       of Misconduct Against Senior Leaders.--Subchapter I of       chapter 25 of title 14, United States Code, is further       amended by adding at the end the following:       ``Sec. 2521. Accountability and transparency relating to

allegations of misconduct against senior leaders

``(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025, the       Secretary shall establish a policy to improve oversight,       investigations, accountability, and public transparency       regarding alleged misconduct of senior leaders of the Coast       Guard.

``(b) Elements.--The policy required by subsection (a)--

``(1) shall require that--

``(A) any allegation of alleged misconduct made against a       senior leader of the Coast Guard shall be reported to the       Office of the Inspector General of the department in which       the Coast Guard is operating not later than 72 hours after       the allegation is reported to the Coast Guard or the       department in which the Coast Guard is operating; and

``(B) the Inspector General of the department in which the       Coast Guard is operating shall notify the head of the Coast       Guard office in which the senior leader is serving with       respect to the receipt of such allegation, or, in a case       where the senior leader is the head of such Coast Guard       office, the next in the chain of command, as appropriate,       except in a case in which the Inspector General determines       that such notification would risk impairing an ongoing       investigation, would unnecessarily compromise the anonymity       of the individual making the allegation, or would otherwise       be inappropriate; and

``(2) to the extent practicable, shall be consistent with       Department of Defense directives, including Department of       Defense Directive 5505.06.

``(c) First Right to Exclusive Investigation.--The       Inspector General of the department in which the Coast Guard       is operating--

``(1) shall have the first right to investigate an       allegation described in subsection (b)(1)(A); and

``(2) in cases with concurrent jurisdiction involving an       allegation described in subsection (b)(1)(A), may investigate       such an allegation to the exclusion of any other Coast Guard       criminal or administrative investigation if the Inspector       General determines that an exclusive investigation is       necessary to maintain the integrity of the investigation.

``(d) Public Availability and Broad Dissemination.--The       policy established under subsection (a) shall be made       available to the public and incorporated into training and       curricula across the Coast Guard at all levels to ensure       broad understanding of the policy among members and personnel       of the Coast Guard.

``(e) Definitions.--In this section:

``(1) Alleged misconduct.--The term `alleged misconduct'--

``(A) means a credible allegation that, if proven, would       constitute a violation of--

``(i) a provision of criminal law, including the Uniform       Code of Military Justice (chapter 47 of title 10); or

``(ii) a recognized standard, such as the Department of       Defense Joint Ethics Regulation or other Federal regulation,       including any other Department of Defense regulation and any       Department of Homeland Security regulation; or

``(B) could reasonably be expected to be of significance to       the Secretary or the Inspector General of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating, particularly in a case in       which there is an element of misuse of position or of       unauthorized personal benefit to the senior official, a       family member, or an associate.

``(2) Senior leader of the coast guard.--The term `senior       leader of the Coast Guard' means--

``(A) an active duty, retired, or reserve officer of the       Coast Guard in the grade of O-7 or higher;

``(B) an officer of the Coast Guard selected for promotion       to the grade of O-7;

``(C) a current or former civilian member of the Senior       Executive Service employed by the Coast Guard; or

``(D) any civilian member of the Coast Guard whose position       is deemed equivalent to that of a member of the Senior       Executive Service, as determined by the Office of the       Inspector General of the department in which the Coast Guard       is operating, in concurrence with the Secretary acting       through the Commandant.''.

(c) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 25 of       title 14, United States Code, is further amended--

(1) by striking the item relating to section 2521 and       inserting the following:  ``2531. Advisory Board on Women in the Coast Guard.''; and

(2) by inserting after the item relating to section 2520       (as added by this Act) the following:  ``2521. Accountability and transparency relating to allegations of                misconduct against senior leaders.''.       SEC. 520. CONFIDENTIAL REPORTING OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.

Section 1561b of title 10, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (a)--

(A) by inserting ``and the Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating when not operating as a       service in the Navy'' after ``Secretary of Defense''; and

(B) by inserting ``or the Commandant'' after ``Secretary of       a military department'';

(2) in subsection (c)--

(A) by inserting ``or the Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating when not operating as a       service in the Navy'' after ``Secretary of Defense''; and

(B) in paragraph (1) by inserting ``departments or the       Commandant'' after ``Secretaries of the military''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(e) Reports for the Coast Guard.--

``(1) In general.--Not later than April 30, 2025, and April       30 every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary of the department       in which the Coast Guard is operating shall submit to the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives a report containing data on       the complaints of sexual harassment alleged pursuant to the       process under subsection (a) during the previous 2 calendar       years.

``(2) Personally identifiable information.--Any data on       complaints described in paragraph (1) shall not contain any       personally identifiable information.''.       SEC. 521. REPORT ON POLICY ON WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS.

(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the       Committees on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and       Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and       the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the       House of Representatives a report on the policy of the Coast       Guard on whistleblower protections.

(b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall       include the following:

(1) A discussion of the policy of the Coast Guard as of the       date of enactment of this Act with respect to--

(A) whistleblower protections;

(B) accountability measures for reprisal against       whistleblowers;

(C) the applicable professional standards and potential       types of support provided to whistleblowers by members of the       Coast Guard personnel, such as the members in the Coast Guard       Investigative Service; and

(D) the content and frequency of training provided to       members of the Coast Guard on active duty, members of the       Coast Guard Reserve, and civilian personnel of the Coast       Guard with respect to the applicable professional standards       and potential types of support offered to whistleblowers.

(2) A description of the responsibilities of commanders and       equivalent civilian supervisors with respect to whistleblower       complaints and measures used by the Coast Guard to ensure       compliance with such responsibilities, such as--

(A) the mechanisms to ensure that--

(i) any such commander complies with section 1034 of title       10, United States Code, including subsection (a)(1) of that       section;

(ii) any such equivalent civilian supervisor complies with       section 2302 of title 5, United States Code; and

(iii) any such commander or supervisor protects the       constitutional right of whistleblowers to speak with Members       of Congress;

(B) actions to be taken against any a commander or       equivalent civilian supervisor who fails to act on a       whistleblower complaint or improperly interferes with a       whistleblower after a complaint is filed or during the       preparation of a complaint;

(C) the role of Coast Guard attorneys in ensuring that such       commanders comply with responsibilities under section 1034 of       title 10, United States Code; and

(D) the role of Coast Guard civilian attorneys and       administrative law judges in ensuring that such civilian       supervisors comply with responsibilities under section 2302       of title 5, United States Code.

(3) A discussion of the availability of Coast Guard staff,       including civilian staff, assigned to providing, in       accordance with professional standards or practice,       behavioral health care to whistleblowers, including--

(A) the number and type of such staff;

(B) a description of the specific care responsibilities of       such staff;

(C) an identification of any limitation existing as of the       date of enactment of this Act to the provision of such care;

(D) a description of any plan to increase capacity of such       staff to provide such care, as applicable; and

(E) a description of any additional resources necessary to       provide such care.

(4) An assessment of the manner in which the policies       discussed in paragraph (1), the responsibilities of       commanders and civilian supervisors described in paragraph       (2), and the availability of Coast Guard staff as discussed       in paragraph (3) apply specifically to cadets and leadership       at the Coast Guard Academy.

(5) Recommendations (including, as appropriate, proposed       legislative changes and a plan to publish in the Federal       Register not later than 180 days after the date of enactment       of this Act a request for information seeking public comment       and recommendations) of the Commandant regarding manners in       which Coast Guard policies and procedures may be       strengthened--

(A) to prevent whistleblower discrimination and harassment;

(B) to better enforce prohibitions on retaliation,       including reprisal, restriction, ostracism, and maltreatment,       set forth in section 1034 of title 10, United States Code,       and section 2302 of title 5, United States Code; and

(C) to hold commanding officers and civilian supervisors       accountable for enforcing and complying with prohibitions on       any form of retaliation described in such section.       SEC. 522. REVIEW AND MODIFICATION OF COAST GUARD ACADEMY                     POLICY ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT AND SEXUAL                     VIOLENCE.

(a) In General.--The Superintendent of the Coast Guard       Academy (referred to in this section as the       ``Superintendent'') shall--

(1) not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of       this Act, commence a review of the Coast Guard Academy policy       on sexual harassment and sexual violence established in       accordance with section 1902 of title 14, United States Code,       that includes an evaluation as to whether any long-standing       Coast Guard Academy tradition, system, process,       or internal policy impedes the implementation of necessary       evidence-informed best practices followed by other military       service academies in prevention, response, and recovery       relating to sexual harassment and sexual violence; and

(2) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of       this Act--

(A) complete such review; and

(B) modify such policy in accordance with subsection (b).

(b) Modifications to Policy.--In modifying the Coast Guard       Academy policy on sexual harassment and sexual violence       referred to in subsection (a), the Superintendent shall       ensure that such policy includes the following:

(1) Each matter required to be specified by section 1902(b)       of title 14, United States Code.

(2) Updates to achieve compliance with chapter 47 of title       10, United States Code (Uniform Code of Military Justice).

(3) A description of the roles and responsibilities of       staff of the Coast Guard Academy Sexual Assault Prevention,       Response, and Recovery program, including--

(A) the Sexual Assault Response Coordinator;

(B) the Victim Advocate Program Specialist;

(C) the Volunteer Victim Advocate; and

(D) the Primary Prevention Specialist, as established under       subsection (c).

(4) A description of the role of the Coast Guard       Investigative Service with respect to sexual harassment and       sexual violence prevention, response, and recovery at the       Coast Guard Academy.

(5) A description of the role of support staff at the Coast       Guard Academy, including chaplains, with respect to sexual       harassment and sexual violence prevention, response, and       recovery.

(6) Measures to promote awareness of dating violence.

(7) A delineation of the relationship between--

(A) cadet advocacy groups organized for the prevention of,       response to, and recovery from sexual harassment and sexual       violence, including Cadets Against Sexual Assault; and

(B) the staff of the Coast Guard Academy Sexual Assault       Prevention, Response, and Recovery program.

(8) A provision that requires cadets and Coast Guard       Academy personnel to participate in not fewer than one in-      person training each academic year on the prevention of,       responses to, and resources relating to incidents of sexual       harassment and sexual violence, to be provided by the staff       of the Coast Guard Academy Sexual Assault Prevention,       Response, and Recovery program.

(9) The establishment, revision, or expansion, as       necessary, of an anti-retaliation Superintendent's       Instruction for cadets who--

(A) report incidents of sexual harassment or sexual       violence;

(B) participate in cadet advocacy groups that advocate for       the prevention of, response to, and recovery from sexual       harassment and sexual violence; or

(C) seek assistance from a company officer, company senior       enlisted leader, athletic coach, or other Coast Guard Academy       staff member with respect to a mental health or other medical       emergency.

(10) A provision that explains the purpose of and process       for issuance of a no-contact order at the Coast Guard       Academy, including a description of the manner in which such       an order shall be enforced.

(11) A provision that explains the purpose of and process       for issuance of a military protective order at the Coast       Guard Academy, including a description of--

(A) the manner in which such an order shall be enforced;       and

(B) the associated requirement to notify the National       Criminal Information Center of the issuance of such an order.

(c) Primary Prevention Specialist.--Not later than 180 days       after the date of enactment of this Act, the Superintendent       shall hire a Primary Prevention Specialist, to be located and       serve at the Coast Guard Academy.

(d) Temporary Leave of Absence To Receive Medical Services       and Mental Health and Related Support Services.--The       Superintendent shall ensure that the Academy's policy       regarding a cadet who has made a restricted or unrestricted       report of sexual harassment to request a leave of absence       from the Coast Guard Academy is consistent with other       military service academies.

(e) Board of Visitors.--The Board of Visitors of the Coast       Guard Academy shall reguarly review--

(1) the implementation of this section; and

(2) the state of morale and discipline at the Coast Guard       Academy, including with respect to prevention of, response       to, and recovery from sexual assault and sexual harassment.       SEC. 523. COAST GUARD AND COAST GUARD ACADEMY ACCESS TO                     DEFENSE SEXUAL ASSAULT INCIDENT DATABASE.

(a) Memorandum of Understanding.--Not later than 180 days       after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant, in       consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall enter into       a memorandum of understanding to enable the criminal offender       case management and analytics database of the Coast Guard to       have system interface access with the Defense Sexual Assault       Incident Database (referred to in this section as the       ``Database'') established by section 563 of the Duncan Hunter       National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (10       U.S.C. 1561 note).

(b) Plan.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after entering into       the memorandum of understanding required under subsection       (a), the Commandant, in consultation with the Secretary of       Defense, shall submit to the appropriate committees of       Congress a plan to carry out the terms of such memorandum.

(2) Elements.--The plan required under paragraph (1) shall       include the following:

(A) Measures to ensure that authorized staff of the Coast       Guard have system interface access to the Database, and a       description of any barrier to such access.

(B) Measures to ensure that authorized staff of the Coast       Guard Academy have system interface access to the Database,       and a description of any barrier to such access that is       unique to the Coast Guard Academy.

(C) Measures to facilitate formal or informal communication       between the Coast Guard and the Sexual Assault Prevention and       Response Office of the Department of Defense, or any other       relevant Department of Defense component, to identify or seek       a resolution to barriers to Database access.

(D) A description of the steps, measures, and improvements       necessary to remove any barrier encountered by staff of the       Coast Guard or the Coast Guard Academy in accessing the       Database, including any failure of system interface access       necessitating manual entry of investigative data.

(E) An assessment of the technical challenges, timeframes,       and costs associated with providing authorized staff of the       Coast Guard and the Coast Guard Academy with system interface       access for the Database that is substantially similar to such       system interface access possessed by other branches of the       Armed Forces.

(3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this       subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress''       means--

(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation       and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and       the Committee on Armed Services of the House of       Representatives.       SEC. 524. DIRECTOR OF COAST GUARD INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE.

(a) In General.--Chapter 3 of title 14, United States Code,       is further amended by adding at the end the following:       ``Sec. 327. Director of Coast Guard Investigative Service

``(a) In General.--There shall be a Director of the Coast       Guard Investigative Service.

``(b) Chain of Command.--The Director of the Coast Guard       Investigative Service shall report directly to and be under       the general supervision of the Commandant, acting through the       Vice Commandant of the Coast Guard.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for Chapter 3 of       title 14, United States Code, is further amended by inserting       after the item relating to section 326 the following:  ``327. Director of Coast Guard Investigative Service.''.       SEC. 525. MODIFICATIONS AND REVISIONS RELATING TO REOPENING                     RETIRED GRADE DETERMINATIONS.

(a) In General.--Section 2501(d)(2) of title 14, United       States Code, is amended--

(1) in subparagraph (B) by inserting ``a'' before       ``competent authority'';

(2) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) through (E) as       subparagraphs (F) through (H), respectively; and

(3) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:

``(C) substantial evidence comes to light that, during the       commissioned service of the officer, the officer failed to       carry out applicable laws, with an intent to deceive or       defraud;

``(D) substantial evidence comes to light after the       retirement that the officer committed rape or sexual assault,       as described in sections 920(a) and 920(b) of title 10       (articles 120(a) and 120(b) of the Uniform Code of Military       Justice) at any time during the commissioned service of the       officer;

``(E) substantial evidence comes to light after the       retirement that the commissioned officer knew of and failed       to report through proper channels, in accordance with       existing law at the time of the alleged incident, any known       instances of sexual assault by a member of the Coast Guard       under the command of the officer during the officer's       service;''.

(b) Issuance and Revision of Regulations Relating to Good       Cause to Reopen Retired Grade Determinations.--Not later than       180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the       Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is       operating shall issue or revise, as applicable, and at the       discretion of the Secretary consistent with this section,       regulations of the Coast Guard to do the following:

(1) Define what constitutes good cause to reopen a retired       grade determination referred to in subparagraph (H) of       section 2501(d)(2) of title 14, United States Code, as       redesignated by subsection (a), to ensure that the following       shall be considered good cause for such a reopening:

(A) Circumstances that constitute a failure to carry out       applicable laws regarding a report of sexual assault with an       intent to deceive by a commissioned officer, that relate to a       response made to a report of sexual assault, during the       commissioned service of the officer.

(B) Substantial evidence of sexual assault by the       commissioned officer concerned, at       any time during the commissioned service of such officer, or       such evidence that was not considered by the Coast Guard in a       manner consistent with law.

(2) Identify the standard for making, and the evidentiary       showing required to support, an adverse determination on the       retired grade of a commissioned officer.

(c) Revision of Limitations on Reopening Retired Grade       Determinations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating shall revise applicable       guidance in section K.10 of chapter 3 of Commandant       Instruction 1000.4A to remove any restriction that limits the       ability to reopen the retired grade of a commissioned officer       based on--

(1) whether new evidence is discovered contemporaneously       with or within a short time period after the date of       retirement of the officer concerned; and

(2) whether the misconduct concerned was not discoverable       through due diligence.

(d) Savings Clause.--No provision of this section or the       amendments made by this section shall be construed to permit       a review of conduct that was not in violation of law or       policy at the time of the alleged conduct.       SEC. 526. INCLUSION AND COMMAND REVIEW OF INFORMATION ON                     COVERED MISCONDUCT IN PERSONNEL SERVICE                     RECORDS.

(a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 25 of title 14,       United States Code, is further amended by adding at the end       the following:       ``Sec. 2522. Inclusion and command review of information on

covered misconduct in personnel service records

``(a) Information on Reports on Covered Misconduct.--

``(1) In general.--If a complaint of covered misconduct is       made against a member of the Coast Guard and the member is       convicted by court-martial or receives nonjudicial punishment       or punitive administrative action for such covered       misconduct, a notation to that effect shall be placed in the       personnel service record of the member, regardless of the       grade of the member.

``(2) Purpose.--The purpose of the inclusion of information       in personnel service records under paragraph (1) is to alert       supervisors and commanders to any member of their command who       has received a court-martial conviction, nonjudicial       punishment, or punitive administrative action for covered       misconduct in order--

``(A) to reduce the likelihood that repeat offenses will       escape the notice of supervisors and commanders; and

``(B) to help inform commissioning or promotability of the       member;

``(3) Limitation on placement.--A notation under paragraph       (1) may not be placed in the restricted section of the       personnel service record of a member.

``(4) Construction.--Nothing in this subsection may be       construed to prohibit or limit the capacity of a member of       the Coast Guard to challenge or appeal the placement of a       notation, or location of placement of a notation, in the       personnel service record of the member in accordance with       procedures otherwise applicable to such challenges or       appeals.

``(b) Command Review of History of Covered Misconduct.--

``(1) In general.--Under policy to be prescribed by the       Secretary, the commanding officer of a unit or facility to       which a covered member is assigned or transferred shall       review the history of covered misconduct as documented in the       personnel service record of a covered member in order to       become familiar with such history of the covered member.

``(2) Covered member defined.--In this subsection, the term       `covered member' means a member of the Coast Guard who, at       the time of assignment or transfer as described in paragraph       (1), has a history of 1 or more covered misconduct offenses       as documented in the personnel service record of such member       or such other records or files as the Commandant shall       specify in the policy prescribed under subparagraph (A).

``(c) Review of Personnel Service Record to Determine       Suitability for Civilian Employment.--Under policy to be       prescribed by the Secretary, the Commandant shall establish       procedures that are consistent with the law, policies, and       practices of the Department of Defense in effect on the date       of enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025 to       consider and review the personnel service record of a former       member of the Armed Forces to determine the suitability of       the individual for civilian employment in the Coast Guard.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 25 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by inserting after       the item relating to section 2521 (as added by this Act) the       following:  ``2522. Inclusion and command review of information on covered                misconduct in personnel service records.''.       SEC. 527. FLAG OFFICER REVIEW OF, AND CONCURRENCE IN,                     SEPARATION OF MEMBERS WHO HAVE REPORTED SEXUAL                     MISCONDUCT.

(a) Policy to Require Review of Certain Proposed       Involuntary Separations.--Not later than 120 days after the       date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall       establish, with respect to any proposed involuntary       separation under chapter 59 of title 10, United States Code,       a Coast Guard policy to review the circumstances of, and       grounds for, such a proposed involuntary separation of any       member of the Coast Guard who--

(1) made a restricted or unrestricted report of covered       misconduct (as such term is defined in section 2519 of title       14, United States Code);

(2) within 2 years after making such a report, is       recommended for involuntary separation from the Coast Guard;       and

(3) requests the review on the grounds that the member       believes the recommendation for involuntary separation from       the Coast Guard was initiated in retaliation for making the       report.

(b) Recusal.--

(1) In general.--The policy established under subsection       (a) shall set forth a process for the recusal of commanding       officers and the flag officer described in subsection (c)(2)       from making initial or subsequent decisions on proposed       separations or from reviewing proposed separations.

(2) Criteria.--The recusal process established under       paragraph (1) shall specify criteria for recusal, including       mandatory recusal from making a decision on a proposed       separation, and from reviewing a proposed separation, if the       commanding officer or the flag officer described in       subsection (c)(2) was, at any time--

(A) the subject of a complaint of any form of assault,       harassment, or retaliation, filed by the member of the Coast       Guard described in subsection (a) who is the subject of a       proposed involuntary separation or whose proposed separation       is under review; or

(B) associated with the individual suspected or accused of       perpetrating the incident of covered misconduct reported by       such member.

(c) Concurrence of Flag Officer Required.--

(1) In general.--The policy established under subsection       (a) shall require the concurrence of the flag officer       described in paragraph (2) in order to separate the member of       the Coast Guard described in such subsection.

(2) Flag officer described.--

(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B),       the flag officer described in this paragraph is--

(i) the Commandant; or

(ii) a designee of the Commandant who is in a grade not       lower than O-7.

(B) Chain of command exception.--In the case of a member of       the Coast Guard described in subsection (a) who is in the       immediate chain of command of the Commandant or the designee       of the Commandant that oversees personnel policy, the flag       officer described in this paragraph is a flag officer outside       the chain of command of such member, as determined by the       Commandant consistent with the policy established under       subsection (a).

(d) Notification Required.--Any member of the Coast Guard       who has made a report of covered misconduct and who receives       a proposal for involuntary separation shall be notified at       the time of such proposal of the right of the member to a       review under this section.       SEC. 528. EXPEDITED TRANSFER IN CASES OF SEXUAL MISCONDUCT OR                     DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.

(a) Expedited Transfer Policy Update.--Not later than 180       days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant       shall update Coast Guard policy as necessary to implement--

(1) an expedited transfer process for covered individuals       consistent with--

(A) Department of Defense policy on expedited transfers of       victims of sexual assault or domestic violence in place on       the date of enactment of this Act; and

(B) subsection (b); and

(2) a process by which--

(A) a covered individual, the commanding officer of a       covered individual, or any other Coast Guard official may       initiate a request that a subject be administratively       assigned to another unit in accordance with military       assignments and authorized absence policy for the duration of       the investigation and, if applicable, prosecution of such       subject;

(B) the Coast Guard shall ensure that any administrative       assignment action in response to a request under subparagraph       (A) will be taken not as a punitive measure, but solely for       the purpose of maintaining good order and discipline within       the unit of the covered individual or the subject; and

(C) protection of due process for the subject is preserved.

(b) Recusal.--The expedited transfer process implemented       under this section shall require the recusal of any official       involved in the approval or denial of an expedited transfer       request if the official was, at any time--

(1) the subject of a complaint of any form of assault,       harassment, or retaliation, or any other type of complaint,       filed by the covered individual; or

(2) associated, beyond workplace interactions, with the       subject in a manner that may present an actual or apparent       conflict of interest.

(c) Notification Requirement.--With respect to a member of       the Coast Guard who makes an unrestricted report of sexual       assault or a report of domestic violence, the updated policy       required under subsection (a) shall specify the appropriate       officials of the Coast Guard who shall provide such member       with information regarding expedited transfer authority.

(d) Report.--

(1) Initial report.--Not later than March 1 of the year       that is not less than 1 year after the date on which the       updates required under       subsection (a) are completed, the Commandant shall submit to       the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives, as an enclosure or appendix       to the report required by section 5112 of title 14, United       States Code, a report on such updates that includes--

(A) a copy of the updated policies of the Coast Guard       relating to expedited transfers;

(B) a summary of such updated policies;

(C) for the preceding year, the number of covered       individuals who have requested an expedited transfer,       disaggregated by gender of the requester and whether the       request was granted or denied;

(D) for each denial of an expedited transfer request during       the preceding year, a description of the rationale for the       denial; and

(E) any other matter the Commandant considers appropriate.

(2) Subsequent reports.--Not later than 1 year after the       Commandant submits the report required under paragraph (1),       and annually thereafter for 3 years, the Commandant shall       submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives, as an enclosure or appendix to the report       required by section 5112 of title 14, United States Code, a       report on the updates required under subsection (a) that       includes--

(A) any policies of the Coast Guard relating to expedited       transfers that have been updated since the previous report       submitted under this subsection;

(B) a summary of any such updated policies; and

(C) the information described under subparagraphs (C)       through (E) of paragraph (1).

(e) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Covered individual.--The term ``covered individual''       means--

(A) a member of the Coast Guard who is a victim of sexual       assault in a case handled under the Sexual Assault       Prevention, Response, and Recovery Program or the Family       Advocacy Program;

(B) a member of the Coast Guard who is a victim of domestic       violence (as defined by the Secretary of the department in       which the Coast Guard is operating in the policies prescribed       under this section) committed by the spouse or intimate       partner of the member, regardless of whether the spouse or       intimate partner is a member of the Coast Guard; and

(C) a member of the Coast Guard whose dependent is a victim       of sexual assault or domestic violence.

(2) Subject.--The term ``subject'' means a member of the       Coast Guard who is the subject of an investigation related to       alleged incidents of sexual assault or domestic violence and       is stationed at the same installation as, or in close       proximity to, the covered individual involved.       SEC. 529. ACCESS TO TEMPORARY SEPARATION PROGRAM FOR VICTIMS                     OF ALLEGED SEX-RELATED OFFENSES.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall update the Coast       Guard policy relating to temporary separation of members of       the Coast Guard who are victims of alleged sex-related       offenses as required under subsection (b).

(b) Eligibility.--The updated policy required under       subsection (a) shall include--

(1) a provision that allows a member of the Coast Guard to       request to participate in the temporary separation program if       the member has reported, in an unrestricted format or to the       greatest extent practicable, a restricted format, being the       victim of an alleged sex-related offense on a date that is       during--

(A) the 5-year period preceding the requested date of       separation; and

(B) the military service of the member;

(2) a provision that provides eligibility for a member of       the Coast Guard to request temporary separation if the member       has reported being the victim of an alleged sex-related       offense, even if--

(A) the member has had a previous temporary separation       including a previous temporary separation as the victim of a       previous unrelated alleged sex-related offense; or

(B) the enlistment period of the member is not nearing       expiration or the tour or contract of the member is not       nearing completion;

(3) an updated standard of review consistent with the       application of, and purposes of, this section; and

(4) the establishment of a process--

(A) for eligible members to make requests for temporary       separation under this section; and

(B) that allows the Commandant to consider whether to allow       a member granted temporary separation under this section to       fulfill the enlistment period or tour or contract obligation       of the member after the end of the temporary separation       period.

(c) Exception From Repayment of Bonuses, Incentive Pay, or       Similar Benefits and Termination of Remaining Payments.--For       any temporary separation granted under the updated policy       required under subsection (a), the Secretary concerned may       conduct a review to determine whether to exercise discretion       in accordance with section 373(b)(1) of title 37, United       States Code.

(d) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned''       has the meaning given such term in section 101 of title 37,       United States Code.

(2) Sex-related offense.--The term ``sex-related offense''       has the meaning given such term in section 1044e(h) of title       10, United States Code.       SEC. 530. POLICY AND PROGRAM TO EXPAND PREVENTION OF SEXUAL                     MISCONDUCT.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall develop and issue       a comprehensive policy for the Coast Guard to reinvigorate       the prevention of misconduct involving members and civilians       of the Coast Guard that contains the policy elements       described in section 1561 of title 10, United States Code.

(b) Programs Required.--Not later than 180 days after the       issuance of the policy required under paragraph (1), the       Commandant shall develop and implement for the Coast Guard a       program to reinvigorate the prevention of misconduct       involving members and civilians of the Coast Guard.       SEC. 531. CONTINUOUS VETTING OF SECURITY CLEARANCES.

Section 1564(c) of title 10, United States Code, is       amended--

(1) in paragraph (1)--

(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) by inserting       ``, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall conduct an       investigation or adjudication under subsection (a) of any       individual described in paragraph (3),'' after ``paragraph       (2)''; and

(B) in subparagraph (A)(iv) by striking ``the Secretary''       and inserting ``the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of       Homeland Security, as the case may be,'';

(2) in paragraph (2) by inserting ``(other than an       individual described in paragraph (3))'' after ``is an       individual'';

(3) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs       (4) and (5), respectively;

(4) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new       paragraph:

``(3) An individual described in this paragraph is an       individual who has a security clearance and is--

``(A) a flag officer of the Coast Guard; or

``(B) an employee of the Coast Guard in the Senior       Executive Service.''; and

(5) in paragraph (4), as redesignated by paragraph (3), by       striking ``Secretary'' and all that follows through       ``paragraph (2)'' and inserting the following: ``Secretary of       Defense, in the case of an individual described in paragraph       (2), and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in the case of       an individual described in paragraph (3), shall ensure that       relevant information on the conviction or determination       described in paragraph (1) of such an individual''.       SEC. 532. TRAINING AND EDUCATION PROGRAMS FOR COVERED                     MISCONDUCT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE.

(a) Modification of Curriculum.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall revise the       curriculum of the Coast Guard with respect to covered       misconduct prevention and response training--

(A) to include--

(i) information on procedures and responsibilities with       respect to reporting requirements, investigations, survivor       health and safety (including expedited transfers, no-contact       orders, military and civilian protective orders, and       temporary separations), and whistleblower protections;

(ii) information on Department of Veterans Affairs       resources available to veterans, active-duty personnel, and       reserve personnel;

(iii) information on the right of any member of the Coast       Guard to seek legal resources outside the Coast Guard;

(iv) general information regarding the availability of       legal resources provided by civilian legal services       organizations, presented in an organized and consistent       manner that does not endorse any particular legal services       organization; and

(v) information on the capability, operations, reporting       structure, and requirements with respect to the Chief       Prosecutor of the Coast Guard; and

(B) to address the workforce training recommendations set       forth in the memorandum of the Coast Guard titled       ``Commandant's Directed Actions--Accountability and       Transparency'', issued on November 27, 2023.

(2) Collaboration.--In revising the curriculum under this       subsection, the Commandant shall solicit input from       individuals outside the Coast Guard who are experts in sexual       assault and sexual harassment prevention and response       training.

(b) Covered Misconduct Prevention and Response Training and       Education.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall ensure that all       members and civilian employees of the Coast Guard are       provided with annual covered misconduct prevention and       response training and education for the purpose of       strengthening individual knowledge, skills, and capacity       relating to the prevention of and response to covered       misconduct.

(2) Scope.--The training and education referred to in       paragraph (1)--

(A) shall be provided as part of--

(i) initial entry and accession training;

(ii) annual refresher training;

(iii) initial and recurring training courses for covered       first responders;

(iv) new and prospective commanding officer and executive       officer training; and

(v) specialized leadership training; and

(B) shall be tailored for specific leadership levels,       positions, pay grades, and roles.

(3) Content.--The training and education referred to in       paragraph (1) shall include the information described in       subsection (a)(1)(A).

(c) Covered First Responder Training.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall ensure that--

(A) training for covered first responders includes the       covered misconduct prevention and response training described       in subsection (b); and

(B) such covered misconduct prevention and response       training is provided to covered first responders on a       recurring basis.

(2) Requirements.--In addition to the information described       in subsection (a)(1)(A), the initial and recurring covered       misconduct prevention and response training for covered first       responders shall include information on procedures and       responsibilities with respect to--

(A) the provision of care to a victim of covered       misconduct, in accordance with professional standards or       practice, that accounts for trauma experienced by the victim       and associated symptoms or events that may exacerbate such       trauma; and

(B) the manner in which such a victim may receive such       care.

(d) Training for Prospective Commanding Officers and       Executive Officers.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall ensure that       training for prospective commanders and executive officers at       all levels of command includes the covered misconduct       prevention and response training described in subsection (b).

(2) Requirements.--In addition to the information described       in subsection (a)(1)(A), the covered misconduct prevention       and response training for prospective commanding officers and       executive officers shall be--

(A) tailored to the responsibilities and leadership       requirements of members of the Coast Guard as they are       assigned to command positions; and

(B) revised, as necessary, to include information on--

(i) fostering a command climate--

(I) that does not tolerate covered misconduct;

(II) in which individuals assigned to the command are       encouraged to intervene to prevent potential incidents of       covered misconduct; and

(III) that encourages victims of covered misconduct to       report any incident of covered misconduct;

(ii) the possible variations in the effect of trauma on       individuals who have experienced covered misconduct;

(iii) potential differences in the procedures and       responsibilities, Department of Veterans Affairs resources,       and legal resources described in subsection (a)(1)(A)       depending on the operating environment in which an incident       of covered misconduct occurred;

(iv) the investigation of alleged incidents of covered       misconduct, including training on understanding evidentiary       standards;

(v) available disciplinary options, including       administrative action and deferral of discipline for       collateral misconduct, and examples of disciplinary options       in civilian jurisdictions; and

(vi) the capability, operations, reporting structure, and       requirements with respect to the Chief Prosecutor of the       Coast Guard.

(e) Entry and Accession Trainings.--

(1) Initial training.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall provide for the       inclusion of an initial covered misconduct prevention and       response training module in the training for each new member       of the Coast Guard, which shall be provided not later than 14       duty days after the date of accession.

(B) Requirement.--In addition to the information described       in subsection (a)(1)(A), the initial training module referred       to in subparagraph (A) shall include a comprehensive       explanation of Coast Guard--

(i) policy with respect to covered misconduct; and

(ii) procedures for reporting covered misconduct.

(2) Subsequent training.--

(A) In general.--The Commandant shall provide for the       inclusion of a detailed covered misconduct prevention and       response training module in the training for each new member       of the Coast Guard, which shall be provided not later than 60       duty days after the date on which the initial training module       described in paragraph (1)(A) is provided.

(B) Content.--The detailed training module referred to in       subparagraph (A) shall include the information described in       subsection (a)(1)(A).

(f) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Covered first responder.--The term ``covered first       responder'' includes sexual assault response coordinators,       victim advocates, Coast Guard medical officers, Coast Guard       security forces, Coast Guard Investigative Service agents,       judge advocates, special victims' counsel, chaplains, and       related personnel.

(2) Covered misconduct.--The term ``covered misconduct''       has the meaning given such term in section 2519 of title 14,       United States Code.       SEC. 533. REQUIREMENT TO REPORT SEXUAL OFFENSES.

Section 10104 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (a)(1) by striking ``harassment, sexual       harassment, or sexual assault in violation of employer policy       or law'' and inserting ``sexual harassment or sexual assault       in violation of employer policy or law and harassment''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

``(h) Harassment Defined.--In this section, the term       `harassment' means--

``(1) unwelcome remarks about an individual's       characteristics as protected in title VII of the Civil Rights       Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of       1967, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Americans with       Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Pregnancy Discrimination       Act, or other unwelcome verbal or physical conduct based on 1       or more of these categories, if--

``(A) submission to such remarks or conduct is made either       explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of employment,       pay, career, benefits, or entitlements of the individual;

``(B) submission to or rejection of such remarks or conduct       by an individual is used as the basis for decisions affecting       that individual's job, pay, career, benefits, or       entitlements; or

``(C) such remarks or conduct has the purpose or effect of       unreasonably interfering with an individual's work       performance; and

``(2) such remarks or conduct is so severe or pervasive       that a reasonable person would perceive, and the individual       does perceive, the work environment as hostile, intimidating       or abusive.

``(i) Response to Incidents.--Nothing in this section shall       be construed to impede the ability of the responsible entity       of the vessel to take immediate personnel action in response       to an incident described in subsection (a)(1) to preserve the       safety and security of individuals on the vessel.''.                   TITLE VI--COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORTS       SEC. 601. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON COAST GUARD RESEARCH,                     DEVELOPMENT, AND INNOVATION PROGRAM.

(a) In General.--Not later than 18 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives a report on the state of the research,       development, and innovation program of the Coast Guard during       the 5-year period ending on such date of enactment.

(b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall       include the following:

(1) An evaluation and description of the process for       selecting projects to be carried out under the research,       development, and innovation program of the Coast Guard.

(2) An analysis of the manner in which funding needs are       determined and requested for such program, and for the       activities and projects of such program, in alignment with       the appropriate fiscal year.

(3) An assessment of the manner in which the Coast Guard       determines desired outcomes, and measures the impact, of       successful projects on the execution of the operations and       mission of the Coast Guard.

(4) An assessment of the manner in which the Coast Guard       evaluates impacts and benefits of partnerships between the       Coast Guard and the Department of Defense and other entities,       and a description of the extent to which and manner in which       the Coast Guard is leveraging such benefits and identifying       and managing any potential challenge.

(5) An analysis of the manner in which the Commandant is       working with partners to accelerate project transition from       research, testing, evaluation, and prototype to production.

(6) An assessment of the manner in which the authority to       enter into transactions other than contracts and grants       pursuant to sections 719 and 1158 of title 14, United States       Code, has been exercised by the Commandant, and a description       of any training or resources necessary (including additional       agreements for officers and training) to more fully exercise       such authority.

(7) An evaluation of the role of the Blue Tech Center of       Expertise established in section 302 of the Coast Guard Blue       Technology Center of Expertise Act (Public Law 115-265).

(8) Recommendations regarding authorization, personnel,       infrastructure, and other requirements necessary for the       expeditious transition of technologies developed under such       program from prototype to production in the field.

(c) Consultation.--In developing the report required under       subsection (a), the Comptroller General may consult with--

(1) the maritime and aviation industries;

(2) the Secretary of Defense;

(3) the intelligence community; and

(4) any relevant--

(A) federally funded research institutions;

(B) nongovernmental organizations; and

(C) institutions of higher education.       SEC. 602. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW OF QUALITY AND                     AVAILABILITY OF COAST GUARD BEHAVIORAL HEALTH                     CARE AND RESOURCES FOR PERSONNEL WELLNESS.

(a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall commence a review of the quality and       availability of behavioral health care and related resources       for Coast Guard personnel at the locations described in       subsection (b).

(b) Locations to Be Reviewed.--In conducting the review       under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall--

(1) first review the practices and policies relating to the       availability of behavioral health care and related resources       at Training Center Cape May; and

(2) review such practices and policies at--

(A) the Coast Guard Academy, including Officer Candidate       School; and

(B) other Coast Guard training locations, as applicable.

(c) Elements.--The review conducted under subsection (a)       shall include, for each location described in subsection (b),       an assessment, and a description of available trend       information (as applicable) for the 10-year period preceding       the date of the review, with respect to each of the       following:

(1) The nature of Coast Guard resources directed toward       behavioral health services at the location.

(2) The manner in which the Coast Guard has managed       treatment for recruits, cadets, officer candidates, or other       personnel who may be experiencing a behavioral health crisis       at the location (including individuals who have transferred       to other buildings or facilities within the location).

(3) The extent to which the Coast Guard has identified the       resources, such as physical spaces and facilities, necessary       to manage behavioral health challenges and crises that Coast       Guard personnel may face at the location.

(4) The behavioral health screenings required by the Coast       Guard for recruits, cadets, officer candidates, or other       personnel at the location, and the manner in which such       screenings compare with screenings required by the Department       of Defense for military recruits, service academy cadets,       officer candidates, or other personnel at military service       accession points.

(5) Whether the Coast Guard has assessed the adequacy of       behavioral health resources and services for recruits,       cadets, officer candidates, and other personnel at the       location, and if so, the additional services and resources       (such as resilience and life skills coaching), if any, needed       to address any potential gaps.

(6) The manner in which the Coast Guard manages care       transfers related to behavior health at the location,       including command and other management input and privacy       policies.

(7) The extent to which the Coast Guard has evaluated       contributing factors or reasons for behavioral health crises       experienced by newly enlisted personnel, cadets, officer       candidates, or other personnel at the location.

(8) The extent to which the Coast Guard has addressed, at       the location, provider care staffing standards and       credentialing deficiencies identified in the report of the       Comptroller General titled ``Coast Guard Health Care:       Improvements Needed for Determining Staffing Needs and       Monitoring Access to Care'', issued on February 4, 2022.

(d) Reports.--The Comptroller General shall submit to the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives--

(1) as soon as practicable but not later than 1 year after       the date of enactment of this Act, a report relating to the       results of the review conducted under subsection (a) relating       to Training Center Cape May, including any recommendations       the Comptroller General considers appropriate; and

(2) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of       this Act--

(A) a report on the results of the review conducted under       subsection (a) relating to--

(i) the Coast Guard Academy, including Officer Candidate       School; and

(ii) other Coast Guard training locations, as applicable;       and

(B) any recommendations the Comptroller General considers       appropriate.       SEC. 603. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON COAST GUARD EFFORTS TO                     REDUCE PREVALENCE OF MISSING OR INCOMPLETE                     MEDICAL RECORDS AND SHARING OF MEDICAL DATA                     WITH DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND OTHER                     ENTITIES.

(a) Study.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall commence a study assessing the efforts of the       Commandant--

(1) to reduce the prevalence of missing or incomplete       medical records;

(2) to share medical data of members of the Coast Guard       with the Department of Veterans Affairs; and

(3) to ensure that electronic health records are provided       in a format that is user friendly and easy to access.

(b) Elements.--In conducting the study under subsection       (a), the Comptroller General shall review the following:

(1) The steps the Commandant has taken to reduce the       prevalence of missing or incomplete medical records of       members of the Coast Guard.

(2) How implementation of an electronic health record       system has affected the ability of the Commandant to manage       health records of members of the Coast Guard, including--

(A) how the Commandant adds records from private medical       providers to the electronic health record system;

(B) the progress of the Commandant toward implementing the       electronic health record system in shipboard sick bays of the       Coast Guard;

(C) how the Coast Guard shares medical records with the       Department of Veterans Affairs; and

(D) any other matter the Comptroller General considers       appropriate with respect to medical record storage, use, and       sharing and the associated consequences for member health and       well-being.

(3) The ability of members of the Coast Guard, medical       professionals of the Coast Guard and of the Department of       Defense, personnel of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and       other personnel to access and search, as appropriate, the       electronic health records of individuals, including the       ability to search or quickly find information within       electronic health records.

(c) Report.--Upon completion of the study under subsection       (a), the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives a report containing the results of the       study under subsection (a).       SEC. 604. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON COAST GUARD TRAINING                     FACILITY INFRASTRUCTURE.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall commence a study on Coast Guard training       facility infrastructure, including the specific needs of the       Coast Guard training facilities described in subsection (c).

(b) Elements.--The study required under subsection (a)       shall include the following:

(1) With respect to each Coast Guard training facility       described in subsection (c)--

(A) a summary of capital needs, including construction and       repair;

(B) a summary of equipment upgrade backlogs;

(C) an assessment of necessary improvements, including       improvements to essential training equipment (including       swimming pools, operational simulators, and marksmanship       training ranges) to enable the Coast Guard to achieve all       operational training objectives;

(D) a description of the resources necessary to fully       address all training needs;

(E) an assessment of any security deficiency, including       with respect to base access, training facility access, and       trainee berthing area access;

(F) an identification of any exposed hazard that does not       serve a training purpose;

(G) an identification of the presence of hazardous or toxic       materials, including--

(i) lead-based paint;

(ii) asbestos or products that contain asbestos;

(iii) black mold;

(iv) radon; and

(v) contaminated drinking water; and

(H) an assessment of the need for, and estimated cost of,       remediation of such toxic materials.

(2) An evaluation of the process used by the Coast Guard to       identify, monitor, and construct Coast Guard training       facilities.

(c) Coast Guard Training Facilities Described.--The Coast       Guard training facilities described in this subsection are       the following:

(1) The Coast Guard Academy in New London, Connecticut.

(2) The Leadership Development Center in New London,       Connecticut.

(3) Training Center Cape May, New Jersey.

(4) Training Center Petaluma, California.

(5) Training Center Yorktown, Virginia.

(6) The Maritime Law Enforcement Academy in Charleston,       South Carolina.

(7) The Special Missions Training Center at Camp Lejeune in       North Carolina.

(8) The Gulf Regional Fisheries Training Center (GRFTC) in       New Orleans, Louisiana.

(9) The North Pacific Regional Fisheries Training Center       (NPRFTC) in Kodiak, Alaska.

(10) The Northeast Regional Fisheries Training Center       (NRFTC) at Cape Cod, Massachusetts.

(11) The Southeast Regional Fisheries Training Center       (SRFTC) in Charleston, South Carolina.

(12) The Pacific Regional Fisheries Training Center (PRFTC)       in Alameda, California.

(13) The National Motor Lifeboat School at Cape       Disappointment, Washington.

(14) The Aviation Technical Training Center in Elizabeth       City, North Carolina.

(15) The Aviation Training Center in Mobile, Alabama.

(d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after commencing the       study required under subsection (a), the Comptroller General       shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives a report on the findings of the study.       SEC. 605. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON COAST GUARD BASIC                     ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING.

(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date on       which the Department of Defense issues the report on the       Fourteenth Quadrennial Review of Military Compensation, the       Comptroller General of the United States shall commence a       study of Coast Guard involvement in, and efforts to support,       the determination of the cost of adequate housing and the       calculation of the basic allowance for housing under section       403 of title 37, United States Code.

(b) Elements.--The study required under subsection (a)       shall include, to the extent practicable, the following:

(1) An identification of Coast Guard duty locations in       which there is a misalignment between the basic allowance for       housing rate and the prevailing housing cost for members of       the Coast Guard such that the basic allowance for housing is       less than 95 percent of the monthly cost of adequate housing       for such members in the corresponding military housing area.

(2) An analysis of each of the following:

(A) Anchor points, including--

(i) the methodology for the establishment of anchor points;       and

(ii) with respect to housing provided as part of a public-      private venture and Government-owned and Government-leased       housing, the disparities between established anchor points       and housing standards across the armed forces (as such term       is defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code).

(B) Existing military housing boundary areas that affect       the Coast Guard.

(C) Actions taken by the Commandant to comprehensively       monitor basic allowance for housing rates for Coast Guard       duty locations.

(D) The frequency of reviews conducted by the Commandant of       the site visits used by the Department of Defense to inform       military housing area boundaries.

(c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date on which       the study required under subsection (a) commences, the       Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives, and the Commandant a report on the       findings of the study, including any recommendation the       Comptroller General considers appropriate.

(d) Plan.--Not later than 1 year after the date on which       the report required by subsection (c) is submitted to the       Commandant, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives--

(1) an implementation plan, including timeframes and       milestones, addressing any recommendation made by the       Comptroller General in such report, as the Commandant       considers appropriate; and

(2) with respect to any recommendation set forth in such       report that the Commandant declines to implement, a written       justification for the decision.

(e) Anchor Point Defined.--In this section, the term       ``anchor point''--

(1) means the minimum housing standard reference benchmark       used to establish the basic allowance for housing under       section 403 of title 37, United States Code; and

(2) includes housing type and size based on pay grade and       dependent status.       SEC. 606. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON SAFETY AND SECURITY                     INFRASTRUCTURE AT COAST GUARD ACADEMY.

(a) GAO Report.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives a report on the safety and security       infrastructure at the Coast Guard Academy.

(2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1)       shall include an assessment of each of the following:

(A) Existing security infrastructure for the grounds,       buildings, athletic facilities, and any other facility of the       Coast Guard Academy, including access points, locks,       surveillance, and other security methods, as appropriate.

(B) Coast Guard policies with respect to the management,       data storage and access, and operational capacity of the       security infrastructure and methods evaluated under       subparagraph (A).

(C) Special security needs relating to events at the Coast       Guard Academy, such as large athletic events and other widely       attended events.

(D) Coast Guard policies and procedures with respect to       access to Coast Guard Academy grounds by--

(i) current or former members of the Coast Guard;

(ii) current or former civilian employees of the Coast       Guard;

(iii) Coast Guard personnel that reside at the Academy and       families of cadets; and

(iv) members of the public.

(E) Existing processes by which the Commandant, the       Superintendent of the Coast Guard Academy, or a designated       individual may prohibit or restrict access to Coast Guard       Academy grounds by any current or former member or civilian       employee of the Coast Guard who--

(i) has been subject to court-martial under the Uniform       Code of Military Justice for sexual misconduct; or

(ii) has been administratively disciplined for sexual       misconduct.

(F) Enforcement processes regarding access to Coast Guard       Academy grounds for individuals (including current and former       cadets, members, and civilian employees of the Coast Guard)       who are or have been subject to a no-contact order relating       to--

(i) a cadet or member of the faculty of the Academy; or

(ii) any other individual with access to Academy grounds.

(G) Recommendations to improve--

(i) the security of the Coast Guard Academy; and

(ii) the safety of--

(I) cadets at the Coast Guard Academy; and

(II) members of the Coast Guard stationed at, and civilian       employees of, the Coast Guard Academy.

(b) Actions by Commandant.--

(1) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date on       which the Comptroller General submits the report required       under subsection (a), the Commandant shall submit to the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       of the House of Representatives a report that includes--

(A) a detailed plan to improve the security of, and the       safety of cadets at, the Coast Guard Academy; and

(B) a detailed timeline for implementation of--

(i) the recommendations made by the Comptroller General in       such report; and

(ii) any other safety improvement the Commandant considers       appropriate.

(2) Policy.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which       the Comptroller General submits the report required under       subsection (a), the Commandant, in a manner that maintains       good order and discipline, shall update Coast Guard policy       relating to access to the Coast Guard Academy grounds to       include procedures by which individuals may be prohibited       from accessing the Coast Guard Academy--

(A) as the Commandant considers appropriate; and

(B) consistent with the recommendations made by the       Comptroller General in such report.       SEC. 607. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY AND REPORT ON PERMANENT                     CHANGE OF STATION PROCESS.

(a) Study.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall commence a study to evaluate the effectiveness       of the permanent change of station process of the Coast       Guard.

(b) Report.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after commencing the       study required by subsection (a), the Comptroller General       shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives a report on the findings of the study.

(2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall       include the following:

(A) A description of the permanent change of station       policies of the Coast Guard.

(B) A description of Coast Guard spending on permanent       change of station moves and associated support costs.

(C) An evaluation of the effectiveness of using contracted       movers for permanent change of station moves, including the       estimated costs associated with--

(i) lost or damaged personal property of members of the       Coast Guard;

(ii) delays in scheduling such a move through a contracted       mover;

(iii) delayed delivery of household goods; and

(iv) other related challenges.

(D) A review of changes to permanent change of station       policies implemented during the 10-year period ending on the       date of enactment of this Act, and the costs or savings to       the Coast Guard directly associated with such changes.

(E) Recommendations to improve the permanent change of       station process of the Coast Guard.

(F) Any additional information or related matter arising       from the study, as the Comptroller General considers       appropriate.                           TITLE VII--AMENDMENTS       SEC. 701. AMENDMENTS.

(a) Prohibition on Entry and Operation.--Section       70022(b)(1) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by       striking ``Federal Register'' and inserting ``the Federal       Register''.

(b) Port, Harbor, and Coastal Facility Security.--Section       70116(b) of title 46, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in paragraph (1) by striking ``terrorism cyber'' and       inserting ``terrorism, cyber''; and

(2) in paragraph (2) by inserting a comma after ``acts of       terrorism''.

(c) Enforcement by State and Local Officers.--Section       70118(a) of title 46, United States Code, is amended--

(1) by striking ``section 1 of title II of the Act of June       15, 1917 (chapter 30; 50 U.S.C. 191)'' and inserting       ``section 70051''; and

(2) by striking ``section 7(b) of the Ports and Waterways       Safety Act (33 U.S.C. 1226(b))'' and inserting ``section       70116(b)''.

(d) Chapter 701 Definitions.--Section 70131(2) of title 46,       United States Code, is amended--

(1) by striking ``section 1 of title II of the Act of June       15, 1917 (50 U.S.C. 191)'' and inserting ``section 70051'';       and

(2) by striking ``section 7(b) of the Ports and Waterways       Safety Act (33 U.S.C. 1226(b))'' and inserting ``section       70116(b)''.

(e) Notice of Arrival Requirements for Vessels on the Outer       Continental Shelf.--

(1) Preparatory conforming amendment.--Section 70001 of       title 46, United States Code, is amended by redesignating       subsections (l) and (m) as subsections (m) and (n),       respectively.

(2) Transfer of provision.--Section 704 of the Coast Guard       and Maritime Transportation Act 2012 (Public Law 112-213; 46       U.S.C. 70001 note) is--

(A) amended by striking ``of title 46, United States       Code,'';

(B) amended by striking ``(33 U.S.C. 1223 note)'' and       inserting ``(46 U.S.C. 70001 note)'';

(C) transferred to appear after 70001(k) of title 46,       United States Code; and

(D) redesignated as subsection (l).

(f) Title 46.--Title 46, United States Code, is amended as       follows:

(1) Section 2101(2) is amended by striking ``section 1''       and inserting ``section 101''.

(2) Section 2116(b)(1)(D) is amended by striking ``section       93(c)'' and inserting ``section 504(c)''.

(3) In the analysis for subtitle VII by striking the period       after ``70001'' in the item relating to chapter 700.

(4) In the analysis for chapter 700 by striking the item       relating to section 70006 and inserting the following:  ``70006. Establishment by Secretary of the department in which the                Coast Guard is operating of anchorage grounds and                regulations generally.''.

(5) In the heading for subchapter IV in the analysis for       chapter 700 by inserting a comma after ``DEFINITIONS''.

(6) In the heading for subchapter VI in the analysis for       chapter 700 by striking ``OF THE UNITED''and inserting ``OF       UNITED''.

(7) Section 70052(e)(1) is amended by striking ``section       4197 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (46 U.S.C.       App. 91)'' and inserting ``section 60105''.

(g) Oil Pollution Act of 1990.--The Oil Pollution Act of       1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.) is amended as follows:

(1) Section 1001 (33 U.S.C. 2701) is amended--

(A) in paragraph (32)(G) by striking ``pipeline'' and all       that follows through ``offshore facility'' and inserting       ``pipeline, offshore facility'';

(B) in paragraph (39) by striking ``section 101(20)(G)(i)''       and inserting ``section 101(20)(H)(i)'';

(C) in paragraph (40) by striking ``section       101(20)(G)(ii)'' and inserting ``section 101(20)(H)(ii)'';

(D) ) in paragraph (41) by striking ``section       101(20)(G)(iii)'' and inserting ``section 101(20)(H)(iii)'';

(E) in paragraph (42) by striking ``section       101(20)(G)(iv)'' and inserting ``section 101(20)(H)(iv)'';

(F) in paragraph (43) by striking ``section 101(20)(G)(v)''       and inserting ``section 101(20)(H)(v)''; and

(G) in paragraph (44) by striking ``section       101(20)(G)(vi)'' and inserting ``section 101(20)(H)(vi)''.

(2) Section 1003(d)(6) (33 U.S.C. 2703(d)(6)) is amended by       striking ``this paragraph'' and inserting ``this       subsection''.

(3) Section 1016 (33 U.S.C. 2716) is amended--

(A) by redesignating subsections (e) through (i) as       subsections (d) through (h), respectively; and

(B) in subsection (e)(1)(B), as redesignated by       subparagraph (A), by striking ``subsection (e)'' and       inserting ``subsection (d)''.

(4) Section 1012(b)(2) (33 U.S.C. 2712(b)(2)) is amended by       striking ``section 1016(f)(1)'' and inserting ``section       1016(e)(1)''.

(5) Section 1005(b)(5)(B) (33 U.S.C. 2716(b)(5)(B)) is       amended by striking ``section 1016(g)'' and inserting       ``section 2716(f)''.

(6) Section 1018(c) (33 U.S.C. 2718(c)) is amended by       striking ``the Act of March 3, 1851 (46 U.S.C. 183 et seq.)''       and inserting ``chapter 305 of title 46, United States       Code''.

(7) Section 7001(h)(1) (33 U.S.C. 2761(h)(1)) is amended by       striking ``subsection (c)(4)'' and inserting ``subsection       (e)(4)''.

(h) Hydrographic Services Improvement Act of 1998.--Section       303 of the Hydrographic Services Improvement Act of 1998 (33       U.S.C. 892a) is amended--

(1) in subsection (a) by striking ``this Act'' and       inserting ``this title''; and

(2) in subsection (b)--

(A) by striking ``this Act'' and inserting ``this title'';       and

(B) by striking ``subchapter VI of chapter 10'' and       inserting ``chapter 11''.

(i) Chapter 5.--

(1) In general.--Chapter 5 of title 14, United States Code,       is amended by redesignating the second section 548 (relating       to Marking anchorage grounds by Commandant of the Coast       Guard) as section 551.

(2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 5 of       title 14, United States Code, is amended by inserting after       the item relating to section 550 the following:  ``551. Marking anchorage grounds by Commandant of the Coast Guard.''.

(j) Section 807.--Section 807 of the Frank Lobiondo Coast       Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (14 U.S.C. 313 note) is       amended by striking ``District 9'' and inserting ``Great       Lakes District''.

(k) Section 324.--Section 324 of title 14, United States       Code, as so redesignated, by striking ``Seventeenth Coast       Guard District'' and inserting ``Coast Guard Arctic       District'' each place it appears.

Mr. GRAVES.  4275.

Mr. GRAVES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4275 which is the Coast  Guard Reauthorization Act of 2025. The bill before us provides the men  and women of the U.S. Coast Guard with the authorities and resources  that they need to carry out their missions which are critical to  ensuring maritime safety, enforcing the United States laws at sea, and  protecting our Nation's borders.

The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025 authorizes Coast Guard  funding for the fiscal years 2025 through 2029. The bill will support  Coast Guard operations and enable the service to continue its efforts  to recapitalize its cutter fleet, shoreline facilities, and IT  capabilities. The legislation builds upon the One Big Beautiful Bill  Act which was signed into law by President Trump earlier this month  which provides historic investments for new air and sea assets and  upgraded shoreside infrastructure.

Additionally, the legislation establishes a Coast Guard service  secretary providing the Coast Guard parity with other military services  and ensuring the service has a voice to advocate for its needs.

The bill also advances the administration's vision to strengthen our  domestic maritime sector by facilitating an increase in the pool of  qualified United States merchant mariners.

I very much appreciate Ranking Member Larsen, Subcommittee Chair  Ezell, and Subcommittee Ranking Member Carbajal for working to reach a  bipartisan agreement on this bill.

Madam Speaker, I urge support for this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.                                       Committee on Armed Services,                                        House of Representatives,                                      Washington, DC, July 23, 2025.      Hon. Sam Graves,      Chairman, House Committee on Transportation and           Infrastructure, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Westerman: I write concerning H.R. 4275, the       Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025. As a result of your       having consulted with us on provisions within H.R. 4275 that       fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on Armed       Services, I agree to forego any further consideration of this       resolution so that it may proceed expeditiously to the House       floor for consideration.

The Committee on Armed Services takes this action with our       mutual understanding that by foregoing consideration of H.R.       4275 at this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction over       subject matter contained in this or similar legislation and       that our committee will be appropriately consulted and       involved as this resolution or similar legislation moves       forward so that we may address any remaining issues in our       jurisdiction.

This legislation contains provisions that may require       further modification prior to final consideration to ensure       the support of the House Committee on Armed Services.

Finally, I ask that a copy of our exchange of letters on       this matter be included by House Committee on Transportation       and Infrastructure in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration, to memorialize our understanding. Thank you       for the cooperative spirit in which you have worked regarding       this matter and others between our respective committees.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael D. Rogers,      Chairman, House Committee on Armed Services.                                   ____                                        Committee on Transportation                                                 and Infrastructure,                                        House of Representatives,                                      Washington, DC, July 23, 2025.      Hon. Mike Rogers,      Chairman, Committee on Armed Services,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Rogers: I write regarding H.R. 4275, the       Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025, which was ordered       favorably reported by the Committee on Transportation and       Infrastructure.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Armed Services       and appreciate your willingness to forgo further       consideration of the bill. I acknowledge that the Committee       on Armed Services will not seek an additional referral on the       bill and agree that the inaction of your Committee with       respect to the bill does not waive any jurisdiction of the       subject matter contained.

I am pleased to support your request to name Members of the       Committee on Armed       Services to any conference committee to consider such       provisions. I will ensure that our exchange of letters is       included in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration of the bill. I appreciate your cooperation       regarding this legislation.            Sincerely,                                                        Sam Graves,      Chairman.                                   ____                                     Committee on Homeland Security,                                        House of Representatives,                                      Washington, DC, July 23, 2025.      Hon. Sam Graves,      Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Graves: Thank you for your letter regarding       H.R. 4275, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025, which       was favorably reported by the Committee on Transportation and       Infrastructure.

I concur that certain provisions fall within the       jurisdiction of the Committee on Homeland Security and agree       to forgo action on this bill. The Committee on Homeland will       not seek an additional referral on the bill. The Committee on       Homeland Security does not waive any jurisdiction over the       subject matter contained in this or similar legislation.

I would respectfully request appointment of an appropriate       number of conferees to any conference on relevant provisions.       Finally, I would ask that a copy of our exchange of letters       on this matter be included in the Congressional Record during       floor consideration of H.R. 4275.            Sincerely,                                               Andrew R. Garbarino,      Chairman.                                   ____                                     Committee on Transportation and                        Infrastructure, House of Representatives,                                      Washington, DC, July 23, 2025.      Hon. Andrew Garbarino,      Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Garbarino: I write regarding H.R. 4275, the       Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025, which was ordered       favorably reported by the Committee on Transportation and       Infrastructure.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Homeland Security       and appreciate your willingness to forgo further       consideration of the bill. I acknowledge that the Committee       on Homeland Security will not seek an additional referral on       the bill and agree that the inaction of your Committee with       respect to the bill does not waive any jurisdiction of the       subject matter contained.

I am pleased to support your request to name Members of the       Committee on Homeland Security to any conference committee to       consider such provisions. I will ensure that our exchange of       letters is included in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration of the bill. I appreciate your cooperation       regarding this legislation.            Sincerely,                                                        Sam Graves,      Chairman.                                   ____

Mr. GRAVES. Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from  Mississippi (Mr. Ezell) who is also the chair of the Subcommittee on  Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation.

Mr. GRAVES. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Florida (Mr. Webster).

Mr. GRAVES. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  North Carolina (Mr. McDowell).

Mr. GRAVES. Madam Speaker, I don't have any further speakers.

Mr. GRAVES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, this legislation provides support for the men and  women of the Coast Guard to be able to do their jobs. As we know, these  servicemembers often go above and beyond the call of duty, including  when responding to emergencies and disasters.

That fact was clearly demonstrated during the response to the tragic  flooding in Texas over the Fourth of July holiday weekend. Petty  Officer Scott Ruskan and the Rescue 6553 aircrew were first on the  scene at Camp Mystic, the historic girls' camp that was caught in the  catastrophic flooding, and helped save 165 lives.

The men and women who serve in the Coast Guard carry out heroic acts  each and every day, and it is our responsibility to make sure that they  have the resources that they need to carry out their missions.

I will take just a moment to thank my subcommittee staff who worked  tirelessly on this legislation: John Rayfield, Reed Linsk, Lindsay  Sakal, Spencer Thompson, Nicole Bredariol, as well as Matt Dwyer and  the ranking member's team.

Madam Speaker, I urge support of the bill on both sides of the aisle,  and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. GRAVES. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.