Designating the House Press Gallery in the United States Capitol As the ``Frederick Douglass Press Gallery''


Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the  resolution (H. Res. 137) designating the House Press Gallery, Rooms H- 315, H-316, H-317, H-318, and H-319 in the United States Capitol, as  the ``Frederick Douglass Press Gallery'', as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the resolution.

The text of the resolution is as follows:                                H. Res. 137

[Whereas Frederick Douglass was born to an enslaved family       in 1818;

[Whereas Douglass bravely escaped slavery in 1838, and       spent much of his adult life as a journalist in Rochester,       New York;

[Whereas Douglass published his first newspaper, The North       Star, using his own money in the pre-Civil War era;

[Whereas Douglass was known for fiercely opposing slavery,       championing equal rights and women's rights, and for being a       forceful speaker;

[Whereas, during the Civil War, Douglass was a recruiter       for the first African-American army regiment;

[Whereas Douglass met twice with President Lincoln, first       about the pay and treatment of Black soldiers and then to       discuss the President's desire to assist escaping slaves;

[Whereas after Douglass' Rochester home was destroyed by       fire (which Douglass believed resulted from arson), he moved       his family to Anacostia in Washington, DC;

[Whereas, in 1870, Douglass was asked to become editor of       the New National Era, which chronicled the progress of Blacks       throughout the United States, and he later bought the paper;

[Whereas Douglass was the first Black reporter allowed into       the Capitol press galleries, where journalists watch       lawmakers on the floors of the Senate and the House of       Representatives;

[Whereas Douglass was a member of the congressional press       galleries from 1871-1875;

[Whereas Douglass reported on House and Senate legislation       regularly to update the African-American community during       Reconstruction following the 13th, 14th, and 15th Amendments       to the Constitution;

[Whereas Douglass was recorded frequently in the       congressional directory and spent a significant amount of       time writing and studying from the House Press Gallery;

[Whereas Douglass often visited the Capitol following his       time as a member of the congressional press galleries;

[Whereas Douglass delivered the keynote speech at the       unveiling of the Emancipation Memorial in Washington's       Lincoln Park;

[Whereas, in 2007, Douglass was recognized by placing a       plaque and painting of him in his honor in the House Press       Gallery;

[Whereas, in 2012, Congress passed and the President signed       Public Law 112-174, which directed Frederick Douglass' statue       placement in the Capitol Visitor Center's Emancipation Hall;       and

[Whereas Douglass was a pioneer in journalism who broke       through glass ceilings throughout one of the most crucial       times in American history, exhibited great perseverance to       become an American hero, and became a legend known in the       House Press Gallery: Now, therefore, be it]

Whereas Frederick Douglass was born to an enslaved family       in 1818;

Whereas Douglass bravely escaped slavery in 1838, and spent       much of his adult life as a journalist in Rochester, New       York;

Whereas Douglass published his first newspaper, The North       Star, using his own money in the pre-Civil War era;

Whereas Douglass was known for fiercely opposing slavery,       championing equal rights and women's rights, and for being a       forceful speaker;

Whereas, during the Civil War, Douglass was a recruiter for       the first African-American Army regiment;

Whereas Douglass met twice with President Lincoln, first       about the pay and treatment of Black soldiers and then to       discuss the President's desire to assist escaping slaves;

Whereas after Douglass' Rochester home was destroyed by       fire (which Douglass believed resulted from arson), he moved       his family to Anacostia in Washington, DC;

Whereas, in 1870, Douglass was asked to become editor of       the New National Era, which chronicled the progress of Blacks       throughout the United States, and he later bought the paper;

Whereas Douglass was the first Black reporter allowed into       the Capitol press galleries, where journalists watch       lawmakers on the floors of the Senate and the House of       Representatives;

Whereas Douglass was a member of the congressional press       galleries from 1871-1875;

Whereas Douglass reported on House and Senate legislation       regularly to update the African-American community during       Reconstruction following the 13th, 14th, and 15th Amendments       to the Constitution;

Whereas Douglass was recorded frequently in the       congressional directory and spent a significant amount of       time writing and studying from the House Press Gallery;

Whereas Douglass often visited the Capitol following his       time as a member of the congressional press galleries;

Whereas Douglass delivered the keynote speech at the       unveiling of the Emancipation Memorial in Washington's       Lincoln Park;

Whereas, in 2007, Douglass was recognized by placing a       plaque and painting of him in his honor in the House Press       Gallery;

Whereas, in 2012, Congress passed and the President signed       Public Law 112-174, which directed Frederick Douglass' statue       placement in the Capitol Visitor Center's Emancipation Hall;       and

Whereas Douglass was a pioneer in journalism who broke       through glass ceilings throughout one of the most crucial       times in American history, exhibited great perseverance to       become an American hero, and became a legend known in the       House Press Gallery: Now, therefore, be it

Resolved, [That the House Press Gallery, Rooms H-315, H-      316, H-317, H-318, and H-319 in the United States Capitol, is       designated as the ``Frederick Douglass Press Gallery''].      That the House Press Gallery (Rooms H-315, H-316, H-317, H-      318, and H-319 of the United States Capitol) is designated as       the ``Frederick Douglass Press Gallery''.

Mr. GRAVES.  Res. 137.

Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 137 designates the House Press Gallery as the  Frederick Douglass Press Gallery.

Frederick Douglass came to Washington, D.C., in 1870 to become editor  of the New National Era paper, which chronicled the progress of African  Americans in the United States. He became the first African-American  member of the press gallery from 1871 to 1875.

In 2007, he was honored with a plaque and painting in the House Press  Gallery. This resolution today will officially name the House Press  Gallery after him. I thank the gentleman from Florida, Representative  Donalds, for his leadership on this bipartisan resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of the legislation and reserve balance of  my time.

Mr. GRAVES.  I  will take a moment to recognize someone who has made a particular  impact on myself and this body, and that is Transportation and  Infrastructure Republican Staff Director Jack Ruddy, who is leaving the  Hill after 15 years.

Jack started out in my office as an intern. He liked it so much he  decided to come back as an intern four more times. No matter what we  did or how hard we tried, we just could not get rid of him. I am  incredibly thankful that he stuck it out because this entire body has  benefited from his public service and his expertise.

Jack has come a long way from his days as an intern. He went on to  serve as my legislative director in my congressional office. For the  last 6\1/2\ years, he has been with me at the T&I Committee, first as  deputy staff director and, most notably, as staff director, which he  led my entire team since 2022.

It is uncommon in this Chamber that a staff member makes such a  lasting impact, but Jack is a very uncommon staffer. He is a trusted  adviser, not only to me but to many members on the Transportation  Committee on both sides of the aisle.

Over the years, he has played an integral role in shepherding through  Congress numerous major legislative priorities to improve America's  transportation network and build our infrastructure. This includes: the  FAA Reauthorization Act of 2024 and other important aviation safety  legislation; multiple water resources development acts; Coast Guard  authorizations; public buildings and Federal office space reforms; and  pipeline safety reauthorizations, just to name a few of the things that  are out there.

It takes hard work, skill, extensive knowledge, and a deep  understanding of the legislative process to get these things across the  finish line, and Jack has all of those qualities.

It also takes sacrifice, and Jack, his wife, Paige, and their two  boys, Joel and Barrett, know that all too well. I thank Jack and his  entire family for the sacrifices that they have contributed in more  ways than I can describe. Their sacrifices over the last 6\1/2\ years  have contributed to the success of the T&I Committee and the House of  Representatives.

Mr. Speaker, I close by saying that anybody who has ever worked with  Jack knows that these things are very true: He is fair, he is  pragmatic, and he knows how to get the job done. The most important  thing that we know is that Jack is a true friend, and I can say that  from personal experience. We are all going to miss him, and I wish him  the best of luck as he begins his new chapter in life.

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Speaker, in closing, naming the House Press Gallery  after Frederick Douglass is going to honor his commitment to the free  press, his legacy, and his work reporting on the official business of  Congress.

I urge support of House Resolution 137, and I yield back the balance  of my time.