Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas


Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S.  1071, the National Defense Authorization Act of 2026, which includes  the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025, bipartisan legislation to  authorize appropriations for the Coast Guard for fiscal years 2026 and  2027.

This bill will allow the Coast Guard to continue its vital missions  of defending our maritime borders, saving lives at sea, and ensuring  safe and reliable maritime commerce.

The measure also builds upon the historic $25 billion investment the  Coast  Guard received in reconciliation, providing necessary oversight and  much-needed support for the service's ongoing efforts to recapitalize  its cutter and air assets, shoreside facilities, and its IT  capabilities.

As the Coast Guard faces increasing demand for its services, the bill  authorizes the service to grow to 55,000 Active-Duty members by 2027  and supports the training, assets, and programs necessary to attract,  retain, and advance the personnel needed to carry out the Coast Guard's  missions.

To that end, this bill ensures that the morale, well-being, and  safety of our Coast Guard personnel are prioritized from the day they  enter boot camp to the day they retire.

In line with President Trump's efforts to rebuild America's maritime  capacity, this bill strengthens America's maritime base, including  provisions that streamline the merchant mariner credentialing process  and laying the groundwork for the responsible deployment of new  technologies at sea.

Through this legislation, the United States Coast Guard will possess  the assets and personnel it needs to execute its safety, enforcement,  and national security missions.

Finally, I thank the committee's ranking member, Rick Larsen; Coast  Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee chairman,  Mike Ezell;  and Ranking Member Salud Carbajal for their hard work on this  legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support S. 1071.