Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


Mr. GRAVES.  3898.

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chair, I am proud to rise in support of H.R. 3898, the Promoting  Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act, or the PERMIT  Act, which will make permitting processes under the Clean Water Act  more efficient, consistent, and transparent while continuing to protect  our Nation's water quality.

Our Clean Water Act permitting regime is broken.

When it takes up to 18 months to receive a permit under just the  Clean Water Act to build a pipeline, dam, road, pond, or home,  something is simply wrong.

When wastewater utilities are being sued by radical environmentalists  because the EPA didn't give them a permit they could trust, something  is wrong.

When one State can weaponize the Clean Water Act to stop a pipeline  that would allow citizens in other States to move off heating oil in  the winter to a cheaper and more reliable source of energy, for reasons  not remotely related to water quality, something is wrong.

When the Federal Government is allowed to write water quality  standards that no one can afford without passing on costs to the  ratepayers, or for which the technology to achieve such standards isn't  even available in this country, something is wrong.

I believe that regulations should be simple to understand,  achievable, and easy to follow. Good process often leads to good  decisionmaking, more consistent outcomes, and prosperity, and that is  what this bill seeks to achieve.

The partnership between the private sector, States, and the Federal  Government envisioned by the Clean Water Act has worked to improve  water quality nationwide. This is a very good thing. We all share the  goal of achieving clean water. However, 50 years after its passage, the  Clean Water Act needs modernization. It is just as simple as that.

This bill makes commonsense reforms, such as clarifying the section  401 process to stop it from being weaponized; codifying longstanding,  bipartisan exemptions from the definition of waters of the United  States; placing clear timelines on judicial review for permits; and  increasing transparency in the development of water quality standards.

It also directs the Corps to eliminate the backlog of outstanding  section 404 permit applications and jurisdictional determinations and  eliminate duplicative and unnecessary permitting processes for areas  such as pesticides, aerial fire-retardant use, and so much more.

The bottom line is that without reforming the Clean Water Act,  America cannot efficiently build roads, bridges, pipelines, ponds,  dams, levees, airports, homes, farms, and other infrastructure that we  need.

This bill acknowledges that we can both protect our natural resources  and allow for development that benefits everyone in this country.  Because of this, H.R. 3898 enjoys support from a wide range of  stakeholders, from water utilities to energy developers, the  construction industry, farmers, and Main Street businesses.

I urge my colleagues who support commonsense solutions to vote in  favor of H.R. 3898.

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  Georgia (Mr. Collins), the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee  chair and the bill's sponsor.

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chairman, before I yield, I would like to point out  that in the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, we can  disagree, oppose, debate, and we remain friends both within our parties  and across the aisle. I am proud of the committee for that, both the  minority and the majority side. In fact, I am very proud of that  aspect.

Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Utah (Mr.  Owens).

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Missouri (Mr. Burlison).

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  California (Mr. LaMalfa), who is the Western Caucus chairman.

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chair, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Ohio  (Mr. Taylor).

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Indiana (Mr. Shreve).

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Minnesota (Mr. Stauber).

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Florida (Mr. Patronis).

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Colorado (Mr. Hurd).

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  North Carolina (Mr. Rouzer), the chairman of the Subcommittee on  Highways and Transit.

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chairman, in closing, H.R. 3898 is critical to  achieving more efficient, predictable, and useful permitting for many  important projects by streamlining and improving the Clean Water Act's  permitting process.

As has been stated, H.R. 3898 will support everyday Americans in  every district across this Nation by making commonsense reforms to the  Clean Water Act, unleashing America's ability to increase transparency  in the development of water quality standards.

It also directs the Corps to eliminate the backlog of outstanding  section 404 permit applications and jurisdictional determinations,  eliminates duplicative, unnecessary permitting processes for areas such  as pesticide in aerial fire retardant use, and so much more.

The bottom line is, we cannot effectively build roads, bridges,  pipelines, ports, dams, levies, airports, homes, farms, and many, many  other important infrastructure projects.

This bill is a product of hard work by many members of the Committee  on Transportation and Infrastructure. In particular, I thank  Representatives Rick Crawford,   David Rouzer, Doug LaMalfa, Pete  Stauber, Dusty Johnson, Burgess Owens, Eric Burlison, Jeff Hurd,  Jefferson Shreve, Dave Taylor, and  Jimmy Patronis, who all contributed  provisions to this bill.

I especially thank the chairman of the subcommittee,  Mike Collins,  for working with me on this. He has shown extraordinary leadership in  developing this very important issue. I do thank the gentlewoman from  Michigan for her friendship in this process, and I would urge support  for the bill.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.