-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698821/9999


Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, as we are starting this new year, there  is certainly no shortage of issues to be talking about. You and I have  been engaged in fruitful discussions, I believe, about how we address  health coverage for millions of Americans that are looking at  dramatically higher costs, in many cases, and recognizing that there is  a pretty short window here in front of us. In fact, for many, it feels  like that window is already closed. We have work to do on that account.

We certainly have work to do on the appropriations bills for fiscal  year 2026. We have got a looming deadline of January 30 that is fast  approaching. And I think it is good news that we will be able to begin  that process to advance this next minibus, these three bills--my  Interior subcommittee appropriations as well as CJS, and Energy and  Water--be able to advance those.

But then we have to get moving on the fiscal year 2027 cycle. We are  already, technically, behind on that. So we have got efforts there.

We obviously need to do more when it comes to the situation around  the world.

We just had a vote on a motion to discharge a War Powers Resolution  as it relates to Venezuela. We need to strengthen sanctions on Russia,  which continues to prosecute this awful war against Ukraine. We need to  do more.

We need to work together to reach a bipartisan agreement on  permitting reform. We seem to make good forward progress and then take  a few steps back. But we need that to build out the infrastructure that  this country needs.

We know we all need to tackle the affordability issues that impact  all of us, whether they relate to the costs of goods or housing.

There is a lot that we have to do here, but there is one thing that  we should not be doing, one thing that we should not be spending our  time doing, and that is an effort--any effort--that would seek to annex  Greenland, whether it is taking it by force, taking it by coercion,  taking it by pressure or threat, or, really, in fairness, any related  method. It is not an issue that I would have ever expected to raise  here on the floor of the Senate.

In my time here in the Senate, over the past two decades, I have  immersed myself in all things Arctic. I have strong relationships with  friends across the Arctic and in Greenland, specifically. I have been  the cochair of the Arctic Parliamentarians Conference for years now,  and my cochair is a strong Greenlandic woman, who I just spoke with  this morning about the situation and the rhetoric that is coming out of  Washington, DC, directed toward her country.

It is an issue that is not necessarily new to Congress--the U.S.  interest in Greenland. In fairness, there have been discussions prior  to the first Trump administration. It was actually back in 1867. This  was when the United States bought Alaska from Russia and, apparently,  at that time, Seward made some inquiries. Seward was Secretary of the  Interior at the time. He made some inquiries about Greenland, but the  Congress wasn't interested in doing anything about it.

And then, in the Taft administration, there was a land swap that was  proposed. This was back in 1910. It was rejected by Denmark. And then,  apparently, there was actually a formal offer made back in 1946, at the  outset of the Cold War, in the Truman administration, where there was  actually an outright offer--$100 million, as I understand it, in gold-- to buy Denmark. That is what it was reported as.

That was, again, rejected by Denmark.

But it was at this time where we moved from the discussion about how  do we take or how do we buy or how do we trade into one that was based  on a relationship and shared mutual interests and national security,  and working with Greenland and the Kingdom of Denmark to ensure that  military assets could be based at Thule, at the time--now called  Pituffik--Air Base Station.

Again, these are discussions that have been had in the past--but in  the very, very distant past--until just recently, when, again, we have  seen comments coming out of the administration and really stepped up in  this past week or so.

It is one thing to have a discussion. It is one thing to have a  conversation. But, instead, what we are hearing is some pretty  aggressive rhetoric from the Trump administration and some members of  Congress. There are statements that we are seeing that are suggesting  that not only is a taking by force or coercion or other related method  not only an option but perhaps a priority. And that, as a priority for  the United States to take Greenland, military action is an option. And  that, to me, is profoundly, profoundly troubling.

I think most of us want to be able to just not only quiet that but  make clear that is not only not going to happen, but it is an option  that has been taken off the table. I wish that I could say we have  received that kind of reassurance, but to date, we haven't. We haven't  had that assurance.

To be fair, the Secretary of State has recently stated that we are  not talking about military intervention, so much as seeking to  purchase. Again, in order to purchase something, you have to have a  willing buyer and a willing seller. Greenland has made it very, very  clear and Denmark has made it very clear that Greenland is not for  sale.

As I speak with those whom I have established relationships with  across the Arctic and, more specifically, in Greenland, they are  sharing with me their concern, their deep anxiety about what is going  on. What is it that the United States is asking for?

Think about the 57,000 people who reside in Greenland. That is the  total population of this massive, massive island--57,000 people. But  those 57,000 people are their own autonomous country. They have been  striving for independence and control of their own future for years.  Greenland's Prime Minister made a point very clearly recently. He said  that ``threats, pressures and talk of annexation have no place between  friends'' and that Greenland's future must be decided by its own  people.

We need to take that message seriously. We need to respect the will  and the wishes of the people of Greenland. Greenland's future must be  decided by its own people.

It is also deeply unsettling if you live in Denmark, which  administers defense and foreign policy for Greenland, as a mostly  autonomous territory. So those who are not Greenlanders but who live in  Denmark are justifiably disturbed and unsettled.

It is deeply unsettling, if you understand the immense value of  NATO--of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization--and how one cofounding  member taking land from another shatters this crucial alliance forever.  We have seen that in statements coming from our NATO allies.

Frankly, this should be unsettling for all of us because, bluntly,  there is no need to treat longstanding allies with such a brutal lack  of respect. And that is what I believe it is, a lack of respect.

We are not talking to the people of Greenland. We are talking over  them.  We are talking about them. But we are not talking to them. That is what  you do with your friends. That is what you do with your allies.

The people of Greenland are watching us, and the United States is not  exactly winning them over by treating them like serfs in a feudal  estate. The administration's approach is not improving relationships.  It is alienating Greenland. It is alienating Denmark. It is alienating  many of our friends and allies in Europe. And it sets the worst  possible example for Russia and China and others.

This is coming into focus in the wake of the arrest and extradition  of Nicolas Maduro. We get that. We get that. But Greenland is not  Venezuela. It is not Venezuela. It is not a narcostate that is run by  an illegitimate dictator. It is not an area where we have seen the  economy wrecked by a dictator.

Greenland's Prime Minister has rejected any comparison to Venezuela  and has emphasized that Greenland is a peaceful democracy. It is not a  territory to be pressured, to be threatened.

There is no case, legally or otherwise, for U.S. military  intervention in Greenland. Greenland has been not only a partner but a  faithful partner. They have been an ally and a friend to the United  States, dating back to World War II. At that time, it played a pivotal  role in the Allied victory.

To this day, they continue to be that staunch ally. As I mentioned,  they have been hosting the Pituffik Space Base and allowing the United  States to have not only an important presence there but an invaluable  presence. Any colleagues who have had the opportunity to visit the U.S.  assets that we have there at Pituffik understand that strategic  geography and the level of cooperation that we have seen now for  decades.

I was in Greenland just a couple of months ago. I had an opportunity  to meet with the new Greenlandic President, and he wanted to know--he  said: What is it that the United States wants? What are they seeking?  There is this talk about U.S. wanting Greenland. What does it mean?  What do they want? Is it critical minerals? Is it more from a national  security perspective? Because if that is what you are seeking, we are  not only willing to talk; we are anxious to talk. We want to have that  discussion with our friend and our ally. We don't want to cut that off.  We encourage it.

We have seen how Greenland has encouraged that. The way that they  have provided the access, again, to our military for decades, we should  be thankful for that. We should appreciate it. We should recognize what  we have there and, again, that Greenland and Denmark are willing to  give more. They have said as much. Denmark's Prime Minister has  suggested that a larger U.S. military presence in Greenland--if that is  what we are looking for, let's talk about it.

And we could pursue that as we pursue other areas of cooperation.  Whether it has to do with trade or tourism or the other economic ties  that bind, that is what we should be doing, but we are not doing it.

Instead, at least publicly, the Trump administration is focused on  acquisition, on ownership, even though every one of our strategic goals  can be accomplished with Greenland as our partner, rather than a  possession.

I would hope that the Trump administration realizes that the United  States' taking control of Greenland, especially by military force-- which, again, I can't even wrap my head around that one--what harm that  would bring to our national security and our international  relationships.

This is the 21st century. This is where the United States is supposed  to set the example for the rules-based global order, not be the  exception to it. And that includes respecting the sovereignty of  others.

If we do the wrong thing in Greenland, we will not--we will not--end  up with a more secure Arctic. For those of us who have been focused on  the Arctic for decades, that is what we have been pushing for. It was  this area of peace. We used to call it a ``zone of peace.'' Then Russia  fouled all that up. But it still is an area where, again, we have  prioritized the security, and we have done so in a way that is  collaborative and cooperative. If we lose the people of Greenland, we  will lose partners in Denmark and across Europe. We will destroy--we  will destroy--our strongest international alliance, and that is NATO,  and that gives Russia and China exactly--exactly--what they are looking  for.

Now, there may be some new forms of partnership. I am talking about  dialogue and trade relationships, but there may be other forms of  partnerships that might make sense in 2026. There has been some  suggestion of a joint Compact of Free Association that accounts for  both Greenland and Denmark's interests. That is one proposal, and I  think it is worthy of consideration if folks are interested in that,  but we can't force it on them. We need to have both Greenland and  Denmark at the table. We would need to treat them both with the respect  that they deserve, and it would have to be their choice--their choice-- to enter freely into any such accord, and that type of an accord, I  might add, would require congressional ratification. So we would have  involvement and engagement with that as well.

It should go without saying, but how we talk to our friends and  allies matters a great deal, and our approach to Greenland and then, by  extension, to Denmark is severely lacking right now. In early 2024,  Greenland released their Arctic strategy to guide its foreign security  and defense policy for the next decade. The title of that document--the  title of their Arctic strategy--is ``Greenland in the World--Nothing  about us without us.'' I hear that phrase ``Nothing about us without  us'' all the time from my fellow Parliamentarian in Greenland. We would  do well to remember that--to remember that real people live in  Greenland; that real people are watching the U.S.'s actions and  deciding whether or not they want to have much of anything to do with  us going forward. We need to be making sure that that is a firm yes  instead of a no.

Greenland is an amazing place. It is a beautiful place. Again, I have  had an opportunity to visit it multiple times. It reminds me of Alaska,  my home State. It is extraordinarily beautiful in so many ways. It is  also, like Alaska, very geostrategic. It is a resource-rich area just  like my State of Alaska. We have cultural connections thanks to the  Inuit people, who migrated from Alaska to Greenland centuries ago. We  see that. We see that in the art, and we hear that in the language,  where there are shared and common words.

But, unlike Alaska, Greenland is not part of America, and we can't  simply take it because we want to. To do so would be a colossal  mistake. It would end NATO. It would be a gift to Russia and China and  all autocratic nations that lust after new territory and want it to  justify their own provocations. Again, it is not necessary. It is not  necessary given the decades-long, still-strong partnership that we have  with Greenland--again, a country that is willing to work with us  diplomatically, militarily, and otherwise.

I am proud of the Alaskans who have really worked to enhance the  relationship between my State--the State that causes the United States  to be called an arctic nation--and the country of Greenland. We have  been working to forge relationships with the people. We have been  focused on shared economic interests, whether it be tourism, whether it  be trade, whether it be sharing best practices regarding indigenous  governance structures or in the collaboration that we are seeing going  on with arts and cultures. It is just exactly what we should be doing,  which is building these relationships--building these relationships  instead of sending out provocative messages that unsettle and disarm  everything.

Again, we have got a lot ahead of us in 2026. Greenland--taking  Greenland or buying Greenland--should not be on that list. It should  not be an obsession at the highest levels of this administration.

I urge--I urge--a reset in how we are conducting these discussions.  Let's be respectful of one another. Let's have dialogue. Let's have  cooperation. Let's have partnership. Let's take a different tack to  secure this relationship with Greenland, recognizing that they are an  ally and not an asset and not appropriate for any--any--sort of forced  annexation or action.