Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I have polled the Members of the Energy  Committee and now withdraw the committee-reported substitute amendment. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I call up substitute amendment No.  1407. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I thank all of those who just voted for  the motion to proceed to S. 2657. We have called up my substitute  amendment, No. 1407, which now contains the full text of the American  Energy Innovation Act. 

  We are moving through the process, albeit a little slowly here, but  we are moving through the process. We now have more than 150 amendments  that have been filed to the bill. Senator Manchin and I are working  together with other Members to sort through potential votes on the  bill. We are also working to see which ones might fit into a managers'  package of easy, noncontroversial, worked-out proposals. I know  everyone thinks that theirs is easy and that it has been worked out,  and, of course, it is not controversial, but we have a handful of those  proposals and are seeking additional ones. 

  I would remind Members that amendments require bipartisan  cooperation, especially from those beyond the Committee on Energy and  Natural Resources' jurisdiction. Those who are on the committee have  had an opportunity to go through each and every one of these measures  that we have in front of us and that have been incorporated as part of  this American Energy Innovation Act. That input has been helpful and  very, very positive as we have built these proposals. I know some folks  are looking at much of this for the first time if they are not on the  committee. They have ideas that are good and worthy, and we want to  respect that process and incorporate them as appropriate and enhance  this bill. 

  I want to have votes. The leader has said he wants to have an open  amendment process. I want to have a managers' package, but it is  entirely possible--we have seen it before--that the opportunity will be  spoiled. I would just urge Members to be honest about how ready their  proposals really are. Sometimes, they might not be as vetted as you  think they might be, and they might need some additional work, but know  that, as a committee, we stand ready to work with Members on those  proposals to better enhance them. 

  I have taken the opportunity over the past couple of days to share  with colleagues more about what our package includes--the result of  this good work that we have done over the past year in working through  regular order in our committee. Last night, I talked about title I,  which focuses on innovation--the big, key buzzword here,  ``innovation''--everything from energy efficiency and renewables to  energy storage. We all talk a lot about energy storage--advanced  nuclear and carbon capture, utilization, and storage. So there is a  good focus on the innovation side of this bill. 

  This morning, I would like to highlight what is in title II, which is  kind of our security title, and I put it in three different buckets.  You have mineral security, which is critical to the supply chain. You  have cyber security and grid security, which, again, are key to all  operations of commerce and our economy. Then you have the economic  security that comes with good jobs. The focus on the workforce is here  as well. 

  Out of these three, I begin with mineral security, because we don't  always associate these efforts with meeting our energy and our climate  goals. 

  What we focus on within this bill is the development of new, clean  technologies, but there is also a very important reality that we have  to acknowledge, which is that meeting our energy and our climate goals  will require a significant increase in our supply of critical minerals.  The world is not producing nearly enough of almost all of them. Think  about that. We are pushing and challenging those within our national  labs and those within the private sector and are saying: Move us to  these cleaner technologies--the world of renewables. Yet we have to  build all of these things. Whether it is your smartphone or whether it  is a wind turbine, we need to build them, and they require minerals-- they require critical minerals. 

  If we are not producing them, where are we getting them from? More to  the point, the United States is not producing nearly enough of almost  any of these materials that we are talking about when it comes to how  we move to clean energy sources. We are largely absent from the field,  as countries--most notably, China--increasingly dominate long-term  supply chains that will give them an almost insurmountable competitive  advantage. 

  Consider a few of the numbers here. According to the World Bank,  meeting the goals that have been set by the Paris Agreement would  increase demand for battery storage minerals, like lithium, cobalt, and  nickel, by 1,000 percent. Right now, nearly 70 percent of raw cobalt is  coming from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and over 60 percent  of the processed cobalt used in batteries is controlled by China. Think  about that. The United States has no capacity for battery-grade cobalt.  That is the situation we are in right now. There is no capacity for  battery-grade cobalt here in this country, and that is before the  projected 600-percent increase in demand over the next 30 years. 

  Despite new development on State and private lands in Nevada and  North Carolina, the United States only produces about one percent of  the world's raw lithium and contributes about seven percent of the  processed materials. Think about it--the cobalt that is so necessary  and the lithium that we require for our batteries. The same goes for  graphite, whereby 60 percent of mined graphite and 100 percent of the  processed material is coming from China. We have some very promising  reserves in my State of Alaska for graphite. Again, think about what  this means when we are talking about solar panels, advanced batteries,  and electric vehicles. What are they made of? It is not chocolate and  candy canes here. If we want to compete in the industries of the  future, we are going to have to do better. We will have to compete with  China, particularly, and right now, we are at a disadvantage. 

  Last year, an expert from the Foreign Policy Analytics testified  about China's domination of mineral markets and supply chains. For  electric vehicles, China controls or has influence over 80 percent of  the supply of rare earth elements. China also controls or has influence  over 70 percent of the supply of graphite and graphene, 59 percent of  the supply of lithium, 56 percent of the supply of vanadium, and 36  percent of the supply of cobalt. 

  Some of this is due to the production and supply chains in China.  Some of it is as a result of extensive investments that China has made  to acquire mines and mining interests around the world, most notably in  places like the Congo. Yet this is the reality that we are facing right  now--this ever-increasing reliance on and, therefore, vulnerability for  these minerals that are so necessary to the investments that we will  make. 

  It is not just China we are talking about here. Canada is well ahead  of us. Just this week, Prime Minister Trudeau released the Canadian  Minerals and Metals Plan, with the goal of ``being the leading mining  nation,'' in part, because minerals are critical to clean energy  technologies. 

  So while other countries are competing to lead in this space, what  are we doing here in this country? How are we doing it?  

  Now, I want to give the administration credit in this space. They  recognize the problem. They are acting on it. The President laid down  an Executive order. I just visited with the Secretary of the Interior  on their minerals analysis, but, really, the facts in front of us are  pretty clear. 

  USGS tells us this every year: We are still a long, long way from  true mineral security. Right now, we import at least 50 percent of our  supply of 46 different minerals, including 100 percent of 17 of them. 

  This is like the Achilles' heel for us because we have effectively  surrendered the front end of the supply chain, and then we wonder why  we have such a hard time capturing any of the rest of it. 

  So our mineral subtitle will help put us on the right track. It is  not an overnight cure-all; there is none. But it will enable the United  States to increase the responsible production and processing of  critical minerals. It will help us figure out what we have. It will  help us develop alternatives and substitutes for the minerals that we  lack, and that is an important part of this because, as much as it is  important to have that secure supply here, we need to be pushing  ourselves to recycle, to find the alternatives and the substitutes.  That is key and folds into the first title, which is all about  innovation and the technologies that will help us advance that but  keeping and pushing on the R&D in that space. 

  Then, also, what we do within the bill is increase recycling to  reduce the need for new supplies. So you have a focus on mineral  security, but how that ties into innovation and how we can reuse,  recycle, and develop alternatives is key. 

  Over time, our mineral subtitle will help America become a leader in  growing industries like battery and renewable manufacturing, along with  the jobs and the economic growth that they represent. 

  I think it also helps put the United States in the driver's seat to  prevent supply disruptions that could quickly derail our efforts to  deploy renewables, energy storage, EVs, and other technologies. 

  There is one thing our minerals subtitle will not do. It will not  weaken laws that protect our lands and waters. Our bill continues to  ensure that only responsible development is allowed to proceed. 

  I have heard some claim just as recently as yesterday that our bill  will somehow weaken the environmental review process, but know that  that is not accurate. That is simply wrong. 

  The United States, right now, has one of the slowest permitting  processes in the world--in the world. Some years back we were dead  last; we were actually tied with Papua New Guinea. We do not have a  permitting process that is the envy of anyone. It is entirely fair to  encourage agencies to do better, like their counterparts all around the  world, by working smarter and more efficiently. 

  I also want to remind colleagues that we passed this same provision  as part of our 2016 energy bill. Minerals were important enough to draw  85 votes back then, in 2016, so I would think that we would regard them  as even more important now as our reliance and our vulnerability have  only increased. 

  I want to thank Senator Manchin for his support on our efforts on  mineral security and for his cosponsorship of the American Mineral  Security Act. I was also glad to be able to combine his efforts on a  bill that he called Rare Earth Element Advanced Coal Technologies. We  have included that bill in our subtitle. 

  I also want to thank a number of members on the Energy and Natural  Resources Committee--Senators Barrasso, Risch, Daines, and McSally--for  their help in this very important subtitle. 

  Another subtitle within title II on security addresses the real and  growing threat of cyber attacks. According to the 2019 Worldwide Threat  Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community, China, Russia, and other  foreign adversaries are using cyber operations to target our critical  energy infrastructure. 

  We have already seen the real-world ramifications of cyber attacks on  energy infrastructure. In December of 2015, Russian hackers cut off  power to nearly a quarter of a million people in Ukraine. Two years  later, Russian hackers infiltrated the industrial control system of a  Saudi Arabian petrochemical plant and disabled the plant's safety  systems. We can't let that happen here. 

  Our electric grid, which is composed of generation, transmission, and  distribution resources, is a uniquely critical asset. Every sector of  our economy depends on it. We know what the impact would be if there  were a successful hack. It could impact homes, hospitals, banks, gas  pumps, traffic lights, cell phone services. The consequences really go  without bounds in terms of the devastation that could be wrought,  particularly if power can't be restored for any meaningful duration. 

  So, working with the administration, we have seen some good steps to  address this through the establishment of the Office of Cybersecurity,  Energy Security, and Emergency Responses, also known as CESER, at the  Department of Energy. I thank them for the leadership there. This  office is really pretty busy preparing for and responding to more and  increasingly sophisticated cyber threats. 

  Our innovation package builds on that effort through a bill called  the PROTECT Act, which will enhance cyber security defenses of grid  assets by providing incentives, grants, and technical assistance for  utilities to invest in cutting-edge technologies. 

  The innovation package will also allow all utilities and power  producers, especially those most vulnerable smaller utilities that have  fewer resources, to continue investing in new technology that keeps  their systems protected against evolving cyber threats. 

  This is important because we tend to focus on the big systems and  what that impact might be, but for many, many, many around the country  in our smaller, more rural areas, these are our smaller utilities that  don't have the resources to really be as current or as protected as  they want to be and as they should be in the event of any kind of cyber  threat. So helping assist them is important. 

  We included language from Senator Gardner to facilitate State energy  security plans and public-private partnerships for grid security. We  included Senator Cantwell's Energy Cybersecurity Act, which puts  programs in place for the DOE to effectively partner with industry and  other Federal agencies. 

  Senator Cantwell has been a real leader--when she was the ranking  member on the committee and now--as she continues to focus on this  issue, the very important issue of cybersecurity. So she has a good  provision included in this bill as well. 

  The American Energy Innovation Act will help improve our national  security in significant ways--again, through mineral security and  protecting our electric grid from cyber attacks. 

  We recognize that these measures play a crucial role in supporting  energy innovation and ensuring that its many benefits can be enjoyed by  the American people. 

  There is more that I will take the time to outline at a later point,  but I think it is important that, as Members consider what this energy  provision allows for, it is pretty expansive. It is pretty expansive,  and it is expansive because, again, we haven't seen an energy bill  become law in 12 years, so it should be expansive, and it should focus  on how we can help facilitate more of the ingenuity and innovation that  will come forward from our universities, from our labs, from public- private partnerships, from those who are working every day with great  ideas to help, really, transform not only our economy but our  environment as well. 

  So it is more than innovation in the renewable space. It is  innovation in the carbon space. It is innovation in the nuclear space.  It is innovation when it comes to industrial emissions. It is  innovation when it comes to efficiency. 

  With that innovation comes security, whether it be recognizing that  we must do more to ensure that we have stable and secure supply chains  through mineral security, through the security that comes with  protection of our grids and protection from cyber threats,  modernization of our grids, and, again, the security of the good jobs  that come with a skilled workforce. 

  So there is much to talk about in this good measure. Again, I  encourage colleagues, we are in an amendment  process. Come to us with your comments, your suggestions, your  concerns. Let's work them out, but let's get an energy bill through the  Senate, through the House, and signed into law by the President. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT