Cape Fox Land Entitlement Finalization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700283/cape-fox-land-entitlement-finalization-act-of-2025


Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I come to the floor with my friend and  colleague from Nevada Senator Cortez Masto to seek unanimous consent to  pass two noncontroversial bills as a bipartisan pair. The first is H.R.  2815. This is sponsored by Congressman Begich from Alaska. It is the  identical companion to my Cape Fox Land Entitlement Finalization Act.  And the second is H.R. 972, sponsored by Representative Dina Titus of  Nevada. It is the identical companion to Senator Cortez Masto's Sloan  Canyon Conservation and Lateral Pipeline Act.

These are important bills to those in Southeastern Alaska and in  Nevada. It probably won't make headlines out of those two areas, but  they are very significant and important bills. After more than five  decades, the Cape Fox bill will finally complete the land entitlement  for the Native Village of Saxman in Southeast Alaska. The Sloan Canyon  bill will facilitate construction of a water pipeline in the Las  Vegas Valley. This is critical infrastructure for hundreds of thousands  of people.

These are House-passed bills, OK, so they can go directly to the  President's desk to be signed into law. I mentioned that they are both  noncontroversial. Their pairing is also noncontroversial.   Both have had full process in the Senate over the course of multiple  Congresses. So if these look familiar, it is because we have seen them  before.

Both these bills passed the Senate by unanimous consent at the end of  2024, so over a year ago. Our cloakrooms on both sides of the aisle  hotlined them again 6 weeks ago, and so that is what brings us here  today as we are still trying to move them.

We have kind of gotten to a really difficult and frustrating-- frustrating, as much as anything--time in our process. People are  wondering, and they are asking me--those in the Ketchikan-Saxman area:  What is the holdup here? If everybody is supportive of this, why is it  taking so long and proving so hard for Congress to agree on things?

I don't have a good answer on that. I am not sure that there is one.  But, again, we are trying to move noncontroversial bills through a  process that requires support and consent on both ends of this  building. And this end of the building has said yes, and things are  getting stuck over on the other side. And rather than point fingers and  call names, I want to unstick things. I want to have us know that we  can move these bills that are important in our communities and in our  regions and they don't get taken hostage, if you will, by the other  body as they are trying to figure out how they gain leverage over  something else here. That is not fair to the constituents that we  represent. That is not fair to the lawmakers who are working very hard  to try to advance their bills. So I appreciate the discussion that I  have had with my colleagues here on the floor about a way, a process, a  dialogue that needs to be had with our colleagues on the other side of  the aisle.

So there are a few bills that we are looking at today specifically,  but I think it goes to a bigger concern that needs to be addressed in a  way that is going to work for other Members who are also trying to  advance their bills into full passage by law.

So my commitment to my colleagues on the Republican side of the aisle  and on the Democrat side of the aisle is let's leave from here and  let's make the calls to set up the sitdowns with our colleagues on the  other side--in the other body--to talk about how we are going to move  these in a way that is fair and does not penalize the Members, the  communities. We need to do right by our own process, and I would just  suggest that we need to be doing more than we are so that we are not in  a situation where we are waiting months and months and months to be  able to see these matters resolved.

Before I make any motion on these bills, I want to yield to Senator  Cortez Masto.

Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, we speak about the frustrations. There  is always room for frustration around here. But I share the many  concerns of my friend from California. Three of my bills and ones that  he also cares about and more that I have cosponsored are also pending  over there. And so this is not just the three of us sharing that we  need to find a path forward, but I think it is also an effort and a  need to find a path forward, working with the House to move these bills  forward.

In the meantime, here in the Senate, we need to keep doing our work,  but we can't forget that we have the other body that we need to have a  working relationship with, and passage of the bills requires just that.

So I think, today, we want to get focused on outcomes, pushing to  pass the bills where we can, however we can, whether they start with an  ``H.R.'' or an ``S,'' not caring about who gets the credit but just  making sure we are advancing some laws here.

2815, Cape Fox Land Entitlement Finalization Act of 2025 and H.R.  972, Sloan Canyon Conservation and Lateral Pipeline Act.

Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I want to thank not only the Senator  from California but my colleague Senator Cortez Masto from Nevada as we  have worked through this.

Know that the Senator from California does have my commitment to try  to address not only the matters that are on your specific docket today  but, again, to try and find a better path forward for all the  legislation that means so much to so many of us in our communities. And  I thank you for the courtesy today.