Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I have come to the floor this morning  to speak in support of the nomination of Mr. James Danly to serve on  the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Mr. Danly has been nominated  for the remainder of a term that runs through June 30, 2023, and for a  seat that has been open now since former Chairman Kevin McIntyre  tragically passed away from brain cancer about 14 months ago. 

  For those who don't follow the day-to-day of energy policy, FERC is  an independent agency within the Department of Energy. It regulates  electricity, hydropower, natural gas, and oil pipeline industries. In  my view, FERC is one of those very, very important entities. FERC plays  a critical role in keeping the lights on and ensuring the delivery of  reliable, safe, and affordable energy to America's homes and  businesses. 

  Mr. Danly has an impressive academic and professional background. He  is a veteran, having served two tours of duty with the Army in Iraq,  where he received a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart, and played a key  role in executing counterinsurgency efforts during the surge. 

  After his career with the Army, Mr. Danly chose to pursue a very  different career as a FERC attorney, first practicing at a major law  firm and most recently serving as FERC's general counsel for the past  2\1/2\ years now. 

  Mr. Danly's time at the FERC has been very productive. He has my  strong support to be a Commissioner. This is the type of individual who  knows his stuff, who has a great grasp and a keen understanding of  these energy-related matters. He is well qualified and has a deep  understanding of the issues that will come before him. He understands  FERC's mission as an independent and an impartial regulator. 

  Despite Mr. Danly's very impressive qualifications and experience, I  am disappointed that some of my colleagues have indicated they will  oppose his nomination simply because he isn't nominated alongside a  Democratic candidate. So they will acknowledge that he has strong  qualifications, that he has the expertise and the experience, but they  are opposing him because they are saying he needs to be nominated  alongside a Democrat. To me, opposing nominees on that basis alone is  very troubling. 

  It is also incorrect to characterize pairing FERC nominees as the  norm. I think Members should recognize that FERC is set up first and  foremost to avoid the need for pairings. We passed a law in Congress in  1990 to stagger the five Commissioners' terms by 1 year each. So if  nominees are sent to the Senate in a timely manner and stay in office,  we would never need to pair them. 

  Also contrary to what some have suggested, bipartisan pairings are  not actually the norm. More often, we have confirmed individual  Commissioners or had unbalanced pairings, like Colette Honorable in  2014 or the two Republican Commissioners we confirmed in 2017 after the  Obama administration refused to nominate any Republicans in 2015 or  2016. 

  I also encourage the Senate to recognize that this seat has already  been paired. In 2017, we paired Mr. McIntyre with Rich Glick, who will  continue to serve through mid-2022. The slot we are now considering is  to fill the remainder of Mr. McIntyre's term through mid-2023. 

  The fact is, we have one nomination for the Senate right now, not  two. We have one nomination to consider, and this position has been  open now for some 14 months. It is not fair to tell a qualified  Republican nominee that he has to wait, especially with the seat now  having been open for more than 1 year and the term expiring in mid- 2023. That doesn't change. 

  I would also remind my colleagues that nominations are the  responsibility of the President. It is not on me as the chairman of the  Energy and Natural Resources Committee. It is not on Leader McConnell.  It is the responsibility of the President. 

  The much more recent Democratic vacancy at FERC, which was the choice  of the Democratic leadership in this body, is for the Democratic  leadership to work out with the White House. Send to the White House  that nominee who can be advanced. 

  For those who are concerned about the Democratic vacancy, I will  share this with you. There will be an opportunity for a pairing later  this year. Commissioner McNamee has already announced that he will not  return to the FERC for a second term, so there will be a vacancy in  just a matter of months. I have encouraged the administration to send  us both nominees at the same time so that the Senate can restore FERC  to a full complement of five Commissioners. We give them a lot of work.  There is a lot of responsibility. They need a full complement. 

  Right now, our opportunity is to confirm Mr. Danly. That is who we  have in front of us. He is the only FERC nominee we have. He is well  qualified for the job. He served our country in uniform. He now wishes  to continue that service in a different capacity, and I hope--I hope-- no one will vote against him on party grounds. So I would certainly  urge the full Senate to support Mr. Danly's nomination. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, the Alaska State Senate yesterday  passed a bill that would establish March 12, today, as Ashley Johnson- Barr Day to be held each year. 

  Ashley Johnson-Barr was a 10-year-old beautiful little girl in  Kotzebue, AK. Ashley was probably one of those happy kids who loved  purple; thus, I have a purple scarf and purple jacket today. She was  one of those beautiful young children growing up in Kotzebue who would  have gone on to have a good, productive life in an Inupiat community in  the northwestern part of the State. But Ashley Johnson-Barr is  remembered now because, at the age of 10 years old, she was brutally  raped and murdered. She was literally taken from the kids' playground  there in Kotzebue and taken to a location not too many miles outside  the community.  

  Her death, the tragedy around the circumstance of how she left this  world, is one that is an open and raw and hurtful and horrific scar on  Alaska and on the communities. It is a reminder that in my State--a  place of extraordinary beauty, with beautiful people--there is a  darkness that is very, very difficult to talk about. That darkness is  reflected in the statistics that we see when it comes to sexual  assault, domestic violence, and more brutal acts of murder inflicted,  unfortunately, in a disproportionate way on our Native women and our  Native children. 

  Yesterday in the Senate, we passed two measures that I have been  working on for a period of time. Savanna's Act is legislation that was  initially brought about through the good work of my friend, the former  Senator from North Dakota, Senator Heidi Heitkamp. Heidi and I worked  on Savanna's Act for a period of time. It is designed to improve  coordination among all levels of law enforcement; increase data  collection and information sharing; and empower Tribal governments with  access to necessary law enforcement databases in cases involving  missing and murdered indigenous women and girls wherever they occur,  whether they are in a small, remote village or in our population  centers. 

  Savanna's law was passed through the Senate in the last Congress and  got stalled out in the House. So I took this back up, along with the  help of my friend from the State of Nevada, Senator Cortez Masto.  Working with her, we have now been successful in moving it through the  Senate. It traveled with another measure--a bill that was sponsored by  Senator Cortez Masto and cosponsored by me. 

  The Not Invisible Act improves the engagement amongst law enforcement  Tribal leaders, Federal partners, and service providers. We also  designate an official to coordinate efforts across agencies in  establishing a Tribal and Federal stakeholders' effort to make  recommendations to the Department of the Interior Department of Justice  on how we deal with this, how we combat this epidemic of disappearance,  of homicide, violent crimes, and trafficking of Native Americans and  Alaska Natives. This is something we have been trying to shine the  spotlight on. 

  We are making significant progress and headway in Alaska. Thanks to  the efforts and the heart of Attorney General Barr, we have seen  Federal funds come our way. We have seen commissions and a coordination  among stakeholders that is truly unprecedented, but we have much, much,  much work to do. 

  On this day, when in Alaska, we are recognizing the very short life  of a beautiful child, Ashley Johnson-Barr. I thank my colleagues for  working with us on these matters--helping us move Savanna's Act and the  Not Invisible Act--and working together to do more as we deal with  those who are trafficked, those who are assaulted, and those who are  violently murdered in their homes and in their hometowns. We have much  work to do, but we have good coordination and good cooperation moving  forward. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT