Governor, Congressional Delegation Coordinate Alaska COVID-19 Efforts


Alaska Governor Mike Dunleavy, with Congressman Don Young, Senator Lisa Murkowski, and Senator Dan Sullivan, continue to coordinate efforts to address the impact of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) on Alaskans and Alaska's economy.

"I appreciate the close coordination between Congressman Young, Senator Murkowski, Senator Sullivan, and my team to address the needs of our State in the face of the coronavirus pandemic. Alaskans can be assured that we are working diligently to identify any and all programs at the local, state, and federal level to mitigate the health and economic impacts caused by this virus. The passage of the federal CARES Act last Friday will provide Alaska with much needed support, and we continue to explore available options at the State level," said Governor Dunleavy. "While the future is uncertain, I am confident that together, we can stunt the spread of COVID-19 and return to enjoying the ways of life Alaska has afforded us in years past."

"The COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact families across our country, not only in terms of their physical wellbeing, but also their financial health. Countless families in Alaska have been forced to stay home or have been laid off, but the bills continue piling up," said Congressman Young. "The CARES Act was an important step forward as we work to help those who have been impacted by the economic slowdown caused by COVID-19. Individuals and families will receive urgently needed direct cash payments, and unemployment insurance will be temporarily expanded. This does not mark the end of our efforts in the fight against COVID-19. In the weeks and months to come, we will be doing all that we can to keep Alaskans healthy and get them back to work. We will get through this together and America will come back stronger than ever."

"Our work is far from done as new challenges arise each day, but together we've been working hard to address the health and economic needs of Alaskans during this evolving crisis," said Senator Murkowski. "The best response comes locally and I'm proud of the support we've been able to provide to Alaskan communities--through direct support to the state, Tribes, and for first responders and the healthcare system which will be critical to helping Alaskans respond to and recover from this pandemic."

"Everyone in Alaska has a role to play in stemming this pandemic," said Senator Sullivan."In Washington, D.C. we have been working night and day with Governor Dunleavy and his team, as well as other elected and community leaders, to ensure that Alaska has the resources it needs to fight this pandemic--'One team, one Fight,' as we say in the Marine Corps. Most Alaskans will receive a check from the federal government to get them through these unprecedented times. We've also focused on getting rapid relief to small businesses--the backbone of our economy--so that businesses don't permanently close and workers can continue to get paid and keep a connection to their employers. We will now be working relentlessly with Alaska's state and community leaders to ensure that the three significant laws that the Congress passed in the last three weeks are implemented correctly, and the billions of dollars of federal resources that were part of these laws can quickly reach Alaskan families, workers and businesses that are struggling."