International Energy Agency: United States is Well-Positioned to Lead the World on Energy


U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, today chaired a hearing where International Energy Agency (IEA) Executive Director Dr. Fatih Birol testified on the latest developments and longer-term prospects for global energy markets, with a special focus on the United States.

"Dr. Birol is internationally renowned and respected as a true expert on energy markets, trends, and policies, and we were glad to have him back before our committee," Murkowski said. "His perspective is particularly timely today as we continue consideration of the bipartisan American Energy Innovation Act on the Senate floor."

For the past several years, Dr. Birol has testified before the Energy and Natural Resources Committee about the importance of innovation in fields like renewable energy, advanced nuclear, energy storage, and carbon capture, utilization, and storage. All of those are areas of focus in the American Energy Innovation Act, which Dr. Birol pointed out today, commending the bipartisan work of the committee.

In his testimony, Dr. Birol highlighted key global trends and acknowledged America's role as a pioneer in new energy technologies.

"With its boundless human ingenuity, rich resources and track record of successful innovation and commercialization of new technologies, the United States is extremely well placed to continue to lead the world in the development and deployment of energy technologies that can help ensure a secure, affordable and sustainable supply of energy for decades to come," Dr. Birol said.

Murkowski emphasized that America's commitment to innovation is, in part, responsible for the nation's global energy dominance as well as reduced emissions, and pointed to the American Energy Innovation Act as a way to maintain and build on our success.

Murkowski is the chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. At Dr. Birol's invitation, she is also an honorary member of IEA's Global Commission for Urgent Action on Energy Efficiency. An archived video of today's hearing can be found on the committee's website. Click here, here, here, and here to view Murkowski's questions for Dr. Birol.