Letter to Ajit Pai, Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission - Murkowski Questions FCC Proposal to Open 6 GHz Spectrum


Dear Chairman Pai:

I am concerned that at a time when the burden on utilities and emergency respondersshould be reduced in order to devote greater resources to their coronavirus response, the FederalCommunications Commission (FCC) is instead forcing them to allocate time and resources to a rulemaking on the 6 GHz spectrum. Unlike the national crisis we are currently facing, the proposed FCC rule is neither timely nor necessary.

Our water, electricity, and natural gas utilities cannot spare the resources to deal with acomplex proposal from the FCC that could dramatically change the reliability of their essentialcommunications during an emergency, nor can police and fire departments. In addition tocontending with the coronavirus pandemic, our nation is entering peak extreme weather seasonwhere the electric sector must devote sufficient resources to mitigating the damages from natural hazards such as wildfires and hurricanes.

It took you seven months to reply to my June 14, 2019, letter on the importance of the 6GHz spectrum to utilities and emergency responders. Regrettably, your response did not addressmy questions about how the FCC has been cooperating with regulators and experts in the energyindustry to ensure that this FCC proposal will not impact essential communications. I can onlyassume that the lack of response is because the FCC has failed to adequately cooperate or consult with these entities.

For decades, the 6 GHz band has proven to be an essential and reliable means for utilitiesand emergency responders to provide high-speed communications. Allowing unlicensed devicesto occupy the same band as mission-critical utility and emergency response communicationscould cause harmful interference that is detrimental to network reliability. Secure communication is a mission critical function for the energy industry and must be protected to ensure a reliable, resilient electric grid.

I request that the FCC delay further consideration of this rule until (1) our nation recoversfrom the current crisis we are facing, and (2) the FCC engages in a meaningful way with theDepartment of Energy, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Electric Power ResearchInstitute, and other experts in essential communications within the energy industry.

I look forward to your prompt response.

Sincerely,