Murkowski Message to Alaskans During COVID-19 Outbreak


As the U.S. Senate this week considers policies to mitigate the health and economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) shared the following message to address concerns over the COVID-19 outbreak and encourage Alaskans to continue to follow guidance from health officials and agencies.

"As Alaskans begin this week, we are all focused immediately and directly on the coronavirus that has impacted the nation and truly the globe. This is something that I have been hearing for weeks now from individual Alaskans, the stories of those that have been impacted by the economic disruptions but also those who are worried about their personal health--the impact that our health systems may face, the prospect of supply chain issues, the concern of being in a rural area with, perhaps, limited facilities in the event of a positive coronavirus case. This creates anxiety amongst all Alaskans.

"I have encouraged Alaskans to follow the guidance of the CDC and local health officials. I think Dr. Zink has done an exceptional job of keeping Alaskans updated and providing clear and accurate information. I have compiled list of helpful resources on my website at Murkowski.senate.gov and encourage Alaskans to look directly to that as they are seeking good information and current information.

"I think we need to accept that right now our everyday lives are not the same.  They are not the same even as they were last week, but we need to all be participants in how we can slow the spread of this disease. We need to listen to what the experts are telling us, and when they say that social distancing has to be a priority, in slowing the transmission of this disease, when they tell us that ensuring that staying home when one feels ill or just not well, that we need to follow these instructions. We need to follow these protocols, because this is not just about one person feeling ill, this is about the potential transmission of a disease that we do not understand as fully as we need to.

"This is a trying time for our nation, this is a very difficult time for our state, not only the threat of the health matters but the economic impact to our state. But we are Alaskans. We will get through this. We are good at being creative. We are great at helping each other out.

"We've already seen examples of Alaskans coming together to help build a shelter for mushers, literally overnight, as they made a decision to ensure that those who were coming from outside the village would not have impact. And so how we work together, how we stay calm, how we adapt to some very challenging circumstances, we are good at this as Alaskans and we need to be reminded of that.

"So, we are working hard back here in Washington, representing the state to make sure that the issues that are unique to Alaska are being addressed, that Alaskans who need answers from federal agencies are getting the support that they need. And so we are here working, perhaps a little bit different work environment--from phone and teleconference and video conference--than we were doing last week, but we are doing and attending to the nation's business in many ways.

"I ask that Alaskans be aware, be neighbors, and be good to one another."

Background:

Senator Murkowski recently published a COVID-19 resource page on her website to share up-to-date information and resources about COVID-19. The website includes reliable information about the disease, preventative measures you can take to help stop the spread of germs, and Alaska-specific efforts taking place in response to the outbreak.In an effort to better prevent, prepare for, and respond to COVID-19, Senator Murkowski recently voted in favor of an emergency supplemental funding package, the Coronavirus Preparedness & Response Supplemental Appropriations Act, which includes a total of $8.3 billion. The bill aims to strengthen the federal response to the coronavirus outbreak and allow for necessary precautions, prevention, and treatment at the local, state, national, and international levels.