Protests


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I had asked to come and speak on the  floor of the Senate on this day, June 4. I have been actually looking  forward to it and planning speaking time for months now. 

  June 4 is a significant day in the fight for women's suffrage. It was  on June 4 of 1919 that Congress approved the amendment and sent it to  the States for ratification, and then it was in 1920 that the 19th  Amendment was ratified by the States. 

  So this was to be a time of celebration, of recognition, of women's  suffrage, this centennial event. 

  Since that time that I first looked to schedule this, my, how the  world has changed. We have been in the midst of a pandemic--over  100,000 American lives lost to the COVID-19 virus. We are in the midst  of an economic crisis the likes of which we haven't seen in decades and  decades. 

  And, just a week ago now, we witnessed the killing of George Floyd on  our streets, in broad daylight. And today, June 4, is not only a  recognition of women's suffrage, but it is the funeral of George Floyd. 

  So before I speak to the matter I intended to speak on today, I want  to just briefly comment on where I believe we are as a nation right  now. 

  I was walking into work this morning, and in my neighbor's yard is a  placard, a yard sign. It has been there for some years, actually, now.  It is a partial quote of Martin Luther King that states: ``We can't be  silent about the things that matter.'' 

  You think about those things that matter: equality, justice, the  fundamental truth that all human beings are created equal and endowed  by God with certain rights. And when those rights are denied, when they  are violated, it is our responsibility to address the injustice. It is  not our responsibility as elected Members of the U.S. Senate; it is our  responsibility as fellow humans, as Americans who believe in these  principles of justice and equality. 

  President Bush had some words this week that I found very direct,  very comforting at a difficult time when it is hard to be comforted,  when our spirits are so discomforted and agitated right now. But he  reminded us that achieving justice for all is the duty of all. It is  the duty of all. 

  And we are hurting now as a nation. We have wounds from racism that  have never been allowed to heal--and those words were just shared here  on this floor moments ago--wounds that have never been allowed to heal,  wounds that are still so open and raw. And healing can't take place  until the hurt and the anger and the anguish that so many in this  country still feel, so many African Americans, so many--so many who  feel that the system is meant for somebody but not them; that there is  not equal justice under the law; that it must be the law for somebody  else. 

  This has been hard--hard on all of us, as we have seen the protests,  many of them peaceful. In my home State, Alaskans are coming together  with a shared sense of duty and responsibility to speak up about things  that matter and doing so in a way that brings us together rather than  divides. 

  We must condemn the violence we see on the street with the looting,  but stopping the looting is not going to close this wound. We heal when  we acknowledge our weaknesses, when we acknowledge our failures, and  when we vow to address the things that matter, like equality and  justice. 

  What we say and how we say it truly matters. I have been challenged  by some. I have been chastised by some very close friends who have  said: You are silent, Lisa. Why are you silent? Why haven't you--you-- fixed what we are seeing? 

  And I have struggled. I have struggled with the right words. As a  White woman born and raised in Alaska with a family who was privileged,  I can't feel that openness and rawness that I just heard expressed by  my friends Cory and Kamala. I haven't lived their life. 

  But I can listen, and I can educate myself. And I can try to be a  healer at a time when we need to be healed. That is my commitment and  my pledge going forward to those I serve in Alaska and to those I serve  in this country. 

  This is challenging for us. We know this, but we are an extraordinary  country. We are an extraordinary people with extraordinary resilience.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT