Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services Relating to ``Patient Protection and Affordable Care


Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I come to the floor this afternoon to  speak in strong support of the appropriations package that will soon be  pending on the Senate floor. We overwhelmingly voted to invoke cloture  on the motion to proceed last night, and so we are in a good place with  these appropriations bills. As we were talking yesterday on the floor,  we are appropriating again. This will be the second package of bills.  As colleagues have noted in their statements before me, this package  includes three bills for the rest of fiscal year 2026.

This is for Commerce, Justice, and Science; for Energy and Water  Development; and for Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies. And  as chairman of the Interior and Environment Subcommittee, I am really  pleased to be able to share with colleagues the good work that our  subcommittee has produced. I am proud of the bill that we have in this  package.

Ours is not an easy one to write. Within the Interior bill, we not  only have management of our public lands, but we have oversight of the  EPA, we have the arts, and we have the Indian health and Tribal  programs. It is a challenge. It is complex. There are a lot of matters  that reside under the Department of the Interior and the EPA. And,  oftentimes, we don't always see eye to eye on the issues that are  within this jurisdiction, and that certainly would extend to funding.

There are some years that the Interior bill has proven absolutely  elusive, where we simply could not overcome our differences, and we  couldn't complete our work. But, fortunately, that is not the case this  year.

I worked closely with our full committee leadership, Chairman Collins  and Ranking Member Murray, and I want to thank them for their  leadership. They have kept us all to task, and their leadership--and I  particularly commend my colleague from Maine, Senator Collins, for her  just constant effort to keep us to task and really working so well with  members of the committee.

I also want to recognize and thank my ranking member, Senator  Merkley. He has been a partner to work with on this committee. Again,  we don't always see eye to eye on the issues, and one wouldn't expect  us to. But we are able to work through those areas.

And I also want to acknowledge and thank the other colleagues on the  committee, as well as our counterparts in the House. I think we built a  good bipartisan bill, and I think that the support that we have seen by  way of the votes is proof positive of that.

We had a 26-to-2 vote in committee last summer, and then, after weeks  of bicameral negotiation, our colleagues in the House passed this  minibus last week by a resounding vote of 397 to 28--so pretty strong;  actually pretty powerful. And then, to have received the endorsement  from the President with his statement of position endorsing this three- package bill was also very much appreciated.

And, as I say, I absolutely appreciate the work that went into the  CJS and the Energy and Water bills. I certainly support them.

But, this afternoon, I want to direct my comments to the Interior  bill, as we begin the debate.

Overall, we prioritized fiscal responsibility, cutting a total of  $1.9 billion. This is about 4.7 percent of our bill. That is  substantive. And while we met that goal to cut our spending, we also  met the needs and met Members' requests across its many accounts.

We also reformatted. As we updated our priorities for this fiscal  year, reflecting a new administration and the majorities here in  Congress, I think that we restored balance in some of the key areas of  our bill. And the result is we have a measure that will strengthen our  energy security, our mineral security, and our national security.

It will continue to facilitate clean and safe drinking water. This is  a priority that so many of our colleagues have emphasized.

It will protect our public lands, and it will ensure that we are as  ready as we can be for the upcoming fire season.

For example, we provide funding so that Agencies like the Bureau of  Land Management, BLM, have greater capacity to issue permits for energy  projects. We have included robust funding from mapping and minerals- related work at the USGS.

We have also provided funds to bolster development and staffing out  in our U.S. Territories. They are a long way away, most in the Pacific.  They are very crucial, very key, but, oftentimes, they are overlooked  or are possibly ignored. And so making sure that we have got the  critical staffing that we need out there and the folks to make sure  that we are poised in our quest to counter China.

But I mentioned the cuts that we had made to this bill. Even as we  cut back, we were able to do some important work when it comes to the  priorities, like fully funding wildland fire management.

We prioritized the removal of hazardous fuels. We took care of the  firefighters who risk their lives to protect their communities,  property, and the environment. As we have seen, year over year, that  threat of fire from one end of the country to another is very real. So  the effort here is a very important one.

We continued to address the threats that are posed by natural  hazards, like volcanoes--we just saw another eruption in Hawaii-- earthquakes, landslides, and tsunamis. My State has been particularly  hard hit in recent years with deadly landslides.

But there are other natural hazards that threaten lives and  landscapes, and we worked to address them in this bill.

When it comes to the Payments in Lieu of Taxes Program, or PILT, we  fully funded it. This accounts for the Federal lands that reduce the  tax base of counties and boroughs across the country.

We also included substantial resources for our Agencies to manage and  maintain our national parks. We hear from so many who love and embrace  our national parks. We all love them. Sometimes, we love them so much  that we forget that their care and their upkeep is also important. So  we made sure we addressed the resources for our national parks, our  wildlife refuges, and, really, all of our Federal lands.

One area of the bill that perhaps gets a little more parochial--but,  obviously, an issue of very real concern--is a focus on invasive  species.

We don't happen to have Asian carp in Alaska. We want to keep it that  way. I know that, in many parts of the South, Asian carp is a threat,  an invasive species that needs to be dealt with.

Up on the west coast, in Washington State and, now, unfortunately, in  Alaska, we are seeing growing threats from this European green crab. We  want to be able to knock those out.

There is the spruce budworm that threatens landscapes everywhere,  from Florida to Maine, to Washington, to Alaska.

Whether it is green crab, Asian carp, or budworms, the reality is we  are impacted in different ways. So being able to direct resources to  push back on these invasive species is important.

We also upheld our commitment to Native peoples. We have provided  robust funding for the Bureau of Indian Affairs, for the Indian Health  Service, and for similar Agencies.

I think we did really good work within the bill to advance some of  the public safety and justice initiatives. We strengthened Tribal  colleges and universities. We addressed the scourge of missing and  murdered indigenous women and children. A focus on ensuring the safety  of our Native peoples was a priority--but, really, not just the justice  and safety, but so many of the other aspects of the well-being of  Native people around the country.

As it relates to the EPA, I think, again, we have a good story to  tell here. We did scale back the overall budget, but we kept the  priorities in the right place. We fully funded the Clean Water and the  Safe Drinking Water State Revolving Funds. That is a priority across  the country.

We provided robust funding for EPA's efforts in science and  technology, in environmental programs and management, with Superfund  issues, and, especially, for State and Tribal assistance grant  programs.

Overall, we addressed the priorities of dozens of Members of the  Senate, whether it was programmatic requests for more parochial  matters, like stream gages on the Ohio River, to the distribution of  revenues from development off the gulf coast.

We did instruct Agencies not to undertake certain activities that  would waste taxpayer dollars and impose burdens, like the regulation of  lead tackle and greenhouse gas reporting requirements for farmers and  livestock producers.

We also provided funds for America250. I mentioned that the Interior  Subcommittee has oversight of the arts, whether it is the national  humanities or an element of the arts. In our account, we also provided  funds for America250. We recognize the importance of the 250th  anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence and the  founding of our Nation. We want this to be an anniversary that really  brings us together, that celebrates the best of our Nation and reminds  us that we are just so blessed to be Americans.

I have spoken about so many of the broad national impacts of this  bill, but for folks back home that may be listening: OK, what about  Alaska? No surprise, Alaska is always first and foremost for me, and we  paid attention to Alaska within this bill. In addition to the many  things I have mentioned, from wildfire to natural hazards, to PILT, we  were able to provide for the restoration of vital fish habitat. We were  able to scrounge up some funding for my colleague from Alaska's Save  Our Seas Act. This is very important legislation for us.

We also added funds for the cleanup of contaminated lands, for  airshed grants that will improve air quality in places like Fairbanks,  for healthcare facilities and staffing in Native communities, and to  begin to address the impending crisis of leaking above-ground fuel  storage tanks. This is a matter for so many of our communities that  rely for their power generation from just fuel that is brought upriver  by barge. You have to have a place to store it. These storage tanks  have been there for decades and need to be attended to.

We also recognize that there is a staggering backlog in BIA's probate  courts. This needs to be addressed, and we were able to make some  incremental gains in that area as well.

So there are many good provisions in the bill that add up to what I  think is a good bill. It is certainly not everything that I wanted.  They never are. I wish--I wish--we could have reached bicameral  agreement to include some of the naming conventions that we were  batting back and forth. We were not able to, in this bill, call Denali  by its rightful name. This is North America's largest peak. ``Denali,''  in the Koyukon-Athabascan language, means ``the great one,'' and that  is absolutely, positively, 100-percent fitting for this magnificent  mountain. We are going to live to fight another day on that because  nobody is going to take that mountain from us. I am certainly not  standing down here.

For today, I would urge the Senate to recognize the important  bipartisan work that we have done with balance, with common sense, and  with fiscal restraint as really our guiding principles here. I don't  take for granted anything in this Interior bill. But we would not  be at this place today without the members not only on my team but on  Senator Merkley's team, and the broader Interior Appropriations staff.  They have worked extraordinarily hard and extraordinarily well  together.

I want to thank the members of my team, led by Daniel Mencher, Sarah  Jorgenson, and Anna Smith; and their counterparts on the minority side,  Melissa Zimmerman, Ryan Hunt, Rishi Sahgal, and Anthony Sedillo. These  folks worked day and night, around the clock, through Christmas,  through New Year's, and they have produced a very, very strong bill.

We overcame some long odds--again, some really long nights--to move  this forward and to fund the Department of the Interior, the Forest  Service, EPA, and related Agencies. But what we agreed to is going to  help our people, our communities, our economy, our security, and our  lands and our wildlife. It is something we should all be proud to  support.