S.J. Res. 91 and H.J. Res. 131


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697510/sj-res-91-and-hj-res-131


Ms. MURKOWSKI.   Res. 91 and H.J. Res. 131, joint resolutions providing for  congressional disapproval of the Bureau of Land Management's 2024  Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision under the  Congressional Review Act.

Hon. Lisa Murkowski,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.      Hon. Dan Sullivan,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.      Hon. Nicholas Begich III,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Senators Murkowski, Sullivan, and Representative       Begich: On behalf of the Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation (KIC)       and our shareholders, I am writing to express our strong       support for S.J. Res. 91, the resolution disapproving the       Bureau of Land Management's (BLM) 2024 Coastal Plain Oil and       Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision under the       Congressional Review Act.

KIC is the village corporation for Kaktovik, established       under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of 1971 (ANCSA)       to manage surface estate, support economic selfdetermination,       and protect the long-term interests of our Inupiat       shareholders. Kaktovik is the only community located within       the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), and KIC holds       significant ANCSA lands within the Coastal Plain lands that       Congress specifically conveyed to our people so that local       Inupiat not distant federal agencies, would have a central       voice in decisions about our homeland.

For decades, KIC has participated constructively in every       federal process affecting the 1002 Area. We have consistently       supported responsible, science-based resource development       because we live here, we understand this place better than       anyone, and our community depends both on a healthy       environment and a stable local economy.                  support for S.J. Res. 91 and H.J. Res. 131

S.J. Res. 91, introduced by Senator Murkowski and co-      sponsored by Senator Sullivan, and its companion measure in       the House, H.J. Res. 131, introduced by Representative       Begich, are identical resolutions providing for congressional       disapproval of BLM's 2024 Coastal Plain ROD (hereinafter       referred to as the 2024 ROD) and subsequent Government       Accountability Office (GAO) conclusion that such record of       decision is a rule.

These resolutions are necessary because the Biden       administration's 2024 ROD undermines responsible resource       development required by law, disregards ANCSA, the Alaska       National Interest Lands Conservation Act of 1980 (ANILCA),       and ignores the voices of the only people who live on the       Coastal Plain.      Background: The History of Federal Direction on the Coastal Plain

The Coastal Plain has long been recognized by Congress as       an area with substantial energy potential and is an area       where development was explicitly authorized for mineral       leasing under P.L. 115-97 (Tax Cuts and Jobs Act).           Why the 2024 ROD Is Harmful to Kaktovik and ANCSA Rights

2024 ROD:

Ignores the statutory mandate for area-wide leasing.

Disregards congressional limits on habitat closures and       surface disturbance.

Undermines ANCSA village lands specifically conveyed to KIC       for local benefit.

Removes opportunities that Congress intended to support       Inupiat economic self-determination.

Threatens the revenue streams, jobs, and infrastructure our       community relies on.

Discounts Kaktovik's longstanding record of supporting       environmentally responsible development.

Kaktovik--the only community in the entire Refuge--bears       the full weight of the impacts. Yet our voice was minimized       while outside interests were elevated over the rights and       concerns of the people who live here and are the most       impacted by these decisions. The process in the development       of the 2024 ROD, disregarded our local indigenous knowledge,       our rights to consultation and the Secretary for the       Department of the Interior's own orders for meaningful       consultation.

The 2020 Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program (2020       program) included robust protections for wildlife and       sensitive habitats and was supported by the elected       leadership from the North Slope and Kaktovik. The development       of the 2020 program followed a transparent process that       incorporated meaningful consultation with our community,       recognizing the connection between economic self-      determination, our community and our culture.

Restoring the 2020 program ROD and overturning the 2024 ROD       as a rule is consistent with the FY 2025 reconciliation bill,       which requires four lease sales over the next decade.       Secretary Burgum has already reinstated the 2020 program ROD,       and both the Senate and House measures ensure future       administrations cannot disregard federal law or sideline our       people and communities.                 Bottom Line: The 2024 ROD Must Be Nullified

The 2024 ROD's restrictive approach is unlawful,       unworkable, and deeply harmful to our people whose lands and       livelihoods are directly affected.

S.J. Res. 91 and H.J. Res. 131:

Upholds federal law

Defends Congress's authority

Restores the 2020 program

Strengthens U.S. energy security

Respects Inupiat voices, including Kaktovik

Protects ANCSA rights and village corporation lands

Ensures a fair and functional leasing program going forward

KIC appreciates your leadership in standing with our       community and ensuring that the laws governing our homeland       are followed. We urge swift passage of S.J. Res. 91 and H.J.       Res. 131.

Thank you for your continued support of Kaktovik and the       Inupiat people of the North Slope.            Sincerely,                                                     Charles Lampe,      President, Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation.