Salem Maritime National Historical Park Redesignation and Boundary Study Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692655/salem-maritime-national-historical-park-redesignation-and-boundary-study-act


Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I am really very glad we were able to  reach agreement today to pass these four bills by unanimous consent and  will send them to the President to be signed into law.

I want to acknowledge and thank my colleague and friend from Nevada  Senator Cortez Masto. I also want to acknowledge Senator Markey from  Massachusetts. They worked with us to try to get us to the place we are  today in which we were able to move these bills across the floor.

I also want to thank the chairman of the Energy Committee and the  ranking member, Chairman Lee and Ranking Member Heinrich. Their teams  worked with us on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, as well  as the cloakroom teams, to make sure we were able to be successful  today.

The Senate passed all four of these measures last December, so we  have seen them once. Now we have seen them twice. But the House ran out  of time at the end of the last Congress to take them up, so we are  where we are. But now these bills are going to be going to the  President for his signature.

Two of the bills we just passed are important for Alaska Natives, and  I am proud to have been able to work on these important measures. It  has been a multiyear effort to get them to the President's desk. Again,  I don't care, really, if we send an H.R. or if we send a Senate bill to  the President; we just want to get it accomplished. We want to get some  things done for Alaska.

The first measure, which is H.R. 42, amends the Alaska Native Claims  Settlement Act, or ANCSA. It amends it to ensure that when Alaska  Native elders, the blind, and the disabled receive dividends from their  settlement trusts, they do not inadvertently become, then, ineligible  to participate in Federal needs-based assistance programs.

This is pretty common sense. You have a situation where Alaska  Natives who are aged, blind, or disabled should not have to choose  between accepting the settlement trust income they are entitled to or  qualifying for Federal benefits such as supplemental security income,  SSI, or SNAP, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, as well as  housing assistance. Now, with this bill, they are not going to have to  make that choice.

The second measure is H.R. 43, the Alaska Native Village Municipal  Lands Restoration Act. What this does is eliminate a requirement under  ANCSA, section 14(c)(3), that Alaska Native village corporations convey  land to the State of Alaska to be held in trust for future  municipalities, which are not likely to ever be established.

So what we are doing with this measure is sunsetting this requirement  and allowing village corporations to regain title to conveyed lands.  This will allow village corporations to fully utilize their lands for  the benefit of their communities. This is what we want to see happen.  Again, it has been a long time coming. So I am pleased that we are  here.

I am hopeful that the Senate can pass more of these similar, very  noncontroversial bills through the unanimous consent process. We  shouldn't get into the practice where we wait until the end of a  Congress or perhaps even multiple Congresses for a package to be knit  together. People in these communities are waiting on us, as Senator  Cortez Masto noted in her State of Nevada and in my State of Alaska.  They are waiting on us to deliver these small legislative priorities  that will allow them to move forward, whether it is economic  development or just making sure that there is a level of equity and  fairness.

So I thank my colleagues, I thank the Energy Committee, as well as  the floor team, and my staff who helped us move these measures forward.