Senate Passes Schatz-Blackburn-Coons-Murkowski Bill Honoring the More Than 100,000 Americans Lost to COVID-19


The U.S. Senate today passed legislation to honor the more than 100,000 lives lost to the COVID-19 pandemic. The bipartisan legislation, authored by U.S. Senators Brian Schatz (D-Hawai"i), Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), and Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), called for a moment of silence to pay tribute to those who have tragically passed.

"The nation must mark this dark moment with unity and clarity," said Senator Schatz. "At this time of almost unimaginable pain, it is essential that we pause to honor every life lost, and that we grieve together."

"Over the past few months, more than 300 Tennesseans have lost their lives to COVID-19. For the families and friends of the victims, nothing can replace their loved ones whose time was cut short by this virus. We are praying for them and for those that continue to battle COVID-19 during this difficult time for our country," said Senator Blackburn.

"Our country is experiencing a collective trauma of historic proportions, and we should come together as a nation for a moment of silence, prayer, and reflection to mourn the friends, neighbors, and loved ones we've lost to this pandemic," said Senator Coons. "Just as we're working together to provide health care and economic relief, we also need to provide each other emotional and spiritual support, and this moment of silence is one way for our nation to begin that important process."

"The COVID-19 pandemic has devastated our nation. Far too many families have seen their loved ones suffer. Due to strict isolation measures, most who have lost someone to the disease have been robbed of their final farewell at the hospital. Many have also been unable to have proper memorials to honor the people they have lost," said Senator Murkowski. "These impacts cannot be undone, but my heart is with each person, family, and community that is mourning. As a nation, together, we grieve the lives that have been taken by this dreadful disease."

The Schatz-Blackburn-Coons-Murkowski bill is also cosponsored by U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Michael Bennet (Colo.), Tina Smith (D-Minn.), Tammy Duckworth (Ill.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), and Cory Booker (D-N.J.).