Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696449/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-duties-on-articles-imported-from-canada


Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I have come to the floor to join my  colleague from Alaska Senator Sullivan in support of S.J. Res. 80, as  Senator Sullivan explained earlier.

This resolution will disapprove the integrated activity planned by  the administration, issued back in 2022, to manage the National  Petroleum Reserve in northwest Alaska. He sponsored it and I  cosponsored it because the Biden administration imposed this management  plan over not only our objections but the objections of leaders from  across Alaska's North Slope. The third member of our delegation,  Congressman Begich, has introduced H.J. Res. 124, which is identical  and is pending in the House of Representatives.

I think it is important to outline a little bit of the history on  this issue, but I don't want to go into all of it.

The National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska--we call it NPR-A--is a 23  million-acre tract of land. It is roughly the size of the State of  Indiana. It was specifically--specifically--designated for responsible  energy development.

The petroleum reserve dates back a century, to President Harding's  withdrawal and initial control by the U.S. Navy.

More recently, Congress has come to understand not only the naval  value but the national value of the area. They have directed the  Department of the Interior to ``conduct an expeditious program of  competitive leasing of oil and gas in the Reserve'' to help boost our  energy security.

What I just shared there is a word-for-word requirement from existing  Federal law, so this is what is in law: ``to conduct an expeditious  program of competitive leasing of oil and gas in the Reserve.''

The Department is mandated to do that while protecting important  values, including sensitive areas, as well as providing for subsistence  use for Alaskans. This is generally Alaskan Natives who live in the  North Slope area.

Congress really envisioned this as a balance here, where you had  responsible exploration and development moving in tandem with strong  environmental protection and subsistence rights. The statute is pretty  clear. It kind of spells it out. And we are OK with that. We don't have  a problem with that. That is kind of the Alaska way.

But, unfortunately, the Biden administration ignored that. Instead of  providing for balanced management, the last administration ignored what  I think was a good plan that was already in place. They ignored Federal  law. They ignored the congressional delegation. They ignored the people  who live on the North Slope. I think they also ignored or overlooked  our history of responsible production, our energy security, and they  instead prioritized conservation over everything else. So that is why  we are here.

The 2022 Integrated Activity Plan cut off access, to cut off leasing,  to cut off development in our petroleum reserve. That was not an  accident. That was the goal here. That was the intent. The 2022 plan  admits--they admit--that it will reduce oil and gas activity, which was  fine in the eyes of the Biden administration because, right as they  were putting sanctions on Alaska, they were taking them off of places  like Iran and Venezuela to free up those nations to produce more.

Let me reiterate how the Biden administration went about doing this.  The 2022 plan replaced the 2020 plan, which was put in place after an  environmental review process that featured public comment and  significant consultation with communities and leaders on the North  Slope.

Under that 2020 plan, the BLM concluded that 18.6 million acres--this  was 82 percent of the NPR-A--should be open for potential leasing, but  in the 2022 plan, just 11.8 million acres--52 percent of the petroleum  reserve--were left open for that purpose.

Under the 2020 plan, 4.3 million acres were closed to new  infrastructure, with development across millions of additional acres  subject to requirements for no surface occupancy, seasonal timing, and  other sensible protections, but then the 2022 plan rejected that,  closing off 8.3 million acres to any new infrastructure.

The 2020 plan was well received by most Alaskans because it was  viewed as balanced. BLM crafted a plan that was, as the Agency wrote at  the time, ``suitably specific for broad-scale management decisions. . .  . Additional site-specific analysis will occur when BLM receives an  application to approve an action on the ground. This will be done  through subsequent NEPA reviews and analysis, which will be conducted  before BLM issues permits or approvals for any ground disturbing  activity.''

In other words, what you had was a high-level management framework.  No individual projects were approved. Any seeking to advance would  still have to go through a separate permitting process before being  allowed to do so.

But unfortunately, BLM abandoned that approach after the Biden  administration took office. They didn't base their 2022 plan on any new  scientific analysis or new environmental review process; they based it  on a political agenda and their preference to what they called ``keep  it in the ground.'' They issued a ``determination of NEPA adequacy''  and then went into the 2020 plan and selected a far more restrictive  alternative from it.

So with virtually no public process, no public comment, no  consultation with Alaska Natives who call the North Slope home, the  Biden administration unilaterally cut off access to 6.8 million acres  of our petroleum reserve. That is an area that is larger than the  individual States of Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and  Hawaii. It is clearly not what the delegation wanted. It is not what  most Alaskans wanted. And, as I explained when discussing the  administrative withdrawals in the Central Yukon plan just a few weeks  back, it violates multiple Alaska-specific statutes.

I should add that this was just one plank in the Biden  administration's plan to shut down development in our petroleum  reserve. In addition to cutting off access, they refused to hold a  single lease sale in the NPR-A during their time in office. They  dragged the Willow Project through years of additional process, sending  a signal that nobody else should dare try to develop there. They issued  a management rule that turned the law on its head by establishing a  presumption against new development. They initiated another process to  expand and designate new special areas where no development would be  allowed to occur. Then, just a few days before leaving office, an  Acting Deputy Secretary issued a memo with interim management measures  to further tilt the balance away from any potential development.

So what you had was an administration that wanted nothing to do with  responsible development in Alaska's petroleum reserve, and that was  enough to cause some whiplash for those of us who not only know the law  but also remember the Obama-Biden administration repeatedly urging  companies: Go over there. Go to the National Petroleum Reserve.

This was the big fight over ANWR. They said: Don't go to ANWR; go to  NPR-A.

I have kind of outlined the history of this, some of the politics of  it, but I  would suggest that folks just shouldn't take the delegation's word for  it either. We received a letter from the North Slope trilateral. This  is the political leadership on the North Slope consisting of the North  Slope Borough, the Inupiat Community of the Arctic Slope, and the  Arctic Slope Regional Corporation. They weighed in with their strong  support for this disapproval resolution.

In their words:

The NPR-A lies entirely within the homelands of the North       Slope Inupiat. Congress established the NPR-A with a clear       purpose: to ensure energy security for the Nation while       respecting the needs of Alaska Natives.

Despite that, the 2022 plan ``imposed sweeping restrictions that  curtail responsible development, undermine congressional intent, and  disregard the well-being of the people who depend on these lands for  both subsistence and livelihoods.''

The letter then goes on to explain how the impacts of the 2022 plan  ``are especially severe for the North Slope. Oil and gas development in  the NPR-A funds the Borough's schools, emergency services, and  infrastructure. It supports jobs for Inupiaq shareholders and  residents. It underwrites the continuation of our communities, even as  we maintain our subsistence way of life. By arbitrarily locking away  vast portions of the NPR-A, BLM's rule threatens these essential  services and imposes disproportionate burdens on our people.''

Equally concerning, BLM failed to engage in meaningful       government-to-government consultation with ASRC, the Borough,       and ICAS. This omission contradicts federal consultation       requirements and disregards the voices of the very       communities most affected. Our leadership has consistently       raised concerns about this process and its outcomes, yet       those concerns were ignored.

I think the words from the North Slope trilateral are particularly  strong and powerful, and I thank them for their leadership on the  issues.

There is a good chance you will see Senator Sullivan and me here on  the floor of the Senate seeking to disapprove any administrative action  that unreasonably restricts access to public land in our home State.  That is exactly what happened in this 2022 plan. Like we saw so much in  the Biden administration, it lacked balance, and it failed to adhere to  the law.

We feel pretty strongly back home that we don't need Washington, DC,  to try to protect Alaska from Alaskans. We need Washington, DC, to  understand that no one--no one--cares more about Alaska, our lands,  than those who live there and to partner with us on the balanced  management of our lands. That is true across our State, and that is  true within the NPR-A.

We had a good framework for responsible development in our petroleum  reserve back in 2020. Today, we can vote to nullify the 2022  replacement and go back to it.

I would urge my colleagues, when we have this measure before us  tomorrow--I would urge support for the resolution.

Re Support for S.J. Res. 80 and H.J. Res. 124--Congressional           Review Act Disapproval of the BLM NPR-A Integrated           Activity Plan (IAP) Record of Decision (ROD).       Hon. Lisa Murkowski,      U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Dan Sullivan,      U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Nicholas Begich III,      House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Senators Murkowski, Sullivan, and Representative       Begich: On behalf of the North Slope Inupiaq leadership--      including Arctic Slope Regional Corporation (ASRC), the North       Slope Borough (Borough), and the Inupiat Community of the       Arctic Slope (ICAS)--we write in strong support of S.J. Res.       80, introduced by Senators Sullivan and Murkowski, and H.J.       Res. 124 in the House, each providing for congressional       disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code,       of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Land Management       relating to the ``National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska       Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision.''                                  Background

The North Slope Inupiat have called the Arctic home for       over 10,000 years. We are proud of our self-determination       efforts to ensure future generations of Inupiat continue to       reside in our communities and have access to essential       services. Without a stable economy, our communities will       suffer, along with our ability to fully engage in and sustain       our Inupiaq cultural traditions, including our vital       subsistence way of life.

The North Slope of Alaska spans an area nearly the size of       the state of Minnesota and, within that expansive area, there       are eight Inupiaq communities--Anaktuvuk Pass, Atqasuk,       Kaktovik, Nuiqsut, Point Hope, Point Lay, Utqiagvik, and       Wainwright. None of our communities are connected by a       permanent road system; all supplies must be flown or barged       in, making the cost of living extremely high and economic       opportunities generally low.

Over fifty years ago, the Federal Government directed       Alaska Native people to organize into a new structure of       indigenous representation. The Alaska Native Claims       Settlement Act of 1971 (ANCSA) was a dramatically different       and transformative approach by the Federal Government to       federal Indian policy. The fact that our ancestral lands were       claimed by the Federal Government before our people had a       right to settle aboriginal land claims should inform every       decision the Federal Government makes in managing those       lands.

Unlike the Lower 48 model of indigenous representation       where tribal governments typically administer the delivery of       services such as healthcare, public safety, education, land       management, and economic development, the passage of ANCSA       created a shared system of Alaska Native representation and       delivery of services. Our region has a multitude of Alaska       Native entities that work together to effectively serve,       provide for, and enrich the lives of the North Slope Inupiat       we represent. Our three regional entities, the ICAS, the       Borough, and ASRC are three of those entities. While our       roles differ, our constituencies overlap, which is why we       work closely together to protect the cultural and economic       interests of the North Slope Inupiat.

While our leaders over fifty years ago were initially wary       of any development on our lands, our Inupiaq leaders have       spent decades prioritizing open communication and       transparency in planning with industry. We have exercised       true self-determination through a unique framework of Alaska       Native governance--a framework that relies on our tribal       governments, municipal governments, and Alaska Native       corporations established by Congress to serve our indigenous       constituents. For millennia, Inupiaq ingenuity has       transformed our relationship with industry into a partnership       that has both protected our environment and our way of life       and has brought significant economic benefits to the region       that would have otherwise been absent. Our North Slope       residents are keenly aware that advances in our communities--      running water, local schools, health care, public safety,       electricity, and more--have come because of the coordination       and cooperation of Alaska Native leaders and entities across       the region.      ICAS

Established in 1971, the Inupiat Community of the Arctic       Slope is the federally recognized regional tribal government       for the North Slope and represents over 14,000 Inupiaq tribal       members. The mission of ICAS is to exercise its sovereign       rights and powers for the benefit of tribal members, to       conserve and retain tribal lands and resources including       subsistence. For millennia Inupiaq ingenuity has transformed       our relationship with industry into a partnership that has       both protected our environment and our way of life and has       brought significant economic benefits to the region that       would have otherwise been absent. Our North Slope residents       are keenly aware that advances in our communities--running       water, local schools, health care, public safety,       electricity, and more--have come because of the       coordination and cooperation of Alaska Native leaders and       entities across the region.      Borough

The Borough is a home rule government located above the       Arctic Circle that represents roughly 10,000 residents. The       Borough's jurisdiction includes the entire National Petroleum       Reserve-Alaska (NPR-A) and the eight villages within it. In       1972, the North Slope Inupiat formed the Borough, in part, to       ensure our communities would benefit from oil and gas       development on their ancestral homelands. It was the first       time Alaska Natives took control of their destiny using a       regional municipal government. The Borough exercises its       powers of taxation, property assessment, education, and       planning and zoning services to serve our communities. Taxes       levied on oil and gas infrastructure, not development, have       enabled the Borough to invest in public infrastructure and       utilities, support education, and provide police, fire,       emergency, health, and other services. Elsewhere in rural       Alaska, these services are typically provided primarily by       the State or Federal Government, or both.      ASRC

ASRC is a for-profit, land-owning Alaska Native regional       corporation formed pursuant to ANCSA. ASRC represents the       same region as the Borough and ICAS, and the same eight       villages whose residents are predominantly Inupiat, and who       comprise many of our over 14,000 Alaska Native shareholders.       ASRC holds the title to approximately five million acres of       land on the North Slope, including       both surface and subsurface lands. These lands--the ancestral       lands of the North Slope Inupiat--were conveyed to ASRC by       the United States pursuant to ANCSA to provide for the       economic and cultural well-being of our Inupiaq shareholders.

ASRC is committed to both providing sound financial returns       to our shareholders, through jobs and dividends, and to       preserving our Inupiaq way of life, culture, and traditions,       including the ability to maintain a subsistence lifestyle       that supports our communities. In furtherance of this       congressionally mandated mission to provide benefits to our       shareholders, ASFIC conducts and continues to invest in a       variety of activities related to infrastructure and natural       resource development and other economic initiatives.

ASRC's perspective is based on the dual realities that our       Inupiaq culture and communities depend on a healthy ecosystem       and subsistence resources, as well as infrastructure and       resource development as the foundation of sustainable North       Slope communities.                    Disapproval of the 2022 NPR-A IAP ROD

The NPR-A lies entirely within the homelands of the North       Slope Inupiat. Congress established the NPR-A with a clear       purpose: to ensure energy security for the Nation while       respecting the needs of Alaska Natives. Instead, the 2022       Record of Decision (ROD) issued by BLM has imposed sweeping       restrictions that curtail responsible development, undermine       congressional intent, and disregard the well-being of the       people who depend on these lands for both subsistence and       livelihoods.

The impacts of the 2022 ROD are especially severe for the       North Slope. Oil and gas development in the NPR-A funds the       Borough's schools, emergency services, and infrastructure. It       supports jobs for Inupiaq shareholders and residents. It       underwrites the continuation of our communities, even as we       maintain our subsistence way of life. By arbitrarily locking       away vast portions of the NPR-A, BLM's rule threatens these       essential services and imposes disproportionate burdens on       our people.

Equally concerning, BLM failed to engage in meaningful       government-to-government consultation with ASRC, the Borough,       and ICAS. This omission contradicts federal consultation       requirements and disregards the voices of the very       communities most affected. Our leadership has consistently       raised concerns about this process and its outcomes, yet       those concerns were ignored.

The 2022 ROD ignores congressional intent under ANCSA, the       Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act of 1980       (ANILCA), the National Petroleum Reserve Production Act of       1976 (NPRPA), and the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 1980. The       2022 ROD also disregards the economic needs of North Slope       communities, and creates unnecessary obstacles to       infrastructure, energy, and community health across the North       Slope of Alaska.                  Support for S.J. Res 80 and H.J. Res. 124

For these reasons, our trilateral organizations strongly       support passage of S.J. Res. 80 and H.J. Res. 124 to       disapprove the 2022 NPR-A IAP ROD. Overturning this rule is       necessary to restore balance to federal policy, reaffirm       Congress's intent for the NPR-A, and uphold the economic,       cultural, and subsistence well-being of the North Slope       Inupiat.

Our identity, resilience, and survival are deeply rooted in       our traditional lands that the NPR-A boundaries encompass. We       take great pride in our ongoing efforts toward self-      determination, focused on securing a future where future       generations of Inupiat can continue to live in our       communities with access to the essential services they need       to thrive. We thank you for your leadership on this important       resolution and look forward to continued collaboration to       ensure that federal policies in the NPR-A reflect both       national priorities and the needs of the people who call the       Arctic home.            Sincerely,      Nicole Wojciechowski,

President, Inupiat Community of the Arctic Slope.      Josiah Patkotak,

Mayor, North Slope Borough.      Rex A. Rock, Sr.

President and CEO, Arctic Slope Regional Corporation.