Unanimous Consent Request


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President, we are here in the U.S. Senate on  this Tuesday. We had a vote yesterday evening, the first that we have  had in some 6 weeks here. As I walked over to the Chamber just now from  the Hart Building, at 4 o'clock on a Tuesday afternoon, the only  individuals whom I saw were the extraordinary men and  women of the Capitol Police here in the building. 

  Suffice it to say, these are strange, unusual, challenging, and  difficult times as we face the COVID-19 pandemic and as we address the  challenges that our constituents, our friends, and our families are  dealing with at home, whether it be the impact of the virus itself on  our health and our health facilities or whether it be the impact-- truly, the economic devastation--that we are seeing in all corners of  the Nation. 

  So the opportunity to be together as a body to address these  challenges is important. It is challenging for us as we adapt to this  time and this situation of wearing protective masks, of being separated  from one another, of teleworking as we are. We are adapting. We are  facing that challenge. We rightly must be doing this because, as the  Nation deals with these matters related to the COVID-19, there are  other matters that are taking place every day--issues that need to be  addressed, problems that must be tackled, and matters of governance  that we must be engaged in.   National Day of Awareness for Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and                                   Girls  

  Madam President, I woke up this morning and looked at my little news  caps with which to focus on the day, this Tuesday, and they noted that  today is Teacher Appreciation Day. We thank all of our teachers. Our  teachers are certainly in an unusual situation now, as all of our  students are. It is also Cinco de Mayo. It is also Giving Tuesday. For  many, it feels like Groundhog Day every day because of, again, this  strange time in which we are living. For so many, it just seems that  every day is more and more of the same. 

  Today, May 5, is also a day that we have recognized for several years  now as being the National Day of Awareness for Missing and Murdered  Indigenous Women and Girls. It is a matter that I would like to speak  briefly to this afternoon. I recognize the devastation that so many  families have seen when it comes to those they love who have gone  missing or who have been found murdered, and I recognize the dark  reality that many, we know, are still missing. 

  Unfortunately, for far too long, there has been silence on this  issue. There has been a failure to act in the face of what we know and  sometimes in the not knowing of what we are dealing with because we  haven't asked the questions, which is equally problematic. It tears at  my heart to hear the stories of those whom I have come in contact with  in Alaska--a woman's story, a family's story--in that their words have  been discounted. They have been dismissed because the woman who went  missing or the woman who was murdered was a Native American woman. 

  We have to change that. We cannot accept that. We cannot let the  statistics that have really just been allowed to accumulate for too  long to remain as statistics. Every single one of these women was her  own person, each story her own life story, each a member of her  community. In addition to their being someone's lost daughters, wives,  mothers, sisters, we should mourn the promise that these missing and  murdered women meant to our communities--their being the next  generations of mentors, role models, and changemakers. 

  When women are murdered or abducted, when women are trafficked--when  individuals are left missing, discarded, or discounted--there is an  injustice that is being done, and we cannot let that continue. By  raising awareness of the epidemic, by giving these women their faces,  their names, and by telling their stories, we are shining a light on a  problem, and we are giving hope. 

  I acknowledge the work of a former colleague of mine here in the  Senate, Senator Heidi Heitkamp, who came to this floor often as a  strong, strong advocate for those Native women who have been dismissed  and discounted. She shared pictures, gave names, and went beyond the  statistics. She reminded me--encouraged me--that this is an effort  that, together, we must address. 

  Unfortunately, we all have the stories--the stories that sicken you  and just literally break your heart. The one that, perhaps, touches me  most immediately and directly is the life of Ashley Johnson Barr. She  was a beautiful 10-year-old girl who was taken from the children's  playground in her hometown of Kotzebue, AK, which is a Native village  on the northwest coast. She was brutally raped and murdered. Again, she  was taken from the kids' playground to just outside her town. Her death  and the tragedy around the circumstances of how she left the world are  still open. It is still raw and has left a permanent scar on Alaskan  communities. 

  What happened to Ashley is a reminder that, in my State,  unfortunately, there is a darkness that is still, to this day, very,  very hard to talk about, but we must. We have to talk about it. We have  to act on it. We cannot turn a blind eye simply because it is difficult  to talk about. We have to because we are seeing the stories that  represent these statistics in unprecedented proportions. Let me give  you some numbers to just put that into perspective. 

  Alaska Native women are 2\1/2\ times more likely to be victims of  domestic violence. In Tribal villages and Native communities, domestic  violence rates are up to 10 times higher than in the rest of the  Nation. In 2015, it was estimated that 40 percent of sex-trafficking  victims were Native Americans. Almost 40 percent of those who have been  trafficked have been Native Americans. The rate of sexual violence  victimization among Alaska's Native women is at least seven times  greater than of non-Native females. 

  Again, I will just say these are unprecedented proportions. So, when  we designate a day as a day of awareness--an awareness of those who  have gone missing and who have been murdered as being indigenous women  and girls--it has to be about more than awareness. It has to be about  action. This is where Senator Cortez Masto and I have picked up on this  work. She and I have worked together on several pieces of legislation  that have helped to pave the way for greater collaboration and data  collection between Federal agencies--our law enforcement and elected  Tribal officials--to not only understand the extent of the issues but  to develop methods with which to end these horrible crimes. 

  There are two bills. The first one is Savanna's Act. It combats the  epidemic of murdered and missing Native women and girls by improving  the Federal Government's response in addressing the crisis. We do this  through the coordination among all levels of law enforcement by  increasing data collection and information sharing and by empowering  Tribal governments with the resources they need in the cases involving  missing or murdered indigenous women and girls wherever they may occur. 

  The second piece of legislation is called the Not Invisible Act. It  is aimed at addressing the crisis of missing, murdered, and trafficked  Native women by engaging law enforcement, Tribal leaders, Federal  partners, and service providers and by improving the coordination  across the Federal agencies. The more we have reviewed this, we have  learned that so much of the data is lacking. We have gaps. We just  haven't been able to get the data that we need in order to do a better  job of coordinating with our agencies. 

  The good news from all of this is that both of these bills have  passed this body, and I thank my colleagues here in the Senate for  their support of the measures. We advanced them unanimously on March  11, which was just a little while before we left to deal with the COVID  pandemic. I truly want to thank the Senate for helping to prioritize  these measures to protect indigenous women. 

  In addition to these measures that we have passed in the Senate, we  have done more on the appropriations side. We have worked through the  committees, and for the first time in the appropriations bill that  President Trump signed in December, there was funding specifically  directed to address the crisis of missing, murdered, and trafficked  indigenous women--$6.5 million included for the BIA to take a really  comprehensive look at the issue across BIA and IHS, the Indian Health  Service. 

  It covers everything for the funding of cold casework, background  checks, equipment needs, training, and a directive to the IHS with  regard to forensic  training. It also includes language that does more for the coordination  and data collection amongst Tribal, local, State, and Federal law  enforcement. So that is significant. The Executive order that was  issued by the Trump administration late last year was very important in  this effort. 

  I personally acknowledge the good work that Tara Sweeney has done,  the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs. She has pulled together the  agency coordination to respond to these cases. She has shown  extraordinary heart--real heart--in responding to the calls from Tribes  and advocates to address the crisis of missing and murdered Native  women. So there has been so much at play that has come together.  

  What we need now is for the House to act on these legislative  measures that we have moved through the Senate so that the President  can sign them into law. 

  I think we recognize that as we are dealing with these matters that  are directly related to the day-to-day response to COVID, as we have  seen our economies slowed, as we have moved indoors to telework, the  work that is required for us to help protect the most vulnerable among  us continues. We know that work continues. 

  As we have worked aggressively across the country and in Alaskan  communities to flatten the curve out there as it relates to the  coronavirus, we know, unfortunately, that we have seen an uptick in  domestic violence. Unfortunately, and truly sadly for so many, the  order to shelter in place--``safer at home'' is the terminology used in  some communities, and safer at home doesn't necessarily mean safe at  home for far too many. Shelter in place is not a safe shelter. We are  seeing increased calls to police departments during this time, but,  interestingly enough, we are not seeing an increase in those who are  seeking help or shelter in our women's shelters. 

  It was just a couple of weeks ago that I had a phone call with  representatives from the various women's shelters around my State, with  probably a dozen or so women on the line, and I asked specifically: How  are we doing in the shelters? What are we seeing? Their numbers are  down, and if you look at it from just a numbers perspective, you would  say ``Good.'' But we know that domestic violence doesn't disappear or  go away at times like the ones we are facing now; it just goes  underground. I think what we are seeing is that concern and fear. As  difficult as the situation may be at home, it might be more frightening  to go to a shelter where one may be exposed to this invisible threat of  the virus. 

  I wish I could say that, as a consequence of what we are seeing, our  shelters are better off, but I fear that those who would seek shelter  are not better off. So to make sure we are prepared to address these  needs is yet another challenge for us in this body: to come together to  address these issues that we know are with us--not only the levels of  domestic violence but the impact that we know is present when it comes  to mental and behavioral health, when people are fragile and yet are  afraid to seek help because of the exposure to something else. We have  work to do in this area, and that is something I intend to focus on in  the days and weeks ahead. 

  I was encouraged to hear my friend, the Senator from Texas, Mr.  Cornyn, speaking to just these issues yesterday on the floor. We have  much to do. These are challenging times on many different levels. 

  As we recognize this day of awareness for those who have gone  missing--for those women and girls who have been murdered--know that  this is more than just raising awareness. It is up to us. We owe it to  them, their families, and their loved ones to act as well. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT