Women's Suffrage


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, let me turn to the fight--the century  fight  for women's suffrage, the right to vote, the right to be treated  equally, the right to be heard. It is a history that is long and  interesting, sometimes very colorful. 

  I have had an opportunity these past couple of weeks to be reading a  collection of stories about how women in the West worked to really be  the vanguards, if you will, on the suffrage movement. You don't  necessarily hear them spoken to with great frequency, but, in fairness,  it is many of those Western States--it was Wyoming that was the first  mover. 

  So reading some of their stories was a good reminder--a good  reminder--of the role that many in Alaska have also played. We have  been relatively progressive when it comes to women's rights--so  progressive that many Alaskan women received equal voting rights with  men in 1913. This was 7 years before the 19th Amendment was ratified.  Alaska was still a territory and was still going to be a territory for  a long time going forward. 

  The sorry and the sad part of that history, though, was that not all  Alaskan women were given that right to vote. Alaskan Native women were  excluded. They were excluded based on citizenship and civility  assessment as well as literacy tests that prevented Alaska Natives--not  just the women but some Native men--from voting for several more  decades. 

  We recognize through a State day of observation and recognition the  work of Elizabeth Peratrovich, an Alaska Native woman from Southeastern  Alaska, who was the driving force behind our first antidiscrimination  law. This was back in 1945, nearly 20 years before Congress passed the  Civil Rights Act. 

  This year, on the 75th anniversary of the bill's passage, the U.S.  Mint has actually created a gold coin in her honor. As you look at that  coin and reflect on her role, on the significance of that proud,  strong, fierce Native woman leader, you can't help but be proud of her. 

  The fight for women's suffrage was waged, as we know, for decades and  decades. But again, the women in the West led the way. 

  As I was reading the recount of the Alaska suffrage initiative, it  was reflected that the women in Alaska didn't really have to work that  hard to get it; that it was just ``provided'' to them. I think there is  more to that history than that, but a newspaper publication at the  time, The Daily Alaskan, in 1904, argued that while women's suffrage  might be disfavored as a general proposition, the merits were different  in Alaska. 

  And he says the women there ``are brave and noble helpers in the  development of a frontier country'' and ``not the pampered dolls of  society.'' 

  So today it still probably holds true that we have some pretty strong  women in Alaska. We own and operate fishing vessels. We work as oil rig  operators, diesel mechanics. We have some extraordinary Alaskan women,  industry leaders leading our Alaska Native corporations, leading our  oil companies. We are leaders in education and advocates for children  and seniors and victims of domestic violence. They truly have helped  not only our State but our country.  

  The 100th Anniversary of Women's Suffrage is a reminder of the  progress that we have made as a nation. But we know that we have more  to do and that inequities remain whether in the workforce or pay  equality. Continuing that work is a matter that we have not relaxed on.  That work includes getting the Equal Rights Amendment signed into law. 

  The Equal Rights Amendment was first written and introduced by Alice  Paul at a conference commemorating the 75th anniversary of the Seneca  Falls Convention in 1923. But it wasn't until 1972 that the ERA passed  through Congress and was sent to the States with a 7-year deadline for  ratification that was eventually extended until 1982. 

  It is a pretty simple amendment. It is pretty short. ``Equality of  rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United  States or by any state on account of sex.'' That is the Equal Rights  Amendment, in addition to the implementing provisions following that.  But that is the context. 

  In Alaska, I am proud to say that we were one of the early adopters,  having ratified the Equal Rights Amendment on April 5, 1972. More  recently, Virginia became the 38th State to have ratified the  amendment, which brings us to the three-fourths threshold needed for  ratification. Unfortunately, this milestone was reached after the  deadline for ratification. It had already expired, so Senator Cardin  and I have introduced a resolution, S.J. Res. 6, which would remove the  time limit from the joint resolution that passed the Congress in 1972. 

  I have asserted time and again--and Senator Cardin, so many--we have  said that you cannot put a time limit on women's equality. It has been  100 years since women were granted the equal right of voting. Women's  equality is fundamental to the American way of life, and it is far past  time to be expressly recognized in the Constitution. 

  I thank Senator Cardin for his leadership in working on this  resolution with me and all the Members of Congress who fought with us  in support of the ERA. I thank the advocates who continue to call their  Senators, call their Congressmen, who lift their voices to support this  important cause. We have work to do. We will continue that work. 

  I want to note that my colleague Senator Cardin was here on the  floor, was planning to speak on this matter today, but our time  schedules got compressed, so his statement has been included as part of  the Record. I want to acknowledge the good work and the partnership  that we have on this. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT