Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I rise to speak about the House Articles  of Impeachment against President Donald Trump. 

  In 1999, then-Senator Joe Biden of Delaware asked the following  question during the impeachment trial of President Bill Clinton: ``[D]o  these actions rise to the level of high crimes and misdemeanors  necessary to justify the most obviously antidemocratic act the Senate  can engage in--overturning an election by convicting the president?''  He answered his own question by voting against removing President  Clinton from office.  

  It is this constitutionally grounded framework--articulated well by  Vice President Biden--that guided my review of President Trump's  impeachment and, ultimately, my decision to oppose his removal. 

  House Democrats' impeachment articles allege that President Trump  briefly paused aid and withheld a White House meeting with Ukraine's  President to pressure Ukraine into investigating two publicly reported  corruption matters. The first matter was possible Ukrainian  interference in our 2016 election. The second was Vice President  Biden's role in firing the controversial Ukrainian prosecutor  investigating a company on whose board Vice President Biden's son sat.  When House Democrats demanded witnesses and documents concerning the  President's conduct, he invoked constitutional rights and resisted  their demands. 

  The President's actions were not ``perfect.'' Some were  inappropriate. But the question before the Senate is not whether his  actions were perfect; it is whether they constitute impeachable  offenses that justify removing a sitting President from office for the  first time and forbidding him from seeking office again. 

  Let's consider the case against President Trump: obstruction of  Congress and abuse of power. On obstruction, House Democrats allege the  President lacked ``lawful cause or excuse'' to resist their subpoenas.  This ignores that his resistance was based on constitutionally grounded  legal defenses and immunities that are consistent with longstanding  positions taken by administrations of both parties. Instead of  negotiating a resolution or litigating in court, House Democrats rushed  to impeach. But as House Democrats noted during President Clinton's  impeachment, a President's defense of his legal and constitutional  rights and responsibilities is not an impeachable offense. 

  House Democrats separately allege President Trump abused his power by  conditioning a White House meeting and the release of aid on Ukraine  agreeing to pursue corruption investigations. Their case rests entirely  on the faulty claim that the only possible motive for his actions was  his personal political gain. In fact, there are also legitimate  national interests for seeking investigations into apparent corruption,  especially when taxpayer dollars are involved. 

  Here is what ultimately occurred: President Trump met with Ukraine's  President, and the aid was released after a brief pause. These actions  happened without Ukraine announcing or conducting investigations. The  idea that President Trump committed an impeachable offense by meeting  with Ukraine's President at the United Nations in New York instead of  Washington, DC is absurd. Moreover, the pause in aid did not hinder  Ukraine's ability to combat Russia. In fact, as witnesses in the House  impeachment proceedings stated, U.S. policy in support of Ukraine is  stronger under President Trump than under President Obama. 

  Even if House Democrats' presumptions about President Trump's motives  are true, additional witnesses in the Senate, beyond the 17 witnesses  who testified in the House impeachment proceedings, are unnecessary  because the President's actions do not rise to the level of removing  him from office, nor do they warrant the societal upheaval that would  result from his removal from office and the ballot months before an  election. Our country is already far too divided and this would only  make matters worse. 

  As Vice President Biden also stated during President Clinton's  impeachment trial, ``[t]here is no question the Constitution sets the  bar for impeachment very high.'' A President can only be impeached and  removed for ``Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and  Misdemeanors.'' While there is debate about the precise meaning of  ``other high Crimes and Misdemeanors,'' it is clear that impeachable  conduct must be comparable to the serious offenses of treason and  bribery. 

  The Constitution sets the impeachment bar so high for good reasons.  Removing a President from office and forbidding him from seeking future  office overturns the results of the last election and denies Americans  the right to vote for him in the next one. The Senate's impeachment  power essentially allows 67 Senators to substitute their judgment for  the judgment of millions of Americans. 

  The framework Vice President Biden articulated in 1999 for judging an  impeachment was right then, and it is right now. President Trump's  conduct does not meet the very high bar required to justify overturning  the election, removing him from office, and kicking him off the ballot  in an election that has already begun. In November, the American people  will decide for themselves whether President Trump should stay in  office. In our democratic system, that is the way it should be. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT