Letter to the Hon. Robert Lighthizer, Trade Representative for the United States - Toomey to USTR: "Phase One" China Agreement Must Include Tariff Relief for PA Importers, Exporters


Dear Ambassador Lighthizer:

I write to thank you for your work on successfully negotiating a "Phase One" trade deal with China. As you know, the trade war with Beijing has come at the expense of significant harm to a number of my constituents, both as a result of U.S. tariffs on China and China's retaliatory tariffs on Pennsylvania products. That is why I was pleased to hear reports that the Phase One deal will include a critically important commitment from the U.S. to cut tariffs on many goods. As you finalize the agreement, I ask you to ensure the deal covers both section 301 and retaliatory tariff relief for Pennsylvania importers and exporters.

During the past 18 months, numerous companies with a significant presence in Pennsylvania have contacted my office with concerns about the implemented and proposed section 301 tariffs. To date, I have reached out on behalf of numerous constituents, including but not limited to the following companies, to request that USTR grant their exclusions requests:

 

-Air King America, LLC (West Chester)-Almo Corporation (Philadelphia)-American Textile (Duquesne)-Appvion Operations, Inc. (Roaring Springs)-Arkema Inc. (Bristol, Birdsboro, Exton, King of Prussia, West Chester)-Arrowhead Electrical Products, Inc. (East Greenville)-ASI Technologies, Inc. (Montgomeryville)-Cali Bamboo (Mechanicsburg)-Danieli USA Corporation (Cranberry Township)-Electronic Fluorocarbons LLC (Hatfield)-FMC Corporation (Philadelphia)-General Electric (Allentown, Bradford, Pittsburgh, Wilkes-Barre)-Lasko Products LLC (West Chester)-Lutron Electronics (Alburtis, Coopersburg)-Mancor PA, Inc. (Allentown)-Mitsubishi Electric Power Products, Inc. (Warrendale)-PolyConcept (New Kensington)-Priority Bicycles (Montgomery)-Raymond Geddes & Co, Inc. (Mechanicsburg)-Real Trading LLC (Bucks County)-Siemens Healthineers (Broomall, Malvern, Pittsburgh, Plymouth Meeting, Tredyffrin Township, Yardley)-Touchstone Home Products (Exton)-Vintage Tub & Bath (Mountain Top)-Voith Hydro (York)-Woodstream Corporation (Lititz)-World Marketing of America (Mill Creek, Petersburg)-York Wallcoverings (York) 

I have also heard from many Pennsylvania exporters who have been adversely affected by China's retaliatory tariffs assessed on US exports. I ask you to ensure China commit to removing tariffs on products sold by Pennsylvania's manufacturers and agricultural goods.

If reports are accurate, you are to be commended if China has agreed to implement structural reforms in the areas of intellectual property, forced technology transfer, and access to the Chinese market for American financial firms. Although more work remains to be done, such progress will strengthen our economy and combat China's malevolent mercantilist behavior.

Thank you for your attention to this matter. I thank you and the employees of USTR in advance for working to pursue trade policies that lower tariffs on consumers and help to make American businesses more globally competitive. I stand ready to assist on this matter in any way I can.