Recognizing the USS ``Pittsburgh''


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. TOOMEY. Madam President, I wish to recognize the service of the  USS Pittsburgh and her crew for our country since the ship's  commissioning on November 23, 1985. 

  A Los Angeles-class, fast-attack nuclear submarine, the Pittsburgh  served for 35 years as an anti-submarine, strike, and anti-surface ship  warfare vessel that also specialized in surveillance and  reconnaissance. The Pittsburgh deployed during Operation Desert Storm  in 1991 and again during Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2002, conducting  Tomahawk missile strikes in both campaigns. While most of the vessel's  missions remain classified, the Pittsburgh logged over 1,000 dives all  over the world, including in the Arctic, Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific  oceans. 

  The Pittsburgh was the U.S. Navy's fourth ship to be named after the  Steel City and during its time in service retained a number of  connections to its namesake. Over the years, multiple civic  organizations have used the ship for outreach efforts, fundraisers, and  crew visits to increase the public's appreciation for the Navy and the  submarine service. Local groups, such as the Pittsburgh Council of the  Navy League and the Leetsdale, PA, chapter of the U.S. Submarine  Veterans Incorporated, have kept in regular contact with the ship's  crew. Another local organization, called the Pittsburgh Foundation,  even administers a scholarship fund for the Pittsburgh's crew and their  families. 

  The vessel's motto, ``Heart of Steel,'' paid homage to the city's  cultural and industrial roots. The slogan is apt given that researchers  at the Bettis Atomic Power Laboratory in West Mifflin, PA, just outside  of Pittsburgh, are credited with designing portions of the nuclear  technology outfitted on nuclear-propelled Navy vessels, including the  Pittsburgh. 

  On February 25, 2019, the submarine completed her final deployment,  during which she traveled over 39,000 nautical miles and conducted  three foreign port visits. Subsequently, the Pittsburgh departed  Groton, CT, for Bremerton, WA, for her final homeport change. On this  final voyage, she became the first submarine of her variant to complete  an arctic transit. She is now undergoing the months-long  decommissioning and inactivation process that will culminate in a  ceremony on January 17, 2020. I send everyone involved in the ceremony  the best of wishes. 

  After 35 years of distinguished service, I commend the USS Pittsburgh  and her crew for their sustained commitment to upholding our Nation's  defense. I ask all of my colleagues to join me in recognition of the  USS Pittsburgh upon her inactivation from the Navy.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT