Toomey Decries Violent Riots, Stands with Peaceful Protesters and Law Enforcement


Yesterday, U.S. Senator Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) visited Philadelphia to reaffirm his support for peaceful protesters and police officers while condemning the violent acts of rioters.

In remarks delivered from the U.S. Custom House in Philadelphia, Senator Toomey expressed his deepest sympathies to the family of George Floyd while expressing his anger at the actions that led to his death. Senator Toomey then expressed support for peaceful protesters and police officers while decrying the rioting that has engulfed cities across the country, including Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, and Harrisburg.

Joining Senator Toomey yesterday were, William M. McSwain (United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania), Reverend Reginald C. Johnson (Special Assistant to the CEO, People for People, Inc.), Farah Jimenez (President and CEO of the Philadelphia Education Fund), John McNesby (President of the Fraternal Order Police Lodge #5), and Martina White (Pennsylvania State Representative, 170th Legislative District).

You may watch the entire press conference here.

Senator Toomey's opening remarks, as delivered, are available below.

"Good afternoon, we're here today to talk about the tragic death of George Floyd, but even more, frankly, about the response to it.

"I want to start by offering my deepest sympathies to Mr. Floyd's family for their loss. I will tell you the video of his death is sickening to watch. It was very, very deeply disturbing. But it's worth noting that the officer responsible was promptly fired, arrested, and charged with Mr. Floyd's murder. In the coming months that officer will stand trial for his actions, and I am hopeful and confident that there will be justice.

"I think it's really important to underscore the fact that the vast majority of police officers, men and women in, across Pennsylvania, and across the country are hardworking, honorable people who do the right thing. But like any other profession, any other walk of life, or any other group of organizations, there will be bad apples and they need to be held accountable when they commit misconduct.

"As Attorney General Bill Barr has said, and I quote: "Accountability for Mr. Floyd's death must be addressed, and is being addressed through the regular process of our criminal justice system.'

"In addition, I think policy makers at all levels of government ought to make sure we're doing what we can to minimize the risk of future such events. I'm pleased that the Senate Judiciary Committee has announced that they'll hold a bipartisan hearing on the police use of force with the goal of finding a better way forward for our nation.

"Also I want to be very clear, I fully understand the anger that so many people feel. I felt that anger when I watched that video, I still feel that anger. And I fully support the right of people to peacefully protest and register their concerns. Peaceful protest goes back to the beginning of this great republic, the right to do so is enshrined in the very first amendment of our Constitution. Law-abiding Americans, and Pennsylvanians, and Philadelphians, they have come together to exercise that right peacefully in an effort to effect change. But unfortunately, these peaceful protests have been marred by some who have chosen violence, and lawlessness, and rioting, and who have chosen to leave a wake of destruction in their path.

"Violent rioters have wrecked entire city blocks, shot two federal contract security officers in Oakland, killing one of them. Assaulted injured police officers, burned police cars, looted stores, in some cases stores that have been closed for months, and even destroyed the property of organizations that serve under-served populations.

"For instance, rioters in Philadelphia set fire to a supply trailer for Broad Street Ministries. While Americans have the right to peacefully protest, no one has a right to violently riot. These acts must stop, and we need to support the law enforcement folks who are doing all that they can to bring an end to this violence. Those who are committing these acts of violence, they're doing a lot of harm to our Commonwealth and to our country. Especially damaging to minority neighborhoods, lawlessness and violence are most dangerous to the most vulnerable.

"As Robert Woodson wrote in today's Wall Street Journal, and I quote: "Violent protest are devastating the people in whose name they demand justice.'

"They're also undermining the peaceful efforts to honor George Floyd's memory, and to spark dialogue and constructive action. George Floyd's brother said, and I quote: "My brother wasn't about that,' referring to the riots.

"And let's be honest, looting businesses has nothing to do with peaceful protest. And assaulting police officers is never acceptable. I personally am very grateful for the brave police officers in Philadelphia and across Pennsylvania who have gone into harm's way to quell the lawless rioting and looting.

"I am grateful for the good Samaritans that have helped clean up the damage and try to dissuade rioters from engaging in destructive acts. And I'm really pleased that we have a number of leaders from various walks of life to speak about the events we've seen the last few days."