Toomey: CCP Must Know There Are Consequences for Its Actions in Hong Kong


Today, on the 31st anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre, U.S. Senator Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), who is pushing bipartisan sanctions legislation, called on Congress to send a clear message to the Chinese Communist Party: there will be consequences for its increasingly brazen interference in Hong Kong's independence.

Filling in for Chairman Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Senator Toomey opened today's Senate Banking Committee hearing on U.S. policy towards Hong Kong by saying:

"The Chinese Communist Party in Beijing has been waging an aggressive and systematic campaign that seems designed to eliminate the distinction between the freedoms enjoyed by the people of Hong Kong, versus the absence of those freedoms on mainland China. Let's be clear: The Chinese Communist Party wants to bring the people of Hong Kong to heel, lest mainlanders decide that they want some of those freedoms themselves."

"The Chinese Communist Party must know there are consequences to its actions. Otherwise, the lesson that they will conclude is that they can continue the aggression against Hong Kong and perhaps in other places around the world."

You can watch his full opening statement here.

Speaking about his Hong Kong Autonomy Act, which he recently introduced with Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Senator Toomey said:

"We introduced a bill that's designed to push back on the Chinese Communist Party's aggression, and make those responsible think twice about continuing to quash Hongkongers' basic freedoms. It's called the Hong Kong Autonomy Act, and it targets entities that inhibit Hongkongers' freedom of speech, press and assembly, independent judiciary, democratic processes, and the high degree of autonomy that was promised to the people of Hong Kong. Notably, the bill also penalizes the banks that choose to finance the erosion of Hong Kong's autonomy and put marginal profits ahead of basic human rights."

You can read more about the Hong Kong Autonomy Act here.

The four witnesses testifying at today's hearing were:

Peter Harrell - Adjunct Senior Fellow, Center for American ProgressEric Lorber - Senior Director, Center on Economic and Financial Power, Foundation for Defense of DemocraciesDr. Michael Martin - Specialist in Asian Affairs, Congressional Research ServiceLee Cheuk Yan - General Secretary, The Hong Kong Confederation of Trade Unions, Vice Chairman of the Hong Kong Labour PartyLee Cheuk Yan is one of Hong Kong's leading pro-democracy voices. He organizes the annual vigil in Hong Kong to commemorate the Tiananmen Square massacre. His event was banned this year, but he proceeded anyway and joined today's hearing shortly after the conclusion of the vigil.

You can watch Senator Toomey's discussion with Lee Cheuk Yan here, and his questions to more witnesses here.

The full hearing video is available here.