Toomey, Reschenthaler Lead PA Delegation Tribute to the USS PITTSBURGH (SSN-720)


This week, the USS PITTSBURGH (SSN-720) will undergo its inactivation ceremony in Bremerton, Washington following 35 years of service to the United States. To honor her legacy, Senator Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) officially recognized the USS PITTSBURGH in the Congressional Record. He also joined Congressman Guy Reschenthaler (R-Pa. 14th) and other members of the Pennsylvania Congressional Delegation in releasing the following statements:

"For 35 years, the USS PITTSBURGH has traveled around the world, serving as both a strategic tool for gathering intelligence and a symbol of America's military strength," said Senator Toomey. "During her years in service, the USS PITTSBURGH was home to American sailors who bravely served to keep our nation safe - particularly during Operations Desert Storm and Iraqi Freedom. I am grateful to all those who served on the USS PITTSBURGH."

"As a Navy veteran, I am proud to recognize the USS PITTSBURGH (SSN-720) for its 35 years of service to our nation as well as the dedication of the great sailors who have served aboard," said Congressman Reschenthaler. "The ship represented our region proudly during times of war, most notably Operations Desert Storm and Iraqi Freedom, by providing critical intelligence and deterring our adversaries. The legacy and record of service of the USS PITTSBURGH (SSN-720) will be etched in history for generations to come."

"I am pleased to join my colleagues to honor the service of the brave Veterans and servicemembers who have served on the USS Pittsburgh (SSN-720)," said Senator Casey. "This U.S. Navy vessel took part in vital missions and offered support to our soldiers around the world in its 35 years of exemplary service. Like its namesake city, the USS Pittsburgh represents the best of American ingenuity, duty and excellence."

"Like its predecessors, the USS Pittsburgh (SSN-720) has faithfully served our country with honor," said Congressman Doyle. "I want to recognize the long and faithful service of the USS Pittsburgh and its crew members on the bittersweet occasion of its decommissioning."

"The USS Pittsburgh (SSN-720) - forged of iron and steel just like her namesake - has always been a source of pride for our town," said Congressman Lamb. "We are grateful to the USS Pittsburgh and all who served aboard for their distinguished service to America."

Background:

The fast attack Los Angeles-class submarine was commissioned in 1985. In April 1991, the USS PITTSBURGH (SSN-720) and the USS LOUISVILLE (SSN-724) launched Tomahawk missiles against Iraq during Operation Desert Storm. Years later, in 2002, the ship departed for the Mediterranean Sea and participated in Operation Iraqi Freedom. In November 2017, the USS PITTSBURGH (SSN-720) completed its 1,000 dive, a milestone few submarines reach in service. Last year, the ship returned to Naval Submarine Base New London after its final deployment and transited to Bremerton, Washington for decommissioning. The USS PITTSBURGH (SSN-720) is the fourth ship to bear the name of the steel city.