Tribute to Colonel Robert De Sousa


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, today I rise to honor the service of COL  Robert DeSousa upon his retirement from the Army on February 29, 2020.  For over 26 years, Colonel DeSousa has served with distinction and  dedication in the U.S. Army Reserve and the Pennsylvania National  Guard. Many Pennsylvanians may know Colonel DeSousa in his civilian  capacity as the widely respected State director for my offices in the  Commonwealth. 

  A native of New Jersey but an adopted son of Pennsylvania, Colonel  DeSousa holds a bachelor's degree from Bucknell University, a law  degree from the Dickinson School of Law, and a master's degree from the  U.S. Army War College. He began his military career as a judge advocate  with the U.S. Army Reserve in 1993 and quickly established himself as  an outstanding defense lawyer and soldier. Following the September 11  terror attacks, Colonel DeSousa aided in the mobilization of our troops  and then deployed to Iraq in 2007. While deployed, he simultaneously  held three distinct positions for the Pennsylvania National Guard, the  U.S. Air Force, and the U.S. Army Reserve. 

  In 2008, Colonel DeSousa returned to serve in the 28th Infantry  Division Headquarters of the Pennsylvania National Guard. The following  year, he was tasked as the first ever regional defense counsel in what  would become the Army's first fully integrated trial defense service  for Reserve, Active Duty, and National Guard soldiers. As a result of  Colonel DeSousa's leadership in this role, thousands of Army soldiers  in nine different States gained greater access to legal defense  services. He was subsequently appointed as the State judge advocate for  the Pennsylvania National Guard's Joint Force Headquarters in 2013. In  this position, from which he will retire this February, Colonel DeSousa  advised the Pennsylvania National Guard's adjutant general and his  command staff on legal and ethical matters while supervising nearly 50  judge advocates. 

  Colonel DeSousa has built an exemplary career on service and  leadership. His selflessness and competency, undoubtedly aided by his  positive can-do attitude and infectious smile, have earned him numerous  honors in the U.S. Army Reserve and Pennsylvania National Guard. These  honors include a Bronze Star Medal, Meritorious Service Medal, Army  Commendation Medal, and over a dozen other commendations. His  dedication to public service is evinced by his civilian career, too,  having previously been a Federal law clerk, an assistant U.S. attorney,  the chief counsel for Pennsylvania's Department of State, and the  inspector general for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 

  Thankfully, Colonel DeSousa's retirement is not the end of his  service to Pennsylvanians. He will continue in his current role as  State director for my Senate office, where he oversees the daily  operations of my seven State-based offices. In this role, Colonel  DeSousa is famous for his bits of wisdom he passes down. In particular,  he reminds his colleagues often that ``an email sent or a phone call  made does not mean mission accomplished.'' Colonel DeSousa meets this  mission every day, as he can generally be found out on the road,  crisscrossing our great Commonwealth to meet with constituents. 

  Colonel DeSousa, who is known to appreciate a good cigar, the  occasional whiskey, and, unrelatedly, sporting dapper bow-ties, is a  true friend to Pennsylvanians anywhere. I offer Colonel DeSousa my  heartfelt congratulations on his military retirement and  am grateful for his counsel, his continued service to the Commonwealth  of Pennsylvania, and his friendship.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT