United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. TOOMEY. Madam President, I want to thank the ranking member of  our committee for all of the work that he has put into this effort,  even though I disagree in some important respects. 

  One thing I want to talk about this morning is the process under  which we are going to consider and probably pass this legislation. We  are considering this legislation under trade promotion authority. That  refers to another bill--a law, actually--that we passed some time ago  that expedites the process, forbids Senators from offering amendments,  and allows passage of the legislation to occur with a simple majority  vote--51 out of 100 instead of the usual 60-vote threshold. That is  what trade promotion authority makes possible. 

  It seems to me that it is very important that any legislation we  consider under trade promotion authority be compliant with trade  promotion authority, because, if it is not, if we allow extraneous  provisions, for instance, then, we are circumventing the normal  legislative process, we are circumventing the 60-vote threshold, and we  are abusing trade promotion authority. 

  One of the reasons that is so important is that this is a delegated  authority. I remind my colleagues that trade policy is clearly,  unambiguously assigned to Congress in the Constitution. It is our  responsibility to manage trade, and legislation is obviously and  undoubtedly exclusively granted to Congress in the Constitution. So our  branch of government has exclusive responsibility for trade and  legislating. 

  What do we have here? We have a piece of legislation that deals with  trade. When we choose to delegate our responsibility to the executive  branch, it is very important to me that we insist that delegated  authority be exercised properly and that the legislation that follows  from it comply with the law. 

  What I want to raise is a concern about one of several--but one  respect, in particular--in which the legislation we are considering  today does not, in fact, comply with the trade promotion authority  under which this legislation is being considered. Specifically, I am  going to zero in on a certain aspect of some of the spending that  occurs in this bill. 

  By way of background, I think it is important to know that the Senate  has never passed a spending bill with a simple majority vote. I don't  think that has ever happened in modern times since we established the  60-vote threshold on any piece of legislation. 

  We don't do discretionary appropriations with a simple majority vote  because it has been the collective will of this body for decades that  responsibility should occur at a 60-vote threshold and should be  subject to amendments. 

  Not only that, but we have discretionary spending in this bill and  this is the first time that any trade implementing legislation has ever  spent money. Of the 17 trade bills that we have considered in recent  decades under fast-track authority, none of them have ever contained  any kind of appropriations, any kind of government spending. It is not  that there is no spending necessary for the implementation of these  other agreements. There was. Yet that spending always ran separately in  a different bill, in a different piece of legislation, and that piece  of legislation was subject to amendment and a 60-vote threshold. 

  Now, why is that? 

  It is in order to comply with the trade promotion authority. It is in  order to comply with the conditions of granting an expedited process. 

  What the trade promotion authority reads, among other things, is that  any provision in this implementing legislation must be strictly  necessary or appropriate for the implementation of the trade agreement.  Well, spending is not strictly necessary for this purpose because it  can occur in a separate bill, and that is the way it has always been  done. 

  If we allow this to proceed on this basis--exactly as is  contemplated--we are really going to dramatically undermine the 60-vote  threshold for spending, and there is spending in this bill. There is  $843 million--almost $1 billion--and it gets worse. It gets worse  because this spending has an emergency spending designation. So it is  not only that we are spending money in a way that has never been done  before, and it is not only that we are spending money in a trade  implementing bill, which we have never done before, but now we have  decided to call it emergency spending.  

  Why is it that it gets an emergency spending designation? Why did  someone bother to give this spending an emergency designation? There is  a simple reason. 

  Under our budget rules, if you label spending as an emergency, then  you don't have to offset that spending if you exceed our agreed-upon  statutory spending caps. We are at the caps, and I gather that the  folks who wrote this don't want to have to offset this new spending  with a reduction anywhere else in the enormous budget of our Federal  Government. So they have designated it as emergency spending. 

  This is clearly an abuse of the use of an emergency designation. I  mean, we designate emergency spending when we have to respond to a  tornado or to a flood or to an outbreak of Ebola. These sorts of things  are unpredictable, sudden, devastating. Those are actual emergencies.  This is what that provision is there for. Yet here we are, using it for  things like doubling the staffing salary budget for the U.S. trade  office. That is not an emergency. It is not even close. 

  So I am going to offer a point of order. It is very, very simple, and  it is very, very narrow. It is a very, very small thing. What I am  going to do is to raise a point of order against the emergency  designation of one of the spending lines in this appropriation. I could  do it for all of them. I could raise an issue about the fact that there  is spending in the first place, but I am not going to do that. I am  going to take a very, very modest and narrow approach. 

  I suggest that we raise a point of order against the emergency  designation--against $50 million of the hundreds of millions of dollars  altogether--that clearly is not an emergency, and that clearly, in my  view, is inconsistent with the trade promotion authority. 

  What would be the consequences if my budget point of order were to  succeed? 

  First of all, not a dime of spending would be reduced. This is not an  attempt to cut spending. Eliminating an emergency designation does not  cut any spending in this bill. What it would mean is that Congress  would have until the end of the year to find an offset for this $50  million, which, by the way, is about one one-thousandth of one penny  for every dollar the Federal Government spends. It is a tiny, tiny  amount of money. It means the bill will still pass because there will  easily be more than 60 votes for this bill. Then it will go to the  House, where it will pass because it already has passed. 

  The point isn't to save money per se, for it is too small to really  matter in that regard. The point is, are we willing to enforce our own  law that governs the proceedings of this body? 

  I think one of my colleagues is likely to respond by offering a point  of order or a provision that will preclude the possibility of my  offering this point of order. Not only that, I think it is going to  preclude the possibility of any Senator's offering any budgetary point  of order, which will be a way of saying it will be forbidden to enforce  compliance with the TPA's budgetary rules in this legislation. 

  To my colleagues, I think this is a very, very bad idea. I think to  suggest that we are going to have this bill that is not compliant with  the trade promotion authority and that we are going to preclude the  possibility of raising a point of order about that noncompliance would  be a big mistake. 

  I will soon have the exact language that we will be using for this  purpose, and we will have this discussion. Then we will have a vote on  whether or not to preclude the possibility of enforcing our budget  rules with respect to this implementing legislation. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. TOOMEY. Madam President, I will make two quick points and then  get to the point of order. 

  First of all, I disagree with the chairman. I do think the spending  in this bill is neither strictly necessary nor appropriate, but that is  not what the point of order is about. If my point of order is sustained  and if the motion that is going to be made by the chairman is to be  rejected, not a penny will be reduced in the spending of this bill,  which is why I couldn't disagree more with my colleague from Oregon in  his suggesting it is a Trojan horse for something. It doesn't cut  spending by a dime from this bill. It simply means that by the end of  the fiscal year, Congress will have to find an offset for this  very, very modest amount of money. It is an attempt to try to enforce  some kind of compliance.                                Point of Order  

  Madam President, pursuant to section 314(e) of the Congressional  Budget Act of 1974, I raise a point of order against the emergency  designation on page No. 233, lines 4 through 8, of H.R. 5430. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT