United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, it appears that we are likely to be  considering some version of the USMCA, implementing legislation this  week, so I want to address this agreement, but in order to do that, I  think we have to start with the underlying NAFTA agreement, which has  been in place for some years, and ask a question, which is, Why did we  go down the path of renegotiating NAFTA in the first place? Let's start  there. 

  As I can imagine, one reason that one might want to renegotiate a  trade agreement is if the trade agreement in question were not a  reciprocal agreement. If it treated one party differently than it  treated the other parties, then you might question whether that is a  fair arrangement and might decide that if it is not, it needs to be  revisited. That certainly would not describe NAFTA. NAFTA is entirely  reciprocal. 

  Another reason one might decide to renegotiate a trade agreement is  if there were tariffs--meaning it wasn't really a free-trade agreement;  it was an agreement that maybe changed the terms of trade. But if you  still had tariffs, you might decide, as a free-trader like me, that it  would be a good idea to renegotiate so that we can eliminate the  remaining tariffs. 

  Well, that certainly isn't the motivation, either, because with  NAFTA, there are zero tariffs on 100 percent of manufactured goods that  cross the borders of any of the three countries that are parties and  zero tariffs on 97.5 percent of agricultural goods. So really there is  not much more to do on the tariff side. 

  By the way, that is true about any other kinds of restrictions on  trade. There are no quotas, no obstacles. This is a free-trade  agreement. That is what it is. It is fair, it is free, and it is  reciprocal among the three countries. As a matter of fact, since NAFTA  was adopted, U.S. exports to Mexico, for instance, have increased 500  percent. That is true of Pennsylvania exports to Mexico, as it is on  average for all 50 States. 

  I will state that modernizing the agreement always made sense, right?  We now have this huge digital economy that did not exist back in the  early nineties when NAFTA was adopted, so it definitely makes sense--it  always makes sense to modernize, to update. But I think it is very  clear that modernizing and updating were not the driving motivations  for renegotiating NAFTA and adopting USMCA. The fundamental reason was  that we have a trade deficit with Mexico. It is pretty persistent every  year. It is not a huge deficit, but we have a trade deficit with  Mexico, and that was deemed to be unacceptable to the administration. 

  So the fundamental purpose of renegotiating NAFTA and the reason  Mexico and Canada had to be coerced into this new agreement was so that  we could diminish exports from Mexico. Despite the fact that economists  universally understand that a trade deficit with a country like Mexico  is a meaningless measure, nevertheless, that is the goal. 

  Since trade in cars and car parts is the source of the trade deficit  with Mexico, it is the auto sector that bears the brunt of the  restrictions. 

  Let me suggest that one useful way to think about USMCA is that it is  NAFTA with two categories of changes. The first category is the modest  constructive modernizations I alluded to. They are mostly taken from  the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement that had been negotiated by a  previous administration. Examples include requiring that there be free  digital trade. So you can't impose a tax on a data transfer, for  instance, or you can't impose a tariff on software, and you can't  require that data be stored locally. These are good things. 

  It is important to note they are codifying existing practices.  Canada, Mexico, and the United States do not currently impose obstacles  and tariffs on this kind of economic activity. Under USMCA, they won't  be able to; it will be codified. So we will make permanent that which  is already the practice. There is a very, very tiny reduction in  Canadian protectionism with respect to dairy products.  

  For the most part, these modernizing features are modest, they come  from TPP, but most importantly, they could have been achieved without  the second category of changes I am about to describe. They could have  been achieved because they weren't really controversial. 

  The other important category of changes to NAFTA that USMCA contains  is a full series of protectionist measures that are designed to  diminish trade and/or investment. So for the first time in certainly  modern times, we are going to consider a trade agreement that is  designed to diminish trade, which should be very disturbing for those  of us who understand how  much economic growth comes from trade. 

  What are some of the specifics? Well, the specific changes that are  meant to diminish trade--as I said, the auto sector bears the brunt of  it. It really is the end of free trade in automobiles and auto parts  with respect to Mexico. The agreement imposes minimum wage requirements  that are designed to be impossible for Mexican factories to meet, and  when they don't meet them, Mexican autos and auto parts will be subject  to a tax. So Americans who buy these cars will have to pay a tax on  them. This is designed to make Mexico and Mexican factories less  productive. 

  We have folks who think that is somehow a good thing for the United  States. It is not. This minimum wage requirement and the tariffs that  will follow from it will simply make the entire North American auto  industry less competitive because we have integrated supply chains, and  American domestic manufacturers use parts that originate in Mexico.  Those parts will now be more expensive. It will mean higher prices for  American consumers, who will have to pay more money for a car and  therefore will have less money available for any of the other things  they would like to consume. It will probably lead to an increase or  acceleration in the shift to automation because when you artificially  establish an arbitrary wage rate that is unaffordable, it creates an  incentive to avoid labor costs entirely with automation. All of that  means fewer jobs. 

  We are already seeing a reduction. We have a terrific economy  generally, but the manufacturing sector is actually not participating  in this tremendous expansion. We have been losing jobs in manufacturing  as a result of tariffs we have been imposing. 

  With the full anticipation of this agreement coming, the auto sector  in the United States of America has been shedding jobs. We have been  losing jobs as employers in this sector see where we are heading on  this policy. That is one item. 

  Another way we are restricting trade is by arbitrarily putting an  expiration date on this trade agreement. It expires 16 years from the  date of enactment. There is a mechanism by which, if all three parties  unanimously and simultaneously agree, they can extend it, but the  default setting is for this thing to go away, for this to expire. 

  We have never put a termination date on a trade agreement. On all of  the trade agreements we have done--and there are dozens--we have never  had an expiration, and there is a good reason. The reason is, as you  get anywhere close toward that expiration date, an uncertainty emerges  about what the trade regime would be like if the agreement is not  extended. That has a chilling effect on trade and investment, so it is  a very bad idea. 

  Our Trade Rep has argued that, well, these trade agreements ought to  be renegotiated periodically anyway. First of all, not necessarily--a  free and fair and reciprocal trade agreement that has no barriers to  trade doesn't necessarily need to be renegotiated with any specific  frequency, and secondly, it can be renegotiated without an expiration.  The question is, What is the default setting? Do we assume the  arrangement continues, or do we assume the arrangement ends?  Unfortunately, in USMCA, it all comes to an end. 

  There is another provision that is very disturbing, and that is the  almost complete destruction of what is known as the investor-state  dispute mechanism. This is the mechanism by which American investors in  Canada and Mexico, in this case, can adjudicate a dispute because  sometimes the local court in those countries does not treat the foreign  investor--the American investor--in that country fairly. That happens  sometimes. 

  So 50 or more of our bilateral investment treaties and trade  agreements have this mechanism, the investor-state dispute settlement  mechanism, so that if an American investor or an American employer with  an investment overseas in one of these countries is being treated  unfairly, they have a place to go to get a fair adjudication of their  dispute. 

  In March of 2018, 22 currently serving Republican Senators sent a  letter to the Trade Representative. It says: ``ISDS provisions at least  as strong as those contained in the existing NAFTA must be included in  the modernized agreement to win congressional support.'' 

  There is actually a broad consensus about its importance, which is  why it is in every other trade agreement we have ever had. But USMCA  completely guts these investor protections. It limits it very narrowly  to just several sectors in Mexico and eliminates it entirely in Canada.  The irony of this is, in the 30 years that we have had these investor- state dispute settlement provisions, every time the United States was a  litigant, the United States won. 

  This has been a jurisdiction that has been very, very helpful to the  United States, and we have given it away. It is out the door. That is  because there are some, I think, advocates for eliminating this who  think, in a classic protectionist mindset, that an investment in  another country necessarily comes at an expense to investment in  America. That is completely wrong. Most investment overseas is meant to  serve overseas markets, and it results in jobs in the United States in  management and supervision and accounting and planning and all kinds of  aspects of overseeing that investment overseas. But now we are going to  have a chill imposed on this activity. 

  Well, those provisions I just described were the deal as it was  reached back in May, and at that point, our Democratic colleagues said  that the agreement was not acceptable. So our Trade Rep and a number of  House Members, in particular, entered into a whole new series of  negotiations, and from there, the agreement got worse. 

  What happened there--let me talk about just a couple of categories.  One is a whole set of labor provisions. Basically, the United States  forced Mexico to pass labor laws designed to facilitate the  unionization of their factories. It is none of our business what the  labor laws are in Mexico, but we forced them to pass these laws. 

  Then it gets worse. The USMCA creates this elaborate mechanism by  which American taxpayers are forced to pay to enforce Mexican labor  laws. Richard Trumka, from the AFL-CIO, said: ``For the first time  there truly will be enforceable labor standards--including a process  that allows for the inspections of factories and facilities that are  not living up to their obligations.'' 

  So he is alluding to the mechanism that is established in USMCA to  allow site inspections. I remind my colleagues that this agreement is  fully reciprocal. I wonder how much American businesses are going to  appreciate having Mexican inspectors come in to inspect their  facilities to see if they are in compliance with American labor law.  This is there because it is perceived to be in organized labor's  economic interests. 

  First, it increases the expense and diminishes the productivity of  Mexican plants, which some people think is a good thing. I think it is  a bad thing for American consumers to have to pay more than necessary.  But in any case, American taxpayers are going to pay hundreds of  millions of dollars over years to enforce another country's labor laws. 

  Another provision that was insisted on in the latter parts of the  negotiation is the removal of intellectual property protection for  biologics. As you know, biologics are complex new medicines derived  from living cells. It is one of the most exciting things in medicine  because it has allowed scientists to use living organisms--or these  cells from living organisms--to produce wonderful, wonderful curative  medicines. It is very exciting. 

  Under U.S. law, when a business develops such a new medicine, which  comes at enormous cost to get it to market, we provide 12 years' worth  of what we call data exclusivity. It is the exclusive ability to market  that medicine so that the company can recoup the billions of dollars  that are spent developing it. 

  Well, 12 years is the period of protection we provide for that  intellectual property. When the Trans-Pacific Partnership was being  negotiated, the Obama administration insisted on at least 8 years. We  are the only country that is, by far, the leading country in developing  this new category of medicine. We are the ones who have the incentive  to protect this intellectual property. Other countries--such as Mexico,  Canada, and other countries around the world--don't really care  about protecting it because it is not theirs. They argue for less  intellectual property protection; we argue for more. That is the  general nature of the context. 

  As I said, under the Trans-Pacific Partnership, everybody had agreed  on 8 years. Not in USMCA. In USMCA, we agreed to zero--zero--no period  of data exclusivity to protect the intellectual property of this very  exciting, new kind of medicine. This is so ironic because right now--as  an aside--we are in this ongoing, protracted, tough battle with China  over a number of their economic practices. Chief among them is their  theft of intellectual property. We are rightly insisting that we are  going to defend and protect our intellectual property because it is the  crown jewel of the American economy. The most precious thing we have is  the creativity of the American people. So we are insisting that we have  robust protection for intellectual property. Here, in USMCA, we give it  away. We just give it away. 

  There is another aspect of this that is important to consider, and  that is that there is not going to be any boost to economic growth as a  result of swapping out NAFTA for USMCA. The U.S. International Trade  Commission, which is an independent agency, part of the U.S. Federal  Government, did a big, extensive study, and they did a report. 

  Their report said that USMCA will create a net of 176,000 jobs. Well,  if that were true, it would be trivial in the context of our economy.  Our economy has been creating more than that number of jobs every month  for years now. It is a tiny number for 72 months when we have been  producing more jobs than that each and every month--not over 72 months.  But worse than being a very small number, it is just not true. The  study says that, on balance, the trade restrictive provisions, some of  which I alluded to, will diminish trade and cause U.S. growth to  decline, and any offsetting growth just comes from reducing the  uncertainty about whether the free trade and digital trade that I  alluded to continues. 

  However, the ITC cost-benefit analysis explicitly chose not to  attempt to quantify the sunset clause. There is no question that is a  negative. They didn't even attempt to quantify it. They did their  analysis before these new labor provisions and before the abandonment  of protection for intellectual property of biologics--before that even  emerged on the scene. We know those have a negative effect on growth.  The bottom line is, there is going to be no additional economic growth  from this agreement. 

  But there is a tax increase. The Congressional Budget Office did  their analysis, and they concluded--rightly--that there will be tariffs  added to the sales of cars. American consumers will be paying a tax  increase in the form of this tariff on autos and auto parts. That is  definitely part of this agreement. 

  To conclude on the substantive matters, we took a true free trade  agreement, and we added some constructive features. We did some  modernizing from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which was constructive,  but then we slapped on an expiration date. We imposed costly new  restrictions on one of our trading partners. We eliminated the dispute  settlement mechanism for U.S. investors. We dropped the intellectual  property protection for the most innovative medicines we have. We  saddled American taxpayers with $84 million over 4 years to enforce  Mexican labor and environmental laws. For all of this, we get basically  no additional economic growth--probably a little bit. 

  It is worth noting that the Members of this body who have proudly and  openly opposed every trade agreement they have ever been asked to cast  a vote on--they voted no. On this, they are going to vote yes. For the  first time in two decades, the AFL-CIO is supporting a trade deal when  they have opposed all free trade agreements. There is a reason. It is  because we are going backward on trade. It is because this agreement is  designed to limit trade. 

  A quick word on process here--this is important. The implementing  legislation that is going to get to the floor one way or another  sometime soon is not compliant with trade promotion authority. What  that means is, it should not get the expedited treatment and the  protection from all amendments that trade promotion authority confers  on a narrow category of legislation that conforms completely-- completely--with the trade promotion authority law. 

  Let's remember a few fundamental things here. Trade policy is the  responsibility of Congress. The Constitution assigns it to the U.S.  Congress to establish trade policy, including the establishment of  tariffs, the management of tariffs, and everything to do with trade. 

  With TPA, we delegate the responsibility that is ours to the  executive branch with a lot of conditions attached, and if they don't  comply with those conditions, then this legislation shouldn't be  whisked through Congress on a simple majority vote with no amendments,  which is meant, under TPA, to be limited only to those pieces of  legislation that comply entirely with the trade promotion act  legislation. 

  Here are a couple of specific ways in which this agreement violates  the trade promotion authority. First of all, Congress did not receive  the final agreement according to the timeframe contemplated by TPA. We  are supposed to get the final agreement 30 days before there is a vote  in committee or on the floor on the implementing language. The reason  that is important is so that Congress can give some feedback to the  administration. This is a draft that is meant to be a draft of the  implementing legislation submitted to Congress so that Congress can  then consider how it might want to make changes since this is, after  all, our responsibility. The administration chose not to do that at  all. They finalized this agreement in early to mid-December, and there  was a vote on the House floor on the final version of the implementing  language within a week or so--nothing close to the 30-day period that  is meant to enable Congress to influence its own product. 

  There is another provision in the trade promotion authority  legislation that requires that the implementing legislation must  contain only provisions ``strictly necessary or appropriate to  implement such trade agreement.'' Why is that important? It is because  we passed this legislation with a 51-vote threshold--simple majority  threshold. Almost everything else in the Senate requires 60 votes. So  we are saying that if you want to use the expedited process and if you  want to be able to pass this legislation with a simple majority, you  have to limit it only to that which is absolutely strictly necessary  and appropriate for implementing this trade agreement; otherwise,  obviously, people could stick in any old thing they want that they  think there is a majority vote for if there are not 60 votes for it. In  other words, abusing this narrow construct really dramatically  underlines the 60-vote threshold for legislation in the Senate. 

  Well, let me give you a few examples of cases where it is clearly  being abused in this agreement. One is that there are appropriations in  the implementing legislation. This is a complete first. In all of our  trade agreements in the past, there has been a necessity for some  spending. The appropriations bill to spend that money has always been a  separate legislative vehicle precisely so that it would be open to  scrutiny, subject to amendment, and subject to a 60-vote threshold. Not  this time. The hundreds of millions of dollars of spending in this bill  include, for instance, $50 million in salaries and expenses for the  office of the U.S. Trade Rep. Well, maybe the folks at the U.S. Trade  Rep all deserve a big raise; maybe that is true. But that should be  done in a separate piece of legislation because it is not necessary and  appropriate for the implementation of USMCA. Not only that, but they  have taken all of this spending and imposed an emergency designation on  it. There is an emergency designation on it. So, apparently, it is an  emergency that the folks over at the U.S. Trade Rep's office get a pay  raise. Apparently it is an emergency that all this money be spent. That  is ridiculous; of course it is not. The reason they put the emergency  designation on it is that spending in this body--spending in Congress  that gets an emergency designation doesn't have to be offset. So if it  exceeds the permissible maximum spending we have all agreed to and if  you slap on an emergency designation, then that is  OK. If you don't have the emergency designation, then new spending has  to be offset with reduction in spending somewhere else. 

  The reason we have the emergency designation is that emergencies  actually can occur. There are earthquakes; there are fires; there are  floods; and those happen. But I am sorry, a pay raise for staffers at  the U.S. Trade Rep does not qualify. 

  So, for a variety of reasons, this legislation we are going to be  considering is not compliant with trade promotion authority. That  doesn't mean it can't move. It simply means it needs to move under the  regular order. It should be an ordinary bill on the floor as any  ordinary legislation, and, sadly, from my point of view, I am pretty  sure the votes are there to pass it. There are probably going to be the  votes to pass what I think is a badly flawed agreement--an agreement  that restricts trade rather than expanding trade. I certainly hope we  will do it under the regular order because it does abuse trade  promotion authority. 

  The last point I would make is that I certainly hope this does not  become a template for future trade agreements. We have an opportunity  to do wonders for our constituents, our consumers, and our workers by  reaching new and additional trade agreements with the UK, Japan,  Vietnam, and all kinds of countries that have tremendous growth  potential, and our economy will grow if we can work out mutual free  trade agreements with these countries. I am very much in favor of that.  I wouldn't want these protectionist, restrictionist policies that found  their way into this agreement to be part of future agreements. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT