Westmoreland County Receives Federal Designation to Help Combat Drug Trafficking


Today, at the request of U.S. Senator Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) designated Westmoreland County as a High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA).

The HIDTA designation grants Westmoreland County access to additional federal resources for the purpose of enhancing coordination among federal, state, and local law enforcement officials in drug prevention and control efforts.

On April 28, 2020, Senator Toomey sent a letter to ONDCP Director James Carroll encouraging the designation of Westmoreland County as a HIDTA.

"Every community in Pennsylvania struggles with drug abuse, whether it be fentanyl, heroin, methamphetamines, or cocaine," said Senator Toomey. "Westmoreland County, and western Pennsylvania in general, has proven to be a significant center of illegal drug trafficking and distribution. Greater access to federal resources through the HIDTA designation will help Westmoreland County law enforcement officials stem the tide. I am glad ONDCP made this designation and appreciate Director Carroll's work to combat the scourge of drug abuse in Pennsylvania and across the country."

More on High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTAs)

The High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program, created by Congress with the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, provides assistance to federal, state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies operating in areas determined to be critical drug-trafficking regions of the United States.

This designation enables areas to receive federal resources to further the coordination and development of drug control efforts among federal, state, local and tribal law enforcement officers, and allows local agencies to benefit from ongoing HIDTA initiatives that are working to reduce drug trafficking across the United States.

More on Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP)

ONDCP was created by the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988. The ONDCP Director is the principal advisor to the President on drug control issues. ONDCP coordinates the drug-control activities and related funding of 16 Federal Departments and Agencies.