Protecting Prudent Investment of Retirement Savings Act


Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding.  I rise in opposition to this bill, which will only hurt the retirement  savings of millions of Americans.

Our Republican colleagues are once again prioritizing culture wars  over working people and threatening the retirement savings of nurses,  teachers, police officers, and healthcare workers, who are just trying  to save for their future with peace of mind.

The bill before us today injects politics into investment decisions  that should be guided by sound financial judgment.

Let me be clear. Environmental, social, and governance risks are  material and pecuniary, and companies that adopt thoughtful policies on  these risks outperform those that don't over the long term.

If an oil company is cutting corners, and it leads to a spill that is  expensive to the company, that hurts shareholders. That hurts people  who are saving for retirement. That is a failure to manage an  environmental risk.

If a company maintains a culture in the office that allows rampant  discrimination that causes lawsuits that are expensive to the company,  that is a social factor. That is a material risk.

If executive pay is structured in a way where it is not tied to  shareholder performance, that is a risk.

As a former State treasurer, I know that ignoring these risks does  not make them disappear.

By the way, the proxy voting process is an important way for  shareholders to tell executives at companies when they think that  something needs to change. They are nonbinding. What this bill would do  is make it harder for shareholders to vote to put even nonbinding items  in front of a board to consider.

I have heard the other side say that this bill does not preclude ESG  factors from being considered if they are material, but that is not  true in practice. What will happen in practice is that SEC bureaucrats  and political appointees will get to choose what is material and what  is not.

Any time an executive, a corporate executive, doesn't like what a  shareholder proposal is about, they can go to the SEC and say: ``Keep  this off the ballot. I don't want to see it.'' It will be up to those  bureaucrats and political appointees to decide what is material and  what is not.

How about we trust the investors? How about we trust the people who  are actually doing the work? How about we trust the plan participants,  the workers, and the retirees? Anyone who has a 401(k) or an IRA will  tell you that they can go on the website and pick from a range of  different plans based on what they think is a good idea for them. Why  don't we trust them instead of trusting bureaucrats and political  appointees to make decisions for everybody else?

Understand why we are here and who this bill helps. This bill helps  corporate executives who do not want to be held accountable by their  own shareholders.

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, this bill helps executives who do not  want to be held accountable by their own shareholders for material ESG  risks.

It all comes down to time horizons, as Mr. Casten said. When I was  State treasurer, I had 60,000 people who were relying on me for their  retirement. I had people who were 90- or 100-year-old retirees, and I  had first-year teachers who were 23 years old. I owed just as much of a  fiduciary duty to those 23-year-olds as the 90-year-olds.

So long-term factors and ESG factors matter even when corporate  executives who are focused on the short term don't care about them.

This bill claims to be about free markets. It is the opposite. It is  taking choice away from investors and away from retirees and plan  participants and putting it in the hands of bureaucrats and political  appointees.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote.