Protecting Prudent Investment of Retirement Savings Act


Mr. DeSAULNIER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding  and for his leadership in opposition to this bill.

Environmental, social, and governance are factors that retirement  plan fiduciaries may consider when making investments on behalf of  retirement plans covered by ERISA. Factors that may fall within ESG  include impact of the company's actions on climate change, working  conditions, and employee safety at the company, and its management  structure.

Weighing ESG factors when making investment decisions is not only  more socially responsible, it is also more fiscally responsible for the  type of long-term investments managed by retirement plan fiduciaries.  Factors like sea level rise due to climate change, child labor  violations, or track records for mistreating workers could cause  unnecessary investment risks over time. Investors should be protected  from those kinds of unethical management practices. That is why it  should be considered a best practice for retirement plan professionals  to appropriately weigh ESG factors--just weigh them.

Unfortunately, this bill would establish unnecessary barriers to  retirement plan fiduciaries who want to consider these factors. This is  despite the fact that even those fiduciaries who consider ESG factors  are still required under ERISA to run plans solely in the best interest  of participants and fiduciaries.

I filed an amendment to this bill that would permit plan fiduciaries  to consider ESG factors when they make investment decisions, which  aligns with the Biden administration's ESG rule that was upheld twice  by Federal district courts before being abandoned by the Trump  administration.

Crucially, my amendment would have also upheld core ERISA protections  and explicitly ensured that fiduciaries do not sacrifice investment  returns when they consider ESG factors. Unfortunately, House  Republicans and House Republican leadership prevented the amendment  from being approved in the committee.

Mr. Speaker, we should trust the professionals who are legally  obligated to make prudent decisions on behalf of retirement plan  participants, not undermine their ability to make sound investment  decisions.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose H.R. 2988. Once again, I  thank the ranking member for his leadership.