Americans Stranded in Middle East


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700724/americans-stranded-in-middle-east


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I have spoken here about how this  administration did not adequately warn U.S. citizens in the Middle East  before launching attacks against Iran. They left American citizens in  the Middle East stranded and told them that they were on their own.

Mr. Speaker, I applaud them for correcting this mistake and working  really hard to try to get people flights out and helping them to  evacuate. Unfortunately, it looks like that was only a temporary  response because this week, I am having constituents tell me that, once  again, they are being told that they are on their own.

One family I am working with is in Kuwait right now and was told to  take a commercial flight out and that the State Department couldn't  help them. The problem is that Kuwaiti airspace is actually closed  right now. The family was told that they would have to take a bus to  Saudi Arabia and that the State Department wouldn't really help them  with that. Even if they did get there, there are frequent restrictions  on flights in Saudi Arabia due to continued missile and drone threats.

Again, I am left wondering why we are telling Americans that we have  billions of dollars to spend on bombs, missiles, and warships, but we  don't have the money to get American citizens who want to get out, out  of the Middle East, particularly ones who are in dangerous areas where  there are no commercial flights.

It is insulting to tell the American people to foot the bill to get  out of the Middle East in a dangerous position when we didn't warn them  in the first place.

Once again, I am calling on the administration to help Americans who  need to get out, get out. The safety of the American people should come  first.                    Supporting Small Business AI Startups

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, AI is massively reshaping our economy  and our small businesses. When most people think of companies leading  on AI, they think of the Big Tech companies, but there is more to this  AI economy than those big companies. They are AI small businesses and  startups that play a key role in innovation. They are the drivers of  innovation, economic growth, and American technological supremacy.

They can often be more agile than bigger tech companies and create  fantastic solutions and products, but they aren't always working on an  even playing field.

That is why I am introducing this week the small AI innovators  empowerment act. This bill would look at challenges that small AI  businesses and startups face, including areas like access to funding,  hiring and retention of talented employees, and the impact of  regulatory uncertainty.

Supporting small-tech businesses helps us to stay ahead of  international competition as our world becomes increasingly reliant on  AI. I thank Congressman Obernolte for sponsoring this bill with me.

I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting AI small  businesses by supporting this small AI innovators empowerment act.                      Congratulating The Flower Gallery

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate The Flower  Gallery of Virginia on its 50th anniversary. The Flower Gallery has  contributed to the joy of residents in our community, including  Manassas and Northern Virginia, since 1976, when Doug Burroughs first  bought the shop from his employer.

Over that time, The Flower Gallery has helped our community celebrate  life's milestones, including many birthdays, weddings, and  anniversaries. It also provides local youth and civic organizations  with flowers for fundraisers and community events.

I congratulate Doug for creating such a beloved institution and for  50 years of success. I am wishing Doug and The Flower Gallery many more  years of prosperity.                      Opposing Attack on Federal Workers

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, we know that this administration has  been constantly attacking our Nation's Federal workers and contractors.  They have chased out people with specialized skills and decades of  experience, making our country less safe and less healthy, while also  making our agencies either understaffed, or led by unqualified  loyalists.

The latest attack might actually be one of the worst, and that is the  creation of the Schedule P/C positions. We knew that there would be an  attack on Schedule F. This basically would make it easier for career  civil servants to be fired and to be replaced with loyalists who are  not qualified.

Federal workers would lose job protections, and it would make it  incredibly difficult to attract people, retain them, and get the best  talent in the country to come work in the Federal Government. We have  been working on this across many administrations, and this is undoing a  lot of that work.

The reality is that Federal workers and contractors pledge allegiance  to our country and not to a President or an ideology. This rule would  hurt our country for many years to come, and it would do irreparable  damage to our institutions and to the people who rely on them.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing this rule.  It is not well thought out, and it is going to hurt us in the long run.