Congratulating Virginia's 10th District Congressional Award Medalists


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692900/congratulating-virginias-10th-district-congressional-award-medalists


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the winners of  this year's Congressional Award medalists from Virginia's 10th  District. These young men and women put in 400-plus hours of volunteer  work and 200-plus hours of personal development, as well as 200-plus  hours of personal fitness activities.

The winners of the Congressional Award's gold medal this year are  Sabrina Lu of Riverside High School, who designed handmade cards and  spread cancer awareness; Jason Jayanth of Academies of Loudoun and John  Champe High School, who tutored students and volunteered at animal  shelters while also playing on the basketball team; and Caitlyn Murphy,  a sophomore at James W. Robinson Secondary School, who swam, played  violin, and created and delivered more than 800 cards for seniors in  local retirement homes.

I congratulate these very accomplished young individuals on their  Congressional Award gold medals, and I thank them for their service.              Celebrating Gainesville High School Baseball Team

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I also rise today to recognize the  Gainesville High School baseball team's historic State championship  victory.

In just their fourth season--they have only been a high school for 4  years--the Cardinals won their first State title, capping off the  season with a 23-5 record.

The championship game itself came down to the wire. With two outs and  the tying run in scoring position, the Cardinals recorded the final out  and sealed the win.

I congratulate Gainesville High School on its historic championship- winning season and on all the hard work and hustle along the way.                   Making Federal Government Cost-Efficient

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, one of the things I get asked is why  the Federal Government can't be as fast and cost-efficient as the  private sector.

Take a pen like this. If you are trying to buy a lot of them in the  private sector, you can just go to Staples and Amazon to purchase them  right there, really quickly, and for a pretty good cost.

In the public sector, there are a lot of rules and regulations in  place to buy things like pens or staples. It is even harder to do this  with technology tools that can help people get their Social Security  payments faster, renew passports, or help people access Medicare or  Medicaid.

That is why I am introducing the bipartisan FIT Procurement Act today  with my colleague Congressman Burlison. The FIT Procurement Act would  raise cost caps and allow the Federal Government to buy more innovative  tools without going through the needless bureaucracy.

What we are trying to do is help agencies not have to jump through so  many hoops to get innovative tools to help people and help them serve  people. It will make it easier, as well, for small businesses to sell  to the Federal Government.

Our bill makes commonsense fixes that we can all support on both  sides of the aisle. I look forward to working with my colleagues to  pass this bill that will save American taxpayers money, support small  businesses, and spur economic innovation.                        Recognizing Loudoun Wildlife Conservancy

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Loudoun  Wildlife Conservancy as it celebrates 30 years of service to our  community.

An organization initially founded by 3 individuals has now grown to  over 600 volunteers. The conservancy has led the charge on habitat  conservation, environmental education, and advocacy in Loudoun County,  everything from stream monitoring to bird and animal counting.

The Loudoun Wildlife Conservancy reminds us that conservation isn't  just about nature. It is about community, resilience, and quality of  life. I know my wife and I are big fans and supporters of them.

I congratulate Loudoun Wildlife Conservancy on all its years of  service to the community, and I thank all the volunteers.