Congratulating Military Academy Appointees


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693568/congratulating-military-academy-appointees


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate 37 outstanding  students in my district who accepted appointments to the Nation's  military academies. They just reported last week, and these are  incredibly impressive young men and women.

My district, Virginia's 10th, has an incredibly competitive process  and nominates the most number of people  to military academies of any district in the country.

These young men and women were able to get through our rigorous  progress by demonstrating leadership, patriotism, and a commitment to  service.

We thank the students for their dedication, their courage, and their  willingness to answer the call. We look forward to seeing the  incredible impact they will have as future leaders of our Armed Forces.                         Medicaid Paperwork Red Tape

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, we keep hearing the same thing about  the big, ugly bill the President signed last week. We hear we are  keeping Medicaid for the people who need it and only kicking off able- bodied people. This is simply not true.

These cuts to people's benefits are a little sneaky. It is not a work  requirement. It is a paperwork requirement. They want to inundate  people who need Medicaid as a lifeline with paperwork that will be  difficult for them to do.

These are folks with health issues, folks on Medicaid with  disabilities, mothers and fathers with multiple jobs and kids, or  without access to reliable broadband in a few cases.

The red tape imposed on Medicaid by this bill isn't meant to be a  flaw. It is the whole point. That is why they have pushed it forward  past the next election.

We have seen this before. In Arkansas and Georgia, they promised to  save taxpayer money with ``work requirements.'' All they did was kick  people off who actually needed it the most. Unemployment rates didn't  go up. Why? Many people on Medicaid are already working.

Who is better at paperwork? Is it someone on disability who Medicaid  was intended for or someone who wants to defraud the system?

Most of the waste, fraud, and abuse in Medicaid is actually from  providers and not from the folks who need it. No, the real fraud is  this paperwork requirement. We need to get rid of it.                       Concern for Educational Funding

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today out of deep concern for  students across Virginia and the country. Right now, this  administration is withholding nearly $7 billion in congressionally  approved education funding.

This is money meant for public schools. These fund after-school  programs, teacher training, literacy training, and more. Without  warning, the administration froze them. The result has been delays and  potential cuts and layoffs. School districts, including the ones that I  represent, are now scrambling to fill unexpected budget gaps.

I have heard directly from educators in my district whose jobs will  be on the line and whose students risk losing vital support if this  funding isn't restored.

It is our students who will pay the ultimate price, but it doesn't  stop there. The Department of Education has been painfully slow to  respond to those seeking help.

My constituents have been waiting for months for the Public Service  Loan Forgiveness that they are owed. Others have been placed on  incorrect student loan payment plans and subjected to poor treatment  from loan providers. They are left frustrated and financially strained.

The administration must release K-12 funding and allow the Department  of Education to continue their work. Our students deserve better than  this waste and red tape.                       Congratulating Madison Whitbeck

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, congratulations to former Ms. Loudoun  County, now Ms. Virginia, Madison Whitbeck.

Madison is a proud graduate of Riverside High School in Loudoun  County where she cultivated a love for the arts. Madison will spend the  year traveling to over 70 elementary schools, teaching students  curriculum on making health choices relating to drugs and alcohol.

She will begin her work on the Arts for All initiative, as well,  seeking to expand access to the arts for students across the  Commonwealth.

Mr. Speaker, we congratulate Madison, and we look forward to seeing  all the great things that she does.                        U.S. Embassy Visa Uncertainty

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight a concern I  have heard from many constituents about the delays and uncertainty in  the visa process at U.S. Embassies, particularly in Islamabad.

Families in my district have cases stuck in administrative processing  with no clear timeline. These delays are keeping families apart,  creating needless anxiety and making it impossible to plan for the  future.

Just last week, this administration announced the firings of 1,300  staff at the State Department. That is 1,100 civil servants and 246  Foreign Service officers.

While these cuts may not directly impact those embassy operations,  they are only going to have a domino effect that is going to hurt every  single embassy around the country and around the world.

At a time of heightened conflict and global uncertainty, we should  invest in our diplomatic and consular capacities, not reducing them. I  hope that the work in Islamabad has improved so that our constituents  can be served better.