Congratulating Chief Keith Johnson on His Retirement


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, as Chief Keith Johnson prepares to  retire this month, I rise to honor his distinguished career in service  to Loudoun County Combined Fire and Rescue System.

Beloved in our Loudoun County community, Chief Johnson is a fourth- generation firefighter who began his fire service in 1982. His career  led him to the Fairfax County Fire and Rescue Department where he  ascended to the rank of deputy chief in 2009.

After 30 years in Fairfax County, Chief Johnson was appointed as  chief of the Loudoun County Combined Fire and Rescue System in 2018.  During his tenure, he led a department of nearly 500 career personnel  and more than 1,500 volunteer personnel, oversaw the implementation of  a collective bargaining ordinance, created a 24-hour operation shift  commander program, and formed a behavioral health section. To cap off  his career, Chief Johnson was named Career Fire Chief of the Year in  2024.

Congratulations to Chief Johnson on his exceptional career. We thank  Chief Johnson for all his service to our community, and we wish him a  happy retirement.      Celebrating Independence High School Varsity Winter Guard's 2025                       Scholastic State Championship

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the  Independence High School Varsity Winter Guard's 2025 scholastic State  championship.

This year, their hard work and perseverance paid off. Not only did  they place first in their class but they also received the highest  overall score out of 60 Virginia high schools that competed.

They made history as the first Loudoun County public high school to  ever win a Scholastic A1. I also heard the team's stuffed animal  mascot, Thleebuss, deserves a little bit of credit.

We congratulate Coach Harrington, Coach Young, the Winter Guard, and  the Independence High School community on their championship.            Honoring Richard Martin on his 700th Platelet Donation

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Richard Martin of  Sterling, Virginia, who reached a remarkable milestone last month, his  700th platelet donation. This isn't just a number. It represents lives  saved and hope restored.

Richard's journey began in 1982, inspired by his father who donated  an incredible 17 gallons of whole blood. For over four decades, Richard  has visited his local blood donation clinic every 2 weeks. He is a  familiar face to the staff, always bringing his cheerful demeanor and  unwavering commitment to the cause.

Today, we celebrate Richard's altruistic spirit and dedication as a  platelet donor. He is a shining example of what it means to serve one's  neighbors and community.                Honoring the Life of Chandrashekar Namagondlu

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and  memory of Chandrashekar Namagondlu. A devoted husband, father, son, and  brother, Chandra was the embodiment of joy and a well-lived life. He  was a pillar of every community and organization that he was a part of.

He began his career as a network engineer before transitioning into  cybersecurity. Over the past 20 years at Visa, he rose to become  director of cybersecurity, where he not only was a respected leader but  a beloved manager and colleague known for his generosity, mentorship,  and unwavering support.

Most of all, his love for his family was insurmountable and deeply  felt by all of those he cared for, especially his wife Sreelatha and  his daughter, Priya. His memory will live on with those that were  touched by his presence.                       Protecting Economic Independence

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today less than 1 week after the  administration proclaimed April 2 as Liberation Day, a day filled with  tariffs that sparked a trade war.

What sort of liberation have we seen since then? In my district  alone,  wineries in Warrenton, Virginia, a rural town just down the road, may  have to close. A small perfume business, which can only import  materials from the U.K., is bracing for skyrocketing costs.

Breweries in my district are being hit. The owner of one small  Virginia brewery said that because of tariffs on his aluminum, steel,  and other ingredients, they have to raise the price of a six-pack to  $19.

The President proclaimed Liberation Day as a declaration of economic  independence, but this is doing nothing to protect the right to life,  liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. The only thing these tariffs  will liberate are rent money and mortgage payments from bank accounts,  kids' college savings from investment accounts, and retirement savings  from 401k's.

It is not too late to change course and declare Liberation Day as a  poorly constructed April Fools' joke.