Ongoing Protests in Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699204/ongoing-protests-in-iran


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to address the ongoing protests  in Iran.

For decades, the Iranian people have faced human rights abuses,  extrajudicial killings, and economic turmoil.

Protests have been going on for almost a month. The military is  cracking down, and at least thousands have died. The Iranian people are  not backing down, and they deserve the right to protest for changes.  They deserve the right to decide whether they want a freer, secular  future.

That is why I have joined my colleagues on the bipartisan FREEDOM Act  to expand internet freedom in Iran. I also sent a letter to the  administration urging immediate action to maximize resources to protect  internet freedom.

I have also written directly to Secretary Rubio in support of the  Iranian people, while highlighting the worsening human rights abuses,  which are also affecting people back here who have Iranian family  there.

We support the Iranian people and their efforts to determine their  own futures, and we will continue to support them.                      Banning Immigrant Visa Processing

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, the administration has decided that,  starting tomorrow, January 21, they are going to implement an  indefinite ban on immigrant visa processing for more than 75 countries.

This sweeping action has created a crisis for so many Virginia  families who have followed the law to see or reunite with their loved  ones. Some of these stories that my office has seen of people who have  been affected are really heartbreaking. These are spouses still waiting  to reunite, engaged couples who have had to pause or cancel their  wedding plans, children waiting for parents, and parents waiting to  care for their families.

We even had a couple reach out who were in the final stages of  adopting a child from Thailand, which is on the list. Because of the  pause on what is going on, the adoption is now frozen indefinitely.

It seems there are no exceptions to this ban. It is just a straight- up ban, and the reason seems kind of flimsy, to be honest. It is  apparently because they are a drain on our social system. I will just  say that the only drain on our social system has been Congress, with  cuts to Medicaid and SNAP.

In any case, I would love to see the math on how these particular  countries were chosen and why this administration thinks banning visas  from Fiji is going to help out social services or pay down the debt.

This blanket ban, with no exceptions, does nothing more than separate  families and create hardship. Our constituents deserve better.                         Medicare Telehealth Coverage

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, we have been talking a lot in this  Chamber about rising healthcare costs.

One of the things that we are doing really well as a country to lower  costs is telehealth, which allows people to see their providers faster  and more often, and even see specialized providers from out of State.  It saves time and money, and it is great for doctors, nurses, and  seniors.

Unfortunately, we are heading toward a telehealth coverage cliff  because, on January 30, Medicare telehealth coverage will end, and many  patients will have to see their doctors in person only.

That is why I am urging my colleagues to pass the CONNECT for Health  Act and make telehealth coverage permanent. This is common sense. It  lowers costs, and it means less emergency room visits. Everyone wins.

We must save telehealth coverage and pass this bill before the end of  the month.