Private Medical Data of Federal Employees


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701612/private-medical-data-of-federal-employees


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, we need to stop this administration  from trying to collect private medical data on Federal employees and  their families.

Recently OPM, the Office of Personnel Management, started asking  Federal workers and their family members for their detailed monthly  health records.

This isn't just trends or summaries. This is things like  prescriptions and claims, so all this data has personally identifiable  information that paints a clear picture of a person's private life and  health.

Why do they want to do this? Well, we are not really sure. One story  from OPM is that this is to help provide competitive, quality,  affordable health plans. But OPM already has health claims data  warehouses, and they haven't really explained how this would actually  help with finding a competitive plan. They certainly haven't cited  legal authority for why they are entitled to every Federal worker's  detailed health information.

We are being asked right now to trust that this will all be secure,  but they haven't really outlined how they will keep this information  safe, and OPM has a really poor track record. This is the agency that  leaked 21 million records in one of the largest Federal data breaches  in recent history.

Last year, there were credible reports that DOGE personnel were  granting sweeping access to sensitive OPM systems and data.

A Federal judge has temporarily blocked this policy of collecting  Federal worker health data because it likely violates the Privacy Act,  but we need to permanently stop this policy from moving forward.

Instead of going after Federal workers' personal information, I would  ask the OPM to instead focus on processing the backlog of retirement  claims, which has surpassed 55,000 cases. In any case, I hope my  colleagues will join me in opposing what OPM is doing here.                        Forest Service Reorganization

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the planned  reorganization of the Forest Service, which will mean the relocation or  closure of dozens of Forest Service offices.

The Forest Service is an agency many of us don't think about, but it  does so much important work that impacts our lives every day. They  protect national forests, wildlife diversity, and watersheds. They lead  the fight against forest fire and promote fire prevention. They  research forest health and manage 193 million acres of land.

We already know that these relocations and closures of Forest Service  offices will be a disaster, because the first Trump administration  relocated  just three offices, which resulted in the largest loss of productivity  and staffing in recent history for that agency. That is just three  offices. Imagine moving the entire headquarters, which is 260  employees. Those folks, some of whom are my constituents, would have to  choose between their jobs or uprooting their lives and their families.

The administration also wants to close 57 of 77 Forest Service  research facilities. This will slow down or end research on wildfire  prevention, logging techniques, endangered species research, and  climate change response. I could keep going.

This is irresponsible, given the record temperatures we are seeing  every year and the once-in-a-lifetime droughts and floods that are  happening every few years.

This can't be about reducing waste, fraud, and abuse, or streamlining  government, because the move itself would be incredibly costly, and the  natural disasters that result from them will be far more costly than  maintaining these offices.

Mr. Speaker, I urge this administration to stop these disastrous  relocations of the Forest Service.