Protect the Afghans Who Served Us


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691559/protect-the-afghans-who-served-us


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose the Department  of Homeland Security's termination of temporary protected status for  Afghans. TPS has provided a lifeline to Afghans who supported U.S.  national security efforts and risked their lives to support our  missions.

We offered them protection here because when allies stand with us, we  have a responsibility to stand with them. This principle is a national  security imperative. It helps build trust and helps build more allies.  That trust gets undermined when we turn our back on those who protected  us.

Now, with the termination of TPS, we are sending our Army's allies  back to the Taliban. These individuals and families were given just  weeks to make an impossible choice: face deportation to return to  Afghanistan under Taliban control where they will likely be suffering  or even die.

Many of these families live in our community here in Virginia.

Take the story of a former captain in the Afghan National Army. He  worked with the U.S. military, and his brother was shot by the Taliban.  His entire family now fears for their lives. Abandoning Afghans now not  only turns our back on those who risked their lives to protect us but  puts our current and future global partnerships on the line.

We have an incredible Afghan-American community in Virginia, and we  have to stand up for them and stand up for the Afghans who have come  here and who served us there.

I urge the administration to reverse course.                          Celebrating Rajdhani Mandir

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, from celebrating holidays to hosting  community events, the Rajdhani Mandir temple is a cornerstone of the  Hindu community in our region.

This year, we will mark an important milestone of the temple's 25- year anniversary, years of bringing people together at events,  festivals like Holi, Diwali, and Navratri, and for children's  programming, too, including regular Sunday classes.

The temple also puts out programs for seniors and does incredible  philanthropic work to provide food and resources to our community.

I am honored to celebrate this milestone with the temple this  weekend. I congratulate the Rajdhani Mandir temple on a successful 25  years, and I am looking forward to the next 25 years of work.               Congratulating Stone Hill Middle School Students

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the students of  Stone Hill Middle School, in Ashburn, Virginia: Avee, Neil, Vibhav, and  Aarav; and their teacher, Pardeep, for placing third in the National  Space Sustainability Competition.

This competition allows students to address the need for sustainable  practices in space by developing an engineering solution, creating a  business plan, and submitting a video pitch for consideration.

Their project, the Orbital Ecosystem Engineers, was pitched as an  aerospace technology company to manage and remove space debris, which  is a big problem right now. The technology used includes satellites,  drones, and AI to find the best route to locate debris and the focus of  the power of the Sun's rays to destroy the debris.

I am eager to see what our students continue to do with their company  in the future, and I wish them the best of luck in tackling  sustainability in space.