Recognizing Fauquier High School Class of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691978/recognizing-fauquier-high-school-class-of-2025


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and  congratulate the Fauquier High School class of 2025.

Last month, the 301 graduates and their families gathered at the  packed Jiffy Lube Live to celebrate this milestone.

This senior class has a lot to be proud of, including beating their  teachers in the students versus faculty basketball game.

The graduates excelled not only in the classroom but also on the  field and in their ability to persevere through challenges. Whether  they are heading into the workforce, trade school, college, or  embarking on their service at institutions like the Air Force Academy  or Virginia Military Institute, the values of hard work and  determination that they learned as a Falcon will always be with them.

I congratulate the class of 2025 at Fauquier High School.

Recognizing Rappahannock County High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and  congratulate the Rappahannock County High School class of 2025.

This year's graduating class is a remarkable group of students,  including future firefighters, servicemembers, college and trade school  students, and workers ready to contribute across many sectors.

In their time at Rappahannock County High School, they have achieved  a lot of great things, including bringing home a Class 1 State title  for the women's basketball team and winning a Scholastic Bowl regional  championship. Whether on the field, in the classroom, in the drama  club, or as part of one of Rappahannock County High School's bands, I  know they will carry the lessons they have learned as a Panther to  whatever comes next.

I congratulate the class of 2025.               Recognizing Kettle Run High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the 287  graduates in Kettle Run High School class of 2025.

The graduates, as Cougars, have balanced life as students, teammates,  and coworkers, and through it all they have learned the value of  perseverance. They have excelled across a wide range of fields: In  band, in chorus, and in orchestra, on the stage and in the art room.  They brought home a golf State championship and led the football team  all the way to the State championship game.

They left their mark on Kettle Run, and I look forward to watching  all that they will accomplish in the future.

I congratulate the class of 2025 of Kettle Run High School.                Recognizing Liberty High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the 347  graduates of Liberty High School's class of 2025.

The graduates, as Eagles, have achieved so much and, most  importantly, have learned how to tackle whatever challenges come next.

As their principal said to them:

You are bold, you are brilliant, and roughly a third of you       are bilingual. And you are all just enough unhinged to change       the world.

Whether their next stop is college, trade school, the workforce, or  the military, I can't wait to see what their future has in store, and I  look forward to watching them change the world. The graduates should  always remember that once an Eagle, always an Eagle.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Liberty High School class of 2025.                        Effects of Tariffs in Virginia

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, in his inauguration address, President  Trump declared that America was entering a golden age, a new chapter of  economic prosperity.

For Virginians, and millions across the country, that promise remains  unfulfilled. Instead of prosperity, Americans are facing economic  hardship and uncertainty.

This administration's steep tariffs are taking a real toll here in  Virginia.

I heard from a constituent, like the one who started his own small  business selling action figures. After a lot of success selling  preorders of the action figures, his business is now facing budget  shortfalls because they don't know what the tariffs on China will be  from month to month. They don't want to raise prices on customers, but  the tariffs have made it impossible to plan for his business and for  his future.

They are not alone. Businesses, small and large, are feeling the pain  all across the Commonwealth. They are unable to plan, unable to predict  what this administration is going to do, and in many cases unable to  keep their employees, or keep their doors open in some cases. This  uncertainty is weighing on a lot of families as well. According to one  poll, 59 percent of Virginians expect to face financial difficulty in  the years ahead. This doesn't sound like the golden age. It sounds like  fool's gold.                              Merit-Based Hiring

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of merit-based  hiring, especially in the Federal Government, because this  administration, which has talked a lot about the evils of diversity and  fired veterans left and right, is now focusing its hiring efforts  exclusively on one thing, blind loyalty to the President. It is like  DEI for MAGA.

According to a recent memo from the Office of Personnel Management,  all of the civil servant applicants will now be required to answer a  series of questions explaining which of the President's executive  orders are their favorites and how they will advance the President's  pet projects.

Now, to be fair, there are other countries that do similar loyalty  tests, like North Korea, the former Soviet Union, and Iran, just to  name a few, but those are authoritarian regimes. That seems to be this  administration's model.

I ask instead that everyone should swear loyalty to this country and  not to the President, and instead of spying on Federal workers and  contractors and firing ones who aren't the most blindly loyal that the  best are chosen, the brightest, the most qualified people to serve our  Nation, to keep us healthy, safe, and secure.