Recognizing Bishop Michelle C. Thomas


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697218/recognizing-bishop-michelle-c-thomas


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize and  congratulate the newly consecrated bishop, Michelle C. Thomas, a  community leader in northern Virginia.

In 2006, Bishop Thomas became the first African-American female  pastor to establish a church in our county, Loudoun County, Virginia.  She has delivered invocations for numerous dignitaries and heads of  state. Now, she is the first female bishop in the history of Loudoun  County.

Perhaps the most remarkable accolade is reflected in the lives that  she has changed. Faced with her own nightmare in the loss of her son,  Fitz, Bishop Thomas went on to inspire countless others, serving as an  active role model and advocate for her son's friends and community.

Her work continues to uplift those around her, and I congratulate  Bishop Michelle C. Thomas on officially being consecrated to the office  of bishop.            Honoring the Life and Legacy of John Howard Eisenhour

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of  John Howard Eisenhour, a devoted public servant, veteran, and proud  Virginian who, unfortunately, passed away on November 10.

John lived a life rooted in service and civic responsibility. He  served our Nation as a tank commander in the United States Army at Fort  Hood and went on to a distinguished career in Federal service. John  held key roles at the Office of Management and Budget, the Department  of Defense, the American Embassy in Thailand, and the National War  College. Even after retirement, he continued to lend his expertise as a  consultant to the Federal Government.

Locally, John was active in civic life for many years, giving his  time and energy to local Democratic politics and community service.  John's legacy lives in all of the lives and communities that he  touched.

My heart goes out to his family, and may he rest in peace.                   Corruption and Controversy at Fannie Mae

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Madam Speaker, for decades, Fannie Mae has played a  critical role in supporting home buyers and renters and has employed  many of my constituents.

Madam Speaker, under this administration, it has taken a turn toward  corruption and controversy. This year, Fannie Mae's ethics watchdogs  have been fired.

A senior Fannie Mae executive shared confidential mortgage pricing  data with a competitor at the direction of Bill Pulte, the Director of  the Federal Housing Finance Agency. In his brief tenure, Director Pulte  has weaponized his office to target Democrats with allegations of  mortgage fraud.

Earlier this year, Fannie Mae has terminated hundreds of my  constituents, as well, over charitable donations, without any due  process to them. Months later, Fannie Mae has still not answered my  letters or provided these employees with any meaningful explanation for  their dismissal.

Instead of confronting the housing affordability crisis, Fannie Mae  has turned to advancing the political interests of this administration,  turned against the people who worked for them and served them for so  many years, and turned against the American people.                    Good and Bad News for Social Security

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Madam Speaker, we had some good news this week.

One of my constituents was finally able to get an in-person  appointment to receive at least an interview about her Social Security  benefits. You would think that we would be delighted that appointment  is going to happen in a couple of days, but this is also bad news  because she had actually reached out to our office in February and is  now getting an appointment in January.

That is 11 months since she reached out to our office. She was  probably trying to reach out to the Social Security office much longer.  After repeated requests from our office, we didn't really hear back  until finally getting her that appointment on December 3.

This is because there have been cuts to the staff in that particular  office of Social Security. Sixty percent of the staff at that  particular office have been cut. This is a huge issue in our community  right now.

Social Security offices across the country are seeing that more  people are now being forced to come in person to do these appointments  and interviews, yet there are fewer appointments that are able to be  had for them.

This is a huge concern, and we have to address it. Right now, this  administration is going the wrong way when it comes to administering  Social Security benefits.