Restoring Election Integrity


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699239/restoring-election-integrity


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, today marks 16 years since the Supreme  Court's disastrous decision in Citizens United.

The decision overturned critically important limits on political  spending by corporations and billionaires. We said it at the time, and  it has come true: The decision has unleashed unprecedented spending by  dark money groups on our elections. Now campaigns are often defined not  by a candidate's record or their ideas but, rather, by their access to  dark money.

The wealthiest individuals and corporations can now help skew  elections singlehandedly by giving millions to their preferred  candidate. They can block progress that they don't want to see. In  fact, the world's richest man spent more than $250 million to help  President Trump get elected in 2024. Let's talk about that 2024 cycle.

Super-PACs spent $4.5 billion. That is up from $2.3 billion in 2022,  almost double in 2 years. That is more money than the GDP of Greenland.

In the 2024 Presidential election, the biggest super-PACs supporting  majority party nominees raked in $865 million from donors who  contributed $5 million or more alone. Each year, our elections are  increasingly defined not by big spenders but by the biggest spenders.  Between 2010 and 2024, the percentage of Federal election spending by  the top 100 individual donors has jumped from 2 percent to almost 15  percent. That is eight times as much.

This has resulted in Americans losing faith in the integrity of our  elections and the integrity of our democracy because our democracy is  predicated on the idea that every voice matters, regardless of how much  money you have. When the wealthy few can drown out the many, we lose  sight of who we are supposed to serve. Policymaking gets overshadowed  by these special interests.

Yet, after Citizens United, it is too often small groups of  corporations and billionaires tipping the scales based on who serves  their business interests. This can and must end. The American people  have a voice, and if the majority supports a candidate or a reform,  that should win the day alone.

We must limit super-PACs, dark money, and excessive campaign  spending. We must restore trust in the political process. We must  restore democracy to the way our Founders intended, centered on equal  access to government, and we must overturn Citizens United. We have  that power.

I thank my colleagues for joining me today and for Assistant Leader  Neguse for organizing today. I look forward to hearing from my many  colleagues in the next hour about how we can tackle this important  issue.

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, there are a lot of reforms that people  have proposed to overturn the damage done by Citizens United. I  introduced legislation, the Campaign and Election Accountability Act.  One of the things that Citizens United did was make it easier for  foreign nationals to funnel money into U.S. elections.

The Federal Election Campaign Act currently prohibits foreign  nationals from contributing to U.S. elections and political campaigns.  However, it does not prohibit Americans from assisting foreign  nationals from seeking to do so. We don't know if they are wanting to  donate for nefarious reasons or if they just like a candidate, but we  must ensure that our elections are free and fair from foreign  influence.

It is a small tweak, but my bill will prohibit Americans from  assisting foreign nationals who want to contribute to U.S. elections.  This way, we can all have faith that only Americans are contributing to  our campaigns.

For now, this is a step in the right direction as we all work toward  the larger goal of overturning Citizens United.

I hear from a lot of constituents about what is the disconnect  between Washington's policies and what is happening for everyday  Americans because Americans are living through one of the worst cost- of-living crises in modern history. Working families are struggling  with rising expenses, like healthcare, housing and utilities, and  groceries, yet they have representation that seems to reflect the very  wealthiest. We just passed a tax cut for the very wealthiest Americans  this last summer, and people don't understand why.

If you look back at what happened with Citizens United, you realize  that that influence on our campaigns and elections is why you end up  with policies like that. This is why we have to make sure that we  overturn Citizens United.

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM.  Tokuda).

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for a lot of  great points there.

I yield to the gentlewoman from North Carolina (Mrs. Foushee).

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, the concentration of political power  has often led to the concentration of wealth in this country.

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman's remarks.

It is the cycle and the concentration of wealth because of Citizens  United that has led to the concentration of political power that you  can see even more concentration of wealth. It is the cycle that  Citizens United has created that is hurting our country and leading to  record income inequality. It is reflected in some of the policies that  we have passed that have hurt everyday Americans, working Americans.

While the long-term goal is to overturn Citizens United, certainly  through a constitutional amendment--that is a very difficult goal, but  certainly one that we should aspire to--Congress does have the power to  act immediately to curb some of its damage.

We are talking about bills like the Freedom to Vote Act, the DISCLOSE  Act, the Protecting Our Democracy Act, and the Ban Corporate PACs Act.  These bills will help reduce and mitigate the influence of big money,  strengthen transparency around it, and limit corporate power. This is a  moment to draw a line between a political system that serves donors and  one that serves the American people. What we really want in the end is  to serve the American people.

If you just look back at the past couple of decades since Citizens  United, since 2010--in 2010, in that cycle, $3.6 billion in total cost  of Federal elections by election cycle, then it goes up to $6.3  billion. By 2022 it is at $8.9 billion. By 2024 it is at $15.9 billion.

This past cycle was a record high. Again, all of that is because of  Citizens United and because of the ability to just flood these PACs,  these super-PACS, dark money super-PACs, with as much money as they  want with no accountability. Now there are ways to hide some of these  donations, as well.

We have to do something. We have to act now, otherwise this is going  to continue the cycle of pain for so many Americans.

Stansbury).

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague and all the  speakers today. This is the 16th anniversary of Citizens United v.  Federal Election Commission. It was a 5-4 ruling. This decision  overturned longstanding precedent that we had in this country, where we  had clearly established limits on independent political spending by  corporations and billionaires, and it was working.

For many years, political spending had essentially flattened out.  Sometimes, it had gone down when it comes to the contributions of  billionaires and the largest corporations, and we were able to have an  election system where there was a lot of money in the system, but not  to where we are today, where it has completely engulfed all of our  actions and all of our campaigns.

There has been so much damage caused by Citizens United, as many of  my colleagues explained today. We are talking about wealthy donors now  dictating election outcomes, potentially, with the amount of money they  can flood into these elections. Americans have less information about  who is influencing those campaigns and politicians.

A lot of times, it is very easy to hide your contributions to these  PACs and super-PACs. Because of that, we see a system now where we  don't even know where the money is coming from. We see the names of  some of these cleverly named PACs in the disclosures, but you can have  PACs hiding PACs and chains of money. That is why I felt the need to  even try to address the influence of foreign money, because it has  become easier than ever for a foreign entity to also infiltrate our  elections.

These reforms we are talking about here, campaign finance reform,  have broad support from the American people across both sides of the  aisle. In fact, they have felt that they cannot trust D.C., they cannot  trust this administration, and they can't even trust this body,  Congress, because of the influence of all this money in our politics  today, in our campaigns today.

The dynamics show up repeatedly in the issues that we are working on  that directly affect people's lives. We are talking about our efforts  to lower prescription drug costs and healthcare costs, and how we see  all the money spent by some of those groups to prevent legislation that  will help the American people.

My colleague from New Mexico talked about the influence of oil and  gas and that money on trying to address the environment--clean air,  clean water, and climate change. We are talking about efforts that we  are trying to make to crack down on corporate price gouging and how it  has become incredibly difficult, an almost uphill battle when it comes  to some price gouging efforts, because of the influence of all of this  money on our politics.

Then, we talk about strengthening worker protections, as well. We are  becoming a country that is not looking out for the average worker, and  we are talking about times where workers are seeing their wages  flatten, and lower if you take into account inflation, and the increase  in income inequality as a result of it.

People are fed up, and they understand that part of the reason why  they can't trust the policies coming from Washington, D.C. is because  of the influence of this money on our policymaking and elections, and  it needs to stop. It needs to stop.

Unlimited outside spending gives special interests the ability to  threaten lawmakers with massive advertising campaigns, well-funded  challengers, and relentless negative messaging. I have been through it,  and I know many of our colleagues have been through it, where these  super-PACs come in and change the dynamics of an election with millions  and millions of dollars.

The one bit of good news is that many of us, like me, are here still.  We fought that uphill battle and won it, but now we have to look at  what is going to happen in the future, at what kind of political system  our kids will have to endure. Will they feel like they have a voice in  our politics, or will they feel like they are seeing a political system  that is corrupted by all this money? It is about which side will be  able to spend the millions of dollars to win, not which side has the  right policies and right things for the American people and to serve  the American people. This is all about service. This is not about money  and the influence of the most wealthy corporations and groups.

We have outlined a lot of different ways that we can address this.  Again, I go back to the Freedom to Vote Act, the DISCLOSE Act, the  Protecting Our Democracy Act, and the Ban Corporate PACs Act. We can  work on this right now. Even if we don't think we have the votes to  overturn Citizens United, we should still try. We should still put it  on the floor and put it up for a vote.

In the 16 years that we have had Citizens United go into effect, we  see our airwaves, mailboxes, inboxes, and digital media influenced by  all this money.

One of our country's core principles is that every citizen has a vote  and that every citizen has a voice, regardless of how much money they  have. When you allow unlimited money to come into our campaign system,  those individual voices are drowned out. A lot of people feel the  despair of not having a voice in our politics today. A lot of that is  because of Citizens United.

We have lost something that has made our democracy special in some  ways. I think the folks who spoke up today have really made a lot of  good points about how many of us feel the anger of what is going on,  but we are committed to getting this dark money out of politics.

This does not have to be a partisan issue. It never has to be. I know  there are folks on both sides of the aisle who want to do this.

Some of my colleagues talked about the corruption today in our  politics and how there is this perception of corruption and the reality  of corruption. They are talking about what has happened in this  administration as well, and all the corruption that has happened in  this administration. It is disheartening to see some of the stories  that we see every week about how foreign governments are influencing  our policies now, and how foreign leaders, wealthy people, and wealthy  corporations can easily buy some of our policymaking. That is  the appearance, and that is the reality in some cases. That needs to  stop. We need to do something about it. We need to do something now.

Again, we are all committed to making sure that people trust our  institutions and our Congress. I thank my colleagues today for speaking  up and being willing to take on this fight. This is not an easy fight.  The easy thing to do is just to go with the flow and go along with the  system that we have today. Instead, my colleagues have decided to speak  up. My colleagues have decided that they will not accept the status  quo.

I know many people were not able to come today. I know we have a few  more still on their way, but the reality is that my colleagues  understand that the system is not good for our democracy. It is not  good for our country. It is not good for the perception of this  institution or the reality of this institution. So, we have to continue  to keep fighting.

If we look at the cycles, in the 2010 cycle, as I mentioned before,  the top 100 individual donors spent 2.1 percent of all the spending in  2010. By 2024, it was 15 percent. If you extrapolate that, by 2038,  about half of our spending could end up being from the top 100  individual donors. I mean, that is sort of where we are headed right  now, where you are going to have such a concentration of wealth.

There are countries that have that right now, today, and those  democracies are not functioning democracies. Some of them don't even  call themselves democracies anymore, or don't even try to consider  themselves democracies, where you have the few governing the rest.

When you see some of the spending that we have today, again, the 2000  cycle had $18 million in spending, and the 2004 cycle had $13 million  in spending. The 2008 cycle had $16 million. It kind of leveled off.

Then, you look at the 2012 cycle, after Citizens United: $231 million  in  spending. In the 2016 cycle, there was $682 million in spending. By the  2020 cycle, we are in the billions now, $1.2 billion.

We are at a point now where you need a billion dollars to run for  President at this point.

The 2024-cycle was $2.6 billion. I think we are at a point now where  some of our elections, the money is just outrageous. People want to  feel trust in our institutions and our systems, but you want to get to  a place where you can do that. What we are experiencing now is  affecting our policymaking. It is affecting every single part of the  way this institution runs today.

The other thing we, at least, want is disclosure. That is why I have  talked about some of the bills that we can do right now, like the  DISCLOSE Act, because at least we could have more clear understandings  of where the money is coming from and a better ability to follow the  money so that the American people can understand who is paying for that  commercial that they keep seeing on TV, right? Is it actually the PAC?  Who paid for that ad and where is the money coming from? What do they  want and who received that money, right? It is very unclear right now  to a lot of people.

There are a lot of issues right now that we can solve even without  overturning Citizens United, although overturning Citizens United is  our main goal. We have an opportunity and we have to act now. We can't  wait.

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I will definitely look into that bill.  There are more solutions that we can act on right now while we try to  overturn Citizens United. I thank all the speakers today. I thank  Representative Neguse for helping organize this. I thank my staff,  including Matt Fisher, for helping get everyone together today.