Small Business Artificial Intelligence Advancement Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700128/small-business-artificial-intelligence-advancement-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Small Business Artificial  Intelligence Advancement Act. We are already seeing companies around  the world use AI for customer service, cybersecurity, talent  recruitment, and even content production.

While AI can bring significant benefits to companies of all sizes,  small companies can't afford to take advantage of these benefits. They  don't have the millions of dollars and the teams of consultants. They  get left behind despite their immense potential. For the small  businesses that form the backbone of our economy, navigating rapidly  challenging and changing tools like AI can be overwhelming.

This bill directs the National Institute of Standards and Technology  to establish and distribute resources on how small businesses can adopt  AI tools and risk management practices. It would build on NIST's Small  Business Cybersecurity Corner program to help small businesses by  providing voluntary guidance on adopting AI and avoiding potential  issues with the technology. This bill will help level the playing field  for small companies rolling out AI.

AI should be an opportunity for every American business, not just  those with the biggest budgets. As AI rapidly evolves from simple  automation to agents that could interact with customers, handle  sensitive data, and even make decisions, the stakes for getting it  right on privacy and cybersecurity are growing. This bill will ensure  that our small businesses have access to the practical resources they  need to harness this technology.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues, Mr. Collins and Ms. Stevens, for  their work on this bill. I think we are all in agreement that small  businesses should be able to take advantage of the immense potential of  AI as well as be able to understand the risks and cybersecurity  pitfalls that may come out of it.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 3679, and I  yield back the balance of my time.