Stop Trump's Chaos--Stand Up for Science


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691395/stop-trumps-chaos-stand-up-for-science


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Stevens and all  the Members here today who stand up for science and innovation.

This is a matter of profound significance for many Americans. It is a  matter of life or death, whether they realize it or not.

It is the responsibility of this body to be stewards of our country's  future and leave this country better than how we found it. That means  recognizing the pivotal role of science and innovation for the people,  as well as the funding, and how it plays a role in making our country  great now and in the future.

Standing up for science is more important than ever right now because  the reality is this administration has declared a war on science with  DOGE, funding cuts, firing contractors, firing scientists and  innovators, and trying to chase others out.

For decades, America has been a leader in science and innovation, but  this leadership is not our country's birthright. It has been earned  over the years through an unwavering commitment to science and  innovation.

Make no mistake, our adversaries are watching closely the work we are  doing and everything that is happening right now. They want to  undermine and replace our leadership in science and innovation. We are  at risk of being outrun on AI, quantum, and so many other critical  technologies and innovations.

Instead of helping us maintain our global leadership, this  administration is slashing funding to our science agencies and firing  Federal scientists. The President is proposing a $4.9 billion cut to  the National Science Foundation. That is on top of over $1 billion in  grant funding that this administration has already terminated. At least  $100 million in grant funding was cut from universities just in my  State of Virginia alone.

Investments in science and innovation have fueled our economy and  started entire industries, given us healthcare breakthroughs, fortified  our national defense, and reinforced our leadership in the world.

Make no mistake, these firings and cuts to science and innovation  will hurt every single American. They will make us less safe, less  healthy, and less prosperous.

I have the honor of representing in northern Virginia one of the most  scientifically advanced communities in the country and many of the  folks who have been cut, fired, or have seen their funding subject to  these cuts. They have seen harassment, intimidation, and firings. They  are losing the ability to help Americans stay safe and healthy.

What is happening is that there is a brain drain of science and  technology innovators in our country because of these cuts. One of my  constituents is a graduate student in astrophysics. She  is pretty smart. Their research funding is at risk of being cut right  now. Folks like her are wondering whether they should stay in the  science field.

These cuts are destroying our Nation's pipeline of scientists,  technologists, and innovators.

A teacher from my district has been dismayed that the President plans  to cut the NASA budget by 24 percent. This will end educational  programs that get students excited about the sciences. Do we want to go  to Mars? Who is going to take us there? It is going to need the  ingenuity and expertise of the American people.

The cuts are not just limited to NASA and the National Science  Foundation. They are cutting healthcare research, as well.

A woman in my district said her son has a disease for which NIH was  researching a cure. Mr. Speaker, with recent cuts, you can kiss that  cure good-bye right now or any hope of her son getting that cure.

Right now, there are so many cuts that we are not solving the  problems in healthcare that we need to, to keep our country healthy.

For another woman, her son had congenital blindness, and NIH was  searching for a cure for that. That funding is on the chopping block,  as well, and also the people who are doing that research.

Another biomedical researcher in the district said it perfectly when  he said that the NIH, FDA, CDC, and NSF are making discoveries now that  will be the foundation for solutions needed in the years and decades  ahead.

We won't even know what we missed with some of these cuts. We won't  know what innovations we could have made but for these cuts.

I want to end by saying that I am pretty sure these firings and cuts  to science and research aren't about waste, fraud, and abuse or  government efficiency. If they were and if this administration actually  cared about efficiency, they would know that funding to science,  technology, and innovation doubles or triples the investment back in  economic activity, not to mention all the lives that research saves and  all the people who are kept healthy and safe by this research.

This does not have to be partisan. This does not have to be  controversial in any way. Mr. Speaker, I call on all of my colleagues  on both sides of the aisle to stand up for science, research, and  innovation because standing up for science means standing up for the  health, safety, and prosperity of every American.

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Madam Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Stevens for  yielding, and I will keep it very short.

A study a few weeks ago said that a 25 percent reduction in public  support of science and research would correlate to a 3.8 percent drop  in economic output. That is the same as the Great Recession. That is  how bad it would be.

Protecting science funding is not just about labs or some agencies.  It is about preserving hope for families across the country. These cuts  are bad for our economy, small businesses, parents, children, teachers,  patients, you name it. Our country cannot afford these massive cuts to  science and innovation.

We must reject these cuts and stand up for the health, safety, and  prosperity of every American.