Supporting Agritourism


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691461/supporting-agritourism


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the more  than 28,000 farms that engage in agritourism across the country, 1,500  of which are in the Commonwealth of Virginia.

Agritourism, for those who don't know, is exactly what it sounds  like. We are bringing tourists to farms or agricultural venues and  offering experiences related to farming, rural life, and food.

From wineries like Stone Tower in Leesburg, farm breweries like  Wheatland Spring in Waterford, you-picks like Great Country Farms in  Bluemont, and llama and alpaca farms like Double 8 Alpaca & Llama Ranch  in Purcellville, agritourism offers growing opportunities for farms to  diversify their revenues, connect with our communities, and become more  resilient.

Agritourism isn't just a trend or fad. It is an economic imperative  for many farmers.

In Virginia alone, agriculture is our number one industry, but the  majority of farmers are not full-time farmers. They need ways to pay  for taxes and maintenance of their land, and agritourism has helped  families across Virginia do just that.

This isn't just happening in Virginia. Agritourism is now a billion- dollar industry across the country, and it keeps growing. It is  revitalizing local, rural, and small-town workforces. The tourist  dollars are also expanding hotels, restaurants, and businesses nearby.

These farms also offer unique educational and recreational  opportunities for children and families and help connect the public to  our food systems. That is what I love about agritourism. It is a win- win for everyone. Farmers get to share their work and support their  farm, and visitors learn about where their food comes from, who grows  the flowers they send on Mother's Day, and so much more.

This year, my family picked tulips from Burnside Farms in Nokesville.  We ate strawberries at the Strawberry Festival this past weekend at  Wegmeyer Farms in Lincoln. We visited Cox Farms for their delicious  cider donuts.

For many farmers, there is a lot of uncertainty about Federal  resources available to them and where they should go to ask questions  about agritourism. Since agritourism is a form of nontraditional  farming, the Federal Government simply hasn't done much to help the  industry, which is why I am proud to work with Congressman Newhouse to  introduce the bipartisan AGRITOURISM Act, which will ignite the  industry and provide a one-stop shop of resources like grants, loans,  and technical assistance for farmers who want to participate in  agritourism.

These resources will attract private investment not only in  agritourism but also support tourism and hospitality industries in  rural areas, which will keep our farms and rural communities strong,  resilient, and thriving.

I also plan to relaunch the bipartisan Agritourism Caucus with  Congressman David Rouzer to highlight the progress of this industry and  how we can continue to promote it. This was first championed by my  predecessor, Congresswoman Jennifer Wexton.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to sign on to this bill and join  the caucus when we relaunch it so that we can champion agritourism for  farmers and rural communities across America.                         Effects of Moody's Downgrade

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, Moody's, a credit rating firm,  downgraded America's credit rating this past weekend. What does this  mean? It is like when your credit score goes down. It will make it more  expensive for a country to borrow money, and the interest rate on our  $36 trillion debt will go up.

How much do we spend on interest right now? In 2024, we paid $892  billion in interest payments. That is 13 percent of our budget. That is  more money than we spent on law enforcement, education, science, and  transportation combined.

Now, it is going to get worse because this one big, beautiful bill  coming up is going to explode the deficit so we can give tax cuts to  billionaires and the largest corporations while also slashing Medicaid,  food assistance, and  other programs American families depend on.

There is no fiscal responsibility in this bill, and this bill will  add $5 trillion to the Federal debt.

This credit downgrade should be a warning to reverse course. Instead,  we seem to be heading straight for fiscal disaster, and we need to  stand up to this.