Winners of the Global Energy Race Are Being Decided


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700227/winners-of-the-global-energy-race-are-being-decided


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I thank everyone here today for all  their hard work and leadership.

One of the things that the President said last night is he is doing  so much to lower energy costs through drill, baby, drill and through  all of the other actions he has taken.

I think on the campaign he said he was going to lower energy prices  by 50 percent. Yet, last year, Americans paid more than 13 percent for  their electricity bills compared to the previous year. The big reason  is that the big, ugly bill added about $250 billion to Americans'  energy bills by picking energy favorites and slowing down new  technology, so energy prices continue to rise for Americans.

Something the President said is that the data centers will help lower  Americans' energy costs. One of the assumptions there is that they will  pay for their own energy infrastructure and essentially not shift that  burden to Virginians and Americans.

In Virginia, we are facing an additional 9 percent increase in energy  costs this year, and data centers are a big part of that. They consume  about 25 percent of the energy and could be more soon. It could be up  to 40 percent. Last year, more than $4.3 billion in transmission  infrastructure costs for data centers were passed on to ratepayers.

With this pledge, basically the President is asking for technology  companies building data centers to pledge to build their own energy  infrastructure along with their data centers moving forward and not  shift the costs to ratepayers.

I welcome the idea of making sure that ratepayers aren't shouldering  the burden of energy infrastructure and energy generation because the  American people deserve better than that.

One of the things I would like to see more of is rather than a  pledge, a concrete proposal, actual regulatory framework that will  protect people's energy costs.

That is what we are doing in Virginia. Down in Richmond, there is now  legislation that they are moving forward to essentially make sure that  ratepayers aren't paying for the energy generation of data centers.

I look forward to having this bipartisan conversation, but I know  that if the President doesn't come up with the framework that we need,  then it is going to be another promise made, promise not kept when it  comes to energy prices.