Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. KAINE. Mr. President and my colleagues, last week, the Senate  agreed to discharge our bipartisan War Powers Resolution from the  Foreign Relations Committee so that we could finally, after months,  debate military action against Venezuela and Venezuelans, on the floor  of the Senate, and not just allow the administration to wage combat on  its own with no information shared except in classified settings.

I thank my colleagues, two of whom are here on the floor today, who  voted for this resolution. They did not vote to rebuke a President,  although, for some reason, he has chosen to see it  that way. Instead, they voted to uphold a basic constitutional  principle that we should not be waging offensive hostilities without a  debate and vote in Congress.

As I described last week, the reason for that principle is clear:  Don't send our sons and daughters into military hostilities without the  debate and vote in Congress that would put the thumbprint of the  Nation's leadership on the validity of the mission.

I believed that today we were going to have a debate about the War  Powers Resolution, possibly consider amendments to it, and then hold a  vote on final passage. But I have now learned that some want to  foreclose the possibility of a debate and allow the President to carry  out this unauthorized campaign with no public debate and no vote. And  they are apparently preparing a parliamentary move to deprive our  resolution of the privileged status given it under the War Powers  Resolution and, thus, shut debate down.

First, an effort to declare this resolution not privileged-- apparently, by arguing that the campaign in and against Venezuelans is  not hostilities--is something that the House has actually been doing,  but the Senate should not emulate.

Some of you remember that the Senate has passed a number of  resolutions against President Trump's unilateral tariff taxes that are  privileged. They are also privileged--or they used to be--in the House,  but the House was so afraid to even have a debate or vote about this  matter that they used a procedural parliamentary trick to turn off the  privilege. I don't think that is worthy of emulation by the ``greatest  deliberative body'' in the world. We shouldn't be afraid to debate or  discuss anything, especially matters of war and peace.

Second, an argument that the Venezuelan campaign is not ``imminent  hostilities'' within the meaning of the War Powers Resolution is a  violation of every reasonable meaning of that term.

Let's begin with the boat campaign against boats with Venezuelans on  it, starting in mid-September, that has now killed more than a hundred  designated combatants; the amassing of U.S. military assets, what the  President calls an armada in and around Venezuela; the President'  authorization of covert action in Venezuela; the U.S. military's use in  the interdiction of oil from Venezuela; the attack, over two weekends  ago, to seize the Venezuelan President, President Maduro, and his wife,  where more than a hundred combatants were killed, where U.S. troops  were injured; and now ongoing control facilitated by the U.S. military.

The United States is determining who can govern Venezuela. We have  tapped the Vice President of Venezuela and determined that she is  somebody who should be the leader, rather than the opposition who won  an overwhelming election, just a year ago.

We have said we can determine when Venezuela will finally be entitled  to have its own election, saying that they are not going to be ready  for that for some long period of time.

We are seizing the nation's primary economic asset, its oil. We are  deciding how the oil revenues--every penny of the oil revenues--of this  nation should be spent, and President Trump is even saying that he gets  to determine which U.S. companies can even invest in the Venezuelan oil  economy.

And it is all being done with the active participation of the U.S.  military. The U.S. military assets in place around Venezuela are, as  President Trump said, an armada, 16,000 U.S. personnel. This is open  source reporting as of 2 days ago, arrayed around Venezuela:

The USS Gerald R. Ford Carrier Strike Group: Carrier Air Wing 9, the  USS Winston Churchill, the USS Bainbridge, and the USS Mahan.

The Iwo Jima Amphibious Readiness Group, which includes: the USS Fort  Lauderdale, the USS San Antonio, and the 22nd Marine Expeditionary  Unit.

The USS Thomas Hudner (DDG-116), the USS Stockdale (DDG-106), the USS  Lake Erie (CG-70), the USS Gettysburg (CG-64), the USS Wichita (LCS- 13), the USNS Waters, the USNS Joshua Humphreys, and the USNS Kanawha.

And that is in addition to air assets that are arrayed all around the  region that have been used and are likely to be used in the future.

Everything that is being done to control Venezuela, its politics, and  its economy are being facilitated by the U.S. military, but it is more  than assets in place. Operation Southern Spear, the boat strikes of  Venezuelan boats in international waters, is still being carried out by  the U.S. military. The U.S. military is engaged in a naval blockade of  Venezuela, transit out and transit in. Would we think that was an act  of war if Russia was blockading the United States and not allowing  commerce to come into or out of our ports?

The U.S. military is engaged in active interdiction of Venezuelan oil  in the Pacific and the Caribbean and elsewhere in the world, and the  United States is threatening future military action.

President Trump said about Vice President Rodriguez, if she didn't  act well, she would have a fate worse than President Maduro. President  Trump was going to do a second invasion, last Friday, that he called  off after our vote Thursday afternoon--threats of future invasion.

If this is not ``imminent hostilities'' with the death now of more  than 200 combatants, with U.S. troops injured, with an armada arrayed  around, a naval interdiction of oil, and a blockade of this country's  economy, it would violate every reasonable meaning of this term, and to  pretend otherwise would weaken the respect that this institution should  aspire to.

Finally, to my colleagues, there has been some recent correspondence  between the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator  Risch of Idaho, and the Secretary of State, Marco Rubio, that basically  underlines my points.

Some Senate colleagues wanted to use this procedural maneuver today,  and they felt that it would help if they could have a clear definition  or description from the administration that the military operation is  over.

And so, I have the letter here that Senator Risch wrote to the  President of the United States yesterday, and he asked two simple  questions: First, ``provide Congress with an official correspondence  confirming that Operation Absolute Resolve has ended''--first request-- and second, specify ``that U.S. military personnel are no longer  involved in hostilities in Venezuela.''

Two simple questions. I don't know that those questions would have  been sufficient for me, but, apparently, Senator Risch thought if he  could get ``yes'' answers to both of those questions, it would be  sufficient for him.

Secretary Rubio sent a response today and would not answer yes to  either of the questions. The letter from Senator Secretary, dated  earlier today, January 14, very explicitly does not say that Operation  Absolute Resolve is over. He was asked to say that it ended; he would  not say that it has ended.

How could it be ended when the President is still threatening other  sanctioned and indicted Venezuelan officials with a fate worse than  Maduro's if they don't meet the U.S. standards?

So in this letter which my colleagues sought to justify this  parliamentary maneuver that is coming up, Secretary Rubio would not  specify that Operation Absolute Resolve has ended.

Well, how about the second question: Please specify ``that U.S.  military personnel are no longer involved in hostilities in  Venezuela.''

Secretary Rubio would not say that either. ``There are currently no  U.S. Armed Forces in Venezuela.'' He didn't say U.S. forces aren't  involved in hostilities in or against Venezuelans because he couldn't  say that with the interdiction, with the blockade, with the boat  strikes.

And so even the effort of my colleagues to try to find a  parliamentary escape hatch--oh, there is no hostilities--and softball  set of two questions to the Secretary of State to justify their  position produced a response where he would not agree that the  operation is over--the military operation--and he would not agree that  the United States is now not in hostilities in or against Venezuela.

This is the third vote we have had on Venezuela in the last 3 months.  Only now--only now--does the administration and its supporters make the  claim that there are no hostilities. They didn't make that claim in the  first 2 months, as the armada was amassing, as we were killing people  in open  waters, as we were committing to covert action, as we were preparing  and practicing for an invasion.

They knew that it was hostilities, and that is why they didn't  challenge it. But only now, on the third vote, are they challenging  whether this is or is not hostilities, and they are doing so to avoid  public debate. That is the reason they are doing this.

If this cause and if this legal basis were so righteous and so  lawful, the administration and its supporters would not be so afraid to  have this debate before the public and the U.S. Senate.

For that reason, I urge my colleagues to avoid a parliamentary gag  rule on discussion of this military operation and support the  bipartisan War Powers Resolution.

Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, in a moment, I will make the motion that my  colleague from Idaho mentioned, the motion to proceed to Calendar No.  298, but I do want to just address the points that he made very  briefly.

My colleague from Idaho had said there is no current use of U.S.  hostilities in Venezuela, and he has also said that the military  operation Absolute Resolve is over. That is what he has just told this  body. And he has said, because of those two facts, he is making the  motion that we will hear in a moment, the inquiry.

I just want to refer my colleagues to the letter exchange between  Senator Risch and Secretary Rubio because that is not what the letters  say. The letters do not say what has been represented by my colleague.

Let me read what Senator Risch asked the President, and then let me  read Senator Rubio's response.

Senator Risch said: I respectfully request that you provide Congress  with an official correspondence confirming that Operation Absolute  Resolve has ended and that U.S. military personnel are no longer  involved in hostilities in Venezuela.

Those were the two questions posed to the President.

Let me read you Senator Rubio's answer. He did not confirm in his  answer that Operation Absolute Resolve has ended. The letter does not  mention Operation Absolute Resolve because it hasn't ended. The  President himself has said that he is holding out the possibility of  doing the exact same thing that he did to President Maduro to other  Venezuelan officials who have been indicted by the United States, and  that is why Secretary Rubio, in the letter, could not give an  affirmative answer to Senator Risch's question. Operation Absolute  Resolve has not ended.

There was a second question Senator Risch asked: Confirm that U.S.  military personnel are no longer involved in hostilities in Venezuela.

Secretary Rubio wouldn't confirm that either. All Secretary Rubio  says is: There are currently no U.S. Armed Forces in Venezuela.

What about the boat strikes? What about the naval blockade? What  about the naval seizure of Venezuelan oil? Those are all hostilities  under domestic and international law. They are all hostilities. And  that is why Secretary Rubio, I think, being intellectually honest,  refused to give an affirmative answer to my colleague's question. He  said there are no troops currently in Venezuela, but he would not say  that the U.S. military is not involved in hostilities.

So even on this record, with my colleague posing two questions to the  administration--tell us the operation is over; tell us the United  States is not involved in hostilities--the administration would do  neither. And for that reason, I ask that we proceed on the path we are  on to have this debate finally before the American public.