Rescissions Act of 2025


Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, the good news is that I am the last speaker  of the day. I wish I could tell you my speech will be short. I don't  think it will be long, but I will try to make it interesting.

I want to tell you a story. It is not a story about anything that has  happened in this building. It is a story about a very humble Catholic  parish in Northside Richmond, VA, called St. Elizabeth of Hungary. It  is a humble parish. It is a small parish. It is slightly over 100 years  old. It is the church where my wife and I were married more than 40  years ago, where all three of our children were baptized, where we  attended Mass just this last Sunday to hear the Gospel reading of the  story of the Good Samaritan.

The church was founded more than 100 years ago in an unusual way.  There were Italian and German immigrants in Richmond who felt looked  down upon because of where they had come from and because of the  accents that they spoke with and that their English wasn't so good.

In the aftermath of World War I, people looked at German-Americans  and Italian-Americans with some suspicion. German language was being  criminalized in some of our States in the aftermath.

These immigrant refugee Catholics decided that they wanted a place  where they could feel welcomed, loved, and safe as they worshipped in  accord with the American value of freedom of worship. So they set up  this little parish in the Highland Park neighborhood of Northside  Richmond, VA, where they could go and be together and feel safe. They  chose an interesting name, St. Elizabeth of Hungary.

St. Elizabeth of Hungary lived 1,000 years ago. She was a teenager,  and she was a queen in a time of great poverty. Against the wishes of  her husband and other officials, she would take bread and put the bread  inside of her garments and go out and distribute it to the poor.

Once, she was caught, and she was made to open her garment, and when  she did open her garment, the bread had turned into roses. That is the  miracle that was attributed to her. She lived only a short time and  died, but she was made a saint by the Catholic Church.

These immigrants who started my parish chose that name because they  felt like that was what was needed in the world--people who would try  to serve others in need.

One hundred years later--we celebrated the centennial of my church a  couple of years ago, and I was sitting there--I have now been a member  of the parish for 40 years--and I was looking around, and I realized  that times change and they don't.

Catholic Relief Services, which is one of the largest agencies in the  United States that help settle refugees, who are legal immigrants-- refugees are legal immigrants--about 15 years ago settled a Congolese  family into my church who had been in a refugee camp after fleeing  violence in the Congo. Catholic, French, and Swahili speaking, one  Congolese family came to my church. Then, over time, Catholic Relief  Services decided ``Well this family likes St. Elizabeth, and they feel  welcomed here,'' and other families started to come to my church.

So by now, as we were celebrating our centennial and I was looking  around the parish where I go--this small, very humble parish--it is a  sizably Congolese refugee population, legal immigrants to the United  States who have been settled through the Catholic Relief Services, and  they have come to a place where they feel loved and cared for and safe  and welcomed. The color of their skin, the accent they use, and the  fact that they are unfamiliar with American culture might make them  feel not so welcomed in other venues, but in my church, they feel  welcomed.

It made me realize as we celebrated that centennial that my church  looks really different in some ways than when it was founded 100 years  ago, but in other ways, it is exactly the same. It is a haven for  people who are legal immigrants to the United States but need a place  where they can gather with others and feel welcomed.

Why do I tell that story? How is it connected to the rescission bill  that we are going to be voting on tomorrow?

President Trump has sent a bill to Congress, and one of the pillars  of that bill is to rescind the funding for refugee resettlement  programs in the United States run by churches. Seven of the ten  organizations that resettle refugees in the United States are faith- based organizations. The largest two are the U.S. Conference of  Catholic Bishops, operating through the Catholic Relief Services, and  the evangelical organization World Vision.

But it is not just them. There is Church World Service, Lutheran  Social Services, the Episcopal Church of the United States, and World  Relief. The Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society was founded more than 100  years ago to try to bring Jews at that point from Europe to the United  States and make sure that, as legal immigrants--yes, they would be  allowed to be here legally, but they needed someone to teach them about  American culture and integrating into American life.

The practice of American religious organizations assisting in legal  immigration goes back more than a century, and President Trump's  rescission package that is before us wipes out funding to a dramatic  degree for virtually all of them.

Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society has had to lay off hundreds of staff.

World Relief said this:

President Trump [has] said he will defend persecuted       Christians. [But] the U.S. refugee resettlement program is       one of the primary ways that the U.S. government protects       Christians and others fleeing persecution.

The Episcopal Church of the United States has had to end its  longstanding refugee resettlement program because of President Trump's  budget cuts.

Lutheran Social Services has had to--they have struggled to make  payroll. They have had to lay off so many people. They reduced the  services they are able to provide, especially to Afghan allies who are  in the United States because they worked with the U.S. military in  Afghanistan to protect our troops.

Catholic Charities has laid off all kinds of staff.

The families at my church come up to me after mass on Sunday, and  they are so frightened about what might happen because many of them  have family still in refugee camps who might want to come here as legal  refugees, as legal immigrants.

I don't know of a President who has attacked religious  organizations--Catholic, evangelical, Jewish--that have been doing this  work in many instances for more than a century, in  such an orchestrated, intentional, and calculated way as President  Trump.

Matthew: ``I was a stranger and you welcomed me in. I was sick and  you cared for me. I was hungry and you fed me.'' This is a bedrock  belief of our Nation's religious organizations: that they will follow  the law--legal refugee program--but they will help the person who is  accessing legal refugee programs to be able to integrate into a society  so they can live with some sense of dignity and have some chance of  success.

Why cut these programs? Why look in the face of these religious  organizations that, out of a motivation of conscience, for decades,  even a century, have decided that they will try to smooth that path to  integrate people into American life who are here lawfully? Why cut  their funding? Why force them to be laid off? Why debilitate their  ability to provide services? It is an attack on the religious  organizations so that they cannot do the work that their faith and  their Creator compels them to do.

I am not surprised that President Trump would propose this. The  language and the rhetoric and the behavior that he has exhibited toward  even legal refugees, legal immigrants to this country lead me to not be  surprised that this important funding is on the chopping block in the  bill that he has sent to the Senate. But I have to admit that I am  surprised that it seems to be just moving on a path to being accepted.  It was accepted in the House without much drama, including by a whole  lot of people who go to churches, just like me, and hear sermons  preached about the Good Samaritan, just like I do every Sunday.

We will have an opportunity tomorrow to grapple with it here. I  intend to at least offer an amendment to try to strip this piece of the  bill out so that the bill will not be an attack on religious  organizations doing what they feel compelled by their faith to do.

It is my prayer that the entire rescission bill fail for the reasons  my colleagues have said--a deal is a deal, and we shouldn't backtrack  on it. But if we can't defeat the entire rescission bill, it is my hope  that we will allow organizations like Catholic Relief Services and the  Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society and the Episcopal Church and World Vision  and World Relief and Lutheran Social Services--it is my hope that we  will at least allow them to practice the faith they sincerely believe  and do it in a way consistent with what their practices have been for  decades and in some cases more than a century.

And so that is what I am going to be praying for tonight, that there  is a bit of an epiphany in this body, and we realize that the work that  these church-based organizations are doing isn't bad. This work isn't  something that should be slashed and cut with these valuable faith  workers laid off.

My hope is that the Senate will realize this is good work that is  really at the core of who we are as Americans--so tiny little parishes  like St. Elizabeth of Hungary or synagogues or other churches all over  this country who pride themselves on offering a welcoming environment  for people who are here lawfully and want to make their way in America  will be able to continue to do just that.