Trump Administration


Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I am going to ask two questions. I am going  to tell a story about something that happened recently in Virginia and  ask my colleague from Oregon what he thinks about it, and then I am  going to hand my colleague from Oregon a picture and ask my colleague  what he thinks about it.

To begin with the story--and the story deals with a topic that may  not seem that sexy or something but that I think is pretty important:  U.S. attorneys and the rule of law. Virginia has two U.S. attorneys,  Western District of Virginia and the Eastern District of Virginia.

And those two U.S. attorneys who were put in office by President  Trump have both recently been forced out of office--forced out of  office because they wouldn't engage in political persecution of Donald  Trump's enemies.

Let me describe the situation to my colleague from Oregon. When the  Trump administration began, the two U.S. attorneys who had been  recommended by President Biden and voted on, confirmed by the Senate,  both stepped down, as is the norm.

The Trump administration then elevated in the Eastern District of  Virginia an individual by the name of Erik Siebert. First, the  Department of Justice appointed him for 120 days, and then that was  followed by an appointment by the judges of the court. But his initial  appointment into the role was by the Trump administration.

Mr. Siebert began his career as a DC police officer and then served  for 15 years as a prosecutor in one of the most important positions in  the U.S. Attorney's Offices nationally.

Senator Warner and I interviewed candidates, and we recommended Erik  Siebert to the Trump administration. So they had put him in as the  interim, and then he had been confirmed as the acting. We recommended  him to the Trump administration. The Trump administration nominated  him, and the Judiciary Committee--in an overwhelmingly bipartisan  vote--reported him to the floor of the Senate.

But before the Senate could act on that bipartisan vote by the  Judiciary Committee, Erik Siebert was forced out of office, and he was  forced out of office because he refused to prosecute, to indict, former  FBI Director Jim Comey and New York attorney general Letitia James. He  said there was no evidence to support an indictment in the case, and so  this individual who had been put in office by the Trump administration  was forced out.

In the Western District of Virginia--which covers more of Virginia's  land mass but a smaller portion of the Virginia population--Senator  Merkley, we had a process like you do in Oregon, and Senator Warner and  I recommended two candidates to the White House, and one was a  gentleman named Todd Gilbert. Todd Gilbert was a Republican member of  our House of Delegates from Shenandoah County, VA, who was the leader  of our Republican caucus in our House of Delegates, a strong supporter  of President Trump, and he had even been speaker of the house when the  Republicans held the majority of the Virginia General Assembly. A very  solid individual, very much with Republican bone fides, and supporting  President Trump.

But he applied to be the U.S. attorney. He had been a local  prosecutor but also a local defense attorney. President Trump installed  him as the interim and nominated him for the position.

Before the Senate Judiciary Committee could take him up, the Trump  Department of Justice pressured Todd Gilbert to fire the chief deputy  who had been the deputy in that office leading criminal prosecutions  during multiple Presidential terms. Todd Gilbert refused to do it, and  Todd Gilbert was forced to resign as a result.

Subsequent reporting by the New York Times laid out the facts that we  believe to be true; that the Trump administration wanted to push out  the assistant because the assistant was unwilling to issue indictments  that were political in nature against Trump's political enemies and,  for that reason, they pressured Todd Gilbert to fire his assistant.

Todd Gilbert, who had given up his position in the Virginia General  Assembly to take this position, within a month, walked out of the U.S.  Attorney's Office rather than succumb to a politically motivated firing  of a long-time, dedicated prosecutor.

In two instances, the chief Federal law enforcement officials in  Virginia, installed in their positions by the Trump administration,  were forced to leave because they wouldn't agree to bend the knee and  genuflect to a politically motivated persecution campaign.

And so my question to my colleague is, You are talking about creeping  authoritarianism. What does it say when the Executive makes moves on  law enforcement officials, Republican law enforcement officials,  because they won't bend the knee and politically persecute people  against whom there is no actionable claim?

Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, might the Senator from Oregon yield for  another question?

Mr. KAINE. Thank you. And I will tell a quick story. In fact, I am  going to hand you this picture now because my question is going to be  for you to describe it. But I will tell a quick story on the  authoritarianism front, and this is a very Virginia story, and then I  am going to ask my colleague to describe the picture that I just handed  him.

So Virginia is an unusual State. Fifty States have mottos; all States  have mottos. Almost all States have mottos that are positive:  ``Excelsior,'' ``Onward to the Stars Through Adversity.'' My favorite-- because it is so random--positive motto is Michigan's. It is Latin, but  the translation is: If you seek a pleasant peninsula, look about you.

How random. I wasn't looking for a peninsula, but I would rather it  be pleasant than unpleasant.

Virginia's is the only motto that is not positive. The Virginia motto  was designed by the framers of the Virginia Constitution, who were  meeting in Williamsburg when the Framers of the American Constitution-- not the Framers. The Declaration of Independence was being drafted and  voted on in Philadelphia.

The Declaration voted on in Philadelphia, July 4, 1776. July 5, 1776,  in Williamsburg, the Virginia ``B team'' that weren't in Philadelphia,  they did four really cool things: They passed the first Virginia  Constitution. They enacted the first Virginia bill of rights, which  became a model for the national Bill of Rights. They elected Patrick  Henry the first Governor.

But the fourth thing they did was they had a four-member committee  appointed that spent 4 days in the library of William and Mary to  design a state seal. And the State seal, which I am wearing. I wear  this all the time. It is an unusual one. It is a woman amazon,  representing virtue, standing atop a deposed Monarch whose crown has  fallen off.

And the State motto, the only one that isn't a positive, the Virginia  motto is a warning. It is a rebuke. It is Latin: ``Sic Semper  Tyrannis''; thus be it always to tyrants.

And the framers picked the future verb tense. They didn't say: Down  with tyrants. We don't like tyrants. We have defeated tyrants. They  used the future verb tense because they believed that tyranny wasn't a  form of government; it was a fact of human of nature. It was a fact of  human nature that would not go away, and we would always need virtue to  be able to defeat tyranny.

And so as you are talking about authoritarianism and where we are, I  am just reminded of the fact that Virginians predicted in 1776 that the  Nation would need to always be on guard against tyranny.

And in the formation of the Constitution--and my colleague has done a  great job of looking at provisions of the Constitution--we invested a  lot of power in the hands of an Executive, but then we put checks-- Congress, the courts, a free press. You shouldn't go to war without a  vote of Congress. The appropriations power was for Congress, not the  President. We put all these checks in place to stop the reality of  tyranny.

And as we round the corner into 250 years of American democracy, we  are a nation looking in the mirror and asking ourselves the question of  whether we still believe in democracy over tyranny. Do we still believe  it?

In 1776, 30 percent of Americans were for monarchy. When we tell the  story of the Revolution, it wasn't that 100 percent of Americans  believed in democracy. Thirty percent were for tyranny and monarchy. It  was what they knew or they had a financial tie or a family tie to  England or maybe they were worried that democracy would be too messy.  It wasn't a foregone conclusion that democracy would be the choice.

Every generation has to answer the question for itself: Do we still  prefer democracy over tyranny?

And as we face the 250th anniversary of the Nation's birth, we are  confronted with that.

I have handed my colleague a photo. I had hoped to have it on a  poster, but the photo was taken today, and I didn't have time to turn  it into a poster. But I want to ask my colleague from Oregon to  describe what it is you see in that photograph.

Mr. KAINE. I would love to ask a followup question, if the Senator  would allow.

Mr. KAINE. You know what a metaphor is. A metaphor is something that  not only stands for itself but it stands for something else.

As you look at that picture of the White House being demolished  today, at the very time as you were standing on this floor talking  about authoritarianism hurting the institutions that were put in place  250 years ago, what is your feeling about the true significance of this  demolition project going on at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue?