Economic Populism


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689084/economic-populism


Mr. RYAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Mr. Deluzio, for his  leadership on this and for bringing this group together to remind us  that as Americans who love this country, we need that strong, muscular  economic patriotism to serve my constituents in my district, which is  the Hudson Valley of New York State, and across this country.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today because I love this country. I believe it  is the greatest country in the history of the world. I believe it is  worth fighting for, and we must fight for it now.

I also believe when you see something that isn't working, Mr.  Speaker, you stand up and you do everything in your power to fix it.

Our country and our party are at a crossroads. It is up to us, the  people who have the incredible honor to stand on the floor of the  United States House of Representatives in this Chamber, to forge the  path forward.

Unlike some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, I won't  try to deny the outcome of the election in November 2024.

Too many Americans felt Democrats had become the party of the elites  and had stopped meeting people where they are, not understanding the  pain that they are feeling in their lives and their families at their  kitchen tables when they get up go to work and come home exhausted at  night.

Democrats need to learn from their mistakes. This moment is not  ideological. It is about who fights for the people and who fights for  the elites.

I believe first and foremost that if you are using labels like  ``moderate'' or ``progressive,'' you are missing the entire point. I  gave former President Biden hell for failing to secure our border. I  think that is a nonpartisan issue. That doesn't make me a moderate. I  campaigned with my colleague AOC against big corporations screwing over  my constituents and polluting the Hudson River in my district. That  doesn't make me a progressive.

If the last election made anything clear, it is high costs and  economic pain are first and foremost on our constituents' minds.

Donald Trump promised to help with that. He has not unequivocally. In  fact, everything he has done in office has helped his billionaire  cronies, who, by the way, gave hundreds of millions of dollars to his  campaign at the expense of families like the ones that I represent in  my district across the Hudson Valley.

Trump's failure to bring down costs is handing Democrats the answer  on a silver platter. Our response cannot stop at Donald Trump who works  for the wealthy though, which is true. It must go further.

Donald Trump works for the wealthy, and Democrats work and fight for  you, the working class and middle class of this country, the economic  patriots of the United States of America.

Just over a year ago, I stood on this very floor and ultimately  successfully  called on the CEO of a local utility monopoly in my district which had  been screwing over my constituents, robbing them blind, literally  emptying their dwindling savings accounts due to a failure of their  billing practices. I called on that CEO to resign, and he was held  accountable, and he did. That company ultimately paid $62 million back  to my constituents in the form of accountability.

Now, Optum, the healthcare company, which is a subsidiary of  UnitedHealth Group, the single largest health insurer in our country  and really one of only three companies in the United States of America  that controls the entire healthcare market has been buying up medical  practices across my district.

Just a few weeks ago, I launched a community inquiry. Thousands of my  constituents and my neighbors and friends who have been hurt by Optum  have responded detailing horrific stories of declining healthcare  quality, erroneous billing, and we are continuing to gather this  evidence, the voices of the people, the American people, and to  ultimately hold this big corporation who has been making record- breaking profits quarter after quarter accountable.

Here is another example. For months, broadcast companies, big  telecoms in New York were in a deadlock fight over streaming rights  that left over a million New Yorkers, paying customers, staring at  blank screens trying to watch sports games to take their mind off of  all the pressures in their lives. Knicks fans and Rangers fans who paid  couldn't see games. As one of those fans, I was mad as hell that I had  paid and couldn't watch a game while a multibillion-dollar corporation  kept raking in more profits and didn't seem to care at all about their  paying customers.

Thankfully, under pressure, that blackout has ended, and we are now  demanding Optimum, the telecom, the main perpetrator of this, pay back  the customers who were harmed.

I have also introduced something called the Stop Sports Blackout Act  so if this ever happens again, there won't be a question that a company  has to pay and give customers the refunds for games they couldn't  watch.

Whether in their utility bills, their healthcare bills, or just  trying to watch a sports game, that is putting money back in people's  pockets when pressure is so high, and that matters.

In closing, there is so much power now in the voices of our  communities, but only if we, their elected Representatives, listen and  act and elevate it. That is economic patriotism.

I am proud that as a Democrat our party stands with law enforcement  and police officers, stands with small businesses, stands with  veterans, stands with hardworking families, with nurses, teachers, and  truck drivers. Democrats stand with our constituents, whether they  voted for us or not, and, yes, we stand against Donald Trump and his  harmful policies, but we stand for so, so much more.

A group of patriots unyielding and unwavering in their dedication to  fighting for the people and against anyone who would do them harm, that  is the Democratic Party that I am proud to be a part of, and that is  our path out of this moment.