Recognizing Cornwall Cleanup Crew


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694021/recognizing-cornwall-cleanup-crew


Mr. RYAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Cornwall Cleanup  Crew for their commitment to environmental preservation and education  in the town of Cornwall and across the Hudson Valley of New York State.

Since 2023, this grassroots group has worked with community members  to clean up litter and illegal dumping around the town and educate the  public on the importance of conservation and environmental protection.

Started by a high school student and a group of community members,  within its first year, the organization amassed a team of more than  1,500 volunteers, managing to clear over 10,000 tons of litter and  illegally dumped material in Cornwall.

Cornwall Cleanup Crew has become a popular community service  opportunity for students, including at The Storm King School and  Cornwall High School, whose students both contribute to the cleanup  efforts and learn about the importance of environmental protection.

Finally, after a multiyear, lengthy process, the Cornwall Cleanup  Crew has earned their official 501(c)(3) nonprofit certification,  allowing them to expand their important environmental work into other  communities in Orange County and across the Hudson Valley.

I have been out there with this crew and seen them work in the cold  and the heat. Their relentless efforts to combat littering and to  really bring our community together in a positive way while doing so is  a truly commendable pillar of selfless service.

On behalf of our entire community, I thank them and join in  celebrating this certification that will allow them to continue to  expand on their important work.                          congratulating zoe mesuch

Mr. RYAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate recent Wallkill  High School graduate Zoe Mesuch on concluding a truly remarkable high  school basketball career and on her appointment to the United States  Naval Academy, where she is now undergoing her summer training.

I was proud to nominate Zoe to represent the Hudson Valley at the  Naval Academy in this year's newest class. With more than 2,000 career  points, Zoe has been named Daily Freeman Player of the Year 3 years in  a row, a record for the award.

This year, Zoe was also named Player of the Year by the New York  Basketball Coaches Association and was selected as a top player in the  Mid-Hudson Athletic League's American Conference by all the league's  coaches.

Zoe is known by her teammates, coaches, teachers, and family as an  exceptionally hard worker and team player. These are assets that will  be of great service to her and our country as she now serves in the  military.

Zoe plans to continue her basketball career at the Naval Academy,  where she will also study oceanography in pursuit of becoming a surface  warfare officer.

I must tell Zoe, as I think she knows, that I am an Army fan, so I  can't say that I will be rooting for her team in the Patriot League  this year. Yet, our entire Hudson Valley is rooting for her, and we  cannot wait to see all that she will accomplish.                         recognizing elder jim childs

Mr. RYAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Elder Jim Childs, a  pillar of our Kingston community, for his decades of service to St.  Clara's Church, to his and my home city of Kingston, and to families  across the Hudson Valley.

Elder Childs was born and raised in Kingston, New York, the very  community that he continues to serve to this day. He graduated from  Kingston High School, my alma mater, before beginning his career  working for IBM. He worked initially as a mail clerk and took every  opportunity to advance his education and training, further his  knowledge, and move up within the company.

Additionally, a fellow Army veteran, Elder Childs served his country  in uniform while also deepening his faith and love of fellow man, a  lesson that would stay with him throughout his life.

When Elder Childs was first appointed pastor of St. Clara's Church of  God in Christ in Kingston in 1969, he admitted that he didn't know if  he was ready. Yet, he was called to serve his community, which he has  done faithfully for the past 56 years.

In 1961, he married Dorothy Neal, and the two of them welcomed four  children, Paula, Cynthia, James, and Timothy, seven grandchildren, and  one great-grandchild.

This year, Elder Childs was rightfully promoted to superintendent,  and he will continue to serve the Kingston community in an even greater  capacity than before.

I thank Elder Childs for his continued dedication to and love of our  neighbors and neighborhoods. I thank him personally for his mentorship  and advice to me in serving in this position. I congratulate him on his  recent promotion and a lifetime of service to our community.