Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689910/concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 313, I call  up the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 14) establishing the  congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year  2025 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal  years 2026 through 2034, with the Senate amendment thereto, and ask for  its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the title of the concurrent resolution.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion at the desk.

Mr. ARRINGTON.  Con. Res. 14.

Mr. Speaker, in the most historic election of our lifetime, Americans  resoundingly elected President Trump and a Republican-led Congress to  reverse course on the failed policies and the string of self-inflicted  disasters of the past 4 years.

Unbridled spending and bad economic policies have weakened our  economy, created a cost-of-living disaster for working families, and  pushed our Nation ever closer to the precipice of the sovereign debt  crisis.

Today, our national debt is at wartime levels, Mr. Speaker. Our  deficit is $2 trillion more than our annual appropriations budget. Half  of that is interest. Interest on the debt is greater than we spend, Mr.  Speaker, on all of Defense and, respectively, it is more than we spend  on all of Medicare services to our seniors.

It is completely and utterly unsustainable. We are at a critical  inflection point. We have a generational opportunity to rein in  wasteful spending, reignite growth, and put our Nation on a responsible  and sustainable path.

Members of this Chamber did just that. The Republicans of the House  fashioned a fiscal framework that was responsible, that put pro-growth  policies in place to incent growth and job creation, move our country  forward, strengthen our economic base, which is our power base that  gives us our global leadership influence.

We also give tools and resources to our Commander in Chief to provide  for a common defense. We bend the curve on mandatory spending, which is  75 percent of the budget, 90 percent of the increase in spending, and  it is the spending that is bankrupting the United States of America.

For the next hour, the Democrats will have rhetorical arguments that  are tired, old, and completely false. They will prey on the fears of  our most vulnerable Americans and they will try to intimidate my  Republican colleagues into inaction.

They will try to convince our seniors and those families and  individuals who struggle that we will somehow steal their safety net or  cut their program, which couldn't be further from the truth.

Mr. Speaker, my Democrat colleagues in the Rules Committee said,  listen, if you are just talking about cutting waste, you know we are  there. You know we will meet you half way. We want to ensure that the  taxpayer dollars are stewarded, and yet they take out their baseball  bat when we talk about the hundreds of billions of dollars in waste,  fraud, and abuse, and they politicize it.

However, when they had full control of the House and Senate and the  White House, they jammed through their Inflation Reduction Act or the  American Rescue Plan, there wasn't a jot or tittle, not a single  measure of fiscal control or a measure of rooting out waste and fraud,  but they say they are with us.

Mr. Speaker, instead, there was $2 trillion in wasted tax dollars  opening up healthcare and welfare to illegals, waived work requirements  to able-bodied Americans, trapping more people in dependence on the  government. Of course, they also had bailouts for student loans and  expansion of the IRS by $80 billion, mandating electric vehicles for  every American, tax breaks for green energy corporations, and the list  goes on and on.

They will also dust off an old playbook where they say that the Tax  Cuts and Jobs Act was simply a tax cut for the rich.

Just to dispel that with a few points, The Washington Post gave four  Pinocchios to their claim that it went to the rich and to the  corporations. Mr. Speaker, $3 out of $4 went to individuals, and the  lower 10 percent of our income brackets received the highest tax break.  The top 1 percent actually had to pay a higher share of taxes.

In addition, we saw 25-year wage increases for American families with  a median household income able to put $5,000 back into their pockets  and 6 million people were raised out of poverty, so all boats rose on  the tide of prosperity.

Yet, my Democrat colleagues are trying to stop us from simply  extending the tax relief to our small businesses and tax breaks to our  families after a 21 percent inflation tax that they suffered through  for the last few years.

If they were successful in opposing the extension of the Tax Cuts and  Jobs Act, an average American will have a tax hike of 22 percent,  $1,700 would be the extra expense for families of four, 26 million  small businesses would lose their comparable tax break through the 20  percent 199A deduction, child tax credit would be cut in half for 40  million families, the standard deduction for 91 percent of all  Americans would be cut in half.

Mr. Speaker, as we unlock the reconciliation process, I am  encouraging my colleagues to hold fast to the principles established in  the House's budget resolution. If we do that, we will preserve the  blessings of liberty and prosperity for our children and grandchildren  for generations to come. If we don't, if we shrink back in this  monumental moment and this historic opportunity, then we will be the  first generation of Americans who have left our country worse than we  found it.

If we are to usher in that golden age of America that President Trump  is fond of talking about, we must advance a budget resolution bill that  doesn't just include tax cuts or deregulation or good energy policies.  All that is good, but also, admittedly, the most difficult part but the  most necessary, is reining in the runaway spending that is driving the  greatest country in human history off of a fiscal cliff.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to reverse the curse, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, after the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the  wages for the bottom 10 percent grew at twice the amount of the top 10  percent and wealth three times the top 1 percent. If Leader Jeffries is  successful at killing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act extension, he will  raise taxes by $1,739 for families in his district.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, interestingly enough, the Democrats'  expansion of ObamaCare actually put 90 cents on the dollar for able- bodied adults. They robbed our most vulnerable--our disabled, blind,  and pregnant fellow Americans--of having access to healthcare, reducing  the quality of outcomes over the years. That was a policy of the  Democrats, and there are many others that need to be reversed.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, the inflation tax that my colleague put  on her constituents with unbridled spending and failed economic  policies actually took $1,100 out of the pockets of our fellow  Americans, but the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act put $5,000 back into the  pockets of our fellow Americans in every district.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, after the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the top  1 percent of earners in this country, who pay 40 percent of the light  bills and the expenses of this growing, massive Federal Government,  paid more of a share of taxes than they did less. The code got more  progressive.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I say to Mr. Panetta that if we do  current policy and don't offset the impact of the deficit, that would  be a dangerous precedent.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I take that it we don't have the support  of our Democrat colleague for the hundreds of billions of dollars in  waste, fraud, and abuse in Medicaid.

Quite frankly, it is pervasive throughout the Federal Government and  threatens that program, threatens the benefits to our most vulnerable,  and threatens the sustainability of that program for future Americans.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I wonder how my colleagues justified the  $800 billion tax break for multibillion dollar, multinational green  energy corporations.

Mr. MOORE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, this is an opportunity this  evening to vote for a budget resolution that extends tax relief for  working families.

If Members want to support working families in America, vote for  this. It makes the Trump tax cuts permanent. It also provides security  for our southern border. It unleashes American energy, and it sets the  stage for generational spending reform. This is an opportunity today to  move this resolution forward.

There is a lot of fear-mongering on the other side. As has been said  before, the words ``Medicaid'' and ``Medicare'' are not in there. It is  simply wrong. ``Medicaid'' is not in there.

It keeps getting said, and I guess if you don't have the facts on  your side, sometimes you make up facts, and that is what is happening  from the other side. Yet, the American people know, which is why they  elected Donald Trump this year. They know what a responsible budget  means, and that is why we need to pass this.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I am obsessed with the threat of a looming debt crisis  and the irreparable harm it would do to our great economy, our national  security, our leadership in the world, and our children's future.

We have an opportunity. It is a historic generational opportunity to  right this ship, but we have to grow the economy. We have to have  progrowth policies in place that will unleash growth and prosperity,  and we have to get serious about the first and most important job of  the Federal Government, which is providing for the common defense.

We did that in the House bill, but what we did in the House bill that  the Senate fell far short in doing is to have a balanced budget  resolution, to have a commitment to enforceable spending reduction  targets that would bring the debt to GDP down and put our Nation on  good fiscal footing and a sustainable path.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues today to demand that the House  budget resolution and that our fiscal framework with our budget targets  guide the final reconciliation bill.

Mr. Speaker, again, this may be the last best opportunity to save our  country from fiscal ruin. The formula is all there in the House budget  resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to demand that that is what drives  the bill at the end of the day. God bless America, and I yield back the  balance of my time.