Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698366/lower-health-care-premiums-for-all-americans-act


Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, let me simplify the debate today for the  American people.

Republicans are bringing forward reforms that will actually lower the  cost of care. According to CBO, which is the gold standard for my  Democratic colleagues, it will reduce premiums by 11 percent.

Mr. Speaker, the only other time premiums have gone down since  ObamaCare was enacted was when Republicans actually advanced reforms in  the One Big Beautiful Bill Act; namely, rooting out waste, fraud, and  abuse. That lowered the cost of care.

We continue to bail out the unaffordable care act and actually make  it more affordable, along with other policies that provide the Federal  assistance to the people, not insurance agencies, and give the private  market more competition and transparency so that people have more  choice. That is our plan, and it lowers costs for everybody.

The Democrats are trying to put forward an extension of a COVID-era,  fraud-ridden subsidy that has proven time and again--GAO, CBO, all the  watchdogs say it is fraught with tens of billions of dollars of fraud.  Tens of thousands of Social Security numbers from dead people have been  used to siphon money away from this program.

Millions of people, according to CBO, are ineligibly on the program,  and the answer from the Democrats is to perpetuate this fraud bag,  which is a completely egregious and reckless thing to do as stewards of  tax dollars. This is not to mention that it is propping up the  underlying program that, year after year, has raised premiums and  deductibles two times--it has doubled premiums and deductibles since  ObamaCare has been enacted.

We have fewer choices. Things are worse.

As Ronald Reagan said so beautifully, so aptly, in this moment, I  can't think of any better words: ``Government is not the solution . .  .'' here. Democrats all have proven that. ``Government is the  problem,'' and we have the solution that actually delivers the  affordability to the American people.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support it.