Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692947/military-construction-veterans-affairs-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Chairman, I thank my good friend from the great  State of Texas, ``the judge,'' as we call him back in the freest and  greatest State in the Union, for his leadership.

In the last week, the world witnessed the might of America's  unparalleled air superiority and what a critical role our strategic  bombers and the men and women who pilot and maintain them play in  keeping our enemies, like Iran, in check.

For nearly 40 years, the B-1 has been the tip of the spear of  America's air superiority. The B-1 has served us well, but at a time  when our adversaries like China are making their own historic  investments in their own military, it is time we roll out America's  next generation warfighter.

That is why I rise in strong support of this amendment that would  direct a little over $4 million to enhance gate security at military  installations set to receive the B-21 Raider, including Dyess Air Force  Base in the key city of Abilene, Texas.

The B-21 Raider represents the most capable and lethal bomber this  world and this planet has ever known and seen. It is the future of our  long-range strike capability, designed to evade modern air defenses and  deliver both nuclear and conventional payloads across the globe.

Dyess, the base in Abilene, Texas, will soon become a key platform  for deploying this cutting-edge aircraft. We have a responsibility to  ensure that this investment in national defense is protected  accordingly.

Let's be clear: This is not a theoretical threat. In 2023 alone, U.S.  officials reported over 100 incidents of Chinese nationals attempting  to unlawfully access Department of Defense facilities.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Chair, in May of this year, two foreign nationals,  here illegally under President Biden's open-border crisis, attempted to  breach the Marine Corps base in Quantico in a box truck. These are not  isolated incidents, Mr. Chair. They are part of a disturbing trend that  put our installations, our technology, and, most importantly, our  servicemembers at risk.

This amendment is straightforward. It funds the necessary upgrades to  the gate infrastructure at bases like Dyess to comply with the  Department of Defense force protection standards. Reinforcing access  control preventing unauthorized entry is common sense. As I said, it is  straightforward, and it will help both our servicemembers, our air  arsenal, and our overall national security posture.

Mr. Chair, I thank the judge for his leadership, and I urge adoption  of this amendment.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the  amendment.