One Big Beautiful Bill Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693192/one-big-beautiful-bill-act


Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 566, I call  up the bill (H.R. 1) to provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II  of H. Con. Res. 14, with the Senate amendment thereto.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion at the desk.

Mr. ARRINGTON.  1.

Mr. Speaker, today, we are considering H.R. 1, the One Big Beautiful  Bill Act, as passed by the Senate.

This bill creates the right incentives for historic economic growth,  makes unprecedented investments in our military and border security,  and implements the largest spending reduction in American history by  twofold, alongside other generational fiscal reforms.

America's economic strength, Mr. Speaker, is the foundation of our  global leadership and prosperity, but sadly, it has waned, especially  over the last 4 years.

To preserve our influence abroad and our quality of life here at  home, we must unleash growth, starting with the largest tax cut in U.S.  history.

Just like the first Trump tax cuts, we can expect record job growth,  investment, repatriation of capital back to the United States, record- low unemployment, record-high wage growth, and the lowest poverty rates  in recorded history.

This bill also equips our troops and law enforcement, Mr. Speaker, to  defend our sovereignty, protect our citizens, and secure our border  after years of neglect and lawlessness.

While more work remains no doubt to rein in Washington's out-of- control spending and put our Nation on a more sustainable fiscal path,  I am confident that H.R. 1 will make America safe, strong, and  prosperous once again and, most importantly, give our children, like my  daughter, Jane, who is here with me today, a better and brighter future  in this, the greatest nation in human history.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I would just remind the gentlewoman from  Minnesota (Ms. Craig) and my Democratic colleagues that after the first  Trump tax cuts, the bottom half's income grew three times faster than  the top half. For the lower 10 percent, wages increased two times over  the 1 percent. People at the bottom and people in the middle benefited  more from the tax breaks.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, budgets are value statements. We value  letting working families keep more of their hard-earned dollars. We  value stewarding tax dollars, protecting our most vulnerable,  preserving programs that they depend on, and not allowing people in  this country illegally to siphon money away, jeopardizing those safety  nets.

Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

I will start by thanking my good friend and ranking member, Mr.  Brendan Boyle. He is a good American, and he has been a great partner  and colleague. I mostly appreciate his friendship.

We convene here before the Fourth of July. I think it is worth  recalling those unalienable rights that sparked this American  experiment: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Our Founders  built this Republic on the promise of freedom: the freedom to build, to  strive, and to pursue our own dreams. But that promise only thrives  when government stays in its place, preserving liberty, not suffocating  it with unchecked regulation and unbridled spending.

This legislation reclaims that founding promise. It is the principal  vehicle for advancing President Trump's America First agenda,  unleashing a rising tide of prosperity, securing our border,  modernizing our national defense, and supercharging energy,  agriculture, all of the sectors of our economy that Washington has kept  in a choke hold for too long.

Throughout this debate, Mr. Speaker, we heard one hollow Hail Mary  attack after another designed to scare the American people and prey on  their fears, the last gasp of a broken status quo.

For our part, we put our trust in the American people. We appeal to  their aspirations, and we deal in facts, not fear.

There are the false claims they make that this only helps the so- called 1 percent, the top 1 percent, the superrich, when actually it  locks in the largest middle-class tax cuts in history, putting  thousands of dollars back in the pockets of families still recovering  from the crushing inflation and cost-of-living crisis caused by the  Democrats' failed economic policies and unbridled spending.

There is the complete distortion that Medicaid is being cut when, in  fact, it is being strengthened for our most vulnerable citizens by  eliminating hundreds of billions of dollars of waste, fraud, and abuse.

There is the fallacy that work requirements are somehow punitive when  we know that they restore the dignity of work and lead to better  opportunities and bigger paychecks.

All their myths are headed for the ash heap of history.

From day one, we said this was a generational opportunity to deliver  the most comprehensive and consequential set of conservative reforms in  modern history, and that is exactly what we are doing.

This isn't our moment, Mr. Speaker. This is the American people's  moment.

I urge my colleagues to pass this bill and open up that gateway to a  new golden age of America.

God bless America. Go west Texas.