Promises Made, Promises Kept


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694789/promises-made-promises-kept


Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman and our fearless  Conference chair from Michigan for her leadership.

Mr. Speaker, make no mistake: The One Big Beautiful Bill Act is a big  and beautiful win for the American people.

It is big because it delivers the largest tax cuts for families and  small businesses; the greatest single investment in border security and  national defense; the most significant commitment to unlocking  America's energy resources; and the largest reduction in mandatory  spending in the history of the United States by twofold.

It is beautiful, Mr. Speaker, because of the tangible benefits these  policies will provide to our fellow Americans.

During the month of August, like many of the Members here, I  crisscrossed over 1,000 miles in my district in west Texas, and the  refrain I heard in one community after another was simple: Thank you.  Thank you for supporting our President. Thank you for delivering on our  mandate. Thank you for fighting for our Nation's future.

Mr. Speaker, in Scurry County, we heard how deregulation and historic  tax cuts will reignite their economy and put money back into their  pockets.

In Terry County, they were grateful for our stewardship of their  hard-earned tax dollars as we cut $1.5 trillion in woke and wasteful  spending.

In Lynn County, we talked about strengthening rural healthcare  through the $50 billion rural healthcare fund; cracking down on waste,  fraud, and abuse that has plagued Medicaid; and restoring the dignity  of work through long overdue and generational welfare reform.

In Parmer County, I was proud to report that the bill permanently  locks in low taxes for working families; provides additional tax relief  for seniors; and protects generational family farms, family-run oil and  gas companies, and other family-owned businesses with enhanced death  tax relief.

In Shackelford and Hockley Counties, folks said that it is about time  that we put a stop to Biden's war on energy so that we can lower energy  prices for working people; so that we can strengthen our energy  security; and so that we can unleash not just American energy  dominance, but American prosperity for our children and children's  children.

In Haskell County, we talked about how the bill's generational  investment in national security will help secure our southern border,  strengthen our military, and restore America's leadership in the world.

The other message I heard over and over was this: Keep pressing  forward, unrelenting, undeterred, and unapologetic, to advance the  America First agenda.

My response, Mr. Speaker: Yes, ma'am. Yes, sir, as sure as the Sun  rises, we are just getting started.