Proposing An Amendment to the Constitution of the United States Requiring A Balanced Budget for the Federal Government


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700931/proposing-an-amendment-to-the-constitution-of-the-united-states-requiring-a-balanced-budget-for-the-federal-government


Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend and classmate from  Arizona for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, let's pause for a brief moment of intellectual honesty.  Both parties have failed. This institution has failed. We have failed  our country.

We have jeopardized our economy, our security, and our leadership in  the world. Worst of all, we have compromised on our children's future  and the blessing of their inheritance of freedom and opportunity.

We have failed. That is why we are talking about a constitutional  amendment to impose fiscal responsibility on a body politic that has  not done that, that has not mustered the political will to do that.

We have a national debt per GDP that exceeds World War II levels of  debt, an annual deficit that is larger than both the defense and  nondefense discretionary budgets, with 50 cents or greater on every  dollar that we borrow up to $2 trillion going to service our interest  payments.

Half of what we borrow, a trillion dollars, is more than what we  spend on defense. Then, there is this ominous forecast by CBO that even  at $39 trillion today, where we are teetering on a potential sovereign  debt crisis, we will add $180 trillion to the national debt in the 30- year out. If that is not unacceptable to everybody, I don't know what  is.

If we can't concede to the fact that this body politic does not have  the political will to address it, to rein in the spending that is  driving this unsustainable debt trajectory that will bankrupt our  country and our children's future, then we must support this forcing  mechanism. Force us to do what the American people have to do. Force us  to do what State and local governments do.

Here is another stunning, and startling for some, but for all a  sobering fact: We won't even get a simple majority vote today.

What shall we do? We should look to Article V of the Constitution,  where the sovereign States and we the people can petition their  government for another path to amend the Constitution. Guess what. They  have done that.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, they had the requisite applications to  have an Article V convention of the States, to rein in us, the  knuckleheads that refuse to accept that it is not a Democratic problem  or a Republican problem. It is an institutional problem that persists  and will destroy the greatest Nation in human history.

Let's look to the States, and let's call that convention like we  should have done in the 1970s and 1980s. Let's let them rein us in,  restore fiscal sanity in their Nation's Capital, and reverse the curse  that looms large over this country.