Relating to A National Emergency By the President on February 2025


Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, the Democrats fought Republicans to  require voter ID to protect the integrity of our elections, the  cornerstone of our democratic Republic. Now they stand here today on  the floor of the people's house, fighting the President in his effort  to protect the lives of the American people against what is the most  imminent threat and the number one cause of accidental deaths and drug  overdoses.

We know where the drugs are coming from, pouring into our country and  our communities, killing our friends, killing our families. I can't  think of a greater security concern than this. The President has  effectively and appropriately promoted and defended America's economic  and security interests by the use of tariffs.

Today, Mr. Speaker, as a result, we have a lower trade deficit than  we have had since 2009. By the way, the top 20 economies in the world  that we do business with had twice the tariffs on our products, three  times the tariffs when you measure agriculture products, and the  deficit is going down. We have quadrupled revenue to strengthen  America's balance sheet and pay down the tax on our children, which is  the deficit. We have gone from 6.3 percent to 5.9, and exports are at  an all-time high.

Now, what is the issue here? It is not about 301, unfair trade  practices, although there are plenty of grievances against our northern  neighbor in that regard. This isn't about USMCA. The USMCA products  flowing from Canada to the United States are exempt. Eighty-five  percent of the products, we are not talking about that. It is not about  232.

This is about one particular authority that this Congress empowered  our commander-in-chief with to deal with unusual threats outside of the  U.S. that would impact our national security, our foreign policy, and  our economy.

Now, I can't think of anything more unusual, and I can't think of a  bigger threat than a chemical warfare waged against the United States  of America. Any President worth his salt, any commander-in-chief, would  be derelict in their duty if they didn't use every tool at their  disposal to stop it.

For my President to expect our neighbor from the north to have the  same vigilance and the same urgency as he has because of the American  people's mandate to stop this madness and protect our children, God  bless him. God bless him.

For my colleagues to run to the floor, to raise their hands, and to  scream foul that this President is somehow using tariffs in a way that  has nothing to do with our interest, to talk about food security, we  could go down the list. We wouldn't have food insecurity if we didn't  have a cost of living crisis where the fuse was lit by unbridled  spending. We could go down the list. Yes, we are doing something about  that. We are bringing interest rates down. We are bringing real wages  up. We are also preserving food stamps so they are not being defrauded  or being spent on people here illegally.

Mr. Chairman, I would love to keep debating all day long. God bless  America, and go West Texas.