Stop Defending Lawlessness


Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, it is really difficult for me to be in  this Chamber and hear my Democrat colleagues disparage our country and  how we treat immigrants.

The fact is, they are defending lawlessness. They are defending the  invasion of our sovereign country. They are promoting and defending  people breaking the law, cutting the line of millions of people who are  respecting our laws, our country, and the safety of our citizens.

What you won't hear from my Democrat colleagues this morning is to  condemn what is happening in L.A., and the violence being perpetrated  against our law enforcement agents who are simply trying to uphold the  laws of the land.

That is how upside down and backward the Democratic Party has become.  You won't hear any of that. These people are risking their lives for  you and for me and our families and our communities to stop the flood  of drugs and crime pouring into this country. It is unacceptable.               Honoring the UMC Emergency Medical Services Team

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a group of heroes  that have been a lifeline for the people of Lubbock County for 50  years: the UMC Emergency Medical Services team.

Since their first 911 response back in November 1975, well before the  University Medical Center Hospital even opened its doors, UMC EMS has  been on the front lines of saving lives and serving our communities in  west Texas.

We are fortunate to have the highest level of healthcare and  emergency response professionals protecting our families. In fact, UMC  EMS is one of just 46 EMS systems worldwide with a dual accreditation.  Their team has earned the American Heart Association's Mission:  Lifeline Gold Award every year since 2019, a well-deserved honor.

Mr. Speaker, I thank everyone at UMC EMS, past and present, for their  unparalleled care, for their endless compassion, and most of all, their  commitment to excellence and service to the people of west Texas. I  congratulate them on 50 years of incomparable service, and here is to  50 more.

God bless America, and go west Texas.               Congratulating Coahoma High School Bulldogettes

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an  extraordinary group of young ladies that have accomplished something  that no other Texas softball team has in the history of softball in  Texas, the Coahoma High School Bulldogettes have secured their third  straight championship.

This historic achievement speaks to their drive, their determination,  and overall commitment to excellence as well as, of course, the  leadership and commitment of their coach, Alex Orosco.

The Bulldogettes have put their community on the map, and all of  Texas is taking notice. I congratulate the young ladies on such an  unprecedented accomplishment. I thank them for representing the best of  west Texas. They are all winners on and off the field and in every  sense of the word.

Again, God bless America, and go west Texas.

Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I think I can say a few things in 2  minutes, believe it or not, about some of the comments my colleague,  Representative Baumgartner, said about the One Big Beautiful Bill Act  and its positive impact on rural America, the heartbeat of this  country.

The food, fuel, and fiber capital of the world, west Texas, I can  tell you, appreciates what is in this big and beautiful bill. It is  more than just stopping a 22 percent increase in taxes for hardworking  Americans who suffered an inflation tax of about 20 percent over the  last 4 years. It is beyond sustainable.

We could go through the list of the largest spending cuts of  wasteful, woke, and fraud in this Federal Government. That is two times  the deepest cut to wasteful spending in the history of our country.

We can talk about energy dominance, the most significant commitment  to opening up energy resources in this country to bring down the cost  of energy prices for our families and to make American energy dominant  again.

We are so blessed by our natural resources. I will talk about the  farm bill reforms. Republicans are strengthening the safety net, the  risk management tools to stabilize the ag economy with respect to the  volatile prices, the volatility in weather and the investment in trade  promotion to open up new markets and opportunities for ag products made  here and grown here in the USA.

We have provisions in there that strengthen rural hospitals so they  can  provide basic care to the hardworking farmers and ranchers and energy  producers and their families. We have welfare reforms that stop  trapping people in dependence on the Federal Government and encourage  them to get out and work and do something with their hands and be  blessed by it and to restore the dignity of work.

Mr. Speaker, I know my time is up. God bless rural America, and God  bless west Texas.