America's National Churchill Museum National Historic Landmark Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700375/americas-national-churchill-museum-national-historic-landmark-act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1945) to designate the America's National Churchill Museum  National Historic Landmark, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1945

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``America's National Churchill       Museum National Historic Landmark Act''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Fulton,       Missouri.

(2) College.--The term ``College'' means Westminster       College, located at 501 Westminster Avenue in the City.

(3) Landmark.--The term ``Landmark'' means the America's       National Churchill Museum National Historic Landmark       designated by section 3(a).

(4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of the Interior.

(5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Missouri.       SEC. 3. AMERICA'S NATIONAL CHURCHILL MUSEUM NATIONAL HISTORIC                     LANDMARK.

(a) Designation.--America's National Churchill Museum       located at the College, including the Winston Churchill       Memorial listed on the National Register of Historic Places,       is designated as the ``America's National Churchill Museum       National Historic Landmark''.

(b) Cooperative Agreements.--

(1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the       State, the City, and the College, may enter into cooperative       agreements with appropriate public or private entities, for       the purposes of--

(A) protecting historic resources at the Landmark; and

(B) providing educational and interpretive facilities and       programs at the Landmark for the public.

(2) Technical and financial assistance.--The Secretary may       provide technical and financial assistance to any entity with       which the Secretary has entered into a cooperative agreement       under paragraph (1).

(c) No Effect on Actions of Property Owners.--Designation       of the America's National Churchill Museum as a National       Historic Landmark shall not prohibit any actions that may       otherwise be taken by a property owner (including the College       and any other owner of the Landmark) with respect to the       property of the owner.

(d) No Effect on Administration.--Nothing in this section       affects the administration of the Landmark by the State, the       City, or the College.       SEC. 4. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.

(a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a special       resource study of the Landmark.

(b) Contents.--In conducting the study under this section,       the Secretary shall--

(1) evaluate the national significance of the Landmark;

(2) determine the suitability and feasibility of       designating the Landmark as a unit of the National Park       System;

(3)(A) consider alternatives to that designation for the       preservation, protection, and interpretation of the Landmark       by the Federal Government, the State, the City and other       affected units of local government, or private and nonprofit       organizations (including the College); and

(B) identify cost estimates for any Federal acquisition,       development, interpretation, operation, and maintenance       associated with the alternatives described in subparagraph       (A); and

(4) consult with interested Federal agencies, the State,       the City and other affected units of local government,       private and nonprofit entities (including the College), and       other interested individuals.

(c) Requirement.--The Secretary shall conduct the study       under this section in accordance with section 100507 of title       54, United States Code.

(d) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which       funds are first made available to carry out the study under       this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on       Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee       on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report       that describes--

(1) the results of the study; and

(2) any conclusions and recommendations of the Secretary.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  1945.

I rise in support of H.R. 1945, the America's National Churchill  Museum National Historic Landmark Act, sponsored by the gentleman from  Missouri (Mr. Onder).

This bill recognizes a place of global consequence in the heart of  small-town America: America's National Churchill Museum at Westminster  College in Fulton, Missouri.

On March 6, 1946, on the heels of a devastating world war, Sir  Winston  Churchill traveled to Fulton to deliver an address that foreshadowed  the next stage of America's global conflict against evil. In his now- famous speech, ``Sinews of Peace,'' Churchill warned that an Iron  Curtain had descended across Europe and urged a new Western alliance  against the aggression of the totalitarian Soviet Union.

For five decades, the museum in Fulton has conserved the speech's  history and allowed the public to experience that pivotal moment. It is  also home to a remarkable structure, the Church of St. Mary the Virgin,  Aldermanbury, a 12th century church which was transported from London  to Fulton in the 1960s to commemorate Churchill's speech. Today, the  entire site serves as a civic center of engagement and educational  programming that brings to life the story of Winston Churchill.

H.R. 1945 builds on that historic legacy. Representative Onder's bill  would designate America's National Churchill Museum as a national  historic landmark. In doing so, the museum would be able to enter into  cooperative agreements with the National Park Service to protect  historic resources and support public programming. This is a simple  bill that strengthens stewardship of a unique historical site without  adding to the Federal estate.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1945, the America's  National Churchill Museum National Historic Landmark Act, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

H.R. 1945 does ensure that America's National Churchill Museum  receives recognition equal to its educational impact and importance to  20th century history.

Designating the site as a national historic landmark will bring  further prominence to the special place and allow future generations of  Americans to learn about the moment that marked the start of the Cold  War and the legacy of Sir Winston Churchill. I commend Representative  Onder for his leadership on this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this very  important bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.