Apex Area Technical Corrections Act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 618) to amend the Apex Project, Nevada Land Transfer and  Authorization Act of 1989 to include the City of North Las Vegas and  the Apex Industrial Park Owners Association, and for other purposes, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 618

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Apex Area Technical       Corrections Act''.       SEC. 2. APEX PROJECT, NEVADA LAND TRANSFER AND AUTHORIZATION                     ACT OF 1989.

The Apex Project, Nevada Land Transfer and Authorization       Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-67; 103 Stat. 168) is amended--

(1) in section 2(b)--

(A) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (8); and

(B) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:

``(6) The term `Apex Industrial Park Owners Association'       has the meaning given such term by the charter document for       the entity entitled `Apex Industrial Park Owners       Association', formed on April 9, 2001, and any successor       documents to such charter document, on file with the Nevada       Secretary of State.

``(7) The term `City of North Las Vegas' means North Las       Vegas, Nevada.'';

(2) in section 3(b)--

(A) by striking ``Clark County for the connection'' and       inserting ``Clark County, the City of North Las Vegas, and       the Apex Industrial Park Owners Association, individually or       jointly as appropriate, for the connection'';

(B) by striking ``Kerr-McGee Site'' and inserting ``Kerr-      McGee Site and other lands conveyed in accordance with this       Act''; and

(C) by inserting ``(or any successor maps created by the       Secretary)'' after ``May 1989'';

(3) in section 4(c), by striking ``Pursuant'' and all that       follows through ``Clark County'' and inserting ``During such       time as the requirements of section 6 are met, and pursuant       to applicable law, the Secretary shall grant Clark County,       the City of North Las Vegas, and the Apex Industrial Owners       Association'';

(4) in section 4(e)(1), by striking the last sentence and       inserting ``The withdrawal made by this subsection shall       continue in perpetuity for all lands transferred in       accordance with this subsection.'';

(5) in section 4(e), by adding at the end the following:

``(3) In the case of the sale of mineral materials       resulting from grading, land balancing, or other activities       on the surface of a parcel within the Apex Site for which the       United States retains and interest in the minerals--

``(A) it shall be considered impracticable to obtain       competition for purposes of section 3602.31(a)(2) of title       43, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of       the enactment of the Apex Area Technical Corrections Act);       and

``(B) such sale shall be exempt from the quantity and term       limitations imposed on noncompetitive sales under subpart       3602 of such title (as in effect on the date of the enactment       of the Apex Area Technical Corrections Act.''; and

(6) in section 6, by adding at the end the following:

``(d) Compliance With Environmental Assessments.--Each       transfer by the United States of additional lands or       interests in lands within the Apex Site or rights-of-way       issued pursuant to this Act shall be conditioned upon       compliance with applicable Federal land laws, including the       National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and the Federal       Land Policy and Management Act of 1976.''.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  618, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of Representative Horsford's bill,  H.R. 618, the Apex Area Technical Corrections Act.

H.R. 618 is a bipartisan bill supported by the entire Nevada  delegation that would streamline permitting in the Apex Industrial Park  in North Las Vegas to encourage new business development and economic  growth.

Specifically, the legislation authorizes the Secretary of the  Interior to grant utility and transportation rights-of-way to the Apex  Industrial Park Owners Association, the city of North Las Vegas, and  Clark County for electric, power, water, natural gas, telephone,  railroad, or highway facilities.

Congress created the Apex Industrial Park in 1989 by authorizing the  sale of roughly 21,000 acres of Bureau of Land Management land to Clark  County, Nevada, to establish a new area to attract businesses and  create jobs.

While the original law directed BLM to issue utility and  transportation rights-of-way for Apex, businesses seeking to start  construction or expand operations currently face a complicated  permitting process. The delayed installation of utilities has stalled  the growth of existing businesses in the Apex area. Additionally, the  prolonged permitting process deters new investment and hinders economic  development in North Las Vegas.

Removing bureaucratic delays by the Federal Government is necessary  for the growth and prosperity of North Las Vegas.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Horsford and the entire Nevada  delegation for their work on this issue. I support the bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, this legislation would support economic  growth, create jobs, and attract new businesses to North Las Vegas by  streamlining permitting and cutting Federal red tape. I commend  Representative Horsford on this bill, and I urge its adoption.