Captain Accursio ``gus'' Sanfilippo Young Fishermen's Development Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700346/captain-accursio-gus-sanfilippo-young-fishermens-development-act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3692) to reauthorize the Young Fishermen's Development Act,  as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3692

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Captain Accursio ``Gus''       Sanfilippo Young Fishermen's Development Act''.       SEC. 2. YOUNG FISHERMEN'S DEVELOPMENT ACT REAUTHORIZATION.

Section 5(a) of the Young Fishermen's Development Act (33       U.S.C. 1144(a)) is amended by striking ``2026'' and inserting       ``2031''.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  3692, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3692, the Captain Accursio  ``Gus'' Sanfilippo Young Fishermen's Development Act, sponsored by  Representative Moulton from Massachusetts.

This bill is named after the captain of the Lily Jean, who tragically  lost his life, along with six others, when the fishing vessel sank off  the coast of Massachusetts in January.

Our thoughts are with his family and the families of those who lost  their lives in this terrible accident.

The Young Fishermen's national competitive grant program supports the  training and education of the Nation's next generation of commercial  fishermen. This legislation would reauthorize the program through  fiscal year 2031, supporting the education of America's future  fishermen and a competitive and sustainable American seafood economy.

Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 3692, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. Speaker, again, this bill promotes continued investment in both  the next generation of American fishermen and the American seafood  industry as a whole. I commend my friend, Mr. Moulton, for bringing  this forward, and I support this bill, H.R. 3692.