Conveyance for Aquifer Recharge Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691131/conveyance-for-aquifer-recharge-purposes


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 331) to amend the Aquifer Recharge Flexibility Act to  clarify a provision relating to conveyances for aquifer recharge  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 331

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE FOR AQUIFER RECHARGE PURPOSES.

(a) In General.--Subsection (c)(3) of the Aquifer Recharge       Flexibility Act (43 U.S.C. 390g-9) is amended--

(1) by striking ``The holder'' and inserting the following:

``(A) In general.--The holder'';

(2) in subparagraph (A) (as so designated), by striking       ``may transport water for aquifer recharge purposes without       requiring additional authorization from the Secretary where       the use does not expand or modify the operation'' and       inserting ``may, acting for the holder or on behalf of a       State, political subdivision of a State, Indian Tribe, or       public entity and subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), use       the existing right-of-way, easement, permit, or other       authorization for the purpose of aquifer recharge and the       transport and use of water rights for aquifer recharge       without requiring additional authorization from the       Secretary, which use shall not be considered an expansion,       modification, or substantial deviation''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(B) Notice required.--

``(i) In general.--Not less than 30 days before using an       existing right-of-way, easement, permit, or other       authorization for the purpose of aquifer recharge under       subparagraph (A), the holder of the right-of-way, easement,       permit, or other authorization shall submit to the Bureau of       Land Management notice of the intended use, in accordance       with clause (ii).

``(ii) Requirements.--A notice submitted under clause (i)       shall--

``(I) identify the State, political subdivision of the       State, Indian Tribe, or public entity intending to use the       existing right-of-way, easement, permit, or other       authorization for the purpose of aquifer recharge;

``(II) identify the existing right-of-way, easement,       permit, other authorization, or recognized authorized use for       ditches and canals constructed on public land before or on       October 21, 1976, under the authority of sections 2339 and       2340 of the Revised Statutes (43 U.S.C. 661) intended to be       used;

``(III) provide details on the intended use and scope of       use for the purpose of aquifer recharge of the existing       right-of-way, easement, permit, or other authorization; and

``(IV) provide a copy of the agreement between the State,       political subdivision of the State, Indian Tribe, or public       entity and the holder of the right-of-way, easement, permit,       or other authorization to use the existing right-of-way,       easement, permit, or other authorization for the purpose of       aquifer recharge.''.

(b) Effect.--Subsection (c)(4) of the Aquifer Recharge       Flexibility Act (43 U.S.C. 390g-9) is amended--

(1) by striking ``Act creates'' and inserting ``section--

``(A) creates'';

(2) in subparagraph (A) (as so designated), by striking the       period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and

(3) by adding at the end of the following:

``(B) waives the obligation of the holder of a right-of-      way, easement, permit, or other authorization described in       paragraph (3)(A) to comply with all applicable--

``(i) Federal laws; and

``(ii) policies of the Bureau; or

``(C) provides authority to construct, modify, or expand       any existing infrastructure covered under subsection       (c)(3).''.

(c) Technical Amendments.--The Aquifer Recharge Flexibility       Act (43 U.S.C. 390g-9) is amended in each of subsections (a)       and (c)(5) by striking ``Act'' each place it appears and       inserting ``section''.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  331, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 331, sponsored by Congressman  Fulcher. In 2020, Congress passed the Aquifer Recharge Flexibility Act.  The intent of that law was simple. It allowed existing irrigation  canals to be used for conveying aquifer recharge water without  requiring additional authorization from the Federal Government.

Unfortunately, the implementation of this law has been bogged down by  bureaucratic red tape. Despite the plain wording of the law, the Bureau  of Land Management has asserted that the law does not apply to third  parties, only to the right-of-way holders of record.

As such, H.R. 331 amends the Aquifer Recharge Flexibility Act to  further clarify that an existing right-of-way, easement, permit, or  other authorization can be used to recharge aquifers on behalf of  State, Tribal, and local governments, without getting additional  authorization or paying additional rents.

The aquifer recharge and storage are already complicated matters that  depend on a variety of natural characteristics, including soil type and  underlying geology, which influence water retention and the ability to  recover stored water. There is no need for the Federal Government to  add further complexity to this important work.

Mr. Speaker, I support the bill, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, out West, the development of an aquifer  recharge program generally includes using existing irrigation canals  and ditches to seep and percolate water into the aquifer. Much of this  infrastructure crosses land owned by the Bureau of Land Management,  requiring additional authorization for aquifer recharge activities,  even when conducted on behalf of public entities. Cutting red tape for  such activities is simply common sense.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  yield back the balance of my time.