Critical Mineral Consistency Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700397/critical-mineral-consistency-act-of-2025


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 755) to amend the Energy Act of 2020 to include critical  materials in the definition of critical mineral, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 755

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Critical Mineral Consistency       Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. CRITICAL MINERALS AND MATERIALS LIST.

Section 7002 of the Energy Act of 2020 (30 U.S.C. 1606) is       amended--

(1) in subsection (c)(4)(C), by inserting ``minerals or       materials'' after ``critical'';

(2) by redesignating subsection (o) as subsection (p); and

(3) by inserting after subsection (n) the following:

``(o) Critical Minerals and Materials List.--

``(1) In general.--Not later than 45 days after the date of       enactment of the Critical Mineral Consistency Act of 2025,       the Secretary shall publish a Critical Minerals and Materials       List, which shall include--

``(A) any critical mineral designated by the Secretary       under subsection (c); and

``(B) any non-fuel mineral, element, substance, or material       that the Secretary of Energy has determined to be a critical       material under subsection (a)(2) as of that date of       enactment.

``(2) Updates.--The Secretary shall update the Critical       Minerals and Materials List published under paragraph (1)--

``(A) not later than 45 days after the date on which the       Secretary updates a critical mineral designation under       subsection (c); and

``(B) not later than 45 days after the date on which the       Secretary of Energy updates a critical material designation       under subsection (a)(2).

``(3) Publication alignment.--To the maximum extent       practicable, the Secretary and the Secretary of Energy shall       coordinate when updates to the Critical Minerals and       Materials List may be required under paragraph (2).

``(4) Administration.--For the purposes of administering       programs involving critical minerals or critical materials,       the Secretary, the Secretary of Energy, and the heads of       other Federal departments and agencies where such department       or agency has incorporated by reference the definition of       `critical mineral' or `critical material' from this section,       as applicable, shall use the most recently published version       of the Critical Minerals and Materials List published under       paragraph (1).''.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  755, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 755, the Critical  Mineral Consistency Act, which accomplishes the important task of  unifying the U.S. Geological Survey's list of critical minerals and the  Department of Energy's list of critical materials.

The Energy Act of 2020 defined ``critical minerals'' and directed the  United States Geological Survey, or USGS, to publish a list of critical  minerals every 3 years. The same act directed the Secretary of Energy  to develop a critical materials list that includes all of the same  minerals on the USGS list but adds: ``any non-fuel mineral, element,  substance, or material that the Secretary of Energy determines: (i) has  a high risk of supply chain disruption; and (ii) serves an essential  function in one or more energy technologies, including technologies  that produce, transmit, store, and conserve energy.''

The discrepancies between the lists make it difficult for regulators  and producers to determine what emphasis to place on each resource and  how to allocate efforts toward resource recovery.

Under H.R. 755, each agency would determine what to include in its  own list, but a new, combined list called the ``critical minerals and  materials list'' would be published by the Department of the Interior.

Moving forward, all Federal agencies would be required to use this  unified list when administering programs involving critical minerals or  critical materials. These changes promote accessibility, clarity, and  consistency for regulators, producers, and members of the public.

I thank Representative Ciscomani for his work on this important  legislation. I support this commonsense bill, and I reserve the balance  of my time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, back to H.R. 755. This bill will provide  the certainty needed to grow domestic production of minerals like  lithium, graphite, copper, and many other minerals necessary for the  advanced technologies that will ensure national security, energy  security, and economic competitiveness.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.