Enhancing Administrative Reviews for Broadband Deployment Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700389/enhancing-administrative-reviews-for-broadband-deployment-act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 5419) to direct the Secretary of the Interior and the  Secretary of Agriculture to develop a plan for ensuring timely review  of communications use authorizations, and for other purposes, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 5419

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Enhancing Administrative       Reviews for Broadband Deployment Act''.       SEC. 2. ENSURING TIMELY REVIEW OF BROADBAND LAND USE                     AUTHORIZATIONS.

(a) Study and Report.--

(1) Study.--The Secretaries concerned shall each conduct,       with respect to the relevant covered department, a study to       determine--

(A) if there are programmatic or administrative barriers to       the timely review of requests for broadband land use       authorizations;

(B) if there are revisions to rules or regulations that       could be implemented to improve efficiency with respect to       reviewing requests for broadband land use authorizations; and

(C) if there are processes for prioritizing the review of       requests for broadband land use authorizations.

(2) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Secretaries concerned shall       jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees a       report that--

(A) describes the results of the studies conducted under       paragraph (1), including any barriers, revisions, or       processes identified under subparagraphs (A) through (C) of       such paragraph; and

(B) includes a plan for providing, with respect to the       organizational units of the relevant covered departments, the       staffing necessary to ensure timely review of broadband land       use authorizations.

(b) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term       ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the--

(A) Committees on Natural Resources, Agriculture, and       Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and

(B) Committees on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and       Environment and Public Works of the Senate.

(2) Broadband land use authorization.--The term ``broadband       land use authorization'' means an easement, right-of-way,       lease, license, or other authorization--

(A) provided by the Secretary of the Interior or the       Secretary of Agriculture;

(B) to locate or modify a communications facility on       covered land; and

(C) for the primary purpose of authorizing the occupancy       and use of such covered land for communications use.

(3) Communications facility.--The term ``communications       facility'' has the meaning given the term ``communications       facility installation'' in section 6409(d) of the Middle       Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C.       1455(d)).

(4) Communications use.--The term ``communications use''       means the placement and operation of a communications       facility.

(5) Covered land.--The term ``covered land'' means--

(A) public lands; and

(B) National Forest System land.

(6) National forest system.--The term ``National Forest       System'' has the meaning given that term in section 11(a) of       the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of       1974 (16 U.S.C. 1609(a)).

(7) Organizational unit.--The term ``organizational unit''       means--

(A) with respect to the Department of the Interior--

(i) a State office of the Bureau of Land Management;

(ii) a district office of the Bureau of Land Management; or

(iii) a field office of the Bureau of Land Management; and

(B) with respect to the Department of Agriculture--

(i) a regional office of the Forest Service;

(ii) a management unit of the Forest Service; or

(iii) a ranger district office of the Forest Service.

(8) Public lands.--The term ``public lands'' has the       meaning given that term in section 103 of the Federal Land       Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).

(9) Relevant covered department.--The term ``relevant       covered department'' means--

(A) with respect to the Secretary of the Interior, the       Department of the Interior; and

(B) with respect to the Secretary of Agriculture, the       Department of Agriculture.

(10) Secretaries concerned.--The term ``Secretaries       concerned'' means--

(A) the Secretary of the Interior; and

(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief       of the Forest Service.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  5419, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 5419, the Enhancing  Administrative Reviews for Broadband Deployment Act, introduced by  Representative Kean.

In today's economy, broadband is a necessity, not a luxury. An  affordable connection to high-speed internet is critical, particularly  for rural communities that rely on the internet for telehealth  appointments, public safety updates, and online learning. Yet in too  many rural and Tribal communities, reliable broadband is still costly,  rare, or even nonexistent.

Building networks across rural America presents many challenges due  to low population density, vast distances, and rugged terrain. To reach  these areas, broadband developers must install infrastructure on  Federal lands managed by the Department of the Interior or the U.S.  Forest Service. Too often the Federal permitting process adds  unnecessary costs and years of delay, sometimes taking 5 to 10 years to  complete a single broadband project.

That is because broadband providers seeking to connect households and  businesses face layered permitting requirements, redundant reviews, and  spotty coordination among Federal land management agencies when  applying for broadband land-use authorizations. This uncertainty drives  up costs and causes rural areas to lag behind urban and suburban areas  in connectivity, exacerbating the digital divide.

H.R. 5419 takes a practical approach to this problem. Representative  Kean's legislation recognizes that funding alone cannot connect our  rural communities when the permitting process is still broken. This  bill focuses on fixing what is actually delaying broadband deployment  by requiring agencies to identify and report on permitting bottlenecks,  coordination deficiencies, and bureaucratic redundancies that impede  the efficient processing of broadband land-use authorizations.

This bill is an important first step in making the Federal Government  a better partner in getting modern infrastructure to the communities  that need it most.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Kean for his leadership on this  issue. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 5419, and I  reserve the balance of my time.                                          House of Representatives,                                        Committee on Agriculture,                                  Washington, DC, February 17, 2026.      Hon. Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: This letter confirms our mutual       understanding regarding H.R. 5419, the ``Enhancing       Administrative Reviews for Broadband Deployment Act.'' Thank       you for collaborating with the Committee on Agriculture on       the matters within our jurisdiction.

The Committee on Agriculture will forego any further       consideration of this bill. However, by foregoing       consideration at this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction       over any subject matter contained in this or similar       legislation. The Committee on Agriculture also reserves the       right to seek appointment of an appropriate number of       conferees, should it become necessary, and ask that you       support such a request.

We would appreciate a response to this letter confirming       this understanding with respect to H.R. 5419 and request a       copy of our letters on this matter be published in the       Congressional Record during Floor consideration.            Sincerely,                                             Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                  Committee on Natural Resources,                                  Washington, DC, February 17, 2026.      Hon. Glenn Thompson,      Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Thompson: I write regarding H.R. 5419, the       ``Enhancing Administrative Reviews for Broadband Deployment       Act,'' which was ordered reported by the Committee on Natural       Resources on February 11, 2026.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Agriculture and       appreciate your willingness to forgo further consideration of       the bill. 1 acknowledge that the Committee on Agriculture       will not formally consider H.R. 5419 and agree that the       inaction of your Committee with respect to the bill does not       waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained       therein.

I am pleased to support your request to name members of the       Committee on Agriculture to any conference committee to       consider such provisions. I will ensure that our exchange of       letters is included in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration of the bill and will include such letters in       the committee report on H.R. 5419. 1 appreciate your       cooperation regarding this legislation.            Sincerely,                                                   Bruce Westerman,                          Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 5419 is a bill that cuts red tape, streamlines  approvals, and accelerates broadband access by addressing the  permitting barriers that slow broadband development on Federal lands.  By identifying areas to improve coordination, reduce onerous reviews,  and strengthen the permitting processing at the Federal level, this  bill will help close the digital divide that exists in rural and Tribal  communities.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  Representative Kean's legislation, and I yield back the balance of my  time.