Expedited Appeals Review Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691038/expedited-appeals-review-act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 677) to establish a process to expedite the review of  appeals of certain decisions by the Department of the Interior, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 677

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Expedited Appeals Review       Act'' or the ``EARA''.       SEC. 2. EXPEDITED REVIEWS.

(a) Request for Expedited Review.--A party that files an       appeal of a Department of the Interior decision described       under section 4.1(b)(2) of title 43, Code of Federal       Regulations (or any successor regulations), with the Board of       Land Appeals may submit to the Board of Land Appeals written       notice of such party's intent to seek expedited review of the       appeal. If a party submits such written notice, the Board of       Land Appeals shall issue a final decision on the appeal by       not later than the date that is 6 months after the date on       which such written notice is received, except such deadline       may not be earlier than the date that is 18 months after the       date on which the appeal was initially filed with the Board       of Land Appeals.

(b) No Final Decision.--If the Board of Land Appeals does       not issue a final decision on an appeal by the deadline       described in subsection (a)--

(1) the Department of the Interior decision is deemed to be       a final agency action for purposes of section 704 of title 5,       United States Code; and

(2) notwithstanding section 706 of title 5, United States       Code, judicial review of such decision shall be de novo.

(c) Applicability.--This section shall apply to any appeal       described in subsection (a) that--

(1) is pending before the Board of Land Appeals as of the       date of enactment of this Act; or

(2) is filed with the Board of Land Appeals after the date       of enactment of this Act.

(d) Conflict.--In the event of a conflict between the       deadline described in subsection (a) and a deadline under       section 115(h) of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management       Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1724(h)) or section 525(b) of the       Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C.       1275(b)), the deadline described in subsection (a) shall       control.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  677, as amended, the bill now  under consideration.

I rise today in support of H.R. 677, the Expedited Appeals Review  Act, introduced by Representative Hageman. This bill addresses critical  flaws currently plaguing the review process of the Interior Board of  Land Appeals, or IBLA.

The IBLA functions as an appellate review body within the Department  of the Interior. It is tasked with resolving the many disputes that  arise in connection with the public lands and natural resources under  the Department's jurisdiction.

With over 600 appeals pending before the IBLA, however, many cases go  undecided and are simply left to expire. This effectively results in  automatic denials even though no substantive decisions have been  rendered.

Thankfully, H.R. 677 offers a needed off-ramp for appellants that the  IBLA has left in limbo. Starting 1 year after filing the appeal, an  appellant may submit a request that requires the IBLA to decide the  case within 6 months.

If the IBLA fails to meet the new deadline, the case automatically  becomes eligible for de novo judicial review outside of the Department.  This solution will reduce the existing backlog while ensuring  stakeholders receive their day in court.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to join me in support of H.R.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  Hageman), the lead sponsor of the bill.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, this legislation will provide a more  efficient and predictable form of recourse for those facing extended  delays with their IBLA appeals.

Mr. Speaker, I commend my colleague from Wyoming (Ms. Hageman) for  her work on this important subject. I urge all of my colleagues to join  me in supporting H.R. 677, and I yield back the balance of my time.