Fire Safe Electrical Corridors Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691068/fire-safe-electrical-corridors-act-of-2025


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2492) to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture and the  Secretary of the Interior to permit removal of trees around electrical  lines on National Forest System lands and Bureau of Land Management  lands, respectively, without conducting a timber sale, and for other  purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2492

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Fire Safe Electrical       Corridors Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. PERMITS AND AGREEMENTS WITH ELECTRICAL UTILITIES.

(a) In General.--In any special use permit or easement on       covered Federal lands provided to an electrical utility, the       Secretary concerned may provide permission to cut and remove       trees or other vegetation from within the vicinity of       distribution lines or transmission lines without requiring a       separate timber sale, if that cutting and removal is       consistent with--

(1) any applicable land and resource management plan; and

(2) other applicable environmental laws (including       regulations).

(b) Use of Proceeds.--A special use permit or easement that       includes permission for cutting and removal described in       subsection (a) shall include a requirement that, if the       applicable electrical utility sells any portion of the       material removed under the permit or easement, the electrical       utility shall provide to the Secretary concerned any proceeds       received from the sale, less any transportation costs       incurred in the sale.

(c) Effect.--Nothing in subsection (b) shall require the       sale of any material removed under a permit or easement that       includes permission for cutting and removal described in       subsection (a).

(d) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Covered federal lands.--The term ``covered Federal       lands'' means--

(A) National Forest System lands; and

(B) lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management.

(2) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned''       means--

(A) with respect to National Forest System lands, the       Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the       Forest Service; and

(B) with respect to lands managed by the Bureau of Land       Management, the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the       Director of the Bureau of Land Management.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  2492, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2492, the Fire Safe  Electrical Corridors Act of 2025, led by Representatives Carbajal and  Valadao.

This legislation would allow the U.S. Forest Service to permit  utility companies to fully remove hazard trees and other vegetation  near power lines without requiring a separate timber sale. The  legislation also includes provisions ensuring a fair return to the  Federal Government when the timber is sold.

Currently, utility companies are allowed to fell hazard trees in  their rights-of-way but are not permitted to remove them without going  through the timber sale process. This unnecessary bureaucratic step  leaves timber piled up in the rights-of-way for long periods, creating  a significant wildfire risk, especially near communities in the  wildland-urban interface.

Hazard trees near power lines have proven to be a serious fire  threat. In fact, the largest single wildfire in California history, the  Dixie fire, ignited when a tree fell onto electrical lines. As we enter  into what is predicted to be another devastating fire year, it is more  imperative than ever that we take every step to manage our forests and  reduce wildfire risk.

In January, the world watched as communities in southern California  were virtually leveled by catastrophic wildfires. In the wake of that  tragedy, the House came together to pass the Fix Our Forests Act on an  overwhelmingly bipartisan basis. The legislation we are considering  today was included as part of the Fix Our Forests Act. Today is another  opportunity for Congress to meet the moment and pass commonsense forest  management policy.

I commend Representatives Carbajal and Valadao for their bipartisan  collaboration on this legislation and on the Fix Our Forests Act.                                            House of Representatives,                                        Committee on Agriculture,                                     Washington, DC, April 28, 2025.      Hon. Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: This letter confirms our mutual       understanding regarding H.R. 2492, the ``Fire Safe Electrical       Corridors Act of 2025.'' Thank you for collaborating with the       Committee on Agriculture on the matters within our       jurisdiction.

The Committee on Agriculture will forego any further       consideration of this bill. However, by foregoing       consideration at this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction       over any subject matter contained in this or similar       legislation. The Committee on Agriculture also reserves the       right to seek appointment of an appropriate number of       conferees should it become necessary and ask that you support       such a request.

We would appreciate a response to this letter confirming       this understanding with respect to H.R. 2492 and request a       copy of our letters on this matter be published in the       Congressional Record during Floor consideration.            Sincerely,                                             Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                  Committee on Natural Resources,                                     Washington, DC, April 28, 2025.      Hon. Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,      Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: I write regarding our mutual       understanding of H.R. 2492, the ``Fire Safe Electrical       Corridors Act of 2025.''

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Agriculture and       appreciate your willingness to forgo further consideration of       the bill. I acknowledge that the Committee on Agriculture       will not formally consider H.R. 2492 and agree that the       inaction of your Committee with respect to the bill does not       waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained       therein.

I am pleased to support your request to name members of the       Committee on Agriculture to any conference committee to       consider such provisions. I will ensure that our exchange of       letters is included in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration of the bill. I appreciate your cooperation       regarding this legislation.            Sincerely,                                                   Bruce Westerman,                                                          Chairman.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time. I am  prepared to close and reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, passing H.R. 2492 would be an essential step toward  reducing the urgent threat that wildfire poses to communities  nationwide. Once again, I thank Representatives Carbajal and Valadao  for their leadership on this vital issue.

Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.