Flatside Wilderness Additions Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691096/flatside-wilderness-additions-act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1612) to designate the  Flatside-Bethune Wilderness in the Ouachita National Forest, and for  other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1612

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Flatside Wilderness       Additions Act''.       SEC. 2. ADDITIONS TO FLATSIDE WILDERNESS.

Section 3(d) of Arkansas Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law       98-508; 98 Stat. 2349) is amended by inserting ``and certain       land in the Ouachita National Forest, which comprise       approximately 2,212 acres, generally depicted as'' Land       Proposed for Wilderness Designation ``on the map titled''       Flatside Wilderness, Proposed Addition Designation ``, dated       November 12, 2024'' after ``1984''.       SEC. 3. FIRE, INSECTS, AND DISEASES.

Nothing in this Act or the amendment made by section 2       shall be construed to limit the authority of the Secretary of       Agriculture under section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16       U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), in accordance with existing laws       (including regulations).       SEC. 4. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS ADDITION.

The wilderness designated by section 3(d) of Arkansas       Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-508; 98 Stat. 2349),       shall be known as the ``Flatside-Bethune Wilderness''. Any       reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or       other record of the United States to such portion of the       Flatside Wilderness shall be deemed to be a reference to the       Flatside-Bethune Wilderness.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  1612, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of Representative Hill's  legislation, H.R. 1612, which would add four parcels totaling 2,215  acres of Ouachita National Forest lands to the Flatside Wilderness Area  in his district.

The Ouachita National Forest is the oldest and largest national  forest in the Southern United States, spanning nearly 1.8 million acres  across Arkansas and Oklahoma.

Managed by the U.S. Forest Service, it is a true multiple-use forest,  supporting timber harvesting, wildlife conservation, and a wide range  of outdoor recreation opportunities, such as hiking, hunting, camping,  and fishing.

Arkansans take great pride in this forest, which draws more than  670,000 visitors each year. Currently, only 3.6 percent of the Ouachita  National Forest, including the existing Flatside Wilderness Area, is  designated as wilderness.

The Flatside Wilderness was expanded by 640 acres during the 115th  Congress. The Forest Service also studied the potential designation of  the parcels included in today's legislation.

This bill has strong local support and has been endorsed by Arkansas  Governor Sarah Sanders; the Arkansas Department of Parks, Heritage and  Tourism; and the Arkansas Game and Fish Commission.

Mr. Speaker, I want to recognize Representative Hill for his efforts  on this legislation, and I urge my colleagues to support this bill. I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time. I  would like to, once again, thank my colleague from Arkansas, especially  Representative Hill, for his tireless efforts on this piece of  legislation and for the diligence in the process that he labored  through to get to this point today. I appreciate him bringing forth  this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the adoption of the bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.