Gulf of America Act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 377, I call  up the bill (H.R. 276) to rename the Gulf of Mexico as the ``Gulf of  America'', and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  276.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 276, sponsored by  Congresswoman Greene of Georgia.

Throughout the history of the United States, the executive branch has  renamed our public lands and waters. This legislation codifies a  portion of President Trump's Executive Order No. 14172, which directed  the Board on Geographic Names to rename the Gulf of Mexico as the Gulf  of America. President Trump signed this executive order on his first  day in office.

Enacting this legislation will help make President Trump's historic  action permanent and ensure consistency in references to laws, maps,  regulations, and records of the United States.

The Gulf of America is critical to the United States because of its  energy resources and ecological significance. This renaming symbolizes  Republicans' commitment to putting America first, and honors the Gulf  of America's important role in unleashing American energy and our  Nation's return to greatness.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  Greene), the lead sponsor of this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, just earlier this week, this very committee spent 14  hours in a markup on our reconciliation plans that are part of the big,  beautiful bill; 14 hours to make America energy dominant, 14 hours to  unleash American resources and American jobs. Those 14 hours were  mainly spent hearing 121 Democratic amendments to undermine that bill.  They wanted to undermine America's energy. They wanted to undermine  America's ability to mine our own products. They wanted to undermine  America's ability to manage our forests and our resources and take care  of this country.

Now, there are a lot of bills that come to this floor to rename  things. They might not be the most important bills, but usually they go  on a suspension vote because both sides agree we can do renaming, but  this one got elevated to a much higher level, so here we are under a  rule bill debating whether or not we call the current Gulf of Mexico  the Gulf of America or if we leave it as it is.

Our friends across the aisle have one objective: to undermine  everything we want to do to make America first, and this is no  exception.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, our friends across the aisle want to talk  about being serious, but when we marked up this legislation in  committee, here are some of the serious amendments that they put out.

Number one, they wanted to rename it not the Gulf of America, but the  gulf of Helene, after a hurricane. That wasn't good enough, so they  decided to file an amendment to name it the Gulf of America if we  rejoin the Paris climate accord. That is real serious. As my friend  already mentioned, they wanted to take this bill, it was obviously not  germane, they wanted to rename the planet, planet Trump. That is how  serious they are in their debate.

I left out one of the other amendments my colleagues across the aisle  filed. They wanted to rename the Gulf the gulf of ignorance. Now, I  don't know where they came up with that one. I know they oppose  offshore oil and gas production. I know they oppose American energy  independence. I know they have a special affinity for fish that aren't  in the Gulf and attack recreational fishermen in their endeavor to go  out and spend time with their family and catch fish. I don't know what  part of the Gulf that they think is so ignorant that they wanted to  rename the Gulf the gulf of ignorance, but you can look it up. They  filed that amendment. We obviously voted it down.

They had no problem renaming the Cannon Caucus Room the Nancy Pelosi  Caucus Room. It is not like this is the first thing that has ever been  renamed in this Congress, but we will go ahead and have our debate, and  they can vent their frustration on the Republicans and really on our  country as they continue.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  Greene).

Mr. Speaker, a lot of accusations have been made about serious  legislation, about working, about the things that have happened since  this new administration has come into office. I would like to recap  some of the things that have happened since this new administration has  come into office.

Number one, they spent a lot of time reversing a lot of bad executive  orders that the previous administration put in place. There were  executive orders that did put America last. We have an administration  now that is working every day to put America first.

We saw Congress take many actions on Congressional Review Acts to  undo bad rules that the previous administration put in place.

Don't believe the accusation that Republicans aren't working. We have  11 committees that have reconciliation instructions, and 8 of those  committees have marked up those instructions already. There are  instructions on a big, beautiful bill to put America first and to  create national security. We will use our resources at home to allow  people in America to have a job and a career where they can raise  families and grow communities. We are working on policies to avoid a $4  trillion to $5 trillion tax increase on every American.

Mr. Speaker, I believe my friends across the aisle are concerned  about a piece of legislation that is going to make a huge difference.

It is a piece of legislation that is going to reverse the destructive  policies that their party has put in place over many years. It is a  piece of legislation that is going to focus on getting our fiscal house  in order and letting Americans keep more of their hard-earned income.

We will develop our resources here at home and become less dependent  on China, less dependent on Middle Eastern oil, and all those things  that over the years have been eroded away from our American economy and  from Americans.

Mr. Speaker, if they want to complain about renaming the Gulf the  Gulf of America, they can complain about  that all day. It gives them something to do other than to talk to  Americans about the real policies that Republicans are looking at  putting in place. It gives them something to do other than make up  scare tactics, which is their normal playbook, and to take anything  that happens and say, oh, they are going to cut Social Security or they  are going to cut Medicare.

We can't even touch Social Security in budget reconciliation.  Democrats know that can't happen in budget reconciliation. Yet, they  still put those scare tactics out. They talk about what bills are going  to do before bill text has been released.

It is because Democrats are on the defensive to protect the Big  Government that they have created over time, while Republicans want to  put government closer to the people, take power out of Washington,  D.C., and truly put America first.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  Greene).

Mr. Speaker, as we wrap up this so-called debate today, I want to  remind everyone of something that they are not seeing on the news every  day like they were several months ago, and that is hordes coming across  our southern border.

I want to remind people of how much the illegal drugs and human  trafficking have stopped on our southern border.

I remind people of that because it was just a few weeks ago that  President Trump stood in this Chamber. He addressed the joint session  of Congress, and he said something that I think was the most important  thing he said that night. He said that we have come to find out we  didn't really need different laws. We just needed different leadership.

This debate, as my friends will maybe want to call it a debate, has  been really nothing but an attack on President Trump. They are using  this piece of legislation to go at President Trump.

I want to remind everybody of something President Trump has said many  times. He said: ``They are coming after me because I am standing up for  you.''

That is exactly what is happening today. They are coming after this  piece of legislation and equating it to President Trump because he is  standing up for the American people.

This legislation before us simply follows through on a day one  executive order to rename the Gulf of Mexico as the Gulf of America.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  thank Congresswoman Greene for advancing it. I yield back the balance  of my time.