Harnessing Energy At Thermal Sources Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702169/harnessing-energy-at-thermal-sources-act-of-2026


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1189, I call  up the bill (H.R. 5587) to amend the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 to  waive the requirement for a Federal drilling permit for certain  activities, to exempt certain activities from the requirements of the  National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, and for other purposes, and  ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  5587.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5587, the Harnessing  Energy At Thermal Sources Act, or the HEATS Act.

This is an important bill to help add to the energy needs that our  country has. We can do that very responsibly. We can do it in a smarter  and more proactive way.

I thank Representative Young Kim for being a leader on this issue and  working with our committee to bring this bipartisan legislation to the  floor.

H.R. 5587, the HEATS Act, is a commonsense bill that would expedite  the development of geothermal energy on non-Federal surface lands where  the Federal subsurface estate is less than 50 percent.

Currently, geothermal operators on non-Federal land are required to  undergo a full Federal permitting process under the National  Environmental Policy Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the National  Historic Preservation Act if they intersect any quantity of Federal  subsurface resources, even if the Federal mineral interest is  minuscule.

This process creates unnecessary delays for geothermal energy project  developers, who must already comply with rigorous State-level  permitting requirements.

H.R. 5587 would address this issue by alleviating the need for the  Bureau of Land Management to issue permits for geothermal wells on  State and private lands where the Federal Government holds an ownership  interest of less than 50 percent of the subsurface geothermal estate.

Crucially, this bill upholds strong environmental standards by  stipulating that Federal requirements may only be waived if operators  receive drilling permits and comply with historic preservation laws on  the State level.

Notably, the bill would not impact the royalties paid to the Federal  Government. Therefore, it will not reduce the Federal revenues  generated by geothermal production. In fact, this legislation would  actually increase Federal revenues by reducing the administrative  responsibilities of Federal agencies and expediting the permitting  process so that we can build more geothermal energy projects and do  more development in that area.

I want to emphasize the importance of this legislation. Again, energy  demand is skyrocketing, and geothermal energy stands ready to meet the  moment and bring gigawatts of new baseload power online.

Out West, the Great Basin region encompasses swaths of California,  Oregon, Utah, and most of Nevada. According to a recent study from the  U.S. Geological Survey, this region alone hosts approximately 135  gigawatts of geothermal potential.

To unleash geothermal energy's full potential, we must cut  unnecessary red tape holding back key projects on these lands. By  reducing duplicative Federal requirements on State and private lands,  this bill will give developers the regulatory certainty needed to spur  greater investment in geothermal exploration and production.

Mr. Speaker, again, this is an opportunity to do something proactive,  something that is common sense, and something that I think we can all  be proud of in the future.

Mr. Speaker, there are a lot of similarities on both sides of the  aisle, but there is a big difference. The similarities are that I think  both sides of the aisle support geothermal energy. It is similar that  we talk about inflation and high costs and how that affects Americans.

The difference is, on this side of the aisle we actually pass  policies that will help those things. On the other side of the aisle,  they vote against those policies.

We talk about the high cost of living. Republicans voted to give  Americans a huge tax cut last year. All the Democrats voted against it.

We talk about high healthcare costs. Republicans voted to send $50  billion to help with rural healthcare. All Democrats voted against it.

Today, we are talking about geothermal energy and the opportunities  that are there. We have an opportunity to help make that happen more.  Republicans are supporting it. I believe some Democrats will actually  support this legislation, but there is a difference between saying you  want something to happen and actually voting to make it happen.

I yield such time as she may consume to the gentlewoman from  California (Mrs. Kim), and I thank her for her work on geothermal  energy.

Mr. Speaker, I have to ask the question: What is well balanced and  what is fair about requiring a duplicative process? It is almost, from  the minority's testimony, like there is no permitting that will happen.  We are talking about a well that is drilled on State or private  property close to Federal property. The surface disturbance is all on  the State or private property. They have to go through the State  permitting process, which is very rigorous. It is looking at the same  things the Federal permitting process looks at.

The argument not to pass this bill is that we want to put on a belt  and suspenders. We want to make the developers go through the total  duplicative process because the underground well that is thousands of  feet below ground would be receiving thermal energy that is under the  Federal estate and all of the historical preservation, all the NEPA,  all the ESA, that has been looked at under the State permitting  process.

Again, the surface disturbance would not be on Federal land. You are  only talking about the migration of thermal energy thousands of feet  below ground, and we are saying it is reasonable and fair and a good  process to make a developer go through double permitting and opening up  Pandora's box for people who, for whatever reason, don't like  geothermal energy will have all these Federal statutes and the broken  permitting process to stop geothermal energy projects.

If we are serious about producing more energy for this country, if we  are serious about being energy independent, if we are serious about  developing energy sources like geothermal energy, then this is a  pragmatic, proactive way to make that happen. It removes duplicity, and  it makes the process make sense.

Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, again, I urge my colleagues to support H.R.  5587. These reforms will both streamline the permitting process for  geothermal energy projects and reduce agency workloads, which will  allow BLM to focus on projects that actually have a majority Federal  nexus.

States, as I have already mentioned, have robust requirements in  regulations for developing energy resources within their borders, so  eliminating duplicative Federal-level bureaucracy will help stop the  things that are impeding geothermal energy development. This quite  simply is just common sense.

Accelerating geothermal energy production and deployment is a win for  our economy, a win for national security, and a win for American energy  dominance.

On this floor today and not too much longer, we are going to have an  opportunity to vote for American energy, for American workers, for  common sense, and for doing the right things. I have heard many times:  I support this, but . . . There is always a but--but what about this or  what about that. Today is an opportunity to actually vote for something  good.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this good bill, and I  yield back the balance of my time.