Jocelyn Nungaray National Wildlife Refuge Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693446/jocelyn-nungaray-national-wildlife-refuge-act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (S. 1596) to rename the Anahuac National Wildlife Refuge located  in the State of Texas as the ``Jocelyn Nungaray National Wildlife  Refuge''.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  S. 1596

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Jocelyn Nungaray National       Wildlife Refuge Act''.       SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

Congress finds the following:

(1) On June 17, 2024, 12-year-old Jocelyn Nungaray was       brutally murdered in Houston, Texas.

(2) Two illegal aliens who were allegedly members of the       Tren de Aragua gang have been charged with her murder.

(3) On March 4, 2025, President Donald J. Trump signed       Executive Order 14229 (90 Fed. Reg. 11585; relating to       honoring Jocelyn Nungaray) renaming the area known as the       Anahuac National Wildlife Refuge to ``Jocelyn Nungaray       National Wildlife Refuge''.

(4) Ms. Nungaray loved animals and, given the close       proximity of her hometown of Houston, it is fitting that the       Anahuac National Wildlife Refuge be renamed in her honor.       SEC. 3. RENAMING OF ANAHUAC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE.

(a) Renaming.--The Anahuac National Wildlife Refuge located       in the State of Texas shall be known as the ``Jocelyn       Nungaray National Wildlife Refuge''.

(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to the       national wildlife refuge referred to in subsection (a) shall       be deemed to be a reference to the ``Jocelyn Nungaray       National Wildlife Refuge''.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  1596, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, Jocelyn Nungaray was a vibrant 12-year-old girl from  Houston, Texas, whose life was tragically cut short on June 16, 2024,  when she was murdered by two Venezuelan nationals who illegally entered  the United States and are allegedly members of the Tren de Aragua gang.  This senseless act has done irreparable damage to Jocelyn's family,  friends, and community.

In May, Jocelyn's mother, Alexis, testified on this legislation, but  more importantly, she highlighted Jocelyn's caring personality, deep  love for animals, and passion for finding animals homes, sharing  stories of Jocelyn's life, such as Jocelyn's efforts to nurse injured  animals back to health. Alexis recounted one instance when Jocelyn  brought a pigeon that had injured its legs into her home. Jocelyn,  without hesitation, tried to nurse the pigeon back to health in her  bedroom until it was well enough to be released back into the wild.

In March 2025, President Trump signed an executive order directing  the Secretary of the Interior to rename the Anahuac National Wildlife  Refuge after Jocelyn Nungaray, permanently commemorating Jocelyn for  her compassion for animals and people who care about nature.

To ensure the name change is permanent, Congressman Babin and Senator  Cornyn introduced identical legislation that would codify the  President's executive order.

The National Wildlife Refuge System plays an important role in  coastal conservation, public recreation, and environmental education,  all of which honor Jocelyn by allowing current and future generations  of Americans to enjoy the natural landscape and animals that Jocelyn  also enjoyed.

I, again, thank my colleague, Congressman Babin, for introducing the  House companion of the legislation and for his commitment to honoring  Jocelyn's memory.

Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas (Mr.  Babin), my friend who is the chair of the House Science, Space, and  Technology Committee, for his unwavering work and dedication to bring  this good piece of legislation to the floor.

Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for speakers. I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, refuges are places dedicated to  conservation, public enjoyment, and environmental education.

Jocelyn was a kind, compassionate young girl who loved animals and  cared deeply for the natural world. Renaming this refuge is a fitting  honor to Jocelyn's life that ensures that her memory lives on.

Again, I thank Congressman Babin and the Texas delegation for their  work on this issue.

Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and I yield back the balance of my  time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.