Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe and Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head (Aquinnah) Leasing Authority


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700321/mashpee-wampanoag-tribe-and-wampanoag-tribe-of-gay-head-aquinnah-leasing-authority


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 681) to amend the Act of August 9, 1955 (commonly known as  the ``Long-Term Leasing Act''), to authorize leases of up to 99 years  for land held  in trust for the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe and the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay  Head (Aquinnah), and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 681

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. MASHPEE WAMPANOAG TRIBE AND WAMPANOAG TRIBE OF GAY                     HEAD (AQUINNAH) LEASING AUTHORITY.

Subsection (a) of the first section of the Act of August 9,       1955 (69 Stat. 539, chapter 615; 25 U.S.C. 415(a)) (commonly       known as the ``Long-Term Leasing Act''), is amended, in the       second sentence, by inserting ``, the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe       Reservation, land held in trust for the Wampanoag Tribe of       Gay Head (Aquinnah)'' after ``Confederated Tribes of the       Chehalis Reservation''.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  681, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 681, introduced by Representative Keating, would  authorize the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe and Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head,  both of Massachusetts, to lease lands held in trust for up to 99 years,  subject to approval by the Secretary of the Interior.

Congress has long recognized that Tribes need the ability to lease  their lands to support housing, commercial activity, and community  development. While the Indian Long-Term Leasing Act allows leasing of  trust lands, longer lease terms have often required Tribe-specific  legislation. Over time, Congress has granted 99-year leasing authority  to a number of Tribes to accommodate long-term planning and investment.

H.R. 681 simply extends that same authority to these two Tribes in  Massachusetts. The bill ensures these Tribes are treated consistently  with others that have already received 99-year leasing authority.

By providing parity and leasing authority, H.R. 681 supports local  economic planning and development and promotes fairness and opportunity  for these Tribal communities while maintaining Federal oversight  through secretarial approval.

Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 681, again, provides equal leasing  authority to the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe and the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay  Head, aligning them with the other Tribes that have already received  99-year leasing authority from Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 681, and I yield back the balance of my  time.