Protecting Access for Hunters and Anglers Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700846/protecting-access-for-hunters-and-anglers-act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1115, I call  up the bill (H.R. 556) to prohibit the Secretary of the Interior and  the Secretary of Agriculture from prohibiting the use of lead  ammunition or tackle on certain Federal land or water under the  jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of  Agriculture, and for other purposes, and ask for its immediate  consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  556.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 556, sponsored by my  colleague, the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Wittman).

This commonsense bill protects hunters' and anglers' ability to  continue using cost-effective lead ammunition and fishing equipment on  our Federal lands. At the same time, this legislation gives land  management agencies the flexibility to make targeted decisions on lead  usage based on sound science and in coordination with State fish and  wildlife agencies.

In the United States, sportsmen and -women participation is crucial  to the success of wildlife conservation. The North American Model of  Wildlife Conservation operates on seven interdependent principles.  Embedded in these principles are sound science, active management, and  access to hunting and fishing.

The success of this model is best characterized by the millions of  dollars that hunters and anglers pay for wildlife conservation each  year, mainly through excise taxes on firearms, ammunition, and fishing  tackle.

In fiscal year 2026, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service apportioned  over $800 million in receipts from excise taxes on firearms  manufacturers alone. Of that, nearly $700 million was for wildlife  restoration. Similarly, $442 million was generated from excise taxes on  fishing equipment for fish conservation.

It was with this in mind that the Trump administration changed the  paradigm for hunting and fishing on Federal lands earlier this year.

Historically, Federal lands were considered closed to hunting and  fishing unless specific regulations were issued to allow these  activities in certain places. With the signing of Secretarial Order No.  3447 by Secretary Burgum, Federal lands are now considered to be open  for hunting and fishing unless existing authorities and unit purposes  require an area to be closed.

This change charts a path forward toward opening thousands of acres  of  Federal land through responsible hunting and fishing. This new approach  will result in greater economic activity for local communities  surrounding our Federal lands and more funding for wildlife and habitat  conservation.

H.R. 556 will further these goals by ensuring that Federal land  management agencies follow specific science and coordinate with State  agencies when regulating the use of lead ammunition and fishing tackle.

Providing these safeguards is critical, as alternatives to lead  ammunition and fishing tackle are often cost prohibitive, with some  costing as much as 10 times more than similar lead products. Instead of  regulating hunters and anglers out of our Federal lands, the Trump  administration is working with State managers, conservation  organizations, and sportsmen and -women.

When lead is shown to cause harm to wildlife, it will be addressed  accordingly, but wide-reaching bans or even refuge-by-refuge bans,  where no specific science link can be made, are the wrong approach and  ultimately undermine wildlife conservation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.                                           House of Representatives,                                        Committee on Agriculture,                                    Washington, DC, October 6, 2025.      Hon. Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: This letter confirms our mutual       understanding regarding H.R. 556, the ``Protecting Access for       Hunters and Anglers Act of 2025.'' Thank you for       collaborating with the Committee on Agriculture on the       matters within our jurisdiction.

The Committee on Agriculture will forego any further       consideration of this bill. However, by foregoing       consideration at this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction       over any subject matter contained in this or similar       legislation. The Committee on Agriculture also reserves the       right to seek appointment of an appropriate number of       conferees, should it become necessary, and ask that you       support such a request.

We would appreciate a response to this letter confirming       this understanding with respect to H.R. 556 and request a       copy of our letters on this matter be published in the       Congressional Record during Floor consideration.            Sincerely,                                             Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                  Committee on Natural Resources,                                    Washington, DC, October 7, 2025.      Hon. Glenn Thompson,      Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Thompson: I write regarding H.R. 556, the       ``Protecting Access for Hunters and Anglers Act of 2025,''       which was ordered reported by the Committee on Natural       Resources on July 15, 2025.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Agriculture and       appreciate your willingness to forgo further consideration of       the bill. I acknowledge that the Committee on Agriculture       will not formally consider H.R. 556 and agree that the       inaction of your Committee with respect to the bill does not       waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained       therein.

I am pleased to support your request to name members of the       Committee on Agriculture to any conference committee to       consider such provisions. I will ensure that our exchange of       letters is included in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration of the bill and will include such letters in       the committee report on H.R. 556. I appreciate your       cooperation regarding this legislation.            Sincerely,                                                   Bruce Westerman,                                                          Chairman.

Before he takes his 3 minutes, I will mention that Mr. Wittman is not  only an active member of our committee, serving as vice chairman, and  the lead sponsor of this bill, but Mr. Wittman also holds degrees in  biology and public health and policy. I could actually call him Dr.  Wittman, with a Ph.D. He is also an avid outdoorsman. If there ever was  an expert in this area, I would consider Representative Wittman an  expert.

I will point out that H.R. 556 checks the boxes. It allows State  agencies to make the rules on what kind of ammunition is being used. It  also allows for the best available science.

It has been argued almost like the science totally supports the ban  of lead, but I want to read from a quote from the Association of Fish &  Wildlife Agencies, who is actually the lead advocate for all State fish  and wildlife agencies here in Washington:

On the Biden administration's proposal to ban lead, I am quoting what  they testified:

Without definitive science conclusively and fully       documenting population-level impacts, we do not believe there       is sufficient evidence to support these mandates.

What the people closest to this issue said was that there is no  conclusive science that we should ban lead, yet that is what the  previous administration wanted to do and not only on fish and wildlife  refuges. They wanted to ban it not only for hunting but also for  fishing.

Fishing and hunting are sports that people in my district do that  maybe can't afford to do a lot of other activities. When you increase  the cost of ammunition or the cost of fishing tackle by a factor of 10,  you are going to price people out of that sport.

Going back to my opening comments, hunters and fishermen are the ones  who fund conservation in America through excise taxes, and a lot of  that comes from ammunition and fishing tackle.

What this would do is force more people out of those sports. It would  reduce funding for conservation, and it would create a downward spiral.

We need to use common sense. We need to use thorough, science-based  research, and we need to be able to make these decisions as they arise.

We are not preventing lead from being banned. We are not saying that  you can go back and use lead to hunt waterfowl and migratory species.  We are just saying to these fish and wildlife agencies, for certain  game, you can still use lead shot. We are not going to allow that to be  banned just because somebody has a political agenda to ban it.

This is a commonsense bill. It is good for hunting and fishing. It is  good for hunters and fishermen, and it is ultimately good for our  country and conservation. I strongly support it, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. WESTERMAN.

Hunters and anglers are the backbone of American wildlife  conservation efforts, and they are heavily invested in the long-term  health of wildlife. It is important that Congress come to their defense  against ideologically driven, unscientific decisions that limit access  to our Federal public lands.

Mr. Speaker, I have a letter here supporting H.R. 556. I want to read  some of the names who signed onto this letter before I ask to include  it in the Record.

These are organizations like the American Catfishing Association,  American Sportfishing Association, Bass Anglers Sportsman Society,  Boone and Crockett Club, California Waterfowl Association, Catch-A- Dream Foundation, Coastal Conservation Association, Congressional  Sportsmen's Foundation, Council to Advance Hunting and the Shooting  Sports, Dallas Safari Club, Delta Waterfowl, Ducks Unlimited,  International Game Fish Association, Major League Fishing, Mule Deer  Foundation, National Deer Association, National Professional Anglers  Association, National Rifle Association, National Shooting Sports  Foundation, Pheasants Forever, Public Lands Foundation, Quail Forever,  Safari Club International, Sportsmen's Alliance, The Bass Federation,  The Walleye Federation, Whitetails Unlimited, and Wildlife Forever.

These organizations represent millions of Americans who participate  in outdoor recreation through hunting and fishing. I don't think they  would be signing a letter encouraging the passage of H.R. 556 if they  thought there was something that would endanger our fish and wildlife  populations in this bill.

Again, to be clear, this bill doesn't prevent the Federal Government  from making decisions regarding the use of lead ammunition and fishing  tackle, but it does say that any ban must be backed up by site-specific  science demonstrating that lead use is harming wildlife in that refuge.

It also requires that States be properly consulted when the Federal  Government proposes to ban the use of lead. I believe that a true  partnership between States and the Federal Government in wildlife  conservation is the best path forward, and this bill is a step in the  right direction.

Mr. Speaker, I include this letter I just mentioned in the Record.                                                    March 16, 2026.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson: The undersigned organizations,       representing millions of hunters, anglers, wildlife       professionals, and outdoor enthusiasts, write to express       support for the Protecting Access for Hunters and Anglers Act       (H.R. 556). Introduced by Congressman Rob Wittman, this       legislation would prohibit the Secretaries of Agriculture and       the Interior from restricting the use of lead ammunition or       tackle on certain federal lands and waters absent field data       demonstrating a science-based link to wildlife population       declines. Overly broad or arbitrary bans on traditional       ammunition and tackle can create unnecessary economic impacts       and hinder fish and wildlife conservation efforts. We       respectfully urge prompt House consideration of this       legislation.

Fish and wildlife are generally managed at the population       level, and--with limited exceptions--management authority       primarily resides with state fish and wildlife agencies. In       the rare cases where credible field data demonstrate impacts       to wildlife populations, state agencies already have the       authority to regulate ammunition or tackle use to achieve       conservation objectives while minimizing impacts on hunters       and anglers.

Wildlife management decisions should be guided by science       and the expertise of professional wildlife managers--not       political motivations, litigation, or ballot initiatives.       Restrictions on traditional ammunition and tackle on federal       lands should occur only with the support of the relevant       state fish and wildlife agency. H.R. 556 appropriately       reinforces this principle and affirms the central role of       states in wildlife management.

Broad bans can also discourage participation in hunting and       fishing, particularly when comparable alternatives are not       widely available at similar cost or performance. Reduced       participation has economic consequences and directly affects       conservation funding. Through excise taxes on firearms,       ammunition, and fishing tackle under the Pittman-Robertson       and Dingell-Johnson Acts, hunters and anglers provide the       primary source of funding for state wildlife conservation,       habitat restoration, research, and public access.

At the same time, we support efforts by federal agencies to       responsibly expand opportunities for hunting and fishing on       public lands. We commend the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service       for proposing to expand hunting and sport fishing       opportunities across units of the National Wildlife Refuge       System and National Fish Hatchery System. Increasing access       supports the Refuge System's mission to facilitate compatible       wildlife-dependent recreation while strengthening       participation in the North American Model of Wildlife       Conservation.

For these reasons, we strongly support the Protecting       Access for Hunters and Anglers Act (H.R. 556) and encourage       the House to advance this legislation. We also appreciate       ongoing agency efforts to maintain and expand opportunities       for America's hunters and anglers on public lands.

Thank you for your leadership and continued service on       behalf of America's outdoor heritage.            Sincerely,

American Catfishing Association, American Sportfishing       Association, Bass Anglers Sportsman Society, Boone and       Crockett Club, California Waterfowl Association, Catch A       Dream Foundation, Coastal Conservation Association,       Congressional Sportsmen's Foundation, Council to Advance       Hunting and the Shooting Sports, Dallas Safari Club, Delta       Waterfowl, Ducks Unlimited, International Game Association,       Major League Fishing.

Mule Deer Foundation, National Deer Association, National       Professional Anglers Association, National Rifle Association,       National Shooting Sports Foundation, Pheasants Forever,       Public Lands Foundation, Quail Forever, Safari Club       International, Sportsmen's Alliance, The Bass Federation, The       Walleye Federation, Whitetails Unlimited, Wildflife Forever.

Mr. WESTERMAN. In closing, Mr. Speaker, I, again, thank Congressman  Wittman for his leadership in working on this legislation. I urge my  colleagues to join me in supporting the bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.