Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the National Park Service Relating to ``Glen Canyon National Recreation Area: Motor Vehicles''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690405/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-national-park-service-relating-to-glen-canyon-national-recreation-area-motor-vehicles


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 354, I call  up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 60) providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the National Park Service relating to ``Glen Canyon  National Recreation Area: Motor Vehicles'', and ask for its immediate  consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  Res. 60.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.J. Res. 60, led by Representative  Maloy. This is an important effort that will overturn an onerous and  unnecessary regulation designed to restrict off-highway vehicle access  and recreational use of the Glen Canyon National Recreation Area.

House Republicans are committed to pursuing a comprehensive approach  to restoring multiple use and public access to our Federal lands, one  that favors commonsense land management and prioritizes community buy- in over preservationist policies that are cooked up here in Washington,  D.C.

As chairman of the Committee on Natural Resources, I have often said  that some of our most meaningful work increasing access to our public  lands will maybe never be a headline on FOX News or CNN, but it will  make the front page of your local paper.

Established by Congress in 1972 to enhance public recreation, the  Glen Canyon National Recreation Area is a premier tourist destination  that offers world-class water-based, backcountry, and off-highway  recreation opportunities. Off-highway vehicle recreation predates the  recreation area's establishment and has allowed visitors for  generations to explore some of the most remote and beautiful stretches  of this remarkable landscape.

Consistent with this history, the National Park Service issued a rule  in 2021 that expanded the permissible uses of off-road vehicles  throughout Glen Canyon, but groups quickly sued, leading the Biden  administration to enter into a hasty and secretive settlement against  the wishes of local communities.

Under that agreement, the Park Service issued a revised rule in the  waning days of the Biden administration that restricts motorized uses  in Glen Canyon, overturning decades of precedent and severely  restricting public access and recreation opportunities.

Under this new rule, dozens of miles of popular trails and shorelines  are closed off to highway vehicles in what the State of Utah called de  facto wilderness management. Even small road closures can have profound  consequences for public access.

For example, the National Park Service effectively cut off access to  the adjacent 1.45 million-acre Henry Mountains travel management area  by closing just one-half mile of road in the new rule.

Some of the most popular trails in this area, including the Flint  Trail and Poison Springs Loop that are pictured behind me, were also  shut down under this rule. What is especially nonsensical about this is  that these trails aren't even maintained by the National Park Service.  The local county maintains them.

These restrictions are unnecessary and, frankly, lack common sense.  Many of these routes are restricted to off-highway vehicles and remain  open to conventional vehicles. This creates public safety concerns by  incentivizing the use of vehicles that are not meant to handle rough  terrain and rugged trails.

Restricting off-highway vehicles also disproportionately affects  disabled individuals, who often rely on ATVs or side-by-sides to gain  access to remote areas of our public lands. The State of Utah compared  the decision to limit off-highway vehicles while still allowing for  conventional vehicles as akin to designating parts of Lake Powell  exclusively for yachts while restricting more accessible fishing boats  and kayaks to less desirable sections of the lake.

In totality, this rule ensures that only the most able-bodied and  wealthy will be able to have access to areas of Glen Canyon that used  to be open and accessible to everyone. Utah boasts $9.5 billion of  outdoor recreation economy driven largely by motorized recreation. By  shutting down some of the State's most popular motorized recreation  trails, the National Park Service is shutting down a main engine of  economic growth in some of the poorest, most rural counties.

Earlier this year, Congress passed the first-ever bipartisan,  comprehensive recreation package aimed at growing, not restricting, our  Nation's $1.1 trillion outdoor recreation economy. The EXPLORE Act  passed unanimously in both the House and Senate, a rare feat that  demonstrates the overwhelming support for opening more of our public  lands to outdoor recreation, not locking up our lands and throwing away  the key.

In keeping with that, I strongly urge my colleagues to vote ``yes''  on this important joint resolution, which will restore off-highway  vehicle access to treasured public lands. I again thank Congresswoman  Maloy for her excellent work and leadership on this effort.

Mr. Speaker, I will point out that the idea that passing this  Congressional Review Act would restrict all off-road vehicle access is  just not right. That is not going to happen. There was a rule in place  before the Biden administration put the new rule in place. We vetted  this with the Congressional Research Service. We would simply go back  to the rule that was in place that was working fine before the Biden  administration came in and put this onerous rule in place.

Also, the argument has been made that only 24 out of 388 miles have  been restricted to off-road vehicle use, but as we all know, roads are  networks. For instance, there is a half-mile section in this ruling  under the Biden administration that blocks off access to over a million  acres. You block off a half-mile of road, and you restrict the use to a  million acres. I don't think that is what most people would call public  access or would agree that it is the way that we should be managing our  Federal lands, especially in an area that when it was established, part  of its goal was to be able to provide off-road vehicles a place to  recreate.

Maloy), the lead sponsor of this legislation.

I appreciate the gentlewoman for her efforts on this legislation and  for being a voice for her constituents. She talked about the county  governments there that didn't have a voice when this rule was made.  This is hurting their economy. It doesn't make sense, and it is kind of  a bad example of having that distant landlord with an alternative  agenda that lives many miles away managing the land where you live. I  thank her for her efforts on behalf of her constituents and on all  Americans who enjoy outdoor recreation.

Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close and continue to reserve the  balance of my time.

I just want to say that it is unfortunate that we are having to use a  Congressional Review Act, but it is unfortunate that a former  administration tried to legislate from the administrative branch.

That is the purpose of the Congressional Review Act. When bureaucrats  overstep their bounds, we have this tool to rein them back in. It would  not allow them to make this rule again. A clear reading of the  Congressional Review Act, it is easy to see that the rule would go back  to the rule that was in place before the Biden administration put the  rule in place that we are doing the Congressional Review Act on. It is  also common sense that that would happen, and it is clearly the intent  of Congress, should this get signed into law, that it would go back to  the original rule.

I again applaud Representative Maloy for her exceptional leadership  in this effort and for looking out for her constituents. This is a  necessary resolution that will allow for more recreation opportunities,  greater public access, and growth within Utah's outdoor recreation  economy. Whether it is hunting, fishing, hiking, or recreating on off- highway vehicles, our public lands were meant to be enjoyed by all  Americans, and this CRA allows just that.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the adoption of the joint resolution, and I yield  back the balance of my time.