Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Miles City Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694888/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-miles-city-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-amendment


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 672, I call  up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 104) providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Bureau of Land Management relating to ``Miles City  Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan  Amendment'', and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  Res. 104.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.J. Res. 104, sponsored by  Representative Downing of Montana.

This Congressional Review Act resolution would permanently repeal the  Bureau of Land Management's misguided resource management plan  amendment for the Miles City Field Office in Montana, finalized under  the Biden administration.

This resource management plan, or RMP, amendment locked up 11.7  million acres of land and mineral estate. To put that in perspective,  that is an area roughly the size of the States of Rhode Island,  Delaware, Connecticut, and New Jersey combined.

RMPs are meant to be collaborative approaches to land management that  balance multiple uses, including energy and mineral production, outdoor  recreation, grazing, and timber harvesting. When done correctly, RMPs  help guide public land management in a way that provides fuel, food,  and fiber for the Nation and conserves our natural resources.

RMPs manage the resources that are the backbone of western rural  economies and support thousands of good-paying jobs. That is what makes  the Miles City Resource Management Plan amendment so egregious.

This RMP amendment virtually ended future coal leasing across  Montana's entire Powder River Basin, dealing a severe blow to America's  energy security and threatening Montana jobs and economic growth.

The national security and economic importance of this region cannot  be overstated. Montana holds nearly 30 percent of our Nation's coal  reserves. In total, coal from the Powder River Basin produced in  Montana and Wyoming makes up about 85 percent of Federal coal  production and 40 percent of overall coal production in the entire  United States.

Coal is reliable and affordable, and we know we are going to need  this critical resource of baseload power as electricity demands  continue to skyrocket. If your State has coal, we should be developing  it, not burying it under bureaucracy. No one produces coal cleaner or  more responsibly than the United States. Nobody understands this better  than President Trump, who is reversing the war on American energy and  ushering in a new age of energy dominance. He is putting Montana over  Moscow and the Powder River Basin over the PRC.

By passing the CRA today, we are advancing President Trump's  executive orders on unleashing American energy and reinvigorating  America's beautiful clean coal industry.

The CRA will immediately reinstate future coal leasing and open  access to 37.8 billion short tons of coal, enough to meet U.S. demand  for the next 73 years.

In addition, passing Representative Downing's CRA will unleash  Montana's coal industry and generate millions of dollars in revenue for  the Federal Government and the State of Montana.

According to the Congressional Budget Office, this CRA will generate  $16 million in revenue for the Federal Government over the next decade.  This resolution also protects approximately $46 million in annual  revenue for Montana's K-12 public education system.

These estimates are conservative, as they don't account for the  thousands of good-paying jobs supported by Montana's coal industry and  the broad positive economic effects of producing energy here at home.

The CRA isn't just about Montana. Energy security is national  security, and Montana's mining industry plays a vital role in ensuring  America and our allies maintain a strategic energy advantage over our  adversaries.

We can be sure of one thing: The people who benefit from America not  harnessing our abundant natural resources are currently sitting in  Beijing, China, where they are building new coal-fired power plants at  the rate of one per week. In this global energy race, we cannot afford  to lose.

Unleashing American energy should not be a partisan issue. Harnessing  and unleashing American energy brings down electricity prices for  families and boosts real wages for hardworking  Americans who keep our economy running.

This CRA is about grid reliability, energy affordability, and  ensuring that States across the country have access to dispatchable  baseload power, especially during extreme weather and peak demand. It  will create jobs, generate millions of dollars in revenue, and provide  for our national security.

I commend the entire Montana delegation, Representatives Downing and  Zinke, and Senators Daines and Sheehy, for their tireless work and  leadership on this issue.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support the CRA, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, all Americans should have on the top of  their priority list energy security and national security. When we  block off millions of acres of land from any kind of energy  development, that is something that should come right up to the top of  priorities.

I heard mention of balance. To think that there was balance in the  RMP that the Biden administration put out, especially on this land in  Montana, is no kind of balance that I have ever seen. It is totally  unbalanced. It locks things down, shuts things off, and leaves the  American people to deal with the ramifications of it, with higher  energy prices, less reliable energy, and also less national security.

Mr. Speaker, I want to point out that the CRAs do have Tribal  consultation. If there wasn't Tribal consultation, it was during the  development of the RMP.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter from the Navajo  Transitional Energy Company in support of the CRA repealing the Miles  City RMP amendment.                                                 Navajo Transitional                                                  Energy Company,                                      Broomfield, CO, July 18, 2025.      Hon. Steve Daines,      U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.

Dear Senator Daines: On behalf of over one thousand       employees, I write to express my strong support for S.J. Res.       61, which seeks to rescind the 2024 Miles City Resource       Management Plan Amendment (``RMPA'') under the Congressional       Review Act (``CRA''). Navajo Transitional Energy Company, LLC       (``NTEC'') is the third largest thermal coal producer in the       United States. NTEC is unique in that it was formed in 2013       by the Navajo Nation to ``promote the development of the       Navajo Nation's resources and new sources of energy, power,       transmission and attendant resources to develop the economic,       financial, social and cultural well-being of the Navajo       People and the Navajo Nation.'' See Navajo Nation Council       Resolution CAP-20-13 (2013), NTEC is, thus, a Navajo Nation       limited liability company with one shareholder, the Navajo       Nation. NTEC owns and operates three surface coal mines       within the Powder River Basin, including one mine--the Spring       Creek Mine--located in Montana and within the U.S. Bureau of       Land Management's Miles City Office's Resource Management       Planning Area.

As NTEC's Chief Executive Officer, I've seen firsthand how       the RMPA prohibits the leasing and development of new federal       coal. The overwhelming majority of the coal within the RMPA       is either federal coal or coal granted to the State of       Montana. The RMPA prohibits the development of all such coal       because it is physically and economically impossible to only       develop coal resources possessed by the State of Montana. The       RMPA will hinder not only Montana's economic growth, as well       as that of the entire Powder River Basin but also disrupt       America's vital energy security well into the future.

The current RMPA prohibits the leasing of federal coal,       leaving skilled workers questioning the sustainability of the       current economic environment. Passing the CRA resolution       sends a clear message to families, small businesses, and       energy partners that Montana is open for responsible       development. I urge the Senate to support S.J. Res. 61 so we       can secure Montana's economic future and maintain America's       hard fought energy independence.

Returning to the 2015 RMP--and allowing leasing that       balances energy security with environmental stewardship--will       yield these immediate results:

A surge in local capital investment as energy companies bid       on new leases, stimulating equipment sales and service       contracts.

Increases to county and state tax revenues to fund schools,       roads, and public safety.

Job creation not only in mining but also in construction,       trucking, and professional services supporting mining       operations.

Spur millions in royalty payments to state and federal       coffers, offsetting budget shortfalls.

Preserve family-sustaining wages for miners, engineers, and       support staff across Montana.

A stable, domestic fuel source that lowers electricity       costs for manufacturers and keeps Montana competitive.

Securing a domestic fuel source to supply affordable       baseload power during a period of unprecedented electricity       demand growth and ballooning projected future development.

The RMPA unfairly targets coal at the expense of working       families and rural economies. Congressional disapproval under       the CRA is the swiftest remedy and will pave the way for a       thoughtfully drafted future management plan that guarantees       the prosperity of the United States, Montana, and       individuals. I urge the Senate to vote ``yes'' on this       resolution and help safeguard Montana's economic backbone for       generations.

Thank you for your leadership on this critical issue.            Sincerely,                                                      Vern K. Lund,                                           Chief Executive Officer.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, the Navajo Transitional Energy Company is  the third largest coal producer in the United States and operates three  mines in the Powder River Basin. They were strongly opposed to the  previous RMP amendment and support this CRA to ``preserve family- sustaining wages for miners, engineers, and support staff across  Montana.'' The NTEC also stated that the RMP ``prohibits the leasing of  Federal coal, leaving skilled workers questioning the sustainability of  the current economic environment.   Hageman).

Mr. Speaker, in regard to my colleague's request for a colloquy, I  will just say that it is necessary to do a CRA because the previous  administration issued bad resource management plans. Had they not  issued bad resource management plans, then we wouldn't be here today.

The thing about a CRA is if Congress passes this law, then another  administration can't go back and put it in place. I think that is why  my colleagues fear this process of using the CRA because then it would  be up to a future Congress to go back and undo what we do in this  Congress if we actually pass a Congressional Review Act.

Again, we are here today because the Biden administration decided to  unbalance the scales and put onerous burdens on States, on our natural  resources, and on the ability to produce our energy here.

Mr. Speaker, they started it by issuing the bad RMP. Hopefully, we  will finish it by passing the CRA.

Boebert).

Mr. Speaker, I do have ideological reasons for wanting to lower  energy costs across America. The last time I checked at the gas pump,  the energy prices are going down there. We are seeing a huge demand for  energy across this country that is being driven even more by AI and  data centers with unimaginable amounts of energy required for these  facilities.

I heard about the announcement of a data center that would require  the amount of electricity to run the city of Denver five times over in  a year. One data center needs that much energy.

We see electric prices increase because there is more demand for  electricity. We have had horrible energy policy in the past, and we  haven't kept up with the demand.

The Chinese, on the other hand, are building new coal-fired plants.  Every 2  days, they are building a new coal-fired plant, which is even harder to  imagine. They are trying to beat us in this race on AI, and they are  not going to let energy be the deciding factor on that.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time.

Mr. Speaker, it is a good thing that we have this tool called the  Congressional Review Act that asserts the Article I authority that  Congress has. You see, Mr. Speaker, we don't have to go begging a  Secretary or asking the administration what actions we take. We get to  determine which actions we take, and the Congressional Review Act is  one of those tools that we have to take a big hammer to a bad policy.

I am glad that we are taking that big hammer to a terrible policy. We  are also making it so that a future administration can't enact another  bad policy like the ones that were put into place with these three RMPs  that we will be addressing today. That is a good thing.

It is a good thing that we are focusing on unleashing American  energy. The time to do that is now. The time to restore balanced  management to our public lands is now.

It is now time to put Big Sky Country ahead of Beijing. It is past  time that we do that. If allowed to continue, the Miles City RMP  amendment developed by the previous administration could have  devastating impacts on Montana and the entire U.S. economy.

Passing this CRA will help reinvigorate America's coal industry. Also  it will unleash American energy.

In my district, I have a coal-fired plant that was built in 2010. To  my knowledge, that was the last coal-fired plant built in the United  States. Again, I mentioned earlier that China is building 120 gigawatts  a year. That is one every 2 days, one of those 650-megawatt coal plants  every 2 days that they are putting on line.

What are we doing with coal plants across America?

We have been closing them down. They provide reliable baseload  energy.

That coal plant in my district that provides energy to businesses and  energy to homes can't operate without coal, and that coal comes from  the Powder River Basin. When we harness our resources out West and use  those, it is a good thing, but when we lock them up, then we keep  electricity from being affordable and we keep it from being reliable  not just for constituents in Montana but for people all across this  country.

That is exactly one of the many reasons I am supporting this CRA  today. It means affordable, reliable energy. It means improved national  security. It means good-paying jobs for rural Americans and millions of  dollars in revenue for the U.S. Treasury.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the adoption of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.