Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Relating to ``Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species Status for the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of the Longfin Smelt''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690599/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-united-states-fish-and-wildlife-service-relating-to-endangered-and-threatened-wildlife-and-plants-endangered-species-status-for-the-san-francisco-bay-delta-distinct-population-segment-of-the-longfin-smelt


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 354, I call  up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 78) providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service relating to  ``Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species  Status for the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of  the Longfin Smelt'', and ask for its immediate consideration in the  House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  Res. 78.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.J. Res. 78 offered by  Representative LaMalfa of California, which would undo the listing of  the longfin smelt in the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population  Segment under the Endangered Species Act.

The listing was based on flawed science in response to an ESA-related  lawsuit and adds yet another piece of regulatory red tape preventing  water from reaching California's Central Valley and communities further  south.

California's Central Valley is one of the most prolific agricultural  regions in the world, growing hundreds of crops that feed millions of  people. However, this region faces continual water uncertainty due to  drought and ESA-related regulations.

The Central Valley Project, or CVP, transports water from wetter  areas in northern California to drier areas further south, including  the Central Valley. It is subject to ESA biological opinions that  mandate water that would otherwise go to communities and farms be  diverted to the San Francisco Bay.

The effects of this can be seen at this very moment in California  where Federal reservoirs are almost full, yet many farmers are only  receiving half of their water allocations. This is in large part due to  restrictions imposed by the ESA, which will only be exacerbated by the  listing of the longfin smelt.

Unfortunately, the rush to judgment that ensued from the lawsuit  resulted in a listing based on flawed assumptions and bad science.

First, by solely focusing on the bay-delta rather than the longfin  smelt's entire range, the service ignores the fact that the species has  been found in dozens of locations, including in and around every  tributary of the San Francisco Bay. Meaning the longfin smelt is not at  risk of extinction and does not meet the statutory definition of an  endangered species.

Instead of being based on science, this listing comes from the common  radical environmental playbook of suing for a predetermined outcome.

Radical groups have litigated for years trying to get the longfin  smelt listed under the ESA, with a 2024 lawsuit compelling the U.S.  Fish and Wildlife Service to make a listing decision being the latest  example.

Unfortunately, as with many ESA-related lawsuits, the species is  rarely the true motivation. The leader of the organization that filed  the lawsuit in question said the not-so-quiet part out loud when he  said that protecting the longfin smelt going forward would require  taking more water away from farmers.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from California (Mr. LaMalfa) for  all of his efforts on this. He is a farmer. He knows about agriculture.  He knows about the water issues in California.

This is an issue that is important to our whole country. It is not  just important to California because most of the fruits, nuts, and  vegetables grown in this country are in the Central Valley of  California. Without water, you can't grow any of them.

If we are taking water away from the Central Valley for unnecessary  reasons, that means that the rest of the country is going to suffer  when we go to the grocery market.

Mr. Speaker, I think, if truth be known, there is one reason why the  longfin smelt got listed. It is because it would divert water away from  the Central Valley, and I don't understand that. I don't understand why  groups would be so adamant to be taking water away from the breadbasket  of our country and shifting it to a purpose that is not accomplishing  anything.

There are a lot of myths about the longfin smelt. There is a myth  that, if they are listed, it will have no effect on the farmers in the  Central Valley. I will read a quote from the science director who was  involved from the San Francisco Baykeepers when the listing was  finalized:

``Preventing further decline and extinction of longfin smelt will  require reducing California's diversion of fresh water from the Bay's  watershed to supply unsustainable industrial agriculture. . . .''

If water is taken away from agriculture in the Central Valley, it is  unsustainable. You can't grow anything without water.

We need to get back to the science, as Mr. LaMalfa stated, and it is  unfortunate that we have to do a CRA on an  endangered species listing, but that is what happens when  administrations make bad decisions.

Mr. Speaker, first, I acknowledge and agree with my friends from  across the aisle. Mark Twain was correct. The more I learn about water,  the further west you go, the more it is for fighting. We can agree on  that.

Mr. Speaker, I also want to try to help them solve the issue about  parallel universes from an outsider's perspective. I would say that  most people who live in States that are east of California, maybe some  that are north and west of California, if you go to California, you  realize it is a very beautiful State, a very blessed State, wonderful  resources, beautiful beaches, beautiful forests, the most productive  farmland in the country, some of the most unique trees in the world,  wonderful weather, good fishing. Everything nice, it seems like  California has it.

I think we all love California, but we all realize somehow it is kind  of a different universe than the rest of the country that we live in.  Maybe they embrace that and like that, the good people of California.

When we look at this legislation, H.J. Res. 78, it is a serious  thing. The ESA listing in question was based on incomplete and bad  science and will further complicate the delivery of water in California  communities. It is already complicating the delivery of water.

Passing this resolution will further the priorities of President  Trump, who has signed two executive orders aimed at removing  unnecessary regulations that prevent water from being delivered to  southern California.

The current paradigm of having full reservoirs in California while  many farmers are only receiving half of the water they are supposed to  be getting is unacceptable, and it is unsustainable. It takes away the  myth that this is all due to drought conditions. It is not drought  conditions in California right now, yet farmers are still only getting  half the amount of water they were promised to get.

This resolution is cosponsored by the entire California Republican  delegation. I thank each Member for standing up for their constituents  and tirelessly fighting for additional water resources in the face of  Federal and State government overreach and radical decisions.

Mr. Speaker, I support this resolution, and I yield back the balance  of my time.