Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Buffalo Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696879/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-buffalo-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-amendment


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 879, I call  up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 130) providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Bureau of Land Management relating to ``Buffalo Field  Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan  Amendment'', and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  Res. 130.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.J. Res. 130, which would  repeal the Bureau of Land Management's misguided resource management  plan, or RMP, amendment for the Buffalo Field Office in Wyoming, which  was finalized in the twilight hours of the Biden-Harris administration.

Wyoming's Powder River Basin currently supplies 40 percent of the  Nation's coal. The RMP amendment in question effectively halted future  Federal coal leasing across a region in Wyoming larger than New Jersey  and located in the heart of America's coal country. Without repeal, the  RMP amendment will end coal production in the region entirely by 2041  and close 12 active mines.

The RMP amendment is a death blow to America's energy security,  Wyoming's workers, and the economic backbone of the State itself.

It is projected that U.S. electricity demand will grow by as much as  128 gigawatts through 2029, and global energy demand is expected to  double by 2050.

Coal is reliable, affordable, and essential to meet the increasing  power demands of the AI revolution and advanced manufacturing. The RMP  amendment locked up an astonishing 48 billion short tons of coal. That  is enough to meet U.S. coal demand for the next 116 years.

Mr. Speaker, 92 percent of Wyoming's coal is exported to other  States, helping keep the lights on and utility prices affordable in  distant places as far as Texas, Illinois, and my home State of  Arkansas.

Nationwide, residential electricity prices have increased by 13  percent since 2022, and overturning misguided policies like this RMP  amendment will help make the cost of living more affordable for  families across America.

It is time to unleash our domestic resources to put this money back  into the pockets of American families by repealing the Biden  administration's anti-American energy policies. What is more, instead  of working with the State, the Biden administration blatantly ignored  local opposition at every stage of this process and rammed this RMP  amendment through to appease environmental extremists.

The Biden administration provided a limited opportunity for public  comment or engagement on this RMP amendment. Wyoming's Governor, a  unified congressional delegation, locally elected officials, Tribes,  and local communities all expressed strong opposition to this plan  amendment. The previous administration ignored them all.

According to local representatives, it is suspect and disturbing that  such a dramatic change to the current land use plan would solicit such  little engagement during the public comment period. Campbell and  Johnson County commissioners who represent the local communities  affected by this plan stated that whatever information they provided to  the BLM in this process was ignored by the Federal agency.

Overturning the RMP amendment takes power from bureaucrats in  Washington, D.C., and returns it to the people of Wyoming.

The BLM also ignored Tribal input in developing this RMP amendment.  The Navajo Transitional Energy Company, which is wholly owned by the  Navajo Nation, provided detailed comments opposing this amendment. They  were all dismissed by the BLM.

In a letter they submitted to the agency, they stated:

``BLM consistently downplayed the reasonably foreseeable negative  impacts of the mines' closures on the surrounding social justice  communities. And it did not even consider the jobs lost in the  downstream communities that rely on the [Powder River Basin] coal.''

Energy security is national security, and Wyoming's energy industry  remains indispensable to ensuring that America stays energy dominant.  Wyoming's Powder River Basin, with its low-sulfur coal, produces the  world's cleanest burning coal. We should be focused on exporting this  abundant natural resource to our allies abroad, not burying this  baseload power under layers of bureaucracy.

By passing this CRA today, we are advancing President Trump's  executive orders on unleashing American energy and reinvigorating  America's coal industry. We are also restoring hundreds of millions of  dollars in future revenue for Wyoming's K-12 public education system  and protecting more than 4,000 high-paying jobs in rural Wyoming.

In conjunction with the pro-energy policies included in the working  families tax cut law, this CRA also has the potential to generate more  than $260 million for the Federal Treasury.

This CRA helps the U.S. remain energy dominant and will lower prices  for families, strengthen our economy, and boost real wages for  hardworking men and women. I urge my colleagues to stand with Wyoming,  stand with American workers, and stand for energy security by  supporting this resolution.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I sincerely appreciate the birthday  wishes from my friend across the aisle. That means a lot to me.

If I had a birthday wish of my own, it would be to make energy more  affordable for the American people, to help the good folks of Wyoming  to have a livelihood and to not only keep prices down, but keep good- paying jobs across this country that are in the energy industry. We  know that we need more energy going forward. We need more electrons on  the grid. We need a larger grid. We need to all work together to do  those things, but if this resource management plan amendment by the  previous administration was balanced, I would hate to see a heavy- handed resource management plan amendment by the previous  administration because this took a sledgehammer to an established  industry in the State of Wyoming.

I am sure my distinguished colleague from the great State of Wyoming,  Representative Hageman, who is the lead sponsor of this legislation,  will go into detail what this would mean to Wyoming if this plan  amendment stays in place.

Hageman).

Mr. Speaker, it has been mentioned that U.S. coal is dying. U.S. coal  is being murdered. There has been an attack on it for many years, and  some people will not stop until they see it gone. That would be to our  own demise because we depend so much on the energy not only from coal  but from natural gas.

We need more nuclear power. We need more hydropower. We need all  kinds of new power, and this isn't the time to be attacking our fuel  sources. We will have a debate on the Arctic Slope and the Coastal  Plain, but when we are talking about Wyoming, we are talking about coal  and really the backbone of our electrical generating and distribution  system.

I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Stauber), the  chairman of the Energy and Mineral Resources Subcommittee of the  Natural Resources Committee.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close and continue to  reserve the balance of my time.

Since my colleague mentioned the SPEED Act, which we will be marking  up in committee on Thursday, even though it is not on the floor today,  I will put in a shameless plug for our bipartisan legislation that is  not only tech neutral, but it is agnostic to the project, the project  type.

It would definitely help us produce more energy in America, and it  will also help us to build things in America again, something we  desperately need to do. We will debate that Thursday, and, hopefully,  some day we will be out here debating it on the floor.

This particular RMPA that is on the floor today is because the Biden  administration, on their way out, pushed something through by rule that  they could never get passed into law. The CRA, I remind you, is so that  Congress can exert its legislative authority over an administrative  agency or over an administration.

I would remind future administrations not to make dumb rules when  they are going out the door or somebody in Congress will be standing  here maybe on the other side of the aisle doing a CRA to turn back the  rulemaking ability that is not lawmaking, as we are instructed to do in  the Constitution as the legislative branch.

Mr. Speaker, in response to the actual RMPA that we are talking  about, the CRA on it today, now is the time to unleash American energy.  The Buffalo Field Office resource management plan would not only  devastate Wyoming's energy workforce but it would raise prices  nationwide.

We are in a competition. We are in a competition with China that  certainly hasn't backed off on building coal-fired plants. As a matter  of fact, they are building at a rate of about one every 2 or 3 days  coming online because they know they need reliable energy. They need  affordable energy. They need that to establish their manufacturing  dominance and to beat us in the race for AI.

Mr. Speaker, we can't allow that to happen. Even though China  produces twice as much electricity as we do today, we shouldn't  discriminate against any energy source. We should try to produce as  much energy as we can so that we can win in that competition.

By passing this CRA, we are restoring the BLM's multiple use and  sustained yield mandate and preventing future administrations from  locking up America's natural resources. The era of curtailing multiple  uses of our Federal lands hopefully is over. It is time to usher in a  golden age of unleashing our energy and mineral resources.

Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.