Recognizing High Impact Movement


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696430/recognizing-high-impact-movement


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to be asked to say a few  words to celebrate such a remarkable organization that truly lives up  to its name: High Impact Movement. Amos and his wife, Carol, along with  every mentor and volunteer who selflessly give their own time and  energy, are making lasting differences and creating deep impacts in the  lives of students and their families. They not only uplift and  encourage the youth who come here every day but also strengthen the  entire community by shaping the minds of our future leaders and  dedicated public servants.

While the team's work is certainly outstanding, this address is about  something far greater; it's about why their work matters. It's about  highlighting the importance of investing in our youth, taking pride in  their potential, and looking ahead to the future they will, in turn,  build.

In 1984, President Ronald Reagan gave remarks to the Representatives  of the United States International Youth Year Commission. In his  speech, he said, ``I believe you all know--or you wouldn't be here--the  importance of our youth to the future peace, security, and well-being  of our Nation and the world.'' He then goes on to say, ``There's a  spark in all of us which, if struck early enough, can light up our  lives, elevate our ideals, and deepen our tolerance and strengthen our  determination to make this world a better place. You couldn't make a  better investment in America's future.''

Investing in Arkansas' future, igniting that spark, starts here. This  is why programs like High Impact Movement are so important not only for  our young people, but for the future of our great state. As you  continue to pour into our youth, you are also investing in the future  of our communities, where the impacts will be seen for generations to  come. And for that I am deeply grateful.

High Impact Movement is proof that when you invest in others, whether  it be through tutoring a student after school, sharing valuable life  lessons through mentorship, or just encouraging a young person to be  the best that they can be, you'll find that the results have an impact  that echoes far into the future.

One of my favorite quotes hangs just above the Speaker's rostrum on  the House Floor. Two hundred years ago, Daniel Webster addressed a few  hundred Revolutionary War veterans and spectators at the Battle of  Bunker Hill was memorial groundbreaking. In his oration, he said, ``Let  us develop the resources of our land, call forth its powers, build up  its institutions, promote all its great interests, and see whether we  also in our day and generation may not perform something worthy to be  remembered. ''

I'd like to take a moment to reflect on the call to action Mr.  Webster gave at the end of this portion of his speech. While his  audience may have only been a few hundred people on a field in the  middle of summer 200 years ago, his audience continues to grow with  each generation. As his audience today, in 2025, we are now the ones  being tapped to do something worthy to be remembered. With your heart  for service and dedication to our community, people like you are  undoubtedly taking up that mantle.

I take deep pride in knowing that the future of the 4th District of  Arkansas is bright because of the people proudly representing High  Impact Movement. People who invest in our youth, pour into their  families, and strengthen our communities through their time,  compassion, and leadership.

Their dedicated work today leaves an indelible mark on tomorrow, so  let me encourage you to press onward as you selflessly dedicate your  time to serving your community.