Salem Maritime National Historical Park Redesignation and Boundary Study Act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2215) to redesignate the Salem Maritime National Historic  Site as the ``Salem Maritime National Historical Park'', and for other  purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2215

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Salem Maritime National       Historical Park Redesignation and Boundary Study Act''.       SEC. 2. SALEM MARITIME NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

(a) Redesignation.--The Salem Maritime National Historic       Site shall hereafter be known and designated as the ``Salem       Maritime National Historical Park''.

(b) References in Law.--Any reference to the Salem Maritime       National Historic Site in any law, regulation, map, document,       record, or other paper of the United States shall be deemed       to be a reference to the Salem Maritime National Historical       Park.       SEC. 3. BOUNDARY STUDY.

(a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a boundary       study to evaluate the suitability and feasibility of       including in the National Park System, as part of the Salem       Maritime National Historical Park (as redesignated by section       2(a)), sites and resources in the study area associated with       the study area's--

(1) maritime history;

(2) coastal defenses; and

(3) military history, including National Guard and militia       activity.

(b) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which       funds are made available to conduct the study required under       subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee       on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a       report containing--

(1) the results of the study; and

(2) any findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the       Secretary.

(c) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of the Interior.

(2) Study area.--The term ``study area'' means Salem,       Massachusetts, and its vicinity, and includes the Salem       Armory Visitor Center building and adjacent Salem Armory       Park.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  2215, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of Representative Moulton's bill, the  Salem  Maritime National Historical Park Redesignation and Boundary Study Act.  This legislation would redesignate the Salem Maritime National Historic  Site in Salem, Massachusetts, as the Salem Maritime National Historical  Park.

Known for its rich history dating back to the colonial era, this area  was the first historic site to be included in the National Park System  in 1938. Today, the historical park includes 12 historic structures, a  downtown visitors center, and a replica of a famous sailing ship, the  Friendship of Salem. The site attracts over 800,000 visitors annually  and showcases over 600 years of New England's maritime history.

Since most historical sites focus on a singular historical feature,  designating Salem Maritime as a national historic park would align with  the naming conventions of other National Park System units around the  country. Community leaders in the area also hope the redesignation will  lead to more visitors by highlighting the various attractions.

In addition to the redesignation, this legislation also requires the  National Park Service to conduct a boundary study of related sites to  assess their feasibility for future inclusion in the historical park.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, this bill will more appropriately reflect  the varied and unique history of the timeless landmarks in Salem,  Massachusetts.

I thank my friend and acknowledge Representative Moulton for his work  on this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend and acknowledge Representative Moulton  for his work on this bill, and I urge its adoption. I yield back the  balance of my time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.