Save Our Sequoias Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700704/save-our-sequoias-act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2709) to improve the health and resiliency of giant  sequoias, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2709

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

(a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Save Our       Sequoias Act''.

(b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act       is as follows:  Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. Sec. 2. Definitions. Sec. 3. Shared stewardship agreement for giant sequoias. Sec. 4. Giant sequoia lands coalition. Sec. 5. Giant sequoia health and resiliency assessment. Sec. 6. Giant sequoia emergency response. Sec. 7. Giant sequoia reforestation and rehabilitation strategy. Sec. 8. Giant sequoia strike teams. Sec. 9. Giant sequoia collaborative restoration grants. Sec. 10. Giant sequoia insect monitoring and technology. Sec. 11. Stewardship contracting for giant sequoias. Sec. 12. Giant sequoia emergency protection program and fund.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Assessment.--The term ``Assessment'' means the Giant       Sequoia Health and Resiliency Assessment required by section       5.

(2) Coalition.--The term ``Coalition'' means the Giant       Sequoia Lands Coalition codified under section 4(a).

(3) Collaborative process.--The term ``collaborative       process'' means a collaborative process as described in       section 4003(b)(2) of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act       of 2009 (16 U.S.C. 7303(b)(2)).

(4) Covered national forest system lands.--The term       ``covered National Forest System lands'' means the proclaimed       National Forest System lands reserved or withdrawn from the       public domain of the United States covering the Sequoia       National Forest and Giant Sequoia National Monument, Sierra       National Forest, and Tahoe National Forest.

(5) Covered public lands.--The term ``covered public       lands'' means--

(A) the Case Mountain Extensive Recreation Management Area       in California managed by the Bureau of Land Management; and

(B) Kings Canyon National Park, Sequoia National Park, and       Yosemite National Park in California managed by the National       Park Service.

(6) Giant sequoia.--The term ``giant sequoia'' means a tree       of the species Sequoiadendron giganteum.

(7) Protection project.--The term ``Protection Project''       means a Giant Sequoia Protection Project carried out under       section 6.

(8) Reforestation.--The term ``reforestation'' means the       act of renewing tree cover,       taking into consideration species composition and resilience,       by establishing young trees through--

(A) natural regeneration;

(B) natural regeneration with site preparation and       vegetation competition control; or

(C) planting or direct seeding.

(9) Rehabilitation.--The term ``rehabilitation'' means any       action taken during the 5-year period beginning on the last       day of a wildland fire to repair or improve fire-impacted       lands which are unlikely to recover to management-approved       conditions.

(10) Relevant congressional committees.--The term       ``relevant Congressional Committees'' means--

(A) the Committees on Natural Resources, Agriculture, and       Appropriations of the House of Representatives; and

(B) the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources,       Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, and Appropriations of       the Senate.

(11) Responsible official.--The term ``responsible       official'' means an employee of the Department of the       Interior or Forest Service who has the authority to make and       implement a decision on a proposed action.

(12) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of the Interior.

(13) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned''       means--

(A) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to covered       National Forest System lands, or their designee; and

(B) the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to covered       public lands, or their designee.

(14) Strategy.--The term ``Strategy'' means the Giant       Sequoia Reforestation and Rehabilitation Strategy established       under section 7.

(15) Strike team.--The term ``Strike Team'' means a Giant       Sequoia Strike Team established under section 8.

(16) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Tule River Indian       Tribe of the Tule River Reservation, California.       SEC. 3. SHARED STEWARDSHIP AGREEMENT FOR GIANT SEQUOIAS.

(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after receiving a       request from the Governor of the State of California or the       Tribe, the Secretary shall enter into or expand an existing       shared stewardship agreement or enter into a similar       agreement with the Secretary of Agriculture, the Governor of       the State of California, and the Tribe to jointly carry out       the short-term and long-term management and conservation of       giant sequoias.

(b) Participation.--

(1) In general.--If the Secretary has not received a       request from the Governor of the State of California or the       Tribe under subsection (a) before the date that is 90 days       after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall       enter into the agreement under subsection (a) and jointly       implement such agreement with the Secretary of Agriculture.

(2) Future participation.--If the Secretary receives a       request from the Governor of the State of California or the       Tribe any time after entering into the agreement with the       Secretary of Agriculture under paragraph (1), the Secretary       shall accept the Governor of the State of California or the       Tribe as a party to such agreement.       SEC. 4. GIANT SEQUOIA LANDS COALITION.

(a) Codification.--The Coalition is the entity established       under the charter titled ``Giant Sequoia Lands Coalition       Charter'' (or successor charter) signed during the period       beginning June 2, 2022 and ending August 2, 2022 by each of       the following:

(1) The National Park Service, representing Sequoia and       Kings Canyon National Parks.

(2) The National Park Service, representing Yosemite       National Park.

(3) The Forest Service, representing Sequoia National       Forest and Giant Sequoia National Monument.

(4) The Forest Service, representing Sierra National       Forest.

(5) The Forest Service, representing Tahoe National Forest.

(6) The Bureau of Land Management, representing Case       Mountain Extensive Recreation Management Area.

(7) The Tribe, representing the Tule River Indian       Reservation.

(8) The State of California, representing Calaveras Big       Trees State Park.

(9) The State of California, representing Mountain Home       Demonstration State Forest.

(10) The University of California, Berkeley, representing       Whitaker's Research Forest.

(11) The County of Tulare, California, representing Balch       Park.

(b) Duties.--In addition to the duties specified in the       charter referenced in subsection (a), the Coalition shall--

(1) produce the Assessment under section 5;

(2) observe implementation, and provide policy       recommendations to the Secretary concerned, with respect to--

(A) Protection Projects carried out under section 6; and

(B) the Strategy established under section 7;

(3) facilitate collaboration and coordination on Protection       Projects, particularly projects that cross jurisdictional       boundaries;

(4) facilitate information sharing, including best       available science as described in section 5(d) and mapping       resources; and

(5) support the development and dissemination of       educational materials and programs that inform the public       about the threats to the health and resiliency of giant       sequoia groves and actions being taken to reduce the risk to       such groves from high-severity wildfire, insects, and       drought.

(c) Administrative Support, Technical Services, and Staff       Support.--The Secretary shall make personnel of the       Department of the Interior available to the Coalition for       administrative support, technical services, development and       dissemination of educational materials, and staff support       that the Secretary determines necessary to carry out this       section.

(d) Public Meeting Requirement.--

(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the       Coalition shall provide for public observation at no less       than one meeting annually.

(2) Closed sessions.--The Coalition may close portions of a       meeting as provided in paragraph (1) to the public only when       discussion will involve--

(A) sensitive law enforcement, security, or emergency       response matters, the public disclosure of which would       compromise public safety; or

(B) confidential commercial information, private property       information, or landowner information.       SEC. 5. GIANT SEQUOIA HEALTH AND RESILIENCY ASSESSMENT.

(a) In General.--Not later than 6 months after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Coalition shall submit to the       relevant Congressional Committees a Giant Sequoia Health and       Resiliency Assessment that, based on the best available       science--

(1) identifies--

(A) each giant sequoia grove that has experienced a--

(i) stand-replacing disturbance; or

(ii) disturbance but continues to have living giant       sequoias within the grove, including identifying the tree       mortality and regeneration of giant sequoias within such       grove;

(B) each giant sequoia grove that is at high risk of       experiencing a stand-replacing disturbance;

(C) lands--

(i) contiguous or adjacent to giant sequoia groves that are       at risk of experiencing high-severity wildfires that could       adversely impact such giant sequoia groves; or

(ii) in which the placement of fuel breaks could reduce the       risk of high-severity wildfires that could adversely impact       giant sequoia groves; and

(D) each giant sequoia grove that has experienced a       disturbance and is unlikely to naturally regenerate and is in       need of reforestation;

(2) analyzes the resiliency of each giant sequoia grove to       threats, such as--

(A) high-severity wildfire;

(B) insects, including beetle kill; and

(C) drought;

(3) examines how historical, Tribal, or current approaches       to wildland fire suppression and forest management activities       across various jurisdictions have impacted the health and       resiliency of giant sequoia groves with respect to--

(A) high-severity wildfires;

(B) insects, including beetle kill; and

(C) drought; and

(4) includes program and policy recommendations that       address--

(A) options to enhance communication, coordination, and       collaboration, particularly for cross-boundary projects, to       improve the health and resiliency of giant sequoias; and

(B) research gaps that should be addressed to improve the       best available science on the giant sequoias.

(b) Annual Updates.--Not later than 1 year after the       submission of the Assessment under subsection (a), and       annually thereafter, the Coalition shall submit an updated       Assessment to the relevant Congressional Committees that--

(1) includes any new data, information, or best available       science that has changed or become available since the       previous Assessment was submitted;

(2) with respect to Protection Projects--

(A) includes information on the number of Protection       Projects initiated the previous year and the estimated       timeline for completing those projects;

(B) includes information on the number of Protection       Projects planned in the upcoming year and the estimated       timeline for completing those projects;

(C) provides status updates and long-term monitoring       reports on giant sequoia groves after the completion of       Protection Projects; and

(D) if the Secretary concerned failed to reduce hazardous       fuels in at least 3 giant sequoia groves in the previous       year, a written explanation that includes--

(i) a detailed explanation of what impediments resulted in       failing to reduce hazardous fuels in at least 3 giant sequoia       groves; and

(ii) a detailed explanation of what actions the Secretary       concerned is taking to ensure that hazardous fuels are       reduced in at least 3 giant sequoia groves the following       year; and

(3) with respect to reforestation and rehabilitation of       giant sequoias--

(A) contains updates on the implementation of the Strategy       under section 7, including grove-level data on reforestation       and rehabilitation activities; and

(B) provides status updates and monitoring reports on giant       sequoia groves that have experienced reforestation or       rehabilitation as part of the Strategy under section 7.

(c) Dashboard.--

(1) Requirement to maintain.--The Coalition shall create       and maintain a website that--

(A) publishes the Assessment, annual updates to the       Assessment, and other educational materials developed by the       Coalition;

(B) contains searchable information about individual giant       sequoia groves, including the--

(i) resiliency of such groves to threats described in       paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a);

(ii) Protection Projects that have been proposed,       initiated, or completed in such groves; and

(iii) reforestation and rehabilitation activities that have       been proposed, initiated, or completed in such groves; and

(C) maintains a searchable database to track--

(i) the status of Federal environmental reviews and       authorizations for specific Protection Projects and       reforestation and rehabilitation activities; and

(ii) the projected cost of Protection Projects and       reforestation and rehabilitation activities.

(2) Searchable database.--The Coalition shall include       information on the status of Protection Projects in the       searchable database created under paragraph (1)(C),       including--

(A) a comprehensive permitting timetable;

(B) the status of the compliance of each lead agency,       cooperating agency, and participating agency with the       permitting timetable;

(C) any modifications of the permitting timetable required       under subparagraph (A), including an explanation as to why       the permitting timetable was modified; and

(D) information about project-related public meetings,       public hearings, and public comment periods, which shall be       presented in English and the predominant language of the       community or communities most affected by the project, as       that information becomes available.

(d) Best Available Science.--In utilizing the best       available science for the Assessment, the Coalition shall       include--

(1) data and peer-reviewed research from academic       institutions with a demonstrated history of studying giant       sequoias and with experience analyzing distinct management       strategies to improve giant sequoia resiliency;

(2) traditional ecological knowledge from the Tribe related       to improving the health and resiliency of giant sequoia       groves; and

(3) data from Federal, State, Tribal, and local governments       or agencies, and other interested stakeholders with a       demonstrated history of studying giant sequoias and with       experience analyzing distinct management strategies to       improve giant sequoia resiliency.

(e) Technology Improvements.--In carrying out this section,       the Secretary may enter into memorandums of understanding or       agreements with other Federal agencies or departments, State       or local governments, Tribal governments, private entities,       or academic institutions to improve, with respect to the       Assessment, the use and integration of--

(1) advanced remote sensing and geospatial technologies;

(2) statistical modeling and analysis; or

(3) any other technology the Secretary determines will       benefit the quality of information used in the Assessment.

(f) Planning.--The Coalition shall make information from       this Assessment available to the Secretary concerned and       State of California to integrate into the--

(1) State of California's Wildfire and Forest Resilience       Action Plan;

(2) Forest Service's 10-year Wildfire Crisis Strategy (or       successor plan); and

(3) Department of the Interior's Wildfire Risk Five-Year       Monitoring, Maintenance, and Treatment Plan (or successor       plan).

(g) Relation to the National Environmental Policy Act of       1969.--The development and submission of the Assessment under       subsection (a) shall not be subject to the National       Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).       SEC. 6. GIANT SEQUOIA EMERGENCY RESPONSE.

(a) Emergency Response to Protect Giant Sequoias.--

(1) In general.--

(A) Emergency determination.--Congress determines that--

(i) an emergency exists on covered public lands and covered       National Forest System lands that makes it necessary to carry       out Protection Projects that take needed actions to respond       to the threat of wildfires, insects, and drought to giant       sequoias; and

(ii) Protection Projects are necessary to control the       immediate impacts of the emergency described in clause (i)       and are needed to mitigate harm to life, property, or       important natural or cultural resources on covered public       lands and covered National Forest System lands.

(B) Application.--The emergency determination established       under subparagraph (A) shall apply to all covered public       lands and covered National Forest System lands.

(C) Expiration.--The emergency determination established       under subparagraph (A) shall expire on the date that is 7       years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

(2) Implementation.--While the emergency determination       established under paragraph (1) is in effect, the following       shall apply:

(A) The Secretary concerned, acting through a responsible       official, shall carry out Protection Projects on covered       public lands and covered National Forest System lands in       accordance with this section, all applicable land management       plans, and the laws (including regulations) applicable to the       Secretary concerned.

(B) A responsible official shall carry out Protection       Projects in accordance with the following, as applicable:

(i) Section 220.4(b) of title 36, Code of Federal       Regulations (as in effect July 21, 2022), with respect to       covered National Forest System lands.

(ii) Section 46.150 of title 43, Code of Federal       Regulations (as in effect October 12, 2022), with respect to       covered public lands.

(iii) Section 402.05 of title 50, Code of Federal       Regulations (as in effect July 21, 2022), with respect to       covered National Forest System lands and covered public       lands.

(iv) Section 800.12 of title 36, Code of Federal       Regulations (as in effect July 21, 2022), with respect to       covered National Forest System lands and covered public       lands.

(C) The rules established under subsections (d) and (e) of       section 40807 of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act       (16 U.S.C. 6592c(d), (e)) shall apply with respect to       Protection Projects by substituting ``Protection Projects''       for ``authorized emergency action under this section'' each       place it appears in such subsections.

(D) Protection Projects shall be subject to the       requirements of section 106 of the Healthy Forests       Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6516).

(3) Protection projects.--The responsible official shall       carry out the following forest management activities as       Protection Projects under the emergency determination under       this section:

(A) Conducting hazardous fuels management, including       mechanical thinning, mastication, and prescribed burning.

(B) Removing hazard trees, dead trees, or dying trees, as       determined by the responsible official.

(C) Removing trees to address overstocking or crowding in a       forest stand, consistent with the appropriate basal area of       the forest stand and the best available science, as       determined by the responsible official.

(D) Activities to address insects, disease, invasive       species, and vegetative encroachment of a giant sequoia       grove.

(E) Any combination of activities described in this       paragraph.

(4) Requirements.--

(A) In general.--Protection Projects carried out under       paragraph (3) and reforestation and rehabilitation activities       carried out under this Act that are described by subparagraph       (C) are categorically excluded from the preparation of an       environmental assessment or an environmental impact statement       under section 102 of the National Environmental Policy Act of       1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332).

(B) Availability.--The Secretary concerned shall use the       categorical exclusion established under subparagraph (A) in       accordance with this section.

(C) Requirements.--A Protection Project or reforestation or       rehabilitation activity is described by this subparagraph if       such Protection Project or reforestation or rehabilitation       activity--

(i) covers an area of no more than--

(I) 2,000 acres within giant sequoia groves; and

(II) 3,000 acres on lands identified under section       5(a)(1)(C); and

(ii) occurs on Federal land or non-Federal land with the       consent of the non-Federal landowner.

(D) Extraordinary circumstances.--The extraordinary       circumstances procedures under provisions (e) through (g) of       section 1b.3 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, shall       apply to a Protection Project or reforestation or       rehabilitation activity that is categorically excluded under       subparagraph (A).

(E) Use of other authorities.--To the maximum extent       practicable, the Secretary concerned shall use the       authorities provided under this section in combination with       other authorities to carry out Protection Projects,       including--

(i) good neighbor agreements entered into under section       8206 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (16 U.S.C. 2113a); and

(ii) stewardship contracting projects entered into under       section 604 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003       (16 U.S.C. 6591c).

(F) Savings clause.--With respect to joint Protection       Projects and reforestation and rehabilitation activities       involving the Tribe, nothing in this section shall be       construed to add any additional regulatory requirements onto       the Tribe.

(b) Implementation.--To the maximum extent practicable, the       Secretary concerned shall reduce hazardous fuels in no fewer       than 3 giant sequoia groves each year.

(c) Public Notice.--The Secretary concerned shall provide       notice of each Protection Project on a publicly available       website maintained by the Secretary concerned.       SEC. 7. GIANT SEQUOIA REFORESTATION AND REHABILITATION                     STRATEGY.

(a) Reforestation and Rehabilitation Strategy.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 6 months after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation       with the Coalition, shall develop and implement a strategy,       to be known as the Giant Sequoia Reforestation and       Rehabilitation Strategy, to enhance the reforestation and       rehabilitation of giant sequoia groves that--

(A) identifies giant sequoia groves in need of       reforestation or rehabilitation, giving highest priority to       groves identified under section 5(a)(1)(A)(i);

(B) creates a priority list of reforestation and       rehabilitation activities;

(C) identifies and addresses--

(i) barriers to reforestation or rehabilitation,       including--

(I) regulatory and funding barriers;

(II) seedling shortages or related nursery infrastructure       capacity constraints;

(III) labor and workforce shortages;

(IV) technology and science gaps; and

(V) site preparation challenges;

(ii) potential public-private partnership opportunities to       complete high-priority reforestation or rehabilitation       projects;

(iii) a timeline for addressing the backlog of       reforestation for giant sequoias in the 10-year period after       the agreement is entered into under section 3; and

(iv) strategies to ensure genetic diversity across giant       sequoia groves; and

(D) includes program and policy recommendations needed to       improve the efficiency or effectiveness of the Strategy.

(2) Assessment.--The Secretary may incorporate the Strategy       into the Assessment under section 5.

(b) Priority Reforestation Projects Amendment.--Section       3(e)(4)(C)(ii)(I) of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable       Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C.       1601(e)(4)(C)(ii)(I)) is amended--

(1) in item (bb), by striking ``and'';

(2) in item (cc), by striking the period and inserting ``;       and''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(dd) shall include reforestation and rehabilitation       activities conducted under section 7 of the Save Our Sequoias       Act.''.       SEC. 8. GIANT SEQUOIA STRIKE TEAMS.

(a) Giant Sequoia Strike Teams.--

(1) Establishment.--The Secretary concerned shall each       establish a Giant Sequoia Strike Team to assist the Secretary       concerned with the implementation of--

(A) primarily, section 6; and

(B) secondarily, section 7.

(2) Duties.--Each Strike Team shall--

(A) assist the Secretary concerned with any reviews,       including analysis under the National Environmental Policy       Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), consultations under       division A of subtitle III of title 54, United States Code       (commonly referred to as the National Historic Preservation       Act), and consultations under the Endangered Species Act of       1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);

(B) implement any necessary site preparation work in       advance of or as part of a Protection Project or       reforestation or rehabilitation activity;

(C) implement Protection Projects under section 6; and

(D) implement reforestation or rehabilitation activities       under section 7.

(3) Members.--The Secretary concerned may appoint no more       than 10 individuals each to serve on a Strike Team comprised       of--

(A) employees of the Department of the Interior;

(B) employees of the Forest Service;

(C) private contractors from any nonprofit organization,       State government, Tribal Government, local government,       academic institution, or private organization; and

(D) volunteers from any nonprofit organization, State       government, Tribal Government, local government, academic       institution, or private organization.       SEC. 9. GIANT SEQUOIA COLLABORATIVE RESTORATION GRANTS.

(a) In General.--The Secretary, in consultation with the       parties to the agreement under section 3, shall establish a       program or expand an existing program to award grants to       eligible entities to advance, facilitate, or improve giant       sequoia health and resiliency.

(b) Eligible Entity.--The Secretary may award grants under       this section to any nonprofit organization, Tribal       Government, local government, academic institution, or       private organization to help advance, facilitate, or improve       giant sequoia health and resiliency.

(c) Priority.--In awarding grants under this section, the       Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that--

(1) primarily, are likely to have the greatest impact on       giant sequoia health and resiliency; and

(2) secondarily--

(A) are small businesses or Tribal entities, particularly       in rural areas; and

(B) create or support jobs, particularly in rural areas.

(d) Use of Grant Funds.--Funds from grants awarded under       this section shall be used to--

(1) create, expand, or develop markets for hazardous fuels       removed under section 6, including markets for biomass and       biochar;

(2) facilitate hazardous fuel removal under section 6,       including by reducing the cost of transporting hazardous       fuels removed as part of a Protection Project;

(3) expand, enhance, develop, or create facilities or land       that can store or process hazardous fuels removed under       section 6;

(4) establish, develop, expand, enhance, or improve nursery       capacity or infrastructure necessary to facilitate the       Strategy established under section 7; or

(5) support Tribal management and conservation of giant       sequoias, including funding for Tribal historic preservation       officers.       SEC. 10. GIANT SEQUOIA INSECT MONITORING AND TECHNOLOGY.

(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall--

(1) develop and implement a strategy for monitoring insects       in giant sequoia groves with a high-risk or previous history       of insect infestations; and

(2) seek to enter into public-private partnerships to       deploy technology to assist in the short-term and long-term       monitoring of giant sequoia groves with current or potential       insect infestations.

(b) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall submit a       report to the relevant Congressional Committees that       contains--

(1) the strategy required under subsection (a)(1);

(2) an update on the effectiveness of the monitoring       program in preventing or addressing insect infestations in       giant sequoia groves; and

(3) program and policy recommendations to further address--

(A) research gaps regarding giant sequoia resiliency to       insects; and

(B) opportunities to improve the resiliency of giant       sequoias to insects.       SEC. 11. STEWARDSHIP CONTRACTING FOR GIANT SEQUOIAS.

(a) National Park Service.--Section 604 of the Healthy       Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6591c) is       amended--

(1) by amending subsection (a)(2) to read as follows:

``(2) Director.--The term `Director' means the Director of       the Bureau of Land Management with respect to Bureau of Land       Management lands and the Director of the National Park       Service with respect to lands within Kings Canyon National       Park, Sequoia National Park, and Yosemite National Park.'';       and

(2) in subsection (b), by striking ``national forests and       the public lands'' and inserting ``national forests, public       lands, and lands within Kings Canyon National Park, Sequoia       National Park, and Yosemite National Park''.

(b) Giant Sequoia Stewardship Contracts.--Section 604(c) of       the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C.       6591c(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``(8) Promoting the health and resiliency of giant       sequoias.''.

(c) Stewardship Contracting in Certain National Parks.--      Stewardship contracting projects occurring in Kings Canyon       National Park, Sequoia National Park, and Yosemite National       Park shall be carried out in accordance with the laws       (including regulations) applicable to the National Park       Service, including section 100753 of title 54, United States       Code.       SEC. 12. GIANT SEQUOIA EMERGENCY PROTECTION PROGRAM AND FUND.

(a) In General.--Chapter 1011 of title 54, United States       Code, is amended by inserting at the end the following:       ``Sec. 101123. Giant Sequoia Emergency Protection Program and

Fund

``(a) Giant Sequoia Emergency Protection Program.--The       National Park Foundation, in coordination with the National       Forest Foundation and the Foundation for America's Public       Lands, shall design and implement a comprehensive program to       assist and promote philanthropic programs of support that       benefit--

``(1) primarily, the management and conservation of giant       sequoias on covered public lands and covered National Forest       System lands to promote resiliency to wildfires, insects, and       drought; and

``(2) secondarily, the reforestation of giant sequoias on       covered public lands and covered National Forest System lands       impacted by wildfire.

``(b) Giant Sequoia Emergency Protection Fund.--

``(1) In general.--The National Park Foundation, in       coordination with the National Forest Foundation and the       Foundation for America's Public Lands, shall establish a       joint special account to be known as the Giant Sequoia       Emergency Protection Fund (referred to in this section as       `the Fund'), to be administered in support of the program       established under subsection (a).

``(2) Funds for giant sequoia emergency protection.--The       Fund shall consist of any gifts, devises, or bequests that       are provided to the National Park Foundation, National Forest       Foundation, or Foundation for America's Public Lands for the       purpose described in paragraph (1).

``(3) Use of funds.--Funds shall be available to the       National Park Foundation, National Forest Foundation, and       Foundation for America's Public Lands without further       appropriation, subject to the provisions in paragraph (4),       for projects and activities approved by the Director of the       National Park Service, Chief of the Forest Service, or       Director of the Bureau of Land Management as appropriate, or       their designees, to--

``(A) primarily, support the management and conservation of       giant sequoias on covered public lands and covered National       Forest System lands to promote resiliency to wildfires,       insects, and drought; and

``(B) secondarily, support the reforestation of giant       sequoias on covered public lands and covered National Forest       System lands impacted by wildfire.

``(4) Tribal support.--Of the funds provided to the       National Park Foundation, National Forest Foundation, and       Foundation for America's Public Lands under paragraph (3),       not less than 15 percent of such funds shall be used to       support Tribal management and conservation of giant sequoias       including       funding for Tribal historic preservation officers.

``(c) Summary.--Beginning 1 year after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the National Park Foundation, National       Forest Foundation, and Foundation for America's Public Lands       shall include with their annual reports a summary of the       status of the program and Fund created under this section       that includes--

``(1) a statement of the amounts deposited in the Fund       during the fiscal year;

``(2) the amount of the balance remaining in the Fund at       the end of the fiscal year; and

``(3) a description of the program and projects funded       during the fiscal year.

``(d) Definitions.--In this section, the terms `covered       public lands' and `covered National Forest System lands' have       the meaning given such terms in section 2 of the Save Our       Sequoias Act.

``(e) Termination of Effectiveness.--The authority provided       by this section shall terminate 7 years after the date of       enactment of the Save Our Sequoias Act.''.

(b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for       chapter 1011 of title 54, United States Code, is amended by       inserting at the end the following:  ``101123. Giant Sequoia Emergency Protection Program and Fund.''.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  2709, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2709, the bipartisan Save Our  Sequoias Act, led by Representatives Fong and Peters of California.

More than 120 years ago, President Teddy Roosevelt camped at the  Mariposa Grove of Giant Sequoias in what is today known as Yosemite  National Park, and he famously recorded in his diary: ``The majestic  trunks, beautiful in color and in symmetry, rose around us like the  pillars of a mightier cathedral than was ever conceived even by the  fervor of the Middle Ages.''

Mr. Speaker, today, the majestic cathedral that inspired one of the  Nation's greatest conservation Presidents is facing an existential  threat. In just 2 years, 2020 and 2021, we lost 20 percent of the  world's mature giant sequoias, which grow only in a specific area of  California in the Sierra Nevadas in a combined size roughly the area of  Washington, D.C., in about 70 distinct groves. That is the only place  on Earth where they grow naturally. Even though there is one planted  out on The Mall here in Washington, it hasn't fared quite as well as  those in California.

Saying this is unprecedented is an understatement. The last known  death by fire of a giant sequoia before this century dates back to 1297  AD.

Throughout their ancient lives, known to span over three millennia,  giant sequoias standing in California today have lived through the rise  and fall of the Roman Empire, the birth of Christ, and the founding of  our great Nation. These trees withstood thousands of years of fires,  earthquakes, floods, and anything that Mother Nature could throw their  way, but in the next 25 years, these iconic trees could be extinct in  the wild because, quite simply, we have been loving them to death.

For the 1,000-year period from 800 to 1800, giant sequoias  experienced an average of 30 fires per century. These low-severity  fires cleared out undergrowth and shade-tolerant species, such as white  fir, allowing the semi-serotinous sequoia cones to open and begin the  regeneration process, but decades of fire suppression and a lack of  forest management dropped the number of fires in these groves by a  factor of tenfold, down to just three fires per century, with some  groves untouched by fire for over a century.

In combination with historic drought conditions, this created a  perfect storm of hazardous ladder fuels that carry fire up into the  crown of the giant sequoias, creating virtually unstoppable infernos.

In the words of Dr. Christy Brigham, a scientist at Sequoia and Kings  Canyon National Parks: ``Bureaucracy is slow. Wildfire is fast.''

We are going to need to get a lot faster if we want to save these  trees. At its normal pace, it would take the Forest Service 52 years to  treat just its 19 highest priority groves. That is time we simply do  not have.

That is where the bipartisan Save Our Sequoias Act comes in today.  This legislation gives Federal, State, Tribal, local, and private land  managers the tools they need to expedite the restoration work necessary  to protect giant sequoias.

The Save Our Sequoias Act expedites environmental reviews, formalizes  interagency coordination through the Giant Sequoia Lands Coalition, and  declares a congressional emergency to increase the pace and scale of  forest management efforts.

I will briefly clarify the intent of Congress regarding this  legislation as it relates to the Wilderness Act. Over the course of  several months of bipartisan negotiations involving the Natural  Resources Committee, the Department of the Interior, the U.S. Forest  Service, and various stakeholders, several improvements were made to  the legislation.

During these negotiations, there was clear, universal, and  unambiguous agreement that the Wilderness Act did not preclude the  National Park Service from fulfilling its mission under the Organic Act  of 1916 to replant giant sequoias in groves that had been essentially  clear-cut by wildfire.

Because there was a clear consensus and prior statutory evidence  demonstrating the compatibility of the Wilderness Act with these  activities, which are fully outlined in the committee's report, the  final legislative text did not include any amendments to the Wilderness  Act, which would have been unnecessary.

This bill, again, is a culmination of years of bipartisan work, and I  thank the many co-leads of this legislation for their dedication and  commitment to putting aside partisan politics and doing what is best  for this iconic species.

I also recognize and thank many of the supporters who are  instrumental in the crafting of this legislation, including the Tule  River Tribe, Tulare County, Save the Redwoods League, CAL FIRE, Sierra  Forest Products, Clay Jordan, Teresa Benson, and Garrett Dickman, as  well as Drs. Stephen Sillett, Robert Van Pelt, Kristen Shive, and  Christy Brigham.

House of Representatives,                                        Committee on Agriculture,                                      Washington, DC, March 9, 2026.      Hon. Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: This letter confirms our mutual       understanding regarding H.R. 2709, the ``Save Our Sequoias       Act.'' Thank you for collaborating with the Committee on       Agriculture on the matters within our jurisdiction.

The Committee on Agriculture will forego any further       consideration of this bill. However, by foregoing       consideration at this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction       over any subject matter contained in this or similar       legislation. The Committee on Agriculture also reserves the       right to seek appointment of an appropriate number of       conferees, should it become necessary, and ask that you       support such a request.

We would appreciate a response to this letter confirming       this understanding with respect to H.R. 2709 and request a       copy of our letters on this matter be published in the       Congressional Record during Floor consideration.            Sincerely,                                             Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                  Committee on Natural Resources,                                      Washington, DC, March 9, 2026.      Hon. Glenn Thompson,      Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Thompson: I write regarding H.R. 2709, the       ``Save Our Sequoias Act,'' which was ordered reported by the       Committee on Natural Resources on March 5, 2026.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Agriculture and       appreciate your willingness to forgo further consideration of       the bill. I acknowledge that the       Committee on Agriculture will not formally consider H.R. 2709       and agree that the inaction of your Committee with respect to       the bill does not waive any jurisdiction over the subject       matter contained therein.

I am pleased to support your request to name members of the       Committee on Agriculture to any conference committee to       consider such provisions. I will ensure that our exchange of       letters is included in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration of the bill and will include such letters in       the committee report on H.R. 2709. I appreciate your       cooperation regarding this legislation.            Sincerely,                                                   Bruce Westerman,                                                          Chairman.

I echo the remarks from my colleague, Ms. Elfreth, about how this is  the way we should do legislation. We took a field trip out to the  sequoias, a bipartisan field trip. There is tons of research from  academic institutions on what is happening in these sequoia groves. We  looked at it. We worked together to create bipartisan legislation.

Honestly, we are way past time that we should have passed this bill,  but I am so thankful that we have been able to get it on the floor  today. I look forward to it passing out of the House and then moving on  over to the Senate.

This bill sparks something else. We passed a very bipartisan bill in  the House called the Fix Our Forests Act based off of the work we did  on the Save Our Sequoias Act. That bill is over in the Senate right now  waiting for Senate action. As we are moving into spring and will soon  be moving into the summer months when wildfires are raging, that is  another bill that we can't delay in getting passed.

Mr. Speaker, when I was in forestry school, the thing we learned  about giant sequoias is they had this really thick layer of bark. At  the time we didn't even really think it was possible to kill a giant  sequoia with wildfire. That is because, as I mentioned earlier, it was  1297 when the last known death by fire occurred. Trees are like history  books because we can count the rings and go back in time. We can see  what happened.

These trees have withstood fires for millennia. In the blink of an  eye, we could lose them all because the fire doesn't just burn down  around the trunks anymore. With these other trees growing up into the  crowns, it creates a ladder to take the fuel up into the crowns of the  trees.

Henry Ford once said that failure is the opportunity to begin again  more intelligently. The Save Our Sequoias Act is our opportunity to  begin managing giant sequoia growth more intelligently.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the Save Our Sequoias  Act. I urge the Senate to swiftly take up this bill, and send it to the  President's desk.