Secure Rural Schools Reauthorization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697657/secure-rural-schools-reauthorization-act-of-2025


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 356, the  Secure Rural Schools Reauthorization Act of 2025, which is a lifeline  for rural school districts that have experienced severe budget impacts  since 2023 when the program was not reauthorized. This bill is vital to  restoring critical funding, preventing further school closures, and  ensuring rural students have access to quality education that can  compete with urban communities.

However, this is not just an education issue. This is about investing  in the future of rural America and supporting communities surrounded by  Federal forests.

It is something I hear about regularly from the men and women of the  Fourth District of Arkansas who share my understanding that our schools  must be supported in a way that allows them to play a role as a  community hub while also supporting our timber industry that is the  lifeblood for many of our communities.

For generations, Arkansas counties with large swaths of Federal  forest land have received a share of Federal timber harvest revenue on  Federal land. Unfortunately, reduced timber revenue since the 1990s, as  a result of declining rates of timber harvesting, litigation, and  misguided environmental regulations, has drastically affected county  revenue, creating very real economic impacts in its wake.

Franklin, Garland, Hot Spring, Howard, Johnson, Logan, Montgomery,  Newton, Pike, Polk, Pope, Scott, and Yell Counties have lost millions  of their SRS funding while waiting for this legislation to be  reauthorized. Communities across Arkansas and the United States are  sounding the alarm, and it is time for Congress to listen.

This bill not only shines a light on an educational issue but  underscores the need for an increase in responsible forest management.  That is why I introduced the Fix Our Forests Act earlier this year,  which passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support. FOFA would  not only result in more stable funding for working families, but it  would also mitigate the devastation of wildfires in our wildland-urban  interfaces through the restoration of forest health and commonsense  management. I hope the Senate will act soon so we can send FOFA to the  President's desk quickly to help our rural communities throughout  Arkansas and the Nation.

It is time to restore revenue, revitalize resilience, and reauthorize  the Secure Rural Schools legislation for our rural timber communities.  This will be for our rural timber communities all across the country.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate my colleague, Mr. LaMalfa, for the work  that he has done on this, and I urge my colleagues to support this  legislation.