Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians Land Transfer Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697670/shingle-springs-band-of-miwok-indians-land-transfer-act-of-2025


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2302) to take certain Federal land in the State of  California into trust for the benefit of the Shingle Springs Band of  Miwok Indians, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2302

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Shingle Springs Band of       Miwok Indians Land Transfer Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. REVOCATION OF PUBLIC LAND ORDER; LANDS TO BE TAKEN                     INTO TRUST.

(a) Revocation of Public Land Order.--Notwithstanding any       other provision of law--

(1) Public Land Order 3309 (Sacramento 071209), dated       January 17, 1964 (29 Fed. Reg. 609), is revoked; and

(2) jurisdiction over the land described in the public land       order referred to in paragraph (1) is transferred to the       Secretary.

(b) Trust Transfer.--Not later than 180 days after the date       of the enactment of this Act, subject to valid existing       rights, the Secretary shall place the following land into       trust for the benefit of the Tribe:

(1) The approximately 80 acres of land generally depicted       as ``BLM Land-Proposed Transfer into Trust'' on the Map.

(2) The approximately 185 acres of land generally depicted       as ``Indian Creek Ranch-Proposed Transfer into Trust Land       Status'' on the Map.

(c) Review; Survey.--

(1) Review.--Before the deadline described in subsection       (b), the Secretary shall conduct a review of the land       described in that subsection to determine if a survey of the       land is required.

(2) Survey.--

(A) In general.--If the Secretary determines that a survey       is required under paragraph (1) after conducting the review       required under that paragraph, the Secretary--

(i) shall perform a survey of the land taken into trust       under subsection (b); and

(ii) may make minor corrections to the survey and legal       land description of the land described in that subsection as       the Secretary determines to be necessary to correct clerical,       typographical, and surveying errors.

(B) Availability.--A survey conducted under subparagraph       (A) shall be kept on file and available for public inspection       in the appropriate office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

(d) Lands Part of Reservation; Administration.--The land       taken into trust under subsection (b)--

(1) is hereby declared to be part of the Reservation; and

(2) shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance       with the laws and regulations generally applicable to       property held in trust by the United States for an Indian       Tribe.

(e) Gaming Prohibited.--Land taken into trust under       subsection (b) shall not be used for any class II gaming or       class III gaming under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25       U.S.C. 2701 et seq.) (as those terms are defined in section 4       of that Act (25 U.S.C. 2703)).

(f) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map prepared by the       Bureau of Land Management titled ``Proposed Bureau of Land       Management Land Transfer to Shingle Springs Rancheria'' and       dated May 2, 2025.

(2) Reservation.--The term ``Reservation'' means the       reservation of the Tribe.

(3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of the Interior.

(4) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Shingle Springs       Band of Miwok Indians, Shingle Springs Rancheria (Verona       Tract), California.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  2302, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2302, the Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians  Land Transfer Act of 2025, introduced by Congressman McClintock, would  place approximately 80 acres of BLM land and 185 acres of fee land into  trust for the Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians.

Descendants of the Miwok Indians once lived throughout north central  California, inhabiting land from the Sacramento area to the Sierra  Nevada mountains.

The Shingle Springs Band, however, was displaced by the Gold Rush of  the 1850s, prompting the Federal Government to refer to the Tribe as  the ``Sacramento-Verona Band of Homeless Indians.'' In 1920, the  government provided the Tribe a 160-acre parcel of land known as the  Verona Tract, which serves as the Tribe's rancheria.

As the years have passed, and without the realignment of Highway 50  in California, the rancheria has become largely landlocked. This has  prohibited the Tribe's growth and restricted its housing opportunities.

In 2014, roughly 41 acres of BLM land were placed into trust for the  Tribe to assist with Tribal housing needs. Developing the land for  housing has proved difficult, however, due to the land's rough terrain.

Recently, the Tribe purchased land near the rancheria known as the  Indian Creek Subdivision, which was previously approved for a now- defunct subdivision. The Tribe seeks to place this land into trust and  is pursuing this goal legislatively, as their previous attempts to  obtain fee-to-trust approval through the Federal administrative process  have been mired in bureaucracy.

The other parcels involved in this legislation comprise approximately  80 acres of BLM land that will be transferred into trust for the Tribe.  These parcels have suffered from various management issues, which have  led the Tribe and other surrounding landowners to raise concerns about  increased wildfire risk. Despite lacking ownership, the Tribe has  performed needed management functions on this land, a fact that  reflects positively on the Tribe's stewardship capabilities and deep- felt concern for the land's overall health.

Currently, the Tribe has no immediate commercial or development plans  for these parcels. Pursuant to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, gaming  on these lands is prohibited.

I applaud Mr. McClintock for working with the Tribe to develop H.R.  2302, which would place land into trust for the Shingle Springs Band of  Miwok Indians.

Mr. WESTERMAN.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I commend the gentleman for his work on  this important issue and representing his district so well.

Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, this legislation will allow the Shingle  Springs Band of Miwok Indians to place land into trust in a way that  will benefit both the Tribe and the surrounding area.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the adoption of the bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.