Small Cemetery Conveyance Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700730/small-cemetery-conveyance-act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 4284) to amend the Small Tract Act of 1983 to authorize the  Secretary of Agriculture to convey, without consideration, certain  cemeteries, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4284

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Small Cemetery Conveyance       Act''.       SEC. 2. CONVEYANCES OF CERTAIN CEMETERIES.

(a) Amendments to Small Tract Act of 1983.--The Small Tract       Act of 1983 (16 U.S.C. 521c et seq.) is amended--

(1) in section 2(a)--

(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;

(B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and       inserting ``; and''; and

(C) by adding at the end the following:

``(3) to convey, without consideration, certain parcels       used, or previously used, as cemeteries in accordance with       section 9.'';

(2) in section 3(6), by striking ``a cemetery (including a       parcel of not more than 1 acre adjacent to the parcel used as       a cemetery), a landfill, or'' and inserting ``a landfill       or''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:       ``SEC. 9. CONVEYANCES OF CERTAIN CEMETERIES.

``(a) In General.--The Secretary may convey, without       consideration, to a qualified person any parcel of land used,       or previously used, as a cemetery (including a parcel of not       more than 1 acre adjacent to the parcel used as a cemetery).

``(b) Condition of Conveyance.--A conveyance under       subsection (a) shall be subject to the condition that the       property conveyed under that subsection may only be used for       the purpose of operating a cemetery.

``(c) Reversion.--If the Secretary determines that at any       time a parcel conveyed under subsection (a) is used for a       purpose other than the purpose required under subsection (b),       all right, title, and interest in and to the parcel conveyed       pursuant to such subsection, including any improvements       thereon, shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to       the United States.

``(d) Waiver of Conveyance Costs.--

``(1) Exception available.--The Secretary may waive the       application of any requirement under section 4 to a       conveyance to a qualified person under this section if the       Secretary determines that such a waiver is appropriate based       upon the demonstrated need of the qualified person.

``(2) Clarification of authority.--The waiver authority       under paragraph (1) shall be in addition to the authority       available to the Secretary pursuant to the last sentence of       section 4.

``(e) Definitions.--In this section:

``(1) Cemetery.--The term `cemetery' means a natural or       prepared physical location (regardless of location below, on,       or above the surface of the earth) into which human remains       are deposited--

``(A)(i) as part of--

``(I) a death rite or ceremony of a culture; or

``(II) a common burying ground of a community; or

``(ii) that is determined to be a cemetery by an Indian       Tribe; and

``(B) that, as determined by the Secretary, is a parcel of       land less than or equal to 40 acres.

``(2) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian Tribe' means the       governing body of any individually identified and federally       recognized Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation,       pueblo, village, community, affiliated Tribal group, or       component reservation included on the most recent list       published pursuant to section 104(a) of the Federally       Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5131(a)).

``(3) Qualified land grant-merced.--The term `qualified       land grant-merced' means a community land grant issued under       the laws or customs of the Government of Spain or Mexico       that--

``(A) is recognized under New Mexico Statutes Chapter 49,       Articles 1 and 4 (or a successor statute); and

``(B)(i) has a record of historical or traditional use on       Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary; or

``(ii) has a patented exterior boundary that is or was       previously located on or adjacent to Federal land under the       jurisdiction of the Secretary.

``(4) Qualified person.--The term `qualified person' means,       with respect to a cemetery, a State or local government,       Indian Tribe, or qualified land grant-merced that has a bona       fide interest or historic claim to the cemetery.''.

(b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section or an       amendment made by this section may be construed to modify,       waive, or otherwise affect the application of the Native       American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C.       3001 et seq.).

Mr. WESTERMAN.  4284, the bill under consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of Representative Leger Fernandez'  bill, H.R. 4284, the Small Cemetery Conveyance Act.

Mr. Speaker, all across the West, there are small, historic  cemeteries in rural communities that sit on or adjacent to Federal  land.

These are places where families and communities have laid their loved  ones to rest for generations long before jurisdictional boundaries were  drawn on a map. Due to the Federal Government's large footprint all  around these large cemeteries, basic access for upkeep, ceremonies, or  simply paying respects to loved ones can turn into a bureaucratic mess.

H.R. 4284 is a commonsense fix. It gives the U.S. Forest Service,  which administers a significant portion of the lands near or under  these cemeteries, clear authority under the Small Tract Act to transfer  small cemetery parcels to the people who are best positioned to care  for them, the local and Tribal Governments with close connections to  those laid to rest.

Rather than going through the lengthy process of requiring an act of  Congress to convey each individual parcel on a one-off basis, this bill  establishes a legal framework for communities to gain possession of  historic cemeteries.

The legislation respects local stewardship and reduces the Federal  footprint, all while ensuring safeguards are in place to make sure that  these hallowed sites are used as cemeteries in perpetuity.

This bill puts locals in charge of the cemeteries they have  maintained for centuries, allowing the Forest Service to focus on their  core mission: restoring health and resiliency to our Nation's  overgrown, fire-prone Federal lands.

This bill removes red tape from the burdensome process of  transferring land in these special cases so that local communities can  more easily honor their loved ones and be stewards of the places where  their ancestors are at peace.

I support this bipartisan piece of legislation. I thank  Representative Leger Fernandez and Representative Hurd for their work  together on this bill.

U.S. House of Representatives,                                        Committee on Agriculture,                                   Washington, DC, January 13, 2025.      Hon. Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: This letter confirms our mutual       understanding regarding H.R. 4284, the ``Small Cemetery       Conveyance Act.'' Thank you for collaborating with the       Committee on Agriculture on the matters within our       jurisdiction.

The Committee on Agriculture will forego any further       consideration of this bill. However, by foregoing       consideration at this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction       over any subject matter contained in this or similar       legislation. The Committee on Agriculture also reserves the       right to seek appointment of an appropriate number of       conferees, should it become necessary, and ask that you       support such a request.

We would appreciate a response to this letter confirming       this understanding with respect to H.R. 4284 and request a       copy of our letters on this matter be published in the       Congressional Record during Floor consideration.            Sincerely,                                             Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,      Chairman.                                   ____                                      U.S. House of Representatives,                                  Committee on Natural Resources,                                   Washington, DC, January 13, 2026.      Hon. Glenn Thompson,      Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Thompson: I write regarding H.R. 4284, the       ``Small Cemetery Conveyance Act,'' which was ordered reported       by the Committee on Natural Resources on December 17, 2025.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Agriculture and       appreciate your willingness to forgo further consideration of       the bill. I acknowledge that the Committee on Agriculture       will not formally consider H.R. 4284 and agree that the       inaction of your Committee with respect to the bill does not       waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained       therein.

I am pleased to support your request to name members of the       Committee on Agriculture to any conference committee to       consider such provisions. I will ensure that our exchange of       letters is included in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration of the bill and will include such letters in       the committee report on H.R. 4284. I appreciate your       cooperation regarding this legislation.            Sincerely,                                                   Bruce Westerman,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                        Committee on Agriculture,                                      Washington, DC, June 30, 2025.      Hon. Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: This letter confirms our mutual       understanding regarding H.R. 1665, the ``DIGITAL Applications       Act.'' Thank you for collaborating with the Committee on       Agriculture on the matters within our jurisdiction.

The Committee on Agriculture will forego any further       consideration of this bill. However, by foregoing       consideration at this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction       over any subject matter contained in this or similar       legislation. The Committee on Agriculture also reserves the       right to seek appointment of an appropriate number of       conferees, should it become necessary, and ask that you       support such a request.

We would appreciate a response to this letter confirming       this understanding with respect to H.R. 1665 and request a       copy of our letters on this matter be published in the       Congressional Record during Floor consideration.            Sincerely,                                             Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                  Committee on Natural Resources,                                       Washington, DC, July 1, 2025.      Hon. Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,      Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: I write regarding our mutual       understanding of H.R. 1665, the DIGITAL Applications Act,       which was ordered report by the Committee on Natural       Resources.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Agriculture and       appreciate your willingness to forgo further consideration of       the bill. I acknowledge that the Committee on Agriculture       will not formally consider H.R. 1665 and agree that the       inaction of your Committee with respect to the bill does not       waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained       therein.

I am pleased to support your request to name members of the       Committee on Agriculture to any conference committee to       consider such provisions. I will ensure that our exchange of       letters is included in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration of the bill. I appreciate your cooperation       regarding this legislation.            Sincerely.                                                   Bruce Westerman,                          Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time.

Mr. Speaker, this is a simple, bipartisan measure that serves the  spiritual needs of rural, Tribal, and local communities across the  West. It lightens the administrative burden on the Forest Service and  reduces the Federal footprint. Above all, it returns the protection and  care of local cemeteries to those with the closest connections to them.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.