Tribal Trust Land Homeownership Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700373/tribal-trust-land-homeownership-act-of-2025


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (S. 723) to require the Bureau of Indian Affairs to process and  complete all mortgage packages associated with residential and business  mortgages on Indian land by certain deadlines, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                   S. 723

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Tribal Trust Land       Homeownership Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Applicable bureau office.--The term ``applicable Bureau       office'' means--

(A) a Regional office of the Bureau;

(B) an Agency office of the Bureau; or

(C) a Land Titles and Records Office of the Bureau.

(2) Bureau.--The term ``Bureau'' means the Bureau of Indian       Affairs.

(3) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of       the Bureau.

(4) First certified title status report.--The term ``first       certified title status report'' means the title status report       needed to verify title status on Indian land.

(5) Indian land.--The term ``Indian land'' has the meaning       given the term in section 162.003 of title 25, Code of       Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of       this Act).

(6) Land mortgage.--The term ``land mortgage'' means a       mortgage obtained by an individual Indian who owns a tract of       trust land for the purpose of--

(A) home acquisition;

(B) home construction;

(C) home improvements; or

(D) economic development.

(7) Leasehold mortgage.--The term ``leasehold mortgage''       means a mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument that       pledges the leasehold interest of a lessee as security for a       debt or other obligation owed by the lessee to a lender or       other mortgagee.

(8) Mortgage package.--The term ``mortgage package'' means       a proposed residential leasehold mortgage, business leasehold       mortgage, land mortgage, or right-of-way document submitted       to an applicable Bureau office under section 3(a)(1).

(9) Relevant federal agency.--The term ``relevant Federal       agency'' means any of the following Federal agencies that       guarantee or make direct mortgage loans on Indian land:

(A) The Department of Agriculture.

(B) The Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(C) The Department of Veterans Affairs.

(10) Right-of-way document.--The term ``right-of-way       document'' has the meaning given the term in section 169.2 of       title 25, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the       date of enactment of this Act).

(11) Subsequent certified title status report.--The term       ``subsequent certified title status report'' means the title       status report needed to identify any liens against a       residential, business, or land lease on Indian land.       SEC. 3. MORTGAGE REVIEW AND PROCESSING.

(a) Review and Processing Deadlines.--

(1) In general.--As soon as practicable after receiving a       proposed residential leasehold mortgage, business leasehold       mortgage,       land mortgage, or right-of-way document, the applicable       Bureau office shall notify the lender that the proposed       residential leasehold mortgage, business leasehold mortgage,       or right-of-way document has been received.

(2) Preliminary review.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 10 calendar days after       receipt of a proposed residential leasehold mortgage,       business leasehold mortgage, land mortgage, or right-of-way       document, the applicable Bureau office shall conduct and       complete a preliminary review of the residential leasehold       mortgage, business leasehold mortgage, land mortgage, or       right-of-way document to verify that all required documents       are included.

(B) Incomplete documents.--As soon as practicable, but not       more than 2 calendar days, after finding that any required       documents are missing under subparagraph (A), the applicable       Bureau office shall notify the lender of the missing       documents.

(3) Approval or disapproval.--

(A) Leasehold mortgages.--Not later than 20 calendar days       after receipt of a complete executed residential leasehold       mortgage or business leasehold mortgage, proof of required       consents, and other required documentation, the applicable       Bureau office shall approve or disapprove the residential       leasehold mortgage or business leasehold mortgage.

(B) Right-of-way documents.--Not later than 30 calendar       days after receipt of a complete executed right-of-way       document, proof of required consents, and other required       documentation, the applicable Bureau office shall approve or       disapprove the right-of-way document.

(C) Land mortgages.--Not later than 30 calendar days after       receipt of a complete executed land mortgage, proof of       required consents, and other required documentation, the       applicable Bureau office shall approve or disapprove the land       mortgage.

(D) Requirements.--The determination of whether to approve       or disapprove a residential leasehold mortgage or business       leasehold mortgage under subparagraph (A), a right-of-way       document under subparagraph (B), or a land mortgage under       subparagraph (C)--

(i) shall be in writing; and

(ii) in the case of a determination to disapprove a       residential leasehold mortgage, business leasehold mortgage,       right-of-way document, or land mortgage shall, state the       basis for the determination.

(E) Application.--This paragraph shall not apply to a       residential leasehold mortgage or business leasehold mortgage       with respect to Indian land in cases in which the applicant       for the residential leasehold mortgage or business leasehold       mortgage is an Indian tribe (as defined in subsection (d) of       the first section of the Act of 1955 (69 Stat. 539, chapter       615; 126 Stat. 1150; 25 U.S.C. 415(d))) that has been       approved for leasing under subsection (h) of that section (69       Stat. 539, chapter 615; 126 Stat. 1151; 25 U.S.C. 415(h)).

(4) Certified title status reports.--

(A) Completion of reports.--

(i) In general.--Not later than 10 calendar days after the       applicable Bureau office approves a residential leasehold       mortgage, business leasehold mortgage, land mortgage, or       right-of-way document under paragraph (3), the applicable       Bureau office shall complete the processing of, as       applicable--

(I) a first certified title status report, if a first       certified title status report was not completed prior to the       approval of the residential leasehold mortgage, business       leasehold mortgage, land mortgage, or right-of-way document;       and

(II) a subsequent certified title status report.

(ii) Requests for first certified title status reports.--      Notwithstanding clause (i), not later than 14 calendar days       after the applicable Bureau office receives a request for a       first certified title status report from an applicant for a       residential leasehold mortgage, business leasehold mortgage,       land mortgage, or right-of-way document under paragraph (1),       the applicable Bureau office shall complete the processing of       the first certified title status report.

(B) Notice.--

(i) In general.--As soon as practicable after completion of       the processing of, as applicable, a first certified title       status report or a subsequent certified title status report       under subparagraph (A), but by not later than the applicable       deadline described in that subparagraph, the applicable       Bureau office shall give notice of the completion to the       lender.

(ii) Form of notice.--The applicable Bureau office shall       give notice under clause (i)--

(I) electronically through secure, encryption software; and

(II) through the United States mail.

(iii) Option to opt out.--The lender may opt out of       receiving notice electronically under clause (ii)(I).

(b) Notices.--

(1) In general.--If the applicable Bureau office does not       complete the review and processing of mortgage packages under       subsection (a) (including any corresponding first certified       title status report or subsequent certified title status       report under paragraph (4) of that subsection) by the       applicable deadline described in that subsection, immediately       after missing the deadline, the applicable Bureau office       shall provide notice of the delay in review and processing       to--

(A) the party that submitted the mortgage package or       requested the first certified title status report; and

(B) the lender for which the mortgage package (including       any corresponding first certified title status report or       subsequent certified title status report) is being requested.

(2) Requests for updates.--In addition to providing the       notices required under paragraph (1), not later than 2       calendar days after receiving a relevant inquiry with respect       to a submitted mortgage package from the party that submitted       the mortgage package or the lender for which the mortgage       package (including any corresponding first certified title       status report or subsequent certified title status report) is       being requested or an inquiry with respect to a requested       first certified title status report from the party that       requested the first certified title status report, the       applicable Bureau office shall respond to the inquiry.

(c) Delivery of First and Subsequent Certified Title Status       Reports.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any       first certified title status report and any subsequent       certified title status report, as applicable, shall be       delivered directly to--

(1) the lender;

(2) any local or regional agency office of the Bureau that       requests the first certified title status report or       subsequent certified title status report;

(3) in the case of a proposed residential leasehold       mortgage or land mortgage, the relevant Federal agency that       insures or guarantees the loan; and

(4) if requested, any individual or entity described in       section 150.303 of title 25, Code of Federal Regulations (as       in effect on the date of enactment of this Act).

(d) Access to Trust Asset and Accounting Management System       (TAAMS).--Beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, the       relevant Federal agencies and Indian Tribes shall have read-      only access to portals containing the relevant land documents       from the Trust Asset and Accounting Management System       (commonly known as ``TAAMS'') maintained by the Bureau.

(e) Annual Report.--

(1) In general.--Not later than March 1 of each calendar       year, the Director shall submit to the Committee on Indian       Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources       of the House of Representatives a report describing--

(A) for the most recent calendar year, the number of       requests received to complete residential leasehold mortgage       packages, business leasehold mortgage packages, land mortgage       packages, and right-of-way document packages (including any       requests for corresponding first certified title status       reports and subsequent certified title status reports),       including a detailed description of--

(i) requests that were and were not successfully completed       by the applicable deadline described in subsection (a) by       each applicable Bureau office; and

(ii) the reasons for each applicable Bureau office not       meeting any applicable deadlines; and

(B) the length of time needed by each applicable Bureau       office during the most recent calendar year to provide the       notices required under subsection (b)(1).

(2) Requirement.--In submitting the report required under       paragraph (1), the Director shall maintain the       confidentiality of personally identifiable information of the       parties involved in requesting the completion of residential       leasehold mortgage packages, business leasehold mortgage       packages, land mortgage packages, and right-of-way document       packages (including any corresponding first certified title       status reports and subsequent certified title status       reports).

(f) GAO Study.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall submit to the Committee on Indian Affairs of the       Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of       Representatives a report that includes--

(1) an evaluation of the need for residential leasehold       mortgage packages, business leasehold mortgage packages, land       mortgage packages, and right-of-way document packages of each       Indian Tribe to be digitized for the purpose of streamlining       and expediting the completion of mortgage packages for       residential mortgages on Indian land (including the       corresponding first certified title status reports and       subsequent certified title status reports); and

(2) an estimate of the time and total cost necessary for       Indian Tribes to digitize the records described in paragraph       (1), in conjunction with assistance in that digitization from       the Bureau.       SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF REALTY OMBUDSMAN POSITION.

(a) In General.--The Director shall establish within the       Division of Real Estate Services of the Bureau the position       of Realty Ombudsman, who shall report directly to the       Secretary of the Interior.

(b) Functions.--The Realty Ombudsman shall--

(1) ensure that the applicable Bureau offices are meeting       the mortgage review and processing deadlines established by       section 3(a);

(2) ensure that the applicable Bureau offices comply with       the notices required under subsections (a) and (b) of section       3;

(3) serve as a liaison to other Federal agencies, including       by--

(A) ensuring the Bureau is responsive to all of the       inquiries from the relevant Federal agencies; and

(B) helping to facilitate communications between the       relevant Federal agencies and       the Bureau on matters relating to mortgages on Indian land;

(4) receive inquiries, questions, and complaints directly       from Indian Tribes, members of Indian Tribes, and lenders in       regard to executed residential leasehold mortgages, business       leasehold mortgages, land mortgages, or right-of-way       documents; and

(5) serve as the intermediary between the Indian Tribes,       members of Indian Tribes, and lenders and the Bureau in       responding to inquiries and questions and resolving       complaints.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  723, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, S. 723, the Tribal Trust Land Homeownership Act of 2025,  sponsored by Senate Majority Leader Thune, would establish firm  timelines for the Bureau of Indian Affairs to review and approve  residential and business mortgage applications on Tribal trust land.  This bill also increases transparency and accountability in the  mortgage review process and modernizes outdated systems that have  contributed to delays.

Since trust land is held by the United States on behalf of Tribes and  Tribal members, mortgages on that land require approval from the Bureau  of Indian Affairs before they can close. While current law provides  review timelines for certain leaseholds and rights-of-way mortgages,  there is no statutory deadline for trust land mortgages.

As a result, applicants and lenders have faced prolonged uncertainty.  Reports have highlighted cases in which borrowers waited more than 1  year for their required title status reports, creating significant  barriers to homeownership and business development in Indian Country.  These delays can discourage lenders and limit access to capital in  communities that already face housing shortages and economic  challenges.

S. 723 addresses these concerns by setting enforceable timelines for  BIA review, requiring notice to lenders and a report to Congress,  supporting the digitization of records, improving access to  information, and creating a realty ombudsman to help resolve issues. By  reducing delay and uncertainty, this bill makes it easier for Tribes  and Tribal members to secure financing for homes and businesses.

I commend Senator Thune and Representative Dusty Johnson for their  leadership on this issue and for working to improve housing and  economic opportunity in Indian Country.

Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr. Speaker, this bill, S. 723, is  identical to a bill that I had introduced here in the House, H.R. 2130.  It made its way through the Natural Resources Committee and had a  hearing, for which I am very thankful to the chair and ranking member  of that committee. It passed out of that committee unanimously. This is  a strong piece of commonsense legislation.

Mr. Speaker, what does it do? First off, we know that our country is  facing a housing affordability crisis. In Indian Country, it is even  worse.

This legislation addresses specific and solvable problems that  contribute to this problem on Tribal land. Frankly, it is hard to  understand what a big problem this is in Indian Country. People can't  get their hands on the proper mortgage documents because, today,  mortgages on Tribal trust land, whether they are residential or  commercial, must be reviewed and approved by BIA before they can be  finalized.

Mr. Speaker, the BIA has established timelines for that process, but  those timelines are rarely met, and that contributes to serious delay.

As a result, Native Americans living on Tribal trust land face a  reduced opportunity, a reduced access to homeownership, a piece of the  American Dream.

Mr. Speaker, off reservation, accessing documents like title records  can be done in minutes, and insurance policies can often be issued in  just a few weeks.

However, on Tribal trust land, that same process is not completed in  a few weeks. It often takes a few months. In some instances, it has  taken as long as 1 year. In 1 year, that sale can fall apart.

A family ready to buy a home should not have to wait months because  of bureaucratic inefficiencies. When the BIA fails to do its work in a  timely manner, it is families and lenders and the marketplace that pay  the price.

The South Dakota Native Homeownership Coalition told me of a scenario  where they went to the BIA offices to try to find out how they could  expedite these processes. As a part of that meeting, they discovered  that 25 mortgage-related documents were stalled on the desk of the BIA  agency superintendent.

Mr. Speaker, that is 25 families, businesses, and individuals whose  futures were unnecessarily delayed because of bureaucratic  inefficiency. What a profound and unnecessary harm.

This legislation does as the chairman said. It improves transparency  and accountability. It establishes clear timelines. Importantly, it  does not undermine Tribal sovereignty or in any way weaken the Federal  trust responsibility. It simply makes sure that this process functions  as intended.

Mr. Speaker, I have been proud to partner with Senator John Thune,  who has expertly guided this through the Senate, and I am particularly  grateful to the South Dakota Native Homeownership Coalition. They have  done incredible work advocating for this solution.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to support the Tribal Trust Land  Homeownership Act.

Mr. Speaker, S. 723 promotes certainty, accountability, and  transparency in the trust land mortgage process.

By establishing clear timelines and modernizing mortgage  administration, the bill removes unnecessary barriers to homeownership  and business development for Tribal communities.

I thank my colleague from South Dakota (Mr. Johnson) for leading the  House companion to this legislation and the entire South Dakota  delegation for their coordinated effort on this important issue.

Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of S. 723, and I yield back the balance  of my time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.