Undersea Cable Protection Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699960/undersea-cable-protection-act-of-2025


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1057, I call  up the bill (H.R. 261) to amend the National Marine Sanctuaries Act to  prohibit requiring an authorization for the installation, continued  presence, operation, maintenance, repair, or recovery of undersea fiber  optic cables in a national marine sanctuary if such activities have  previously been authorized by a Federal or State agency, and ask for  its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  261.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 261 sponsored by  Congressman Buddy Carter of Georgia.

Undersea cables play a crucial role in the global economy. These  cables are roughly 1 to 2 inches in diameter. Yet they crisscross the  globe and carry approximately 95 percent of global internet traffic,  facilitating trillions of dollars in global financial transactions.

The Undersea Cable Protection Act of 2025 eliminates the requirement  for undersea cables to obtain a special use permit under the National  Marine Sanctuaries Act as a condition to route these projects through a  national marine sanctuary.

Undersea cables are and will continue to be subject to numerous  environmental statutes including the National Environmental Policy Act,  the Endangered Species Act, the Marine Mammal Protection Act, the  Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, the National  Historic Preservation Act, and the Coastal Zone Management Act. These  are just statutes in the Committee on Natural Resources' jurisdiction.

Many of these laws are implemented by the National Oceanic and  Atmospheric Administration, or NOAA. We will hear from our friends on  the other side of the aisle that this bill hinders NOAA's ability to  conduct an environmental review of these projects. That is simply not  true.

What is true, however, is that the specific use permit, which under  current law only lasts 5 years, has caused national marine sanctuaries  to effectively become no-go zones for undersea cables. This means  reduced routes of diversity, consolidation of cable landing zones, and  an increased threat to our national security.

Notably, this dynamic does not just cause stress on the physical  infrastructure of these projects. Many of us are aware of the stories  from around the world of undersea cables being severed with recent  examples of this occurring in both Taiwan and the Baltic.

In the United States, as these cables have a limited number of  landing areas, our adversaries would have the ability to cut off an  increasing portion of communications, internet activity, and financial  transactions by attacking just a few points.

Combine this looming threat with the increasing number of cables  required in the coming years to keep pace with demand, and their  growing role as critical infrastructure in our daily lives, and failure  to support the continued development of these projects could pose a  grave national security risk.

Removing the requirement for a special use permit advances the  objectives of House Republicans and the administration to reduce  regulatory burdens and encourage American competitiveness, an objective  that President Trump emphasized when he signed Executive Order 14267,  Reducing Anticompetitive Regulatory Barriers.

Advancing this legislation will allow for the deployment of undersea  cables while providing appropriate protection of our marine resources.  I urge my colleagues to support the legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I think it is important that we understand exactly what  is going on here. If you look at this map, this is an example along the  California coast. These pink areas are national marine sanctuaries. You  have this one zone down here by Morro Bay and Grover Beach, where  cables can actually leave the shore. You can see the concentration of  all of the existing cables in this area.

Mr. Speaker, it is possible to put a cable across a marine sanctuary  right now. There was a law or a rule passed in 2002, I believe, that  set up this special use permit. The problem is that it gave a 5-year  special use permit, and these are 25-year-plus projects when you put  one of these cables in.

Mr. Speaker, NOAA had the assignment to come up with what the lease  cost would be to put these cables across a marine sanctuary. In all of  NOAA's infinite wisdom, they came up with a price tag of $40,000 to  $100,000 per mile, subject to inflation.

Nobody has gotten one of these permits. Nobody has put a cable across  because this rule by the Federal Government has disincentivized all of  these companies from being able to run cables. It seems that the  purpose of the rule in the first place was just to keep cables out of  the marine sanctuaries.

Mr. Speaker, if somebody were to put a cable through a marine  sanctuary, they would still have to go through the NEPA process. They  would have to go through the entire regulatory process to get a permit  to put the cable across the sanctuary. It is not like you are throwing  away all environmental oversight and all environmental guidelines to be  able to bury one of these cables, or not bury but run it along the  ocean floor.

Again, they are 1 inch to 2 inches in diameter. If you just looked at  1 mile at, say, 4 inches in diameter, that strip of land at a rate of  $40,000 per mile would be the equivalent of a yearly rent of about $1  million per acre every year.

The whole rule and the law was stacked against doing anything, and  that is exactly what has happened. We want to open this up where  American companies can invest in American fiber cables so that we can  communicate across the ocean and we can get away from all of this  consolidation in one area where it is easy to target.

Mr. Speaker, the article featured behind me found that adversaries  like Russia and China are taking disruptive action against undersea  cables on a more frequent basis around the world. Here is an article  just from yesterday talking about a Chinese cargo ship captain who has  been charged with severing a natural gas pipeline and a communication  cable in the Baltic Sea.

If we stick to the status quo, we are leaving ourselves more  vulnerable to similar threats at our doorstep. Our adversaries are  taking an increasingly aggressive posture in targeting critical  infrastructure.

Congressman Carter's legislation promotes route diversity, reduces  threats to global communication systems, and ensures that the United  States wins this global technology race. That is why it is important  that we pass this legislation and that we give companies the certainty  that they can build these communication lines and diversify where they  are locating them so that we can protect our economic security and also  our national security.

This legislation before us today accomplishes two objectives:

First, it eliminates the requirement for undersea cables to obtain a  special use permit for operating within national marine sanctuaries.  Again, undersea cable projects would still need to undergo review under  the National Environmental Policy Act, the Endangered Species Act, the  Marine Mammal Protection Act, the Magnuson-Stevens Act, the National  Historic Preservation Act, and the Coastal Zone Management Act. None of  that permitting is waived in this bill, and I would dare say anybody  wanting to run one of these cables would say they are getting to do it  and to avoid all environmental laws and protections. I don't think  people running these cables want to do that.

Second, it removes the 5-year timeline for any special use permit  within any national marine sanctuary. Together, these reforms reduce  regulatory burdens. They protect our national security, and they ensure  that America can lead the way in deploying undersea cables while  protecting our marine environments.

Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Congressman Carter for his leadership on  this issue. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  yield back the balance of my time.