Vicksburg National Military Park Boundary Modification Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700750/vicksburg-national-military-park-boundary-modification-act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 4467) to modify the boundary of the Vicksburg National  Military Park in the State of Mississippi, and for other purposes, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4467

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Vicksburg National Military       Park Boundary Modification Act''.       SEC. 2. VICKSBURG NATIONAL MILITARY PARK CONVEYANCE AND                     BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.

(a) Conveyance.--

(1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to       in this Act as the ``Secretary'') shall convey to the State       of Mississippi (referred to in this Act as the ``State''), by       quitclaim deed and without consideration, the Federal land       described in paragraph (2) to be used in accordance with       subsection (c).

(2) Description of federal land.--The Federal land referred       to in paragraph (1) is the following:

(A) The parcel of approximately 1.69 acres of Federal land       within the boundary of Vicksburg National Military Park       (referred to in this Act as the ``Park''), as depicted on the       map entitled ``Vicksburg National Military Park Proposed       Disposal of a Portion of NPS Tract 01-103'', numbered 306/      194,908, and dated September 2024.

(B) The parcel of approximately 5.74 acres of Federal land       within the boundary of the Park, as depicted on the map       entitled ``Vicksburg National Military Park Proposed Disposal       of a Portion of NPS Tracts Near Union Ave'', numbered 306/      194,907, and dated September 2024.

(b) Boundary Modification.--On conveyance of the Federal       land described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall modify       the boundary of the Park to exclude the Federal land       conveyed.

(c) Use of Lands.--The Federal land conveyed to the State       under this Act--

(1) shall be used to facilitate public access to the Park       and to enhance the visitor experience at the Park in a manner       consistent with the interpretative mission of the Park, as       determined by the Secretary;

(2) shall not be used in a manner that adversely impacts       Park resources or the Park visitor experience, as determined       by the Secretary; and

(3) shall be subject to any use restriction the Secretary       determines to be appropriate.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  4467, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4467, the Vicksburg National  Military Park Boundary Modification Act, which was introduced by  Representative Thompson and is cosponsored by the entire Mississippi  congressional delegation.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation conveys two small parcels of National  Park Service land to the State of Mississippi to build a new state-of- the-art welcome center for Vicksburg National Military Park.

Vicksburg National Military Park marks the site of the Battle of  Vicksburg, one of the true watershed moments of the Civil War. Over the  course of 6 weeks in 1863, Union forces under General Ulysses S. Grant  encircled the Confederate stronghold of Vicksburg National Military  Park, ultimately forcing its surrender on July 4, 1863. The victory  gave the Union full control of the Mississippi River and split the  Confederacy in half. It is widely recognized by historians as a turning  point in the war.

Today, Vicksburg National Military Park contains more than 1,300  monuments and markers; 20 miles of reconstructed trenches; the USS  Cairo gunboat; and the Vicksburg National Cemetery.

The park serves as a major destination in Mississippi for education,  reflection, and historical tourism. In fact, in 2022, more than 400,000  visitors came to Vicksburg, generating approximately $36 million in  economic activity and supporting hundreds of local jobs.

While that economic and educational impact is substantial, it is  currently constrained by aging visitor facilities that limit public  engagement. To address this, the State of Mississippi is leading an  effort to build a new state-of-the-art welcome center, which would be  financed with non-Federal dollars.

H.R. 4467 helps support this effort by transferring two small parcels  of National Park Service land, totaling approximately 7 acres, to the  State so they can build this new facility for visitors.

This legislation is an important and practical step that will enhance  the visitor experience without unnecessary expense to the Federal  taxpayer. This is a model for future public-private partnerships and a  win-win for both the Federal Government and the State of Mississippi.

By improving visitor experiences and enhancing a site integral to  American history, this bill also directly advances the goals of  President Trump's executive order on celebrating America's 250th  birthday.

I thank the entire Mississippi congressional delegation for their  work advancing this practical bill that will improve public access and  education during America's 250th anniversary year at this hallowed  site.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time, and  I am prepared to close.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, this is a commonsense bill that helps a  local community improve a pivotal Civil War-era military park while  reducing the Federal estate.

As we celebrate our Nation's 250th anniversary, this bill will allow  Mississippians to take the lead in telling the story of Vicksburg for  generations to come.

Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.