Wetlands Conservation and Access Improvement Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693493/wetlands-conservation-and-access-improvement-act-of-2025


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2316) to amend the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration  Act to provide that interest on obligations held in the Federal aid to  wildlife restoration fund shall become available for apportionment at  the beginning of fiscal year 2033.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2316

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Wetlands Conservation and       Access Improvement Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. AVAILABILITY OF INTEREST ON OBLIGATIONS HELD IN                     FEDERAL AID TO WILDLIFE RESTORATION FUND.

Section 3(b)(2)(C) of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife       Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669b(b)(2)(C)) is amended by       striking ``2026'' and inserting ``2033''.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  2316, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2316, the Wetlands  Conservation and Access Improvement Act of 2025.

This bill is sponsored by Representative Hurd of Colorado, and it  would ensure that the interest from unallocated Pittman-Robertson funds  continue to go to North America Wetlands Conservation Act, or NAWCA.

NAWCA is one of the most successful conservation programs  administered by the Federal Government and has proven to be invaluable  all over the country as well as in my home State of Arkansas.

Over 100,000 people visit Arkansas each year to hunt waterfowl in the  pristine flyways of The Natural State. Across North America, NAWCA  projects have conserved nearly 34 million acres of wetland habitat for  migratory waterfowl.

Funds generated under Pittman-Robertson come from excise taxes on the  sale of hunting equipment and firearms. Various State and wildlife  agencies, as represented by the Association of Fish & Wildlife  Agencies, are on record supporting this approach, further confirming  its viability and effectiveness.

I commend my colleague from Colorado (Mr. Hurd) for being a champion  for sportsmen and -women, and I thank him for his work on this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, by passing this commonsense legislation,  the House will ensure that we can continue conserving vital waterfowl  habitats for years to come.

This is important for sportsmen and -women who depend on healthy  wetland habitats for hunting, fishing, and other forms of wildlife- centered recreation. H.R. 2316 is a win for conservation and the  sportsmen and -women communities alike. NAWCA has proven to be a very  successful program.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.