-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698684/9999


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I am beyond outraged that President Trump  would commit such a brazen act of war as he has done in Venezuela with  absolutely no notice, except to the oil companies and newspapers they  leaked it to. No consultation with Congress, no legitimate  justification for these unauthorized strikes, nor any kind of serious  long-term strategy.

It is unquestionably an act of war to invade a foreign nation, kidnap  a foreign leader--even a dictator--and leave dozens of bodies,  including civilians, behind.

Would my colleagues still nod their heads and go along with it if a  country tried to do this to American leaders? Of course not. So we  should stop playing dumb. Trump can't just say magic words and pretend  this wasn't a major military operation.

This is the U.S. Congress, and we have a constitutional role to be a  check on the President. Only Congress can declare war, and Congress did  not authorize the use of force against Venezuela.

Now, I opposed the war in Iraq from the outset. And the parallels to  what President Trump has kicked off in Venezuela are glaring. And I  absolutely will not support any large-scale military conflict in  Venezuela or a dangerous and expansive occupation.

We have a President ignoring the problems that he has caused in our  own country, all to start a war no one asked for, with no legitimate  justification, no concern for the servicemembers who are being put in  harm's way, and absolutely no long-term strategy.

Seriously, the only thing that was clear after the briefing yesterday  is that Trump has no serious plan. First, Trump was just bombing  alleged drug boats. Then Trump was just seizing oil shipments. And the  next thing you know, this administration is sending the military to  abduct a foreign leader.

So I have to ask: What is next and where is next? How far is this  going to go? Because it is clear that this is not over, not when Trump  keeps saying he will run the country.

What is Trump's plan to run Venezuela exactly? How long are we going  to be there? How many of our people is he going to send? Who is even in  charge? And how are we paying for this?

There are no serious answers. The only thing we do know is why Trump  is doing this--for oil--because this clearly is not about ending  tyranny and establishing a democracy since Trump outright dismissed any  possibility of helping the opposition party to build a true democracy.  And it is clearly not about drug trafficking. After all, not even a  month before this, President Trump pardoned the former President of  Honduras who was convicted of the same crime. But the real reason--it  is so painfully obvious--this was always about the oil.

Why? Well, it is pretty simple. Trump keeps saying it. He literally  said:

The difference between Iraq and this is that Bush didn't       keep the oil. We're going to keep the oil.

That was the President. Is this ``America First''? Of course not. It  is ``Big Oil Barons First.'' It is ``Billionaires First.'' It is  ``Trump First.'' First to rake in profits, mind you, not first to put  themselves in harm's way.

And you can bet when Trump says he is not worried about boots on the  ground, it is because he is not talking about his boots. He is not  talking about his kids. He is talking about yours.

Congress cannot stand by and shrug our shoulders. We have a  constitutional responsibility here. It is important that a majority of  Senators voted to rein in this President's reckless actions. But if we  want to put an end to this warmongering, we need to keep pressing until  we have a veto-proof majority. Today's vote is not the end of the line.  So I urge all my colleagues to join us in asserting our authority and  continuing to send President Trump a simple message: No American boots  on the ground. No trading blood for oil. No war.