Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. MURRAY.  Right now, families across this country are actually  looking to Congress to put partisanship aside and put their needs first  and are counting on us to listen to experts and make decisions that are  guided by science, not by ideology. 

  They need to know that our No. 1 priority and what we should be  talking about is public health today. 

  Instead of discussing this harmful bill that will gut reproductive  rights, put unnecessary restrictions on medical providers, and  undermine medical research, which is an absolute nonstarter and the  absolute last thing we should be doing right now, I think we should be  focused on what families actually need us to be focused on, which is  the coronavirus outbreak and what it means for them and what we are  doing about it. 

  The news of this virus is spreading throughout the country. The  deaths, the illness, and the confusion it has caused in my home State  of Washington and elsewhere are beyond alarming. The Trump  administration has fallen far short of its responsibilities to  Washington State and to communities nationwide. 

  I am pleased Democrats and Republicans in Congress were able to put  partisanship aside to hammer out the robust emergency supplemental  funding agreement that was announced earlier today. It is an agreement  that goes well beyond President Trump's totally inadequate request in  order to actually meet the needs we are hearing about from the  officials on the frontlines of this crisis, like reimbursing States and  local governments that have shouldered the cost of this response so far  or the need to support research so we can develop new treatments and  diagnostic tests and vaccines and the need to make sure those are  available to everyone. 

  This agreement helps us prepare for what is next by providing funding  to shore up our store of medical supplies, support medical community  health centers in underserved areas, and bolster global health and  public health preparedness programs. 

  I am working to make sure we get that bill signed into law as soon as  possible, and I will continue to follow it closely because experts have  already made it very clear this is not going to be over soon. 

  While the funding is a great first step, we need to make sure it is  not the last one. It is very critical that we continue listening to our  health experts, providing needed resources, and preparing for what is  next, including what this will mean for families' day-to-day lives and  for people who can't take a day off work without losing a paycheck or  don't have affordable childcare if a school closes or don't have health  insurance or are experiencing homelessness. 

  I hope my Republican colleagues will think long and hard about what  their priorities are in the midst of this and choose to refocus their  energy on working with us to address the urgent issues of the day  instead of distracting us from serious work and wasting time we don't  have. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT