Alex Padilla


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692471/alex-padilla


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come to the floor this afternoon to the  U.S. Senate, a place where people are elected by their constituents to  come here to be their voice--every one of us, Republicans and  Democrats, elected by the people whom we represent to come here and be  their voice and to do the job.

What is that job? To make sure that we are being their voice and  speaking out for them. And part of that has to be asking questions.  Part of that has to be demanding accountability, has to be getting  information so we can do the best job possible.

It is unacceptable that a U.S. Senator, in his own home State,  elected by millions of people, went to ask a question for his  constituents, to get an answer, and was brutally thrown to the ground  and handcuffed. That is wrong, and I cannot believe that we don't have  Senators on both sides of the aisle calling this out as outrageous.

This is what a democracy is about. It is about us coming to the U.S.  Senate, speaking out, asking questions, getting information so we can  be their voice.

What happens when that voice is stifled? What happens when that voice  is thrown to the floor and handcuffed? Our democracy is lost.

I have been here for more than 32 years. I have come to this floor  often to speak out, to be angry, to be a voice for my people. I have  never come this close to having tears in my eyes as I speak to both  sides of this aisle about this horrendous incident that occurred.

We are a democracy, but we can lose that democracy. It can be gone  unless all of us speak out and forcibly reject what happened to a U.S.  Senator and to send the message that in this democracy it is just, it  is right, it is part of our responsibility to speak up, to ask  questions, and to be able to have the knowledge we need to represent  the people that we come here for.

We use our voices, we use our votes to be a part of this democracy,  not violence. When violence is done by someone representing this  administration in a forceful way against a U.S. Senator, how does any  one of us go home and tell our constituents that they can be part of a  democracy, speak out about what they believe in?

This is so wrong. This is so wrong. I hope others speak up and speak  out and, as a voice, we say we want our democracy to succeed. And in  order to succeed, we need to be able to use our voices and to use our  votes and to ask questions without being forcibly thrown to the ground,  without being arrested by speaking up.

I say to the entire country: We have a democracy. We will lose it if  we can't use our voices. We will lose this democracy. None of us should  be silent. None of us.