Cantwell, Murray, Feinstein Introduce Bipartisan Resolution Honoring Women Athletes


This week, U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Senate commerce committee; Patty Murray (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Senate labor committee; and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) introduced a bipartisan resolution in support of the 34th annual "National Girls & Women in Sports Day" to recognize the achievements of women athletes.

"Sports has the power to inspire us, and our country is better when women are empowered to participate and compete," said Senator Cantwell. "Washington athletes like Megan Rapinoe and Sue Bird, Michelle Akers, Katelyn Ohashi, and so many others have shown us just what is possible. I'm proud to stand with my colleagues to recognize the importance of female athletes and encourage our next generation of girls to chase after their dreams."

"Both on and off the field, women athletes have made remarkable achievements, but they still aren't treated fairly or paid equally to men," said Senator Murray. "This year, the U.S. women's national soccer team proved to the world that women athletes are not only world-class competitors, but also powerful forces for change. I'm so proud to introduce this resolution to honor and celebrate the success of women athletes, and I'll continue to fight for equal access and equal pay for women and girls in sports." 

Senators Cantwell and Murray have been strong advocates for women athletes. In July 2019, following the success of the U.S. Women's National Soccer Team (USWNT), Senator Murray introduced the Athletics Fair Pay Act to require equal pay, compensation, and treatment for all Olympic and amateur women athletes, and Senator Cantwell introduced the bipartisan Equal Pay for Team USA Act to ensure equal pay for Americans who represent our country in global athletic competitions, like the World Cup or the Olympics. Both senators also met with USWNT and Seattle Reign star Megan Rapinoe this summer to discuss efforts to close the gender pay gap.

In addition to Senators Cantwell, Murray, and Feinstein, the resolution is cosponsored by U.S. Senators Martha McSally (R-AZ), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Susan Collins (R-ME), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Tina Smith (D-MN), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA).