Cloture Motion


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695670/cloture-motion


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, this week, there are advocates here in  Congress with the American Cancer Society to advocate for cancer  research and prevention. This is lifesaving work, and no one does it  better than our researchers.

In my home State of Washington, we have a lot of incredibly smart  people who have been making a lot of incredible breakthroughs for  patients, and we have a lot of passionate advocates who have been  fighting to support their work. I have lost track of how many times I  have visited the Fred Hutch Cancer Center, but every time, I am just  blown away by the work they are doing. And they aren't the only ones.

This isn't just about advancing science though. It is about saving  lives and finding new treatments and therapies and cures that give hope  to help patients fighting for their lives.

Cancer research has a long history of bipartisan support here in  Congress. But some of my colleagues across the aisle seem to need a  reminder and a wake-up call because under President Trump, we have seen  some reckless moves to undermine medical research, including cancer  research. Research funding has been pulled without reason, without  warning, and without any thought for the consequences.

This administration has tossed clinical trials into chaos, promising  cures into limbo, and threatened to abandon our historic global  research and leadership in medical research. Just this week, a new  report in the New York Times detailed how research into a rare  pediatric brain cancer was totally upended because Trump yanked the  funding. That research is halted and that researcher is forced to move  on to topics that don't rely on NIH funding.

It is worth remembering, for many of our rare, deadly diseases, cures  are not viewed as a payday for private investors, which makes NIH not  just the best hope for finding a cure but the only hope for desperate  patients, at least before Trump came along and stopped funding.

And that new article, which details other research Trump has  sidetracked as well, is just scratching the surface of how bad this is.  I have heard firsthand from researchers who have seen their work  disrupted and students who are considering leaving the United States to  continue their studies.

I have also received heartbreaking updates from patients, like a mom  in my State fighting colon cancer who had her shot at a critical  clinical trial taken away by Trump's chaotic, illegal funding cuts. And  now, R.F.K., Jr., has cut off all Federal funding for mRNA research,  one of the most promising new technologies for cancer treatments. This  is so damaging.

In addition to supporting the research that finds new cures, we also  need to make sure patients can actually access and afford those cures.  That means we have to protect health coverage that helps cancer  patients get care. That is why I am fighting to undo damaging Medicaid  cuts Republicans passed and to extend the healthcare tax credits that  are helping millions of families afford coverage right now.

We have to make a strong case for cancer research and prevention with  facts, science, patient stories, and our voices. And I believe speaking  out can have a real impact here because when I talk to colleagues on  both sides, it is clear there is consensus we should not let years of  leadership fall to the wayside. In fact, in our Senate funding bill,  the bipartisan bill that we passed through the Appropriations  Committee, we were able to reject some of these damaging cuts and make  serious investments in cancer research.

But we do have more work ahead to get these bipartisan medical  research investments signed into law. I will not stop pushing for that.