Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699437/consolidated-appropriations-act-2026


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, all week, Democrats have made clear that  there is a simple, commonsense path forward.

First, pass these five critical funding bills that we all  overwhelmingly agree on and prevent a serious shutdown. Secondly, split  off the DHS bill so we can negotiate reforms to rein in ICE and the  CBP. It is what the vast majority of Americans want Congress to do.

It is good news that we have a deal to fund these key programs that  families count on while work continues on serious DHS accountability  over the next 2 weeks. It could not be more clear that ICE and the CBP  are out of control and that we cannot just wait for the same President  who caused this mess to address it.

Congress cannot pass a Homeland Security bill until real restraints  are in place. It is that simple.

Today, I ask my colleagues to join me in voting for this package.  Let's pay our troops, fund clinical trials right now, work to rein in  DHS, and end the chaos that is happening on America's streets.

Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, this amendment would strike funding for  one Member's project simply because the Senator offering the amendment  doesn't like the project. That is not how this process should work.  Every Senator has the opportunity to submit requests to have projects  in their State funded in our appropriations bills.

Those requests are vetted for compliance with critical guardrails,  and Senators must attest they have no financial stake in the project.  If a project meets that criteria, it is eligible for funding. And if  eligible projects are funded in a bill, we need to respect each  Senator's ability to fund the projects that are important to them and  their State. Full stop.

This amendment completely overrules another Senator on a project they  have secured funding for and threatens to really derail a carefully  negotiated bill.                               Motion to Table

Mr. President, I oppose this amendment.                                 Vote on Motion