Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I come to the floor today to strongly  urge all of my colleagues to join Senator Kaine, and I want to thank  him for his extremely thoughtful and amazing approach to this. 

  I think it is so important that we reassert Congress's authority in  decisions concerning our Nation's security and curbing this  administration's ability to put our troops in harm's way without  consulting the American people. 

  Following the early January attack on U.S. troops deployed in Iraq  triggered by President Trump's decision to launch a drone strike that  killed Iran's Qasem Soleimani, I know that many Americans were  frightened, as I was, to then watch tensions with Iran escalate so  rapidly in realtime. I am glad the President has backed down and  decided not to further escalate those tensions in recent weeks--as a  voice for my home State of Washington, including all of our  servicemembers and military families and communities. But we are not  off the hook, and we have every reason to believe that Iran may  retaliate again, which is why I remain deeply disturbed by President  Trump's rush to incite conflict in ways that could have significant  negative impacts on our strategic goals in the region and, more  importantly, the long-term safety and security of Americans at home and  abroad. 

  To date, neither President Trump nor his administration has provided  any evidence to us here in Congress to justify his actions, and despite  reports from the administration shortly after the attack that there  were no U.S. casualties, we are now learning more than 100  servicemembers--100--have been diagnosed with traumatic brain injury  following that attack--serious injuries that President Trump dismissed  as simply ``headaches.'' 

  The American people expect their representatives--us--to have a say  in decisions that may put their lives or the lives of a loved one at  risk. As the daughter of a World War II veteran and Purple Heart  recipient, here in the Senate I make decisions about our national  security with deep concern for our brave servicemembers and their  families, with a personal understanding of the sacrifices they make for  all of us and our Nation and an unwavering commitment to ensuring that  they have the support they need while they serve and when they come  home. 

  That is exactly why our Constitution mandates that the power to  declare war rests with Congress--not the Commander in Chief--because  those decisions weren't meant to be made by one person alone. That is  why I am glad that my friend from Virginia, Senator Kaine, is offering  this War Powers Resolution, of which I am very proud to be a cosponsor. 

  Passing this resolution is a first step toward protecting our  servicemembers and our interests in the region by removing our troops  from hostilities in or against Iran unless there is a declaration of  war or a congressional authorization for the use of force. 

  This isn't just an issue for Democrats. I am very proud that this  resolution has bipartisan support because, no matter what side of the  aisle you are on, we should all agree that Congress must play a role in  our Nation's foreign policy, as well as matters related  to the health and safety of our servicemembers. 

  I am grateful for all of those who are serving in the Middle East and  around the world, and that is why I refuse to stand by and accept that  they could be put in jeopardy or that our Nation's foreign policy and  safety could be upended by an impulsive, late-night tweet. 

  So I will continue to demand that the President provide his legal  justification for the drone strike in Iraq, commit to coming before  Congress in advance of any further escalating steps, and explain to us  how he will move forward in the region with the goal of protecting  Americans, our allies, and our interests. 

  In the meantime, considering the unique recklessness of this  administration, it is urgently important for Congress to pass this  resolution to block President Trump's ability to start a war with Iran  and ensure that Congress is guaranteed the opportunity to hear whatever  case the President may have before taking a vote to determine the path  that we want our Nation to go down. 

  In 2002 I voted against the war in Iraq because I felt the  administration was asking us to send our men and women into harm's way  without a clear plan or a goal. Last week the House passed legislation  to repeal that 2002 AUMF, which is a step in the right direction toward  bringing our brave troops home. 

  The Senate should stand up and assert our authority to represent our  constituents on this critical issue, too, because, as Senators, they  are the people to whom we are all accountable. We have to be able to go  home and look them in the eye and say that we gave questions as grave  as decisions concerning war and peace the deliberation that they  warrant and that we have done everything we can to protect our Nation  and our servicemembers. You simply can't do that if you allow this  President--or any President--to continue conducting foreign policy-- especially by tweet--unchecked. 

  So Congress has an obligation to ensure a debate. We have an  obligation to press this administration for a strategy and check its  power if it doesn't present a compelling one, which so far it hasn't. 

  Passing this War Powers Resolution will help us--us--do exactly that,  so I strongly urge our colleagues to support this resolution. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT