Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I first want to say how relieved I am  by reports that no lives were lost in last night's missile strikes in  Iraq and how grateful I am for all those serving in the region and  around the world. 

  The fact remains, however, that this is a volatile and frightening  moment for our country. In a matter of days, the President of the  United States has, without any authorization or notice, taken steps  that have sent tensions soaring with Iran, threatened the fight against  ISIS, jeopardized relationships with key allies, risked the safety of  U.S. servicemembers and civilians, and brought us perilously close to  war. 

  I have heard from so many people in my home State of Washington, and  I know my colleagues have as well, about just how scary and uncertain  this feels and the many questions it raises. 

  While there is no question Qasem Soleimani was a sworn enemy of the  United States, people want to know whether the President's initial  order was truly necessary to our safety and why right now in this time  of already heightened tensions in the Middle East. They want to know  elected officials here in the Nation's capital are prioritizing their  safety and our country's safety. Most of all, they want to know what  comes next and what can be done to prevent things from getting worse. 

  Like so many Americans, I have watched these events unfold with  increasing concern. As the daughter of a World War II veteran and  Purple Heart recipient, I make decisions about the safety and security  of our Nation with deep concern for our brave servicemembers and their  families, a personal understanding of the sacrifices they make for all  of us and our Nation, and an unwavering commitment to ensuring they  have the support they need while they serve and when they come home. 

  To that end, while I firmly believe we must do everything possible to  keep America safe and go after terrorists wherever they are, I also  believe that, except in the most dire of circumstances, we should do  everything possible to exhaust all of our diplomatic avenues and  coordinate with our allies and our partners before taking military  action all on our own. 

  I believe we should not enter a conflict without a very strong  understanding of what we are trying to accomplish and what it will cost  and that while America has every right to defend itself, striking  another country preemptively, without the strongest evidence of  immediate danger, is a dramatic step with significant long-term  implications that should not be done without a full debate and  congressional support. 

  Madam President, based on what we know now, the administration's  actions in Iraq failed on each of these counts. It has not made us  safer, and our allies feel blindsided, especially because this strike  puts them at risk too. 

  There is no clear goal or clear-eyed understanding of the risks we  have assumed. There was absolutely zero debate in this Congress and-- unless you happened to be on the golf course with the President-- absolutely no notification that he planned to massively escalate  tensions with a foreign power overnight. 

  While, unfortunately, this is exactly the type of scenario many of us  feared would arise from this President, I can't say it is surprising.  President Trump's repeated reckless actions in the region, beginning  with his decision to pull out of the Iran nuclear deal, have  jeopardized critical objectives, leaving us without any clear strategy  for restoring peace or protecting our troops and allies. We cannot  assume Iran is done retaliating, and we must assume ISIS or other  terrorists will take full advantage of the increased instability in the  region. 

  In the face of challenges as serious as these, none of us in  Congress, regardless of party, should be willing to just stand by and  accept that our Nation's foreign policy and safety could be up-ended by  an impulsive late-night tweet. I certainly won't. Instead, I will  continue to demand that the President provide us his legal  justification for his order, commit to coming before Congress in  advance of any further escalating steps as this now plays out, and  explain how he will manage the consequences of his decision, with the  goal of protecting Americans, our allies, and our interests. 

  I will continue to advocate for strategies that lead us toward safety  and security rather than fan the flames. In the coming weeks, I look  forward to voting in support of my colleague from Virginia, Senator  Kaine's War Powers Resolution, and I am very glad to be a cosponsor.  This resolution would reassert congressional authority, block President  Trump's ability to start a war with Iran, and allow us to hear whatever  case he may have before taking a vote on whether this is really the  path we want our Nation to go down. 

  I hope every one of our colleagues listens to the people across this  country who do not want to find themselves in an avoidable war and who  sent us here to act as an independent branch of government, not a  rubberstamp for an increasingly volatile administration. I hope they  join us and support this resolution. 

  Madam President, finally, I will say that I voted against the war in  Iraq because I felt the administration was asking us to send our brave  men and women into harm's way without clear plans or goals. Today, this  President isn't even asking. The goals and plans are even less clear,  and the path ahead of us is very uncertain. 

  Congress has the power to ensure a debate, press this administration  for a strategy, and check their power if they do not present a  compelling one. It is well past time we used it. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT