Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700582/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, it has been nearly 6 weeks--6 weeks-- since Alex Pretti was killed by masked Federal agents in broad  daylight. It has been over 9 weeks since Renee Good was killed. And day  after day, week after week, we have seen Americans brutalized by an  out-of-control Department of Homeland Security--American citizens  detained without cause, children ripped away from their families--as  this administration treats them like political pawns in their sick  games. We have seen peaceful protesters have their windows broken in by  untrained and unidentifiable agents. And we have seen more people get  hurt and even die because of how ICE and Border Patrol have been  conducting themselves.

In this entire time, Democrats have been pushing for serious reform  to rein in these Agencies. For months, I have been at the table in good  faith, pushing to secure basic accountability measures for ICE and  Border Patrol. We are talking about standards local police already  follow across the country.

But even before Alex Pretti was shot and killed, Republicans and this  White House, in particular, were telling us no on many basic reforms  that would rein in ICE and CBP.

We pushed for commonsense steps to make sure poorly trained agents  and officers do not trample the basic rights of American citizens and  kill them for no reason. And we pushed for steps to prevent these rogue  Agencies from hiding the facts from the public and sweeping everything  under the rug.

But my colleagues across the aisle came back to us and said: Sorry,  we cannot agree to those.

Sometimes, my Republican colleagues were willing to take one modest  step or another, which I appreciate, only to have to come back and say  the White House was not willing to do that, and they had to hold the  line. Or worse, they backtracked on measures we agreed to because of  fears of what the White House would think.

And now, here we find ourselves, nearly 6 weeks after Alex Pretti's  brutal killing, and Republicans so far have continued to refuse to join  us to pass any commonsense reforms to prevent more Americans from being  hurt or even killed by masked Federal agents.

As I have said many times, we are not asking for the Moon. We are  asking for basic steps to protect Americans' constitutional rights and  their safety.

There is nothing new or controversial about body cameras or requiring  identification be displayed. There is nothing extreme about insisting  that ICE and Border Patrol follow the same standards as everyone else  when it comes to use of force or needing a warrant before smashing in  someone's door and dragging them away. These are common sense, and they  are overwhelmingly popular.

This is what the American people are demanding. But Republicans have  decided they would rather shut down DHS than work with us to rein in  these rogue Agencies. Republicans know full well that Democrats do want  to ensure that TSA and CISA and FEMA and other important Agencies are  funded.

What Democrats have a problem with is funding rogue Agencies that are  actively violating court orders and our civil rights and putting  Americans' safety at risk. We cannot--we will not--cut a blank check  for funding without reforms for ICE and Border Patrol.

But if Republicans keep dragging their feet on those basic reforms we  are asking for to protect people from those rogue Federal Agencies,  then we should at least make sure that TSA agents get paid and FEMA is  fully funded while those negotiations continue.

TSA agents should not go without pay because Republicans refuse to  agree to commonsense reforms instead of cutting another blank check for  Kristi Noem and Stephen Miller to terrorize Americans.

So, yes, let's pay our Coast Guard and our TSA. Let's replenish the  Disaster Relief Fund and support other work that we overwhelmingly all  agree on. I have a bill that I will offer in a moment that will do  that. We can pass it right now, while pressing ahead with negotiations  on ICE and Border Patrol to get basic reforms and accountability the  American people want.

All week, I have heard my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  loudly say funding for DHS could not be more important in this moment.  They have argued the instability this President has unleashed with his  reckless war in Iran means Democrats must now fund DHS, including ICE,  with no reforms at all.

Now, there are some obvious problems with that argument, like the  bizarre notion that because Trump started a reckless war with Iran,  Democrats now must rush and cut a blank check; or the fact that the  biggest threat to cyber and counterterrorism work at DHS seems to be  Kristi Noem, who, by the way, over the last year, has gutted CISA and  has taken folks off the terrorism beat to deport farmworkers with no  criminal history.

But put all that aside. I completely agree we should fund our cyber  defense Agencies and FEMA and TSA.

So I hope my Republican colleagues, who also believe--I know they  do--that these Agencies are important and have been making the case  they do need funding, will join with me today to get this bill passed  while talks on ICE and Border Patrol and much needed reform and  accountability measures can continue.

Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, unfortunately, what has become very clear  is that Republicans would rather keep the entire DHS shut down than  work with Democrats to prevent more Americans from being killed by  masked agents.

My Democratic colleagues and I have been very, very clear on the  reforms we need. It is not secret, and we have been pushing for them  for weeks on end, in good faith, to finalize a DHS bill that funds TSA  and FEMA while reining in ICE and the CBP. But Republicans and the  White House have now, for months, refused to agree to those basic  reforms that we need to make to keep Americans safe. They have said  again and again that we need to fund FEMA and TSA and other key  Agencies. Well, I just tried to pass a bill that would make sure that  those Agencies are funded while talks on reforms and accountability  measures for ICE and Border Patrol continue. So guess what. They  blocked that too.

Now, this is not complicated. Democrats want to get TSA officers paid  and fund disaster relief, but we will not vote to help Republicans  spend one more dime letting Stephen Miller terrorize our cities, and we  will not vote to cut a blank check so that ICE can barge into  Americans' homes without a warrant. We will not vote to allow ICE  agents to continue wearing masks as they terrorize our communities and  evade accountability. We need accountability for ICE and for Border  Patrol.

It is not just Democrats' saying that. The American people  overwhelmingly agree that Trump's and Noem's lawless rampage has got to  come to an end. People feel that way because we have all seen what has  happened. It is in plain sight. We have all seen the videos of people  who are tackled and pepper-sprayed in the face and seen the protesters  who are gassed for no reason. We have seen the horrific shootings of  Renee Good and Alex Pretti, and we have seen Kristi Noem, ICE, and the  Border Patrol blatantly lie and slander people like Renee and Alex and  Marimar Martinez by falsely calling them domestic terrorists.

What we have not yet seen is accountability. That is what has got to  end. No number of Republican revotes on the same failed bill is going  to change that and while our bill to fund the Coast Guard and TSA and  FEMA, as negotiations continue, was just objected to. So I am ready at  any time to pass that. It is the right thing to do.

Instead of blocking bills to pay TSA agents or wasting time with  dead-on-  arrival legislation, I hope that Republicans will listen to what we are  asking for and listen to what their constituents are asking for. We  need to see ICE have accountability. Work with us to pass those reforms  in order to fund that full Agency.

With that, I want my colleagues to know I will continue to work to  get that done.

Mrs. MURRAY.  In particular, I am frustrated that my  colleagues across the aisle and in the White House are still refusing  to agree to work with us on commonsense measures to protect our  constituents from being shot and even killed by unidentifiable,  untrained ICE and Border Patrol agents.

Democrats have been very clear on this for weeks. We want to fund  FEMA and TSA, and we want to protect Americans from the violence at the  hands of rogue Federal Agencies. This is not complicated. We can and we  must do both.

I have always been very clear about what we cannot do, which is cut  another blank check for Kristi Noem to terrorize our communities.  Unfortunately, that is what the bill from the junior Senator from  Alabama would do. It would kick the can down the road and give more  money to ICE and Border Patrol to trample American rights. That is not  an acceptable outcome.

If Republicans won't agree to the commonsense measures we have been  pushing for weeks--measures that police departments across America  already adhere to--then I am absolutely willing and ready to fund the  rest of DHS while talks on ICE and CBP continue. In fact, that is what  the bill did that I just offered.