Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I have been in the Senate now for two  Presidential impeachment trials, and I can tell you that this is never  a situation I want to find our country in--not back then and certainly  not today--when the odds of bipartisan cooperation, even on  responsibilities as solemn as these, are brutally low. 

  In spite of this, I called for impeachment proceedings to begin in  the House in July of this past year, and I did so because of the  gravity of the threats to our democracy that has been outlined in  Mueller's report. At the time, I felt, if we did not fully explore  those threats, we would fall short of our constitutional duty and set a  precedent of congressional indifference to potentially flagrant  violations of our Constitution--ones that could jeopardize our core  democratic institutions. 

  After hearing both sides' presentations and after reviewing every  available source of information and testimony, I believe it is  painfully clear that the President of the United States has abused his  power and obstructed Congress and that he should be removed from  office. 

  I want to talk about how I reached this conclusion, which I did not  do lightly, and take a few minutes to reflect on the consequence of the  decision each of us is individually about to make. 

  Throughout the trial, the contrast between the presentations by the  House managers and the President's defense team could not have been  starker or more damning for the President. 

  The House managers built an ironclad case that shows the President  abused his power and obstructed Congress in ways that present grave,  urgent threats to our national security and to the rule of law. Over  the course of their arguments, it became undeniably clear: The  corruption we have learned so much about in recent months starts at the  very top--with the President of the United States. 

  President Trump demanded a foreign government to intervene in our  elections for his own political gain, and he did so by withholding  American taxpayer dollars and by ignoring congressional authority. The  President's associates acted with his full knowledge and consent, and  he himself pressured Ukraine's leader, knowing how much Ukraine  depended on United States support. These actions have already made us  less secure as a nation. By delaying vital military aid to Ukraine--a  key partner--President Trump has  emboldened Russia, one of our chief adversaries, and he has undermined  our credibility with other allies worldwide. 

  Critically, the President has also given every indication he will  continue to put his own interests ahead of American interests,  including in our upcoming elections, and he has, time and again,  refused to recognize Congress's constitutional authority to oversee the  executive branch. In addition, information continues to come out that  further implicates the President and demonstrates not only his intent  to abuse the power of our highest office but his direct personal  engagement and efforts to do so. 

  To summarize, the House's arguments made it impossible to ignore a  reality our Founders deeply feared--a President who betrays our  national security for his own personal benefit and disregards the  system of checks and balances on which our democratic institutions  depend, who believes he is above the law--contrary to the most  fundamental American principles. 

  The President's defense did not directly refute those charges against  the President or the thorough case that the House presented. In fact,  the President's defense only served to illustrate how indefensible the  President's actions were. We heard complaints from the President's  defense about the House's process, which the President refused to  engage in. 

  We heard a debunked conspiracy theory about Ukrainian election  interference even though the President's own advisers repeatedly  explained to him that Russia, not Ukraine, interfered in our 2016  election. 

  We heard the denial of a quid pro quo that, as the House managers  laid out in excruciating detail, was borne out not only on the  President's July 25 call with President Zelensky but in hundreds of  documents from before and after that call. 

  We did not, however, hear any substantive defense of the President's  actions. Tellingly, the President's defense vehemently opposed  commonsense requests for the President's own key aides to testify and  for the consideration of his aides' documents as part of this trial. 

  If the President were as innocent as he claims, surely, his aides and  his administration's materials would bear those claims out, and he  would want them considered. He and his team do not. 

  In 1999, I said that, if we were to remove a sitting President, none  of us should have any doubts. Based on the facts we have heard today  and the distraction and obfuscation that has been offered in response,  none of us should have any doubts that the President committed the  impeachable offenses of which he is accused. 

  What we now know is the President of the United States demanded that  a foreign government interfere in our elections to help him win his  upcoming campaign. That truth is indisputable. The question is, What  does each of us as an individual do with that information? 

  In sitting here, I have been reminded that this trial is so much  larger than any one of us--larger than any political party and much  larger than President Trump. It is fundamentally about whether we will  stand up for the institutions that secure our autonomy as a people-- institutions we hope to leave stronger for our children and  grandchildren. 

  To go a step further, really, this trial is about freedom in our  country because, if the President feels he owes his office to a foreign  government, not to Americans, then whom does the President truly serve?  How can he be trusted? If foreign governments can skew our elections in  their favor, if they interfere with Americans at the ballot box this  November, then are Americans truly represented in the White House? Is  there any American who is really free if a President can owe his  election to an entity outside and aside from the American people and if  foreign governments can help to decide who is in our highest office? 

  These questions and their chilling answers have led me to my final  decision, and I hope others consider them carefully as they make their  own. 

  I also want to speak for a minute about fear. There are really two  different kinds at work in this moment. One is the fear of political  consequences. I remember how many Members of Congress felt compelled to  vote for the war in Iraq. The political pressure was palpable. That  kind of political fear is palpable again today, but fear of political  consequences must never supersede concern for our country, and we  should be fearful for our country today. 

  We should be fearful for our future, for our safety, and the rule of  law if the evidence we have heard cannot persuade this body to act on  the painful truth before us. Our President has betrayed the public  trust, flagrantly violated our laws, and proved himself a threat to our  national security. So I ask my colleagues how they want to feel not in  this moment here today but in the years ahead and as part of our  Nation's history as more information continues to come out about this  administration--and it will--as we get closer to an election we still  have a unique opportunity to help protect, and as we explain this  difficult but pivotal time to our grandchildren. Looking back, whom or  what will you want to have stood for--this President or our country? 

  I believe, as Representative Schiff said so simply and powerfully,  that in America, ``right matters.'' 

  But I also note right matters only because so many people have,  throughout our history, stood up for what is right, even when-- especially when--it may be difficult. 

  Today each U.S. Senator is called to do the same. 

  Thank you, Mr. President. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT