Letter to President Donald Trump - Former Food Assistance Recipients In Congress Urge President Trump To Abandon Proposed Cuts To SNAP


Today, nine members of Congress, whose families all received government food assistance at some point in their lives, wrote to President Donald J. Trump opposing his proposed cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which currently serves 36 million Americans of modest means. The White House's proposal would cut SNAP funding by $181 billion over the next decade.

"We, the undersigned, have a unique perspective on food assistance and the benefits it provides working families throughout America," the members wrote. "As Members of Congress from different parts of the country, each of us participated in SNAP or its predecessor, the food stamp program, during times of financial struggle for our families. Today, we firmly believe that we would not be able to serve our constituents in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate if it weren't for both the hard work of our parents and the opportunities provided to us by the American people. This is the American dream."

Contrary to the arguments and attacks made against SNAP, this program has shown clear benefits for the most vulnerable Americans while also contributing to the wellbeing of their communities.

Over 70% of SNAP recipients live in households with children.Over 25% live in households with seniors or individuals with disabilities.Every dollar of SNAP funding increases the GDP by $1.73.SNAP increases purchasing power across communities, creates jobs, and supports farmers, grocery stores, truck drivers, and many others.The signatories of the letter, who called on President Trump to amend his FY2021 budget proposal and remove all cuts to SNAP, were Congressman Krishnamoorthi, Senator Patty Murray, Congresswoman Barbara Lee, Congresswoman Robin Kelly, Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib, Congressman Salud Carbajal, Congresswoman Jahana Hayes, Congresswoman Gwen Moore, and  Congresswoman Alma Adams.