Letter to Vice President Mike Pence - Peters & Murray Press Trump Administration to Report Key Metrics on Tests and Equipment in Coronavirus Response


Dear Mr. Vice President:

We have noted the Administration's announcements in recent days regarding additional measures to combat the spread of the 2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). We must be vigilant in our response to this pandemic and ensure we build the surge capacity necessary to care for all people, from frontline health care workers to patients. To do so requires accountability and transparency. 

We are calling on you to publicly report to Congress and the American people a list of critical metrics surrounding COVID-19 response. These metrics can be used to assess if steps currently being taken to combat this pandemic are effective, or if we need to implement alternative solutions. To ensure Congress and the public have access to this critical information, broken out by U.S. state and territory, please identify critical metrics to report by one week from today.  These metrics should include at minimum:

The number of COVID-19 diagnostic tests conducted each day by public health, commercial, and academic laboratories in the United States,;The number of positive COVID-19 cases;The number of negative COVID-19 cases;The number of pending COVID-19 tests;The number of inconclusive COVID-19 tests;Non-Intensive Care Unit (ICU) hospital beds, ICU beds, and beds in any other facilities appropriate for COVID-19 treatment available;Non-ICU hospital beds, ICU beds, and beds in any other facilities appropriate for COVID-19 treatment in-use;For personal protective equipment (including, without limitation, respirators, surgical masks, gowns, face shields, eye protection, and gloves):Outstanding requests to the federal government;Amount the federal government has on hand; andAmount currently in the process of being manufactured or procured;For ventilators:Outstanding requests to the federal government;Amount the federal government has on hand; andAmount currently in the process of being manufactured or procured;Supply reserves in the Strategic National Stockpile;Available military health care professionals; andThe number of U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps members currently deployed to assist states and localities with the COVID-19 response and the number of such members available to be deployed.

In addition, with respect to all emergency funding provided by Congress for COVID-19, please report by account and on a weekly basis, the status of all monies appropriated by Congress to combat COVID-19. 

Should any of the information requested above reveal national security sensitive information, we request a separate report (appropriately classified) directly to Congress.

These metrics will allow Congress and the public to assess critical supply chain issues and ensure that the funds are effectively distributed to states, territories, and other federal partners as we combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Today's statistics will determine tomorrow's actions. We must make informed, evidence-based decisions as we continue to fight this pandemic. We look forward to working with you and senior Administration officials on this matter going forward.