Letter to the Honorable Mark A. Morgan, Acting Commissioner of the United States Customs and Border Protection - Jayapal, DelBene, Murray, Cantwell Lead Letter To DHS Demanding Answers On Iranian Americans Being Detained At Border


Dear Acting Commissioner Morgan,

We write to obtain more information regarding the holding of Iranian Americans in secondary inspectionupon entering the United States in Blaine, Washington on January 4-5, 2020. There have been reports thatmore than 60 Americans of Iranian descent were held in secondary inspection at length and questioned atthe Peace Arch Border Crossing -- with up to 200 individuals having been reportedly affected. Someindividuals claim to have been held in secondary inspection over 10 hours, and others report they wereturned away due to a lack of space. Those held in secondary inspection include U.S. citizens, lawfulpermanent residents, and people of all ages including the elderly and children. It has been reported thattheir passports were confiscated, and they were questioned about their political views and allegianceswithout explanation.

In conversations with individuals who were held in secondary inspection and community groupsrepresenting impacted individuals, it has become clear that this additional screening, holding, andquestioning was solely reserved for Iranian Americans. State Congressional staff members were told thatupon their release, a CBP officer told the Iranian Americans they would recommend not traveling for awhile, as they will have to go through this process again, the timing is just bad for them. IranianAmericans were held in secondary inspection for hours, while others were held for shorter time periods.We are deeply concerned about the experiences of those impacted this past weekend and the potential thatthis may be the start of a new policy at our borders and airports illegally targeting those of Iranian descentbased solely on their religion, ethnicity, or national origin.

Given these reports, we request that you provide us with information to some unanswered questions.

1. Has there been any directive, email, policy, teleconference, or other communication regarding thetreatment, processing, questioning, or screening of individuals of Iranian descent? If so, pleaseprovide this communication.2. Please provide data on the minimum, maximum, median, and average processing times, includingfor those who undergo secondary screening, and population numbers for the current and pastfiscal year and those numbers for the date of January 4-5, 2020 for the Peace Arch bordercrossing in Blaine, Washington broken down by citizenship status and country of origin. Underwhat circumstances are U.S. citizens sent to secondary processing?3. How does CBP determine Iranian heritage of a U.S. citizen? Are any questions ever asked relatedto a U.S. citizen's religion, ethnicity, or national origin?4. If and when an individual is sent to secondary processing, how does CBP determine thatsecondary processing is complete and release an individual? Is this policy consistent regardless ofcountry of origin? Have there been any changes to this policy since January 1, 2020?5. CBP has stated that long delays on January 4, 2020 were due to low staffing and the late hour;however, people reported being held in secondary inspection for up to twelve hours beginning as early as 8:00am that day. Were the reported staffing problems throughout the day or only in theevening? Further, please provide an explanation for the extended length of time in secondaryinspection during the day.6. How has staffing at the Peace Arch Point border crossing changed over the last three years? Ifoverall staff has increased, why is the border crossing understaffed at certain hours?7. CBP has refuted reports that individuals were held in secondary inspection based on nationalorigin; however, multiple people report that only individuals of Iranian descent were subject tolong-term holding in secondary inspection at the Peace Arch border crossing in Blaine,Washington on January 4, 2020. Please provide an explanation as to why individuals of IranianAmerican descent were subject to secondary processing and held between three and twelve hoursduring this time.8. Were any individuals not allowed entry into the United States after secondary processing betweenJanuary 3-5, 2020? What was the basis for their denial and were any of these individual of Iraniandescent? This information can be transmitted in classified form if necessary.

Men, women and children legally entering or returning to the United States at a designated port of entrydeserve better than to be arbitrarily held and questioned solely based on their religion, ethnicity, ornational origin.

Thank you for your attention to this matter and look forward to your prompt response.

Sincerely,