Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694203/military-construction-veterans-affairs-and-related-agencies


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, today, I will be voting to move ahead  with the first spending bill for fiscal year 2026.

Now, there is no doubt that the path forward on appropriations this  year has been made extremely challenging by President Trump's flagrant  lack of regard for Congress and our laws, and it has not been made any  easier by the unprecedented partisan rescissions package that  Republicans passed last week. But we cannot afford another slush fund,  full-year CR, and we cannot accept the draconian cuts being pushed by  Trump and House Republicans. So we do need to chart a different path  forward and pass full-year, bipartisan spending bills that invest in  folks back home and make sure Congress and our constituents have a say  in Federal spending. The way, of course, to ensure that happens is  through a bipartisan appropriations process.

So I am very glad that, thanks to the senior Senator from Georgia,  working across the aisle with his partner, the senior Senator from  Arkansas, we were able to negotiate and report out of committee a good  bill to fund our military construction needs and the Department of  Veterans Affairs in fiscal year 2026.

As the daughter of a World War II veteran, the programs we fund in  the MILCON-VA bill are very personal to me. Doing right by our vets and  getting them the care they need and the support they were promised is a  moral obligation, which is why I am pleased to say the MILCON-VA bill  we are voting on delivers the funding needed to live up to our Nation's  commitments to our veterans and makes crucial investments to support  our servicemembers and our national security.

The bill includes essential funds for VA care, including rural  health, women's health, medical research, and the caregivers program I  have long championed, and for the first time, it puts funding levels  for those important programs in statute. It also expands the pilot I  started to make sure that childcare is not a barrier to any veteran who  needs care and increases funding to address veteran homelessness and  mental health needs.

When it comes to supporting our servicemembers and their families,  there are investments for nearly 300 construction projects, including  new family housing construction and child development centers.

There are also investments to bolster our footprint in the Pacific  and support our NATO projects. These are incredibly important to our  soldiers, to our veterans, and to our national security.

No doubt there is more I would like to see done in this bill. It is  not, of course, the bill I would have written on my own. But I do hope  Republicans will work with us now to consider critical amendments to  improve the bill and make sure the administration actually delivers for  veterans, something I think it has certainly failed to do on many  fronts over the last few months.

There is also some discussion of adding two other funding bills that  we have negotiated and reported out of committee to make this a minibus  package. These are solid, compromised bills that reject the truly  draconian cuts proposed by President Trump and  House Republicans, and I would like to see them considered by the full  Senate.

Now, for that to happen, I hope Republicans will work with us to  ensure, once again, that there is an opportunity to debate and amend  all three bills.

So I am a ``yes'' vote on moving forward today with debate of the  MILCON-VA bill, and I hope we can keep this process moving because  passing our appropriations bills is the best way we can make sure  Federal spending reflects the needs we are hearing about in our States  and actually solves problems for people at home.

No one wants a shutdown, and the way we avoid that shutdown is by  working together. That is not a secret, not a surprise; it is a reality  we all know. As the majority leader noted recently, the math tells us  that it takes 60. It takes bipartisan cooperation. Unfortunately,  Republicans have been chipping away at that cooperation, especially  with the rescissions vote last week.

But, to be clear, if Republicans continue cutting bipartisan deals  with more rescissions, that is not cooperation. If Republicans try and  jam through another slush-fund CR, that is not cooperation.

So for anyone considering the partisan route, you cannot write a bill  without talking to Democrats and then act surprised when Democrats  don't support it. You want our votes; you work with us. And this bill  today that we are considering shows that is possible. So I want to  applaud the bipartisan work of the senior Senators from Georgia and  Arkansas to get us to this point, and I hope all of our colleagues can  take that lesson to heart as we move forward with consideration of this  bill and our work on bipartisan bills to fund the government and avoid  a shutdown.

Let's stay focused on that instead of embracing Russ Vought's vision  for a Congress that is more partisan, less powerful, and less able to  make life better for the people we represent.

Vote on Motion