On Third Anniversary of President Trump's Travel Ban, Senator Murray Calls for a National Commitment to Refugee Resettlement


Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced a resolution marking the third anniversary of President Trump's executive order barring travelers, immigrants, and refugees from majority-Muslim countries from entering the United States, and calling on Congress to reaffirm the United States' commitment to providing a safe haven for refugees fleeing oppression. Three years ago, President Trump issued the first of three executive orders banning refugees, immigrants, and visitors from seven predominantly Muslim countries to the United States. Since then, the Trump Administration has continued to pursue anti-immigrant, anti-refugee policies rooted in religious and nationality-based discrimination, with additional bans looming.

"President Trump's bigoted travel ban is a hateful and needless policy that flies in the face of America's promise as a land of opportunity for those seeking a better life," Senator Murray said. "Over the past three years, the President has pushed an anti-immigrant agenda that Washingtonians and people across the country have repeatedly rejected. Our country has long been a refuge for those fleeing turmoil and persecution, and despite the President's best efforts I will continue fighting to keep it that way."

As the global displacement crisis continues to worsen -- with more than 25,400,000 refugees worldwide -- the resolution directs the United States to commit to resettle a robust number of refugees to meet its share of the global need. The United States has set a record low in refugee admissions goal for fiscal year 2020 of just 18,000 refugees.

Senator Murray has been a strong champion for comprehensive immigration reform and other efforts to support the fair treatment of refugees and those seeking asylum, including introducing the Refugee Protection Act, fighting back against the Trump Administration's efforts to limit refugee resettlement in the U.S., and demanding President Trump put an end to his Remain in Mexico policy, which unnecessarily places asylum seekers in danger. Additionally, Senator Murray has fought for resources and representation for immigrant and refugee communities in Washington state and across the country.