Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700772/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, you know, when it comes to broken  promises, it seems like Trump and Republicans have raised every price  that they ever said they would lower--costs on groceries with Trump's  sweeping tariffs, the largest tax increase on working families in  American history.

They sent energy costs higher by canceling clean energy projects.  They sent gas prices skyrocketing by starting a new war in the Middle  East.

And they let healthcare premiums skyrocket for patients--doubling,  tripling, and more through sheer indifference.

And now, desperate to avoid the wave of angry voters to whom  Republicans had promised to lower prices and no new wars, Republicans  are even going to raise the cost of voting, because their ``Save Trump  Act'' would nickel and dime Americans who are just trying to vote but  have to slog through one new Republican roadblock after another.

Under the Republicans' bill, one of our citizens' most basic freedoms  now comes with a price, and it comes with a lot of brandnew hurdles  that serve no purpose but to trip people up. Some folks will have to  shell out for a copy of their birth certificate. Some will have to get  a passport. That is 165 bucks, by the way.

Some folks will have to travel hours away to register in person,  costing time and travel fare or maybe gas costs, which Trump is now  sending through the roof.

And that is not the half of it.

Just consider all the people who will face new challenges just to  vote for no good reason. If you are a student who just moved to start  college, Republicans will make it harder for you to vote because, if  this bill passes, you will need to show a photo ID and proof of  citizenship in every single State. But a student ID won't count.

Many Tribal IDs also won't be enough under the new Republican  restrictions.

If you are a married woman who changed her last name, like me and the  overwhelming majority of moms across the country, Republicans will make  it harder for you to vote because you would now have to bring an ID,  proof of citizenship, and some additional paperwork showing your name  change. That could affect 70 million people.

If you are a senior who just moved into a new nursing home and has  mobility issues, Republicans will make it harder for you to vote  because you can no longer just register online or by mail. You now have  to show up in person to show your papers.

Voting will also be harder for rural families far from any place  where they could show their papers and register in person.

In Washington State, we have a lot of families who might have to take  a  ferry just to register to vote. Or heaven forbid you are someone living  abroad, maybe working for an American company or working at a nonprofit  or even serving our Nation as a diplomat. You might just have to buy a  flight all the way back home so you can register.

And the inconvenience doesn't stop at registration because  Republicans will make voting by mail harder for everyone as well. They  are going to require you to photocopy your ID when you apply for that  mail-in ballot, and then they are going to require another photocopy  when you send in your mail-in ballot--at least as long as Trump doesn't  get his wish to scrap mail-in voting altogether.

And if you are someone who doesn't know where your birth certificate  is or doesn't have easy access to it, or if you are one of half of  Americans who doesn't have a passport--that is 146 million people--you  are going to have to pay fees and fill out a lot of paperwork.

And what is the Republican plan for when the State Department gets  flooded with a recordbreaking number of passport applications, by the  way, because there is no money for surge capacity in this bill?

What are Americans supposed to do when their paperwork gets delayed  for weeks on end or, heaven forbid, the President just slow-walks it?

And, by the way, under the ``Save Trump Act,'' there is a perfectly  awful chance that you do everything right and still get robbed of your  vote by Republicans because this bill pushes States to rely on a DHS- verification tool that just frankly is a dumpster fire.

States that have tried this got results with huge errors where DHS  was wrongly saying many citizens were not citizens. The Trump  administration tool has already wrongly advised States to purge lawful  voters from their voter rolls.

But the biggest problem with this bill goes to its roots because the  biggest problem is that Republicans' own premise is built on a lie.  Trump has been lying for years now about our elections--lying about  winning in 2020, lying about winning in States like California, lying  about crazy conspiracies that have been debunked, time and time again.

He has been debunked by Republican elections commissioners. He has  been debunked by thorough news investigations and carefully conducted  audits. He has been debunked by million-dollar legal cases where other  liars were sued for defamation.

That has not stopped Trump.

Instead of calling out the lies like so many of them once actually  did, first, Republicans just started ignoring this, and then they  started normalizing them. And now, many of them are repeating these  lies and conspiracies.

Our elections are free, and they are fair. That is beyond question.  Anyone who values our democracy should be shouting that from the  rooftops. But instead of defending our democracy, instead of defending  our elections from misinformation and conspiracies and a President who  has stated, quite directly, that he wants to take control over the  elections, Republicans are joining Trump in the same sort of ruse he  pulled to rile people up on January 6.

The biggest fraud here is this: Republicans who know their agenda is  unpopular; Republicans who know that when entrusted by the voters to  fulfill their promises, all they have done is break them, raising  prices, starting new wars; Republicans who know they will not keep  their majorities in a free and fair election. So they are pushing for  this bill instead.

This is not how elections work. This is not how America works. In  this country, we fight for change with our voices and our votes. And if  Republicans think for a second Democrats will let them take away  people's votes, they better buckle up because you can bet we will use  our voices to block this bill for as long as it takes.