Senator Murray on Nationwide Protests for George Floyd: "This isAbout the Systemic Racism that has Plagued Our Country Since Our Founding and Is Not Changing Nearly Fast Enough"


Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, emphasized her grief, sorrow, and support for Black families and communities of color in Washington state and across the country following the tragic murder of George Floyd by Minneapolis police and subsequent nationwide protests against police brutality and systemic racism. In her remarks during a HELP Committee hearing this morning, Senator Murray reiterated her anger and frustration with the slow pace of progress to address deep-seated institutional racism in America, and her commitment moving forward to prioritize anti-racism in the Senate's legislative efforts.

"Even as we know justice is urgently needed for George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery, we know these protest aren't only about them," said Senator Murray. "This is also about the systemic racism that has plagued our country since our founding and is not changing nearly fast enough."

On Friday, May 29th, Senator Murray issued a statement calling for federal investigations into the recent killings of Breonna Taylor, George Floyd, and Ahmaud Arbery--all unarmed Black people. Senator Murray is also exploring what options may be possible at the federal level to help address the challenge of police brutality, as well as the country's underlying racial issues.

"Before we start, I do want to say, to people in my home state of Washington and across the nation who are hurting right now--I see your pain and share with all of you the grief and sorrow and anger and frustration that is so clearly a product of our country's long history of racial injustice against the Black community.

"Even as we know justice is urgently needed for George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery, we know these protest aren't only about them.

"This is also about the systemic racism that has plagued our country since our founding and is not changing nearly fast enough.

"Our country owes grieving Black families and communities of color change that is as long overdue as our country is old.

"The reforms our country needs are not easy, or quick work, but I am committed to this fight for the long-haul, and I know I'm not the only elected leader who feels this way. 

"I'm going to keep listening to and supporting those who have been at the forefront of this work.

"I'll keep speaking out against the President's shameful abuses of power and efforts to distract from the true goal each of us must work toward, which is ending racial injustice in our country, and I'll keep learning and acting on what I can do to help combat racism in our policies, laws, systems, and institutions."