Senator Murray Grills Secretary Azar on Administration's Lack of Coronavirus Preparedness


Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Senate Labor, Health, and Human Services (LHHS) Appropriations Subcommittee, pushed Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar to answer questions about the Trump Administration's response to novel coronavirus. Senator Murray pressed Secretary Azar on the White House's request for supplemental emergency funding, which Senator Murray stated at the hearing was inadequate and vague. Senator Murray expressed concern for the "very small, unspecified supplemental, and the lack of preparedness" by the Administration as the virus threatens to become pandemic.

Following the exchange, Senator Murray stated, "It's troubling that the Administration didn't use the month of planning time it had to follow the recommendations of its own experts to better prepare for a pandemic. It's just one more example of the Administration disregarding scientific evidence and public health experts."

"While I'm glad the Administration has finally submitted a request for emergency supplemental funding--as I've urged them to do--this request is totally inadequate to address the needs we are hearing from our federal state, and local health experts working to combat this crisis," Senator Murray stated after the hearing. "Public health experts have made clear this isn't likely to end any time soon, so it's critical we plan appropriately and that the Administration provide the necessary resources to manage this over the long term. When it comes to staying ahead of this disease and keeping families safe, we simply can't afford to plan our response to this crisis on the cheap."

In her opening remarks, Senator Murray also criticized the Trump Administration's budget proposals that would undermine progress on key health care challenges and go back on President Trump's past promises--including cuts to Medicare and Medicaid. Senator Murray made clear the budget also represents a backwards step in efforts to address substance use, HIV, suicide, maternal mortality, and more. She questioned Secretary Azar sharply regarding the Office of Refugee Resettlement's (ORR) treatment of unaccompanied minors in its care following alarming reports ORR had shared children's confidential therapy notes with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).