Senator Murray Secures $3.5 Billion for Child Care, Allowing Essential Workers to Continue Serving their Communities


U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Senate education and labor committee, secured $3.5 billion in funding for child care in the Senate coronavirus relief package, after urging Republicans to continue negotiations when they pushed for an inadequate, partisan package.

The updated package includes $3.5 billion in funding for the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) to provide child care assistance to families, and continued wages for child care providers and staff. Child care providers operate on very small margins and are currently facing difficult decisions about closure. This funding will allow child care programs to maintain critical operations, including meeting emergency staffing needs and ensuring first responders, health care workers, sanitation workers, and others deemed essential by public officials can access child care while they respond to the pandemic.  

"Across Washington state and the country, workers in our grocery stores, our hospitals, and our pharmacies who are keeping our communities safe desperately need child care.  I'm glad that this package will provide much needed resources and relief, but it is just one part of a larger solution. I'll keep fighting to support our workers, families, children and child care providers as we continue our coronavirus response," said Senator Murray. "Passing this bill was step one. Now we need to hold this Administration accountable to implementing this bill with the urgency, consistency and equity it requires--and continue to talk with our local and state officials on the ground to make sure they have the resources they need as we continue to combat this crisis."

Specifically, the funding will go to:

Emergency child care services and assistance to health care sector employees, emergency responders, sanitation workers, and other workers deemed essential during the response to coronavirus;Continued payments for child care providers and wages for child care staff, even in the case of program closures or children's absences;Cleaning and sanitation activities to prevent and respond to COVID-19, and other activities necessary to maintain or resume the operation of programs.