Senator Murray Announces Online Hub for Federal Resources, Information During Coronavirus Pandemic


Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, released a set of resources to help inform Washingtonians on what the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act means for them and our state, and how they can access aid and assistance in the law. After securing critical funding for hospitals, front-line workers, small businesses, and people facing unemployment in the CARES Act, Senator Murray is working to provide rigorous oversight of the law's implementation to ensure that resources and assistance go to those who need it most.

"As a voice for our state, I've been focused on ensuring the CARES Act prioritizes families, workers, students and schools, small businesses, tribes and more that have been hard-hit by the coronavirus pandemic and response--and now that the law is in effect, the next step is making sure Washingtonians have the information they need to get the federal relief and support they're entitled to," Senator Murray said. "However, there's much more to do--including making sure this law is implemented properly, that there is sufficient oversight and that Congress continues taking the steps necessary to help our nation get through this crisis--and I will keep fighting to make sure the needs of Washingtonians stay top of mind while we work to slow the spread of the virus."

Senator Murray's online hub of coronavirus resources for Washingtonians can be found HERE, including information on the following topics:

Small Businesses: New relief was created to help pay employees and cover operating costs. Click HERE to learn more.Direct Payments and Unemployment Benefits: Most individuals and families will receive a one-time cash payment from the government, as well as expanded unemployment insurance to help workers whose hours were cut or lost their jobs. Click HERE to learn more.Washington State Tribes: Tribes will receive federal funding to help support their response to the coronavirus crisis. Click HERE to learn more.Nutrition Assistance & Support: Additional support for programs to help families get nutritious food will allow more families to receive assistance. Click HERE to learn more.Federal Housing Support: Additional support will help families facing housing insecurity and people experiencing homelessness. Click HERE to learn more.Investments in Child Care: Strengthened funding will help workers afford child care, and support child care workers and providers. Click HERE to learn more.Investments in K-12 and Higher Education: Schools and colleges will receive additional support to continue providing meals, support distance learning, provide mental health resources, and more. Click HERE to learn more.Expanded Relief for Federal Student Loan Borrowers: New provisions will help hard-hit student loan borrowers by suspending payments and waiving interest. Click HERE to learn more.For additional information about federal grants and other resources available to individuals, families, and businesses through the CARES Act, please don't hesitate to contact us HERE.