Senator Murray's Statement on Trump Administration's Proposal to Expand Federally-Sanctioned Discrimination Against the LGBTQIA+ Community and Women


Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), ranking member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration's latest proposed regulations allowing for eight federal agencies to discriminate against LGBTQIA+ individuals, women, and other unrepresented and underserved communities. The Trump Administration proposal will undo crucial protections for those who rely on taxpayer-funded social service providers.

 

"The government serves everyone--and no one should ever be turned away from services because of what they look like, who they love, or who they pray to. But yet again, the Trump Administration's agenda of promoting federally-sanctioned discrimination will leave underserved and underrepresented communities at risk of losing access to vital services. These latest rules are nothing less than a license to discriminate against members of the LGBTQIA+ community and women. These regulations could impact countless parts of everyday life--including preventing certain individuals from accessing necessary health care services and allowing employers to discriminate and deny individuals good-paying jobs," said Senator Murray.

 

The agencies affected by the proposed regulations include three agencies in the jurisdiction of the HELP Committee, including the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Department of Education (ED) and the Department of Labor (DOL).

 

This is just the latest attempt in the Trump Administration's ongoing efforts to allow for federally-sanctioned discrimination against members of the LGBTQIA+ community and women. Additional measures taken by this Administration include, but are not limited to:

 

-November 1, 2019: HHS announced it will roll back regulations that prohibited grant recipients from denying services on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity.-August 15, 2019: The Department of Labor announced a proposed rule that would allow federal contractors and subcontractors to justify discrimination against women and LGBTQIA+ people on ideological grounds.-June 14, 2019: HHS announced a proposed rule to scale back Section 1557, the non-discrimination provision of the ACA. The regulation would eliminate protection based on sex stereotyping and gender identity.  -May 21, 2019: HHS finalized the "conscience rule," expanding protections for health care providers who refuse to provide medical services based on personal beliefs and permitting widespread discrimination.