Senator Murray Urges Continued Action to Address Northwest Washington Priorities in Coronavirus Pandemic Response


Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Senate health committee, met by phone with health care providers and mayors from small cities and communities across Northwest Washington, to hear about what more the federal government needs to do to support workers, families, and health care providers in the region who have been hit-hard by the COVID-19 pandemic. During the discussions Senator Murray highlighted her work to secure more than $36.5 million in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act for Washington state Community Health Centers (CHCs) to address the pandemic, as well as her recently introduced legislation to increase federal assistance for smaller and more rural communities. Shortly after the calls, Senator Murray voted in favor of a coronavirus relief package that includes hundreds of billions of dollars in assistance for small businesses and health care providers, as well as $25 billion to bolster testing and contact tracing efforts across the country, and a requirement that the Trump Administration establish a national testing strategy. During both of the telephone roundtables, Senator Murray emphasized that she will continue working to address Northwest Washington's specific challenges in future coronavirus relief legislation.

"We are all working hard to stem the spread of this terrible virus, but as we do so we have to be sure we aren't leaving anyone or anywhere behind," Senator Murray said. "As a voice for communities big and small in Northwest Washington and across the state, I'm going to keep working to make sure Congress is doing everything we can--as fast as we can--to get health care providers, local governments, tribes, small businesses and more the support they need to get through this crisis."

Senator Murray began the day with a phone call to mayors and city administrators from Bellingham, Mount Vernon, and Lynnwood to discuss what Northwest Washington's small and mid-sized cities need from the federal government to support their communities. On the call, the mayors emphasized that they are doing their best to keep people safe, but reduced revenues and increased expenses for local governments threaten their ability to properly address the COVID-19 pandemic. While relief for state, local, and tribal governments was not included in the package that passed today, Senator Murray made clear that the needs of smaller and more rural localities are top of mind for her as she is negotiating the next coronavirus relief legislation, and that she would continue pushing for her recently introduced Coronavirus Community Relief Act to provide $250 billion in stabilization funds for cities with populations of 500,000 and fewer, who were ineligible for such funds in the CARES Act.

In the afternoon, Senator Murray held a conference call with Northwest Washington CHC leaders and providers, who highlighted the importance of CHCs in addressing the COVID-19 pandemic and their need for further federal aid to continue providing care in rural and underserved communities. Senator Murray emphasized her work in the CARES Act to secure more than $1.3 billion in supplemental awards for CHCs nationwide, including more than $36.5 million for WA state CHCs and $2.6 million for Northwest Washington CHCs, and said she would continue fighting for additional resources and relief in future aid packages.