Senator Murray: Despite Republican Attacks, Support for Right to Safe, Legal Abortion Stronger Than Ever On Roe v. Wade Anniversary


Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Senate health committee and the highest ranking woman in the Senate, released a video statement regarding the 47th anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision, which affirmed the constitutional right to a safe, legal abortion.

"Today we recognize the 47th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, a decision that has made women across the country more free to plan their lives and families as they choose. But while Roe has been the law of the land for almost a half century, the fight to defend every woman's constitutional right to a safe, legal abortion--and to make sure they can actually exercise that right--has never been more urgent extreme politicians across the country, in the Capitol, and in the White House, are doing everything they can to undermine and overturn the constitutional right to abortion," said Senator Murray.

In the video, Senator Murray spoke about Jennifer Box, a woman who recently came before Congress to share her personal story seeking to end a pregnancy after a fatal fetal diagnosis and the barriers she had to overcome. Senator Murray then went on to outline several ways Republicans across the country are working to undermine the right to a safe, legal abortion, including

-          The nearly 450 abortion bans state legislatures have passed since 2011;

-          The Trump-Pence Administration's gag rule on the Title X family planning program which puts unnecessary, dangerous restrictions on abortion providers;

-          The far-right judicial nominees Senate Republicans have confirmed;

-          The brief Congressional Republicans sent to the Supreme Court urging it to overturn Roe v. Wade.

Senator Murray concluded by noting that despite Republicans' attacks, 70 percent of voters don't want to see Roe overturned, and vowing to fight alongside, and for, patients like Jennifer who are speaking out about what is at stake for them as Republicans continue working to undermine the right to a safe, legal abortion.

"But while there are many attacks on women's reproductive rights, there are even more people like Jennifer--women and men across the country willing to stand up and speak out about what this fight means for them, and their families, and their futures. In fact, support for the right to safe, legal abortion is stronger than ever, with more than 70 percent of voters making clear they do not want to see Roe overturned," Senator Murray said. "I'm going to continue standing with patients like Jennifer and fighting not only to defend the right to a safe, legal abortion in law--but to ensure this right in practice, to tear down barriers patients face, and to expand access to affordable reproductive health care so that no matter who you are, or where you live, or how much you make, you can get the care you need without politicians getting in the way."

A longtime champion of women's health and reproductive rights, Senator Murray has consistently fought against the Trump-Pence administration's attacks on the right to choose for women in Washington state and across the country, including standing up to their Title X gag rule and other attempts to limit women's constitutional right to access safe, legal abortion services.

read the full text below.

Full text of Senator Murray's video address on the Anniversary of Roe v. Wade.

"Today we recognize the 47th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, a decision that has made women across the country more free to plan their lives and families as they choose. But while Roe has been the law of the land for almost a half century, the fight to defend every woman's constitutional right to a safe, legal abortion--and to make sure they can actually exercise that right--has never been more urgent.

"Last year, Congress heard the testimony of Jennifer Box, a mother in Missouri who chose to end her pregnancy after receiving heartbreaking news--a fatal fetal diagnosis. As she worked through the decision to end her pregnancy, she also had to work through barriers that affected when she got care, where she could get that care, and even how much it cost her. And extreme politicians have been working to make things even worse for women--last year Missouri passed an extreme 8-week abortion ban that could make it impossible for patients like Jennifer to get a safe, legal abortion.

"And it's not just Missouri--extreme politicians across the country, in the Capitol, and in the White House, are doing everything they can to undermine and overturn the constitutional right to abortion.

"The Trump-Pence Administration has forced Planned Parenthood and other abortion providers out of the Title X family planning program with burdensome, medically unnecessary requirements and a "gag rule" that stops providers in the program from even discussing abortion with patients.

"Senate Republicans have repeatedly jammed through ideological judicial nominees who have made it clear they will not uphold the right to a safe, legal abortion. State legislatures have passed nearly 450 abortion restrictions since 2011. And as Republicans' flagrantly unconstitutional laws move through the courts--anti-choice legislators have written urging now the Supreme Court to overturn Roe. These attacks on reproductive health care disproportionately hurt young people, people who have low incomes, people of color, and marginalized communities.

"But while there are many attacks on women's reproductive rights, there are even more people like Jennifer--women and men across the country willing to stand up and speak out about what this fight means for them, and their families, and their futures. In fact, support for the right to safe, legal abortion is stronger than ever, with more than 70 percent of voters making clear they do not want to see Roe overturned.

"I'm going to continue standing with patients like Jennifer and fighting not only to defend the right to a safe, legal abortion in law--but to ensure this right in practice, to tear down barriers patients face, and to expand access to affordable reproductive health care so that no matter who you are, or where you live, or how much you make, you can get the care you need without politicians getting in the way."