Van Hollen, Murray, DeLauro Introduce New Emergency Paid Sick Days Legislation


U.S. Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) has joined Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Ranking Member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), to introduce new, emergency paid sick leave legislation, building off the Healthy Families Act (HFA), to provide paid sick days immediately to workers in light of the coronavirus crisis, and in preparation for future public health emergencies. This legislation is included in the Families First Coronavirus Response Act set to be considered today by the House of Representatives.

"During a public health emergency, the last thing a sick employee should worry about is whether or not they have sufficient savings and enough time off to stay home or go to the doctor. As we've seen with the coronavirus, this is also crucial to preventing the spread of the disease," said Senator Van Hollen. "We must act now to ensure that workers are able to recover safely at home and to effectively contain and mitigate the spread of the coronavirus."

This emergency paid sick days legislation requires all employers to allow workers to accrue seven days of paid sick leave and to provide an additional 14 days available immediately in the event of any public health emergency, including the current coronavirus crisis.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines advise people to stay home if they are sick. However, for many workers -- including many restaurant workers, truck drivers, people in the service industry, and more -- staying home from work means losing a paycheck or losing your job. The bill won't just ensure workers can take care of themselves and their families, it will also ensure that workers can help keep their communities safe.

"The coronavirus is highly contagious and the problem isn't going away anytime soon," said Senator Murray. "Workers want to do the right thing for themselves, their families, and their communities--so especially in the middle of public health crises like this, staying home sick shouldn't have to mean losing a paycheck or a job. This bill would immediately give workers the ability to care for themselves, their families, and help keep their communities safe. We need to pass it without delay."

"The lack of paid sick days could make coronavirus harder to contain in the United States compared with other countries that have universal sick leave policies in place," said Congresswoman DeLauro. "No one should face the impossible choice of caring for their health or keeping their paycheck or job, especially when a sudden public health crisis occurs. But millions of hard-working people must make this decision every time they get sick or a family member needs care. Low-income workers and their families could be hit even harder by the virus, as low wage jobs are at the forefront of not providing sick leave benefits.  That is why I am proud to sponsor this effort with Senator Murray to ensure that workers are able to follow the directive of public health officials and stay home without the fear of losing their paycheck."