Charlotte Woodward Organ Transplant Discrimination Prevention Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692715/charlotte-woodward-organ-transplant-discrimination-prevention-act


Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share my strong support  for H.R. 1520, the Charlotte Woodward Organ Transplant Discrimination  Prevention Act.

Mr. Speaker, as co-chair of the Bipartisan Disabilities Caucus, I am  proud to co-lead the Charlotte Woodward Organ Transplant Discrimination  Prevention Act alongside my colleague, Representative Kat Cammack. I  thank her for her partnership on this vital bill named after the  incredible young woman whom you just met.

I came out here looking for her because I said to Frank months or  years ago: Frank, she will be in the committee. She is the living  energy of somebody who knew that something had to be done, and  Charlotte is just always there. Her energy is going to get this issue  righted. She has been the bill's biggest supporter, sitting time and  time again in the Energy and Commerce Committee room for nearly every  hearing and markup and telling her story and her tremendous work.

For those who don't know her story, it has been mentioned that  Charlotte was born with Down syndrome and a heart condition. Due to  this heart condition, she successfully underwent a lifesaving heart  transplant in 2012. In the years since, she has become the advocate we  all know, sharing her story to educate and advocate for others with  disabilities.

In her honor, this important bill prohibits discrimination against  people with disabilities in the organ transplant system. Specifically,  it prohibits eligible individuals from being denied a lifesaving  transplant procedure based solely on their disability status. It is  unthinkable that people with disabilities are passed over for  lifesaving transplants based on discriminatory and subjective  assumptions about their ability to comply with postoperative care.

With this legislation, we can take action and ensure that all  Americans, regardless of their disability status, receive equitable  access to the care that they need.

I thank Energy and Commerce Committee Chair Guthrie and Ranking  Member Pallone for fighting with us for this important piece of  legislation. Again, I thank Representative Cammack for being such a  great bipartisan partner.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this important  bill.