Foreign Adversary Communications Transparency Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690266/foreign-adversary-communications-transparency-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 906, the Foreign Adversary  Communications Transparency Act. At the end of last year, we learned  that Salt Typhoon, a cyber espionage operation backed by the Chinese  Communist Party, infiltrated several American telecommunications  networks to gain access to detailed information on former Vice  President Harris and other political figures, as well as access  American surveillance information.

This is extremely disturbing and a stark reminder of the lengths to  which foreign adversary countries will go to use our media and  communications networks to disrupt and divide us, weakening our economy  for their own benefit. Whether it is through communications equipment,  the networks themselves, or social media, we have seen these operations  time and time again, which is why we must stay vigilant to minimize  these risks or avoid them altogether.

Fortunately, today, we are taking additional action to address these  and future threats. H.R. 906 would require the Federal Communications  Commission to publish a list within 4 months indicating any entities  with ties to China, Russia, North Korea, and Iran that hold wireless  and undersea cable licenses that power our country's mobile and fixed  communications networks.

The bill would also require the FCC to issue rules in 18 months to  help it attain foreign ownership information for the remaining  authorizations, licenses, and grants that the agency issues. The FCC  would then publish on its list any additional entities with ties to  China, Russia, North Korea, and Iran no later than 1 year after the new  rules are adopted. The FCC would also  need to update this entity list annually.

This bill is particularly important since we know our communications  networks carry Americans' most sensitive personal and government data  on a daily basis, so we must have a clear understanding if any foreign  adversary countries or the companies operating within those countries  are investors in our networks.

With this bill, we continue to secure our communications networks,  protect Americans and their personal data, and help better protect our  allies as they, too, rely on our global undersea cable network for  broadband services.

I thank Representatives Castor, Khanna, Wittman, and Kean for their  bipartisan work and leadership on this legislation. Mr. Speaker, I urge  all of my colleagues to support H.R. 906, and I reserve the balance of  my time.

Mrs. DINGELL.  Castor), a great leader on this issue.

Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I strongly urge that my  colleagues on both sides of the aisle support H.R. 906, the Foreign  Adversary Communications Transparency Act for the security of our  Nation. I yield back the balance of my time.