Informing Consumers About Smart Devices Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690180/informing-consumers-about-smart-devices-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 859, the Informing Consumers  About Smart Devices Act.

Mr. Speaker, the Internet of Things has ushered in a new age of  convenience and efficiency for Americans. Smart thermostats save  consumers money by tracking and reporting home energy use and making  recommendations about adjusting temperatures to meet consumers' needs.  Smart refrigerators provide recipe suggestions based on the content of  the refrigerators. Smart ovens scan food to automatically optimize the  cooking process.

Every year, American consumers have more and more interconnected  devices. Unfortunately, the convenience sometimes comes at a cost.  Troubling reports have uncovered that some interconnected devices  record images or audio without the users' awareness. Quite frankly,  this happens more often than not. Sharing of that information with the  device manufacturer or third parties is a real and serious threat to  people's privacy.

To combat those threats, the Informing Consumers About Smart Devices  Act will require manufacturers of internet-connected devices to alert  consumers when a device includes a camera or a microphone if a consumer  would not reasonably expect it to do so. I think most consumers don't  recognize or understand this.

While this bill addresses significant privacy concerns, it is also  important that we recommit to adopting a bipartisan, comprehensive  privacy framework that starts with data minimization and protects all  Americans and provides heightened protections for our children  nationwide.

I thank Representative Moulton for his leadership on this issue and  encourage my colleagues to support this legislation.

Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I strongly recommend my colleagues on both  sides of the aisle support H.R. 859, the Informing Consumers About  Smart Devices Act, and protect Americans' privacy.