National Telecommunications and Information Administration Reauthorization Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2482, the National  Telecommunications and Information Administration Reauthorization Act.

Over the 4 years of the Biden administration, the National  Telecommunications and Information Administration, or NTIA, did  tremendous work to help connect all Americans to high-speed, reliable,  and affordable broadband. The historic $65 billion in broadband  investments that we included in the bipartisan infrastructure law are  helping supercharge these efforts.

It is now time for the Trump administration's NTIA to unleash the  rest of this funding so that States can connect as many Americans as  possible to fast, reliable, and affordable internet.

Congress has also tasked NTIA with other meaningful responsibilities.  The agency manages Federal spectrum and its users, as well as  coordinates with the Federal Communications Commission to ensure that  our airwaves are effectively managed in a safe and secure manner. It is  also charged with advising the President on advanced technologies.

Mr. Speaker, a lot has changed since the NTIA was last reauthorized  in 1992. We should ensure that it continues to have the authorities it  needs to implement many of our Nation's broadband efforts and  technological advancements in such areas as spectrum management and  artificial intelligence.

H.R. 2482 helps achieve this goal. This bipartisan bill reauthorizes  the NTIA and elevates its leadership by making its administrator an  undersecretary within the Department of Commerce. Taking these  important steps will better reflect NTIA's importance as the  President's primary adviser on telecommunications and technology  policy. This bill also includes important provisions to codify NTIA's  current work and responsibilities.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Subcommittee on Communications and Technology  Ranking Member Matsui and Representative Latta for their bipartisan  work on this bill. With this legislation, we ensure that NTIA has the  authorities it needs to continue connecting all Americans to high- speed, reliable, and affordable broadband and overseeing innovative  technology development.

Mrs. DINGELL.  Matsui), the ranking member of the Communications and  Technology Subcommittee and a leader in this field.

Mrs. McCLAIN DELANEY. Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise in strong support of  H.R. 2482.

Today, I am so pleased to support this long-overdue reauthorization  of NTIA, a small but mighty agency housed within the Department of  Commerce.

This important agency is esteemed by both public and private  stakeholders around the globe, and it is staffed by incredibly  experienced engineers, technical experts, and tech policy professionals  who understand the breadth and depth of telecom and AI impacting our  country.

I say this because I had the privilege of recently serving as the  Deputy Assistant Secretary and Deputy Administrator of NTIA, this  amazing agency. I well understand how much the world and telecom policy  have changed since NTIA was reauthorized by Congress over three decades  ago. A lot has happened since then.

This legislation, as my colleague said, does make it better ``fit for  purpose'' by codifying the important Office of Spectrum Management, the  division which oversees the spectrum allocations for our country's  agencies. During the past few years, I watched it work to finalize our  national strategy on spectrum and represent our country at the ITU  World Radio Conference and other technical conferences.

This is important because this technical work is key and underpins  our U.S. competitiveness and national security and paves the way for  new technologies to thrive through the reallocation of spectrum,  spectrum like 6G, and its work on technical standards vis-a-vis China  and other international players.

Moreover, this legislation codifies its international office to work  on tech issues raised in international venues, such as the EU and ITU,  public wireless supply chains, and national competitiveness issues. As  my colleague said, it is very important for the resources for the  broadband division in its work on finally rolling out the rest of the  broadband grants for universal high-speed internet access and to  finally close the digital divide.

Lastly, I can't help but say the public safety division is essential  for NG911 services and FirstNet.

I commend the committee for this much-needed network, and I ask my  colleagues to join me in support.

Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge our colleagues on both  sides of the aisle to support H.R. 2482, and I yield back the balance  of my time.