Promoting United States Wireless Leadership Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693508/promoting-united-states-wireless-leadership-act-of-2025


Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank my dear friend, the chair of the  subcommittee, Bob Latta, and our ranking member, Frank Pallone, for  helping to move this and for recognizing me today.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the 5G and Beyond Caucus  bill, H.R. 1765, the Promoting United States Wireless Leadership Act.

As a co-chair of the 5G and Beyond Caucus, it is good to see that we  actually have bipartisan agreement in this body that the United States  must be a leader in the development and deployment of cutting-edge  technologies.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Tom Kean, who we just heard from,  Representative Tim Walberg, and Representative Yvette Clarke for their  work on this legislation. They are my co-leads on this bill and are  also members of the 5G and Beyond Caucus.

This bipartisan bill ensures the United States remains at the  forefront of innovation by playing a central role in setting  international wireless standards in emerging technologies such as 6G,  and what is to come.

Today's policy decisions have lasting effects on the global wireless  technology development of tomorrow. Today, we are taking concrete,  proactive steps to lower the barriers of entry for U.S. companies and  other stakeholders to promote American ingenuity at international  standards-setting bodies as they develop the next generation of  wireless technologies.

Mr. Speaker, let's be clear. Our global competitor is China. As 5G  has become the backbone of our digital infrastructure, China has  aggressively positioned itself as the global leader for this  technology. To accomplish this, the Chinese Government has streamlined  spectrum management, invested heavily in telecom infrastructure, and  launched diplomatic efforts to shape international standards in its  favor.

To maintain our technological edge, we must invest now in setting  standards for the next generation of wireless technology, which is 6G.  We need to counter China's influence. We must work to ensure that we  shape these global standards as they will define the future of  telecommunications technologies.

This bill will do exactly that. It will have a real impact on our  global competitiveness, 6G deployment, and our national security.

Mr. Speaker, I am glad to see that today we are making real progress,  and I strongly urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support  H.R. 1765.