Promoting Resilient Supply Chains Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690189/promoting-resilient-supply-chains-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2444, the Promoting  Resilient Supply Chains Act. I thank my co-leads of this bill,  Representatives  John James, Robin Kelly, and Erin Houchin.

This bipartisan bill builds on the work we have done in recent years  to strengthen American manufacturing, foster innovation, and protect  both our economic and national security. It gives the Federal  Government the tools and the authorities needed to map, monitor, and  respond to supply chain vulnerabilities before they escalate into full- blown crises.

This legislation includes critical provisions from last Congress'  Supply Chains Act, which I co-led, including a provision to designate  the Assistant Secretary of Commerce to lead a governmentwide supply  chain resilience effort.

It also ensures input from the Department of Labor and lays out a  national strategy to coordinate action and prevent future disruptions.  Leaving our manufacturers and suppliers vulnerable creates fragile  supply chains that threaten both our economic and national security.  This bill is a critical step toward preventing debilitating shortages.

Mr. Speaker, we must invest, rebuild, and protect our industrial base  from threats to innovation and competitiveness. For too long, poorly  negotiated trade deals, job outsourcing, and the decline of  unionization have hollowed out our industrial base, leaving  manufacturers and suppliers vulnerable. We have a responsibility to  rebuild American manufacturing and protect workers because doing so is  essential to both our economic strength and our national security.

Supply chain legislation is vital to our long-term competitiveness as  a country, and I am glad to see that progress is being made on this  bill.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle  to support H.R.

Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I urge our colleagues on both sides of the  aisle to support H.R. 2444, and I yield back the balance of my time.