Protecting Access for Hunters and Anglers Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700848/protecting-access-for-hunters-and-anglers-act


Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, as a former chair and proud member of the  Congressional Sportsmen's Caucus, I have worked tirelessly to defend  our public lands and wildlife for the benefit of all outdoor  enthusiasts. I am here today on the floor to continue to fight for  healthy wildlife populations and to protect public lands access for our  Nation's hunters and fishers.

I have been warning my colleagues for years that this legislation, as  written, will undermine science-based conservation of wildlife and will  result in closures of areas to hunting and fishing.

The fact is that when land managers are allowed to follow the best  available science, restrictions on lead ammunition and tackle can be  used as a tool to expand access for hunters and fishers, not limit it.  This is especially important in places like national wildlife refuges,  where managers must ensure that hunting and fishing activities are  compatible with the refuge's purposes, including safeguarding  threatened and endangered species.

Even last fall, I saw new hunting and fishing opportunities combined  with restrictions on lead. The Trump administration's 2025 hunt-fish  rule combined these limited lead regulations for new hunting and  fishing opportunities with its Lead-Free Hunting Voluntary Incentive  Program.

For example, at Pocosin Lakes National Wildlife Refuge, they combined  a new opportunity for lead-free bear hunting with a program that  distributed all needed lead-free ammunition to hunters.

The bill as currently written undermines that effort by requiring  costly and unworkable unit-specific analysis before any regulation on  lead can be proposed. In many cases, this bureaucratic burden in H.R.  556 may cause entire units to be closed to hunting or fishing.

From an administrative perspective, it is less risky to remain in  compliance with the ESA and the National Wildlife Refuge System  Administration Act by closing units to hunting and fishing than to  navigate the complex process required by this bill.

Meanwhile, wildlife populations are under increasing pressure from a  range  of stressors, including habitat loss, disease, and climate change. Lead  contamination often contributes to population decline alongside these  other factors, and waiting until lead becomes the primary cause of harm  means we are acting too late.

That is why, at the appropriate time, I will offer a motion to  recommit this bill back to committee.

If House rules permitted, I would have offered the motion with an  important amendment to the bill.

Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, my amendment ensures that land managers  can make science-based decisions to protect both wildlife and hunting  opportunities so they don't face a choice between keeping lands open to  hunting and fishing or protecting wildlife.

As someone who strongly supports our hunters and anglers, I want  these activities to remain sustainable and accessible for future  generations. Hunters and anglers are among conservation's greatest  champions, and they deserve our support.

Grounding conservation and recreation in sound science supports both  the natural resources we value and the outdoor traditions we cherish.

Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in  voting for the motion to recommit that will protect our Nation's rich  wildlife heritage for future generations.

Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.

Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.