Rural Broadband Protection Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690154/rural-broadband-protection-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2399, the Rural Broadband  Protection Act. This legislation would direct the Federal  Communications Commission to establish a process to more thoroughly vet  internet service providers participating in the Universal Service  Fund's high-cost program.

I have long advocated for reforms to combat waste, fraud, and abuse  in the high-cost program. Following an investigation by Energy and  Commerce Committee Democrats in 2017, we requested that the Government  Accountability Office open its own inquiry into reports of abuse of  high-cost support.

In a scathing report, GAO detailed a remarkable lack of oversight by  the FCC, as well as the need for greater accountability to ensure  precious USF dollars are spent on the mission of deploying high-speed  broadband to unserved and underserved communities. Since then, we have  seen modest progress to curb waste, fraud, and abuse in the high-cost  program, but more accountability is needed.

I commend Representatives Kelly and Houchin for their work on this  legislation and appreciate their commitment to protecting unserved and  underserved communities in need of high-speed connectivity.

However, I must note that this legislation was not considered as part  of the Energy and Commerce Committee's typical regular order process.  It was not considered during a subcommittee legislative hearing or  taken up in a subcommittee markup prior to being voted on by the full  committee.

I am supporting the bill today, but I am disappointed that the  Committee members were not afforded the opportunity to seek testimony  from experts on this specific text of the legislation or inquire about  the bill's impact on the program and consumers as is our typical  practice for legislative hearings.

Still, I believe this legislation will help address critical gaps in  the vetting of high-cost recipients and will curb waste, fraud, and  abuse in the program, so I urge our colleagues to support H.R. 2399.

Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am  prepared to close.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  support H.R. 2399, and I yield back the balance of my time.