World War II Women's Memorial Location Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697725/world-war-ii-womens-memorial-location-act


Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share my strong support  for H.R. 2290, the World War II Women's Memorial Location Act, which I,  as has been previously stated, introduced  alongside my good friend, the gentleman from Idaho (Mr. Fulcher).

Mr. Speaker, this bill authorizes The National Mall as the location  for the memorial, commemorating the service and sacrifice of the women  who worked on the home front during World War II.

This bill advances a decade-long effort to properly honor the more  than 18 million trailblazing women who are now known and loved as Rosie  the Riveters.

Our Rosies answered the call when our Nation needed them the most,  redefining the role of the American woman and opening the door wider  for generations to come. During World War II, women went to work in  record numbers. Yet, they are all too often the untold story of the  home front.

At Ford Motor Company's Willow Run bomber plant in Michigan, just as  an example, women made up almost half of the workforce that turned out  one complete B-24 Liberator bomber every 55 minutes. Many women worked  in jobs that no one ever thought they could do, such as riveters.

Mr. Speaker, the Rosies taught me what a riveter was. I didn't  realize what it was until I was by that plane, and I went: Oh, that is  what a riveter is.

They were also welders, and they proved to themselves and the world  that Americans can do it.

I am blessed to have many Rosies in my life. I have gone to many  birthday parties for 100-, 102-, and 103-year-olds because we are  blessed to have a number of the original Rosies living in my area. They  have inspired me. They tell me their stories. On a cold Veterans Day  this year, when the wind chill was zero degrees, I stood outside with  those strong, resilient women with every ounce of their intellect  there, sharing the stories of what it meant to be a Rosie.

This bill will take us one critical step closer to ensuring that our  Rosies receive the recognition that they deserve.

In 2022, Congress passed bipartisan legislation authorizing the  establishment of a memorial dedicated to the Rosies. However,  additional legislation is needed to permit the memorial to be located  near the existing World War II Memorial. They are part of that whole  story.

I am proud to lead this bipartisan legislation and help complete the  story of World War II in our Nation's front yard.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the World War II Women's  Memorial Location Act, which was carefully crafted to respect the  Commemorative Works Act process, honoring the legacies of our Rosies  and ensuring that the memorial may be located at a site near the  current World War II Memorial.