Happy Birthday to California


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, happy birthday to the greatest State in the  Union. Mr. Speaker, 175 years ago, California was admitted as the 31st  State in the Union.

For 175 years, California was built by people from across the globe  who came in search of a better life. This includes my mother, who  immigrated to the San Fernando Valley in the 1960s and worked multiple  jobs so that my sister and I could live out the American Dream.

Stories like mine are what make California great, and it is what has  made California special for the past 175 years. Generations of  immigrants, workers, dreamers, and innovators have propelled California  forward and made it a beacon for the rest of the Nation.

Those advancements did not come without challenges, and communities  across our State currently face threats to their livelihoods that  directly challenge our State's values.

Because of the Trump administration, many in my district and across  the State live under fear that ICE will tear their family apart.

In just 9 months, Trump has manufactured a crisis that harms our most  vulnerable, including students starting a new school year, senior  citizens, young children, and disabled individuals. He is detaining  hardworking individuals who are in this country legally and providing  for their families so they, too, can have a chance at their American  Dream.

I know California, and Californians are tough and resilient. Last  month, I met with Mariela from Panorama City. Mariela stepped up to  support her family and neighbors because street vendors like her mom  are terrified that she may be swept up by ICE and separated from her  family.

Mariela's resiliency and advocacy for others in the face of Donald  Trump's harmful anti-immigrant agenda embodies the spirit of California  and what it means to be a Californian.

I am a proud Californian from the San Fernando Valley raised by an  immigrant mother, lifted by my community, and inspired every day by the  people of this State.

For 175 years, immigrants, workers, dreamers, and innovators made  California a leader in the country. As we celebrate California's 175th  birthday, let's recommit ourselves to protecting our most vulnerable  and protecting a future where every family has what they need to  thrive.