Protect Medicaid


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, as we speak, House Republicans are finalizing  an extreme budget plan that includes the largest cut to Medicaid in our  country's history.

This is an outright assault on the healthcare of nearly 14 million  Americans, including over 370,000 people in my district, California's  29th.

Additionally, hospitals like Olive View Medical Center in Sylmar,  where over 70 percent of patients rely on Medicaid, will suffer, and  services at health centers throughout my district, including El  Proyecto del Barrio and Northeast Valley Health Corporation will be  cut.

Republicans' attacks on Medicaid means Americans, including millions  who are already struggling to keep up with the rising cost of living,  will be forced to pay more for healthcare.

Republicans continue to show that they have no plans to make life  easier for anyone who is not a billionaire. In fact, while the rest of  the country gets sicker and poorer, Republicans are set to give their  billionaire donors new tax breaks.

Protecting Medicaid is essential to our communities. That is why  House Democrats and I are demanding an up-or-down vote to protect it.

I call on my Republican colleagues to join House Democrats in signing  our discharge petition to protect Medicaid for their constituents and  healthcare for children, seniors, and the disabled in their district.                         National Science Foundation

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, this week we should be celebrating the 75th  anniversary of the National Science Foundation and the countless  investments it has made to propel our country ahead in the  technological race.

However, since the start of the Trump-Musk administration, the NSF  has been in its crosshairs. In total, Elon Musk, DOGE, and this  administration have terminated over 1,400 meritorious grants totaling  more than $1 billion in funds.

Some of the projects that these funds would have supported include  giving middle school students opportunities to use math and design to  address agricultural issues; identifying the use of deepfakes and  curbing the spread of misinformation; and supporting and training the  next generation of quantum technicians.

Cuts to these programs, and many more, came with no transparency,  little communication, and zero accountability.

My colleagues on the Science Committee have repeatedly demanded that  the administration answer for their actions, even as recently as this  week. Each time we were met with radio silence.

This administration needs to answer for its unprecedented attack and  how it wiped out decades of progress for science, including decades of  progress for diversifying the STEM workforce.

This week, we should be celebrating the advancements NSF has  contributed to over the past 75 years and looking forward to a bright  and innovative 75 more years. Instead, we are fighting to save it from  the chaotic, reckless, and destructive actions of this administration.