Republicans Are Putting Forward A Resolution That Targets Los Angeles


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I am a proud Angeleno. Los Angeles will  always be home to me. However, instead of putting a resolution on the  floor that helps Angelenos address the cost of living, save their  Medicaid, or protect our city's immigrant communities from the Trump  administration's cruelty, Republicans are putting forward a resolution  that targets Los Angeles, our home, and Californians.

A few items my colleagues on the other side of the aisle forgot to  mention in their partisan resolution include: the President's  unprovoked escalation and mobilization of the National Guard and  Marines against Americans on American soil; the President's comments to  arrest Governor Gavin Newsom, an action that would stoke more tension;  and the handcuffing and assault of Senator Alex Padilla, who boldly  dared to demand accountability from this administration.

Those are a few of the facts that were omitted from the Republicans'  resolution. The truth is, Governor Newsom, Mayor Bass, and House  Democrats, including my House Democratic Caucus colleagues from  California, have repeatedly supported the right to peacefully protest  and quickly condemned any acts of violence that have taken place.

This resolution could have been a simple resolution condemning  violence and thanking our local leaders for keeping communities safe.  The resolution that we are voting on this week is a political stunt to  distract from this administration's terrorization of hardworking  families and immigrant communities that are a huge reason why our city,  our State, and our country are great.

Families across Los Angeles are living in fear because of this  administration's reckless and chaotic actions that are instilling more  fear, causing more chaos, and inflicting more harm among our most  vulnerable.

The families and individuals I have spoken with across my district  are afraid to leave their homes because they might be illegally  detained by masked and unnamed ICE agents and separated from their  loved ones.

No one should have to live with that fear. I will be voting ``no'' on  the Republicans' resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my friends across the aisle, especially my  Californian Republican colleagues, to stand up for Los Angeles and our  great State and vote ``no.''