Stop the Republican Affordability Crisis


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, just over a year ago, I was part of a  talented and diverse group of 33 freshmen Members of Congress. We were  veterans, doctors, engineers, lawyers, teachers, small business owners,  and State legislators who were sent by our constituents to make their  lives better. They sent us to Congress to protect their healthcare,  lower the costs of their groceries, and make life more affordable.

Democrats are working on bills that would meaningfully help families  deal with the affordability crisis. There are bills that have been  introduced that stop price gouging at the grocery store, make housing  more affordable, and make healthcare accessible for all, but  Republicans have yet to take up any of these proposals.

We are in midst of an affordability crisis, and Republicans are  refusing to work with us to address it. We are 13 months into our first  term in Congress, and my colleagues and I have yet to see a meaningful  piece of legislation from Republicans that makes life less expensive  for our constituents.

Over the past year, Republicans chose to rename the Gulf of Mexico,  redefine what a showerhead is, rename the Kennedy Center, look into  annexing Greenland, regulate fridges and gas stoves, and perhaps the  most egregious one is to make the largest cuts to healthcare in our  country's history in order to give billionaires more tax breaks.

The fact that Trump and Republicans are prioritizing these bills over  lowering the cost of living is insulting to our constituents. I fail to  see how renaming the Gulf of Mexico, redefining the definition of a  showerhead, or annexing Greenland will help families in our districts  afford groceries or pay their rent.

Because of Donald Trump and Republicans' policies, families across  the country paid an average of over $1,600 more due in everyday  expenses. Californians are paying over $2,300. However, do you know who  is benefiting from the Trump administration? Billionaires.

With the big, ugly bill, Trump and Republicans have implemented the  largest cuts to healthcare in the history of our country and worsen the  affordability crisis just to line the pockets of their billionaire  donors.

The big, ugly bill is also the largest cut to food assistance in  American history. The bill cuts SNAP benefits by 20 percent for all  participants, or roughly $200 billion, jeopardizing SNAP benefits for  more than 40 million people, including 16 million children and 8  million seniors who rely on this for nutritional assistance.

Republicans turn their backs on making life affordable for our most  vulnerable in order to help billionaires afford another yacht.

My House Democratic Caucus freshmen colleagues and I are focused on  making life better for the American people and driving down grocery  prices, utility bills, rent and mortgage payments, and childcare and  elder care costs so that hardworking people can breathe easier.

To help working families, especially multigenerational households,  deal with the rising costs of living, I am introducing the  Multigenerational Family Tax Credit Act. My bill gives  multigenerational families a tax credit for expenses that they incur  when they upgrade their houses to make them more accessible for their  aging parents who live with them. This includes upgrades like grab  rails in the shower, an additional bathroom or bedroom, or even  assistance to go up and down stairs. This tax credit will help  multigenerational families afford to make the upgrades necessary for  seniors to age gracefully in one place.

Tonight, we will hear from some of the freshmen of the Democratic  Caucus and the work that they are doing to  make life more affordable for their constituents.

Ms. RIVAS.  Elfreth).

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ms. Elfreth for her remarks.

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire how much time I have remaining.

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, over the past year, Republicans have chosen  to focus on nearly everything except addressing the affordability  crisis.

One of those items includes renaming the Gulf of Mexico. As a member  of the House Committee on Natural Resources, I saw this bill make its  way through the committee thinking that it was a joke. I was correct to  think that because the origin of renaming the Gulf of Mexico was from a  joke.

In 2011, Stephen Colbert joked about renaming the gulf during the  2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill, stating that: ``I don't think we can  call it the Gulf of Mexico anymore. We broke it; we bought it.''

When the big, ugly bill was being marked up in the Natural Resources  Committee, I led an amendment that would make this unserious proposal  more beneficial for working families in my district. My amendment made  it so that the gulf cannot be renamed until Secretary Burgum can assess  how the bill will actually lower grocery prices, improve the GDP, lower  unemployment, and create jobs. Of course, Republicans rejected my  amendment.

That seems to be the pattern that we are all seeing, and that is why  we are here today to share the stories on how the affordability crisis  is affecting our constituents.

Dexter).

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, in July, Republicans voted to betray our  values as a Nation and turn their backs on children, working parents,  veterans, and our most vulnerable.

Under direct orders from the President, the big, ugly bill ignored  the concerns of a majority of Americans to instead cater to  billionaires. For over a year, Republicans have done nothing to save  Medicaid, protect immigrant communities, provide food for needy  families or children, or address the skyrocketing cost of living.  Republicans voted to stand with billionaires and make life harder and  more expensive for working families.

What Republicans somehow fail to see is how the big, ugly bill would  harm their constituents. House Democrats all voted to save Medicaid and  SNAP, protect our immigrant communities, and stand with working  families across the San Fernando Valley and across the country.

As you heard from many of my freshmen colleagues who participated  today, Republicans are turning their backs on everyday Americans. We  all have constituent stories, constituents who have reached out to us  to share the impact of these policies on their daily lives.

Just recently, I heard from an elderly couple in my district from  Valley Village who are facing serious health concerns, including  chronic heart problems and cancer. He and his wife make regular visits  to the oncologist and are going through multiple rounds of  chemotherapy. They live on a fixed income from Social Security. Between  regular visits to the doctors and the monthly increase in their rent,  they are struggling to make ends meet.

No one should have to make the choice of paying for their rent or a  visit to the doctor that they need in order to survive. Unfortunately,  these are the decisions that this administration is forcing everyday  Americans to make. Republicans must work with House Democrats to bring  these costs down for families in the San Fernando Valley and across the  country.

Mr. Speaker, how much time do I have remaining?

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, the work we do in Congress should improve the  lives of our constituents, not focus on vanity projects for an  egomaniac or line the pockets of people who don't need it.

We heard from several talented and dedicated Democratic freshmen  tonight about the work that they are doing to make life more affordable  for their constituents.

The true test of how great we are as a country is how we treat and  care for our most vulnerable. Time and time again, Democrats are rising  to the occasion to pass this test and make life more affordable for  all. By doing literally everything except for addressing the  affordability crisis that they created, Republicans are failing that  test.