-9999


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I am pleased to join my colleagues in  supporting the Great American Outdoors Act, a bill to provide full  funding for  the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to address the deferred  maintenance backlog for our national parks. 

  Under the expert leadership of Senators Gardner, Manchin, and Daines,  59 bipartisan Senators have cosponsored this bill that will allow  landowners, States, local communities, and conservation partners to  plan for the future and to restore our national parks. 

  More than 50 years ago, the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act  established America's most successful conservation and outdoor  recreation program. There is truly nothing else like it. The fund was  designed to ensure that outdoor recreational lands would be secured for  future generations. 

  I remember, in one of my first years in the Senate, working with my  colleague from Colorado, Senator and later Secretary of the Interior  Ken Salazar, as we sought to boost the funding for the stateside part  of the program. 

  If you look at a map of the United States and put a pin in every  place where there was a Land and Water Conservation Fund stateside  supported program, you would find that every single county in the  country had at least one project. Oftentimes, people do not realize  that local ballpark or the trails that run along a local stream or lake  are the result of funding from the Land and Water Conservation Fund,  and those are projects that are designed by local people, selected by  local people, and then the Federal Government helps in the funding to  acquire and maintain the land. 

  Just last year, this important program was permanently authorized,  and now we have the opportunity to ensure for the American people that  this program will have consistent funding to play the strongest  possible role in preserving open spaces, special lands, and  revitalizing communities for years to come. 

  Investments in this landmark conservation program support access to  the outdoors for all Americans, as LWCF, as I have mentioned, has  invested in literally every county in our country. Its funding has been  used to open up key areas for hunting, fishing, and other recreational  access; to support working forests and ranches and protect them from  development; to acquire inholdings and protect critical lands in  national parks, national wildlife refuges, national forests, Civil War  battlefields, and other Federal areas; and, as I mentioned, my favorite  part of the program, which is the stateside part of the program, which  supports State and local projects, from ballparks to recreational  trails. 

  Over the past five decades, Maine has received more than $191 million  in funding from LWCF. Examples of this funding include the Cold Stream  Forest, a Forest Legacy Program project in Somerset County to preserve  a beautiful area that continues the long and proud Maine tradition of  conservation, public access to recreation, and working forests. 

  In addition, we have the Rachel Carson National Wildlife Refuge in  southern Maine, where a once-undeveloped 110-acre tract along the coast  in Biddeford was preserved for natural habitat and expanded  recreational access. 

  Of the more than 850 Land and Water Conservation Fund sites in Maine,  650 are community-based projects, from Riverside Park in Fort Kent in  northern Maine to Haley soccer fields in Kittery, right near the New  Hampshire border. 

  I want to repeat that statistic again. Out of the 850 Land and Water  Conservation Fund sites in the State of Maine, 650 are community-based  projects, like the park in Fort Kent that I mentioned and the soccer  fields in Kittery. 

  In its more than 50-year history, however, this program has been  funded fully only twice at the authorized level of $900 million. I  believe that Congress should fully fund this program to deliver on the  promise that was made to the American people back in 1964 to take a  portion of the proceeds from natural resource development, such as  offshore oil drilling, and invest a portion in conservation and outdoor  recreation. 

  I do want to recognize two of my colleagues who have other ideas-- Senator Cassidy and Senator Whitehouse--for bringing up the issue of  funding for coastal States. Representing a coastal State, I agree that  we need to do more for our coastal States, and I support their efforts  to ensure additional funding that can be directed to coastal States and  coastal communities. I believe, however, that that issue, regrettably,  is going to have to be dealt with at a later time, but I do support  their effort. 

  Furthermore, another important piece of this bill addresses our  deferred maintenance backlog on our Nation's public lands. Now, what I  am most interested in here is our national parks. Our national parks  have a huge maintenance backlog, and that includes at Acadia National  Park, a true gem of a park on the coast of Maine where we have seen  record numbers of visitors in recent years. This bill will help Acadia  National Park tackle the more than $60 million of maintenance backlog  work--on trails, roads, bridges, buildings--to ensure that every  visitor can experience the absolute beauty of this true gem of a  national park on the Maine coastline. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT