Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise in support of the American Energy  Innovation Act--a compilation of energy-related measures that has been  reported, with bipartisan support, by the Senate's Committee on Energy  and Natural Resources. 

  Let me start by recognizing the tremendous efforts of the very  committed and dedicated chairman of that committee, Lisa Murkowski, and  of the ranking member, Joe Manchin, and their work in bringing this  comprehensive energy package to the Senate floor. Under their  leadership, the committee has worked very hard to craft a bipartisan  package that seeks to lower energy costs for consumers, to diversify  our energy portfolio, and to facilitate and encourage the use of  cleaner energy sources. 

  The American Energy Innovation Act includes several bills that I  either authored or cosponsored, including the Better Energy Storage  Technology Act, known as the BEST Act, which supports energy storage  research and development; the Weatherization Enhancement and Local  Energy Efficiency Investment and Accountability Act, which reauthorizes  the Weatherization Assistance Program; the Wind Energy Research and  Development Act, which supports targeted investments in wind energy;  and the Energy Savings and Industrial Competitiveness Act, as well as  the Streamlining Energy Efficiency for Schools Act, which both promote  energy efficiency. 

  I am particularly pleased that this agreement includes legislation I  authored with Senator Heinrich. It is what is known as the BEST Act,  the Better Energy Storage Technology Act. This bipartisan bill would  support energy storage research and development, which would, in turn,  advance the deployment of renewable energy. Federal investments in the  research, development, and deployment of energy storage technologies  would enable the expansion of renewable energy sources that are  essential in combating climate change. 

  Energy storage systems actually provide a wide range of benefits.  First, these technologies increase the reliability and resiliency of  our electric grid by limiting potential disruptions. Energy storage  allows for the better management of supply and demand on our Nation's  power grid. 

  Second, this type of technology can decrease energy costs. In the  State of Maine, the price of electricity can rise steeply during the  coldest days of the year. In late 2017 and early 2018, very cold  temperatures in New England led to higher energy costs that amounted to  more than $1 billion being spent in the wholesale energy market in only  15 days. 

  The next generation of energy storage technologies could also help to  transform our grid, meaning that we would no longer need to generate  more expensive power to meet demand during the hottest and coldest days  of the year. Instead, we could use more affordable sources of energy  that have been stored for later use. 

  Finally, energy storage systems can allow for more intermittent  renewable sources, such as wind or solar power, to be placed on the  grid and to be used precisely when they are needed. Think of that.  Right now, if the wind is not blowing, obviously we are not producing  wind energy. If the Sun is not shining, we are not producing solar- generated energy. Yet, if during those windy periods and on those sunny  days we could figure out how to store the energy that is produced so  that it may be released later for electricity on the grid, what a  difference it would make. 

  Off the coast of Maine, offshore wind turbines can produce  electricity almost 50 percent of the time due to our relatively  persistent offshore winds, but with next-generation energy storage  technology, we could utilize this wind power closer to 100 percent of  the time by storing the electricity that is produced so that it may be  used when the wind is not blowing. That is why I am so excited about  the potential for improving our energy storage technologies. 

  We all think of batteries. Certainly, coming up with better, more  efficient batteries with which to store electricity is part of the  answer, but there are other technologies that are going to be available  if we make a concerted effort to devote resources to research and  development and deployment. 

  For these reasons, I am especially delighted that the BEST Act was  included in this package, and I hope it will be enacted swiftly. 

  Next, I would like to turn to a program that is very important to  many low-income families and seniors in the State of Maine, and that is  the weatherization program. I thank Senators Murkowski and Manchin for  including the bill that I authored with Senators Coons, Reed, and  Shaheen that reauthorizes the Weatherization Assistance Program. 

  Through my position on the Committee on Appropriations, I have worked  with my colleagues to secure an increase of $51 million for  weatherization assistance for fiscal year 2020. In fact, virtually  every year, this is something on which I and the Senators whom I  mentioned work together to achieve. Oftentimes, regrettably, the  President's budget eliminates the funding for the weatherization  program, but with bipartisan support, the members of the Committee on  Appropriations work hard to include it in the funding bills. One reason  we do so is that, whether it is insulating them or replacing windows or  installing heat pumps, weatherizing our houses pays off. In fact, on  average, weatherization returns a 4 to 1 on the investment. 

  Since 2010, the State of Maine has received a little more than $22  million in funding, and it has been able to successfully weatherize  nearly 2,500 homes and rental units across the State. What a difference  that has made to the families who live in those homes and to the  seniors who were once living in drafty homes, for their energy costs  were much higher than they needed to be because their homes were not  well insulated. It also makes those homes a lot more comfortable for  our seniors and low-income families. 

  Encouraging the adoption of energy efficiency measures is one of the  easiest, yet effective mechanisms for reducing energy consumption,  lessening  pollution, and ultimately saving money for families, businesses,  communities, and governments at all levels. 

  In addition to weatherization, this comprehensive package supports  crucial investments in renewable energy, including the Wind Energy  Research and Development Act that I introduced with Senator Smith. This  bill would reauthorize the Department of Energy's Office of Wind  Energy. It would support grants in order to improve the efficiency,  reliability, and capacity of wind energy generation. The Aqua Ventus  program, which aims to be the first floating, deepwater, offshore wind  project in the United States, has been under development by the  University of Maine and a consortium of both public and private  partners for many years now. That consortium and the University of  Maine, in particular, could benefit from these targeted investments in  offshore wind energy. 

  Finally, another important component of this comprehensive bill is  energy efficiency. I am pleased that the Energy Savings and Industrial  Competitiveness Act is included in this package. As an original  cosponsor of this bill, which is also known as the Portman-Shaheen  energy efficiency legislation, I recognize that it can kick-start the  use of energy efficiency technologies that are commercially available  right now and can be deployed by residential, commercial, and  industrial energy users. It can also improve the energy efficiency of  the Federal Government, which happens to be our Nation's largest  consumer of energy. 

  I congratulate the bill's sponsors, Senators Shaheen and Portman, for  crafting this commonsense bill and for their relentless efforts in  getting it across the finish line. 

  Again, I express my appreciation to Chairman Murkowski and Ranking  Member Manchin. 

  I would also like to highlight another energy efficiency bill that is  included in this package, and that is the Streamlining Energy  Efficiency for Schools Act, which I sponsored with Senator Mark Warner. 

  In Maine, our schools have made tremendous progress on energy  efficiency, but it can be challenging for schools to take full  advantage of programs that lower energy costs, in part because school  officials may not know where to start. A lot of these programs are  scattered in different agencies across the Federal Government. 

  Our bipartisan bill would create a coordinating structure within the  Department of Energy that would streamline available Federal energy  efficiency programs, assist school administrators with navigating  available Federal financing, and thus reduce school buildings' energy  costs. 

  Again, I want to thank the committee leaders for their excellent work  on this package of energy legislation, and I would urge all of my  colleagues to join me in supporting the adoption of the American Energy  Innovation Act. This is an area where we can truly make a difference  for our constituents, our communities, our States, our levels of  government, and for our country. 

  Let's get on with the adoption of this very worthwhile package of  energy bills. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT