Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, throughout America, we set aside Memorial  Day to honor those who gave their all for all of us, but this Memorial  Day will be very different from those we have celebrated in the past,  as we honor our veterans. This Memorial Day, there will be no big  parades and no formal ceremonies at State veterans cemeteries. 

  In Bangor, ME, where I live, each year there is a fabulous Memorial  Day parade in which veterans from all conflicts and all eras march down  Main Street, often with walking sticks that were provided by one of  Maine's greatest veterans, Galen Cole, who passed away recently, a  World War II veteran who made a pledge that he would always honor our  veterans. 

  But despite the absence of big parades and big celebrations of  fireworks this year, we should still take the time to honor those who  have worn the uniform of our country. 

  From America's founding to our time, the men and women of our Armed  Forces have written the history of our freedom. From generation to  generation, they add new and inspiring chapters of valor, devotion to  duty, and sacrifice. As we honor the fallen, we also honor those who  served and returned home and those who serve today, joined together, as  we grieve for their fallen comrades. 

  We also thank the families--the husbands, wives, sons and daughters,  brothers and sisters, mothers and fathers--who endure the grief that is  part of freedom's price. 

  It is significant that a day dedicated to the deepest of human  emotions--grief, remembrance, and gratitude--began not by decree from  any high authority but in the hearts of everyday people. As the Civil  War ravaged the countryside and took on an ever greater and more  ghastly toll, widows and grieving mothers on both sides of the conflict  began placing wild flowers on the graves of the soldiers, regardless of  uniform, who fell in their fields and forests. 

  From those humble beginnings, we have remained true to Memorial Day's  original spirit. Memorial Day is a national observance. Yet it remains  deeply personal for each of us. 

  For me, it brings back a cherished memory from my early childhood. My  father was a World War II veteran who was wounded twice in the Battle  of the Bulge. He taught me to honor our veterans and our flag, and each  year, as I was growing up, he would take me to the Memorial Day parade  in our hometown of Caribou, ME. He would perch me high on his shoulders  and there, from the best vantage point, I could see our veterans march  by and our flag go by. 

  Memorial Day is all about remembrance. It is also about our resolve  to uphold the values that inspire the sacrifice we honor today. This  was best articulated in what many regard as the first and finest  Memorial Day speech. It was not given on a warm May morning but on a  chilly November afternoon, in a place called Gettysburg. 

  These are the words of President Abraham Lincoln: ``That from these  honored dead, we take increased devotion to that cause for which they  gave the last full measure of devotion.'' 

  May those who have fallen rest in peace. May we always remember them  this Memorial Day and forever, and may God bless the United States of  America. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT