Legislation Cosponsored by Collins, King to Protect Ocean Health Passes Senate


U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King applauded the Senate's unanimous passage of the Save Our Seas 2.0 Act.  This bipartisan bill, introduced in June, seeks to tackle the problem of plastic waste on a global scale by spurring innovation and finding uses for the plastic waste that already exists to keep it from entering the oceans.  The legislation builds on the initial progress made by the Save Our Seas Act, which was signed into law in 2018.  The legislation now awaits consideration by the U.S. House of Representatives.

"Countless jobs in Maine and in coastal communities across our country rely on the health of the ocean.  The Maine lobster, fishing, and tourism industries are among the many critical sectors of our economy that are dependent on Maine's pristine waters," said Senator Collins.  "The Save Our Sea 2.0 Act would help accelerate the removal of plastic waste and prevent future marine debris, protecting our ocean and the sea life that inhabits it for generations to come."

"Maine's waters and Maine's well-being are inextricably linked -- meaning any threat to our oceans is also a threat to the livelihood of Maine people," said Senator King. "The passage of this bill is a key step to protect our oceans for future generations of Maine people, and I hope to see this legislation pass the House soon."

Roughly eight million metric tons of mismanaged plastic waste from land enters the oceans each year.  Ninety percent of this plastic enters the oceans from ten rivers, eight of which are in Asia.  The plastic breaks down into tiny pieces that can enter the marine food chain and harm fish and wildlife and wash ashore on even the most isolated stretches of coastline.  Plastic has been found in areas as remote as the Mariana Trench, the deepest known point in the ocean.

The Save Our Seas 2.0 Act is also cosponsored by Senators Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.),  Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Tom Carper (D-Del.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Brian Schatz (D- Hawaii), and Roger Wicker (R-Miss.).