Lifespan Respite Care Reauthorization Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise today to urge passage of  bipartisan, compassionate legislation that I introduced on April 2 of  last year with my colleague from Wisconsin, Senator Baldwin, to  reauthorize the Lifespan Respite Care Program. This program provides  respite services to family members who are caring for loved ones with  special needs. Oftentimes, they are taking care of a spouse with  Alzheimer's disease or a child with several disabilities, and it is a  24/7 job. They need a break, they need help, and that is what respite  service is all about. 

  This is not a new program. It has long been a bipartisan priority,  and our bill is widely supported by a total of 100 leading caregiver  and respite organizations across the country. 

  The Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee reported  our bill unanimously on October 31 of last year, and we have been  working since then to secure its passage by the full Senate. It cleared  the Republican side of the aisle on December 17, but the bill has been  stalled on the other side of the aisle due to an unknown objection by  an anonymous Senator, making it very difficult to resolve. If you don't  know who has lodged the objection and you don't know what the concern  is, it becomes impossible to resolve it. Thankfully, I am pleased to  report that the objection has now been lifted, and we are poised to  pass this bill that will help our seniors caring for a spouse with  Alzheimer's or another disease, as well as parents caring for children  with disabilities. 

  Our bill would authorize $10 million annually for the Lifespan  Respite Care Program over the next 5 years to assist States in  establishing or enhancing statewide lifespan respite programs. Since  the program's enactment 15  years ago, 37 States plus the District of Columbia have received grants  to increase the availability and quality of respite services. Failing  to reauthorize this program would put this funding in jeopardy. 

  While respite care is the No. 1 service caregivers say they need, 85  percent of our Nation's caregivers have not received any respite  services at all. Respite care has been shown to help sustain family  caregivers' health and well-being and avoid and delay out-of-home  placement for those for whom they are caring. 

  From families caring for children with disabilities to those caring  for older adults, the need for respite care today continues to grow.  Our bipartisan legislation would help the 45 million caregivers in our  country who provide an estimated $470 billion in uncompensated care  each year. 

  As a Senator representing the State with the oldest median age in our  Nation and as chairman of the Senate Aging Committee, the well-being of  our seniors and their caregivers is among my top priorities. The need  for respite care continues to outpace available resources. This program  is an attempt to provide a modest amount of Federal grant money toward  this goal. 

  Along with Senator Baldwin, this bipartisan bill is cosponsored by  Senators Murray, Reed, and Sinema. More than 50 national stakeholders  have signed a letter urging immediate passage of the bill, including  the ARCH National Respite Coalition, the AARP, Easterseals, The Arc,  and the Elizabeth Dole Foundation. In addition, State-based  organizations representing constituents across the country have also  signed this letter. 

        Re Lifespan Respite Care Program Reauthorization Act (S.           995).       Hon. Mitch McConnell,      Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Lamar Alexander,      Chairman, Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions,           U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.      Hon. Susan Collins,      U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Chuck Schumer,      Minority Leader, U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Patty Murray,      Ranking Member, Committee on Health, Education, Labor and           Pensions, U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.      Hon. Tammy Baldwin,      U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC. 

       Dear Leader McConnell, Leader Schumer, Chairman Alexander,       Ranking Member Murray, Senator Collins, and Senator Baldwin:       We, the undersigned national, state and local organizations       representing all ages and disabilities, are writing to offer       our support for the bipartisan Lifespan Respite Care       Reauthorization Act (S. 995) to reauthorize the Lifespan       Respite Care Program at $50 million over five years. We are       very grateful that with your strong support, the bill was       unanimously approved by the Senate Health, Education, Labor       and Pensions Committee last October, and we now urge the       Senate to take swift action to pass the bill. We also want to       acknowledge and express our deep gratitude to Rep. James       Langevin for his championing of Lifespan Respite in the House       since 2003, when he first introduced the Lifespan Respite       Care Act in Congress. He continued to lead the effort with       subsequent reauthorization bills in every Congress since       2011. 

       Every day, millions of American families are faced with       unexpected illness, disease, or disability. A soldier is       injured in war, a spouse develops multiple sclerosis or       Alzheimer's disease, or a child is diagnosed with a       developmental or physical disability or chronic illness.       These are but a few examples of events that can forever       change an individual's and family's trajectory. 

       While each situation is unique, the one thing that they       often have in common is the incredible role family caregivers       play. Forty-three million family caregivers provide a vast       majority of our nation's long-term care, permitting       individuals of all ages to remain in their communities and       avoid or delay nursing home or foster care placements. 

       While the benefits of family caregiving are plentiful,       caregiving can take its toll. Respite--short-term care that       offers individuals or family members temporary relief from       the daily routine and stress of providing care--is a critical       component to bolstering family stability and maintaining       family caregiver health and well-being. Respite is a       frequently requested support service among family caregivers,       but 85% of family caregivers of adults receive no respite and       the percentage is similar for parents caring for their       children with special needs. 

       The Lifespan Respite Care Program, though competitive       grants to states to establish or enhance statewide Lifespan       Respite systems, work to maximize existing resources and help       ensure that quality respite is available and accessible to       all family caregivers. With more than half of care recipients       under age 75 and more than one-third under age 50, Lifespan       Respite rightly recognizes caregiving as a lifespan issue and       serves families regardless of age or disability. 

       Though the program has been drastically underfunded since       its inception, thirty-seven states and the District of       Columbia have received grants and are engaged in impressive       work such as identifying and coordinating respite services       available through various state agencies, including veterans       caregiver services; helping unserved families pay for respite       through participant-directed voucher programs; addressing the       workforce shortage by recruiting and training respite workers       and volunteers; and building capacity by awarding mini-grants       to community and faith-based agencies for new services; and       raising awareness about respite through public education       campaigns. Enactment of the Lifespan Respite Care       Reauthorization Act is necessary to continue this excellent       momentum, better coordinate and supply respite care to our       nation's 43 million family caregivers through statewide       Lifespan Respite programs and ensure that states are able to       sustain the great work they have begun and still allow new       states to receive a grant. 

       We thank you for your commitment to individuals living with       disabilities, older individuals in need of assistance and       support, and the loved ones who care for them and we look       forward to continuing to work with you as the bill moves       forward. If you would like more information, please contact       Jill Kagan with the National Respite Coalition at       jkaqan@archrespite.org. 

       Sincerely,                            National Organizations  

       AARP, ACCSES, Aging Life Care Association, Alliance for       Aging Research, Alliance for Retired Americans, ALS       Association, Altarum, Alzheimer's Association, Alzheimer's       Foundation of America, Alzheimer's Impact Movement, American       Academy of Pediatrics. 

       American Association of Caregiving Youth, American       Association on Health and Disability, American Association on       Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities, American Music       Therapy Association, American Network of Community Options       and Resources (ANCOR), American Occupational Therapy       Association, American Therapeutic Recreation Association,       Autism Society of America, Caregiver Action Network,       Caregiver Voices United, Caregivers on the Homefront. 

       CommunicationFIRST, Easterseals, Elizabeth Dole Foundation,       Epilepsy Foundation, Family Caregiver Alliance, National       Center on Caregiving, Family Voices, Generations United,       Lakeshore Foundation, Leading Age, Lupus Foundation of       America, National Alliance for Caregiving. 

       National Asian Pacific Center on Aging (NAPCA), National       Association for Home Care and Hospice, National Association       of Area Agencies on Aging (n4a), National Association of       Councils on Developmental Disabilities, National Association       of State Directors of Developmental Disabilities Services,       National Association of State Head Injury Administrators,       National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare,       National Down Syndrome Congress. 

       National Foster Parent Association, National Multiple       Sclerosis Society, National Respite Coalition, Network of       Jewish Human Service Agencies, Paralyzed Veterans of America,       Rosalynn Carter Institute for Caregiving, Sibling Leadership       Network, The Arc of the United States, United Cerebral Palsy       National, Well Spouse Association, Women's Institute for a       Secure Retirement (WISER).                        State and Local Organizations       Alabama 

       Alabama Governor's Office on Disability, Alabama Home       Health Services, Alabama Lifespan Respite Resource Network,       Alabama Lifespan Respite Coalition, Madison County 310 Board,       North Alabama Community Care, United Cerebral Palsy of       Alabama, United Cerebral Palsy of Huntsville and Tennessee       Valley, Inc., United Cerebral Palsy of Mobile and Central       Alabama, West Alabama Area Agency on Aging.      Arizona 

       Arizona Caregiver Coalition, Benevilla, Posada Life Adult       Day Services, SunTree Adult Day Health & School For Seniors.      California 

       Association of Caregiver Resource Centers, YMCA Childcare       Resource Service.      Florida 

       Florida Lifespan Respite Alliance.      Idaho 

       Center for the Study of Aging, Families Together, John &       Junes Mission, Inc., Idaho Caregiver Alliance, Kids !st       Disability Resource Center, Legacy Corps for Veteran and       Military Families/Jannus, Rays for Rare, Relatives As Parents       INC., Senior Connection.      Illinois 

       Illinois Respite Coalition.      Kansas 

       Kansas Lifespan Respite Coalition.           Maryland 

       Maryland Respite Care Coalition.      Mississippi 

       Mississippi Family Caregiver Coalition.      Montana 

       Developmental Educational Assistance program (DEAP),       Montana Lifespan Respite Coalition.      Nebraska 

       Nebraska Caregiver Coalition, Nebraska Lifespan Respite       Network.      Nevada 

       Nevada Lifespan Respite Care Coalition.      New Jersey 

       The Family Resource Network, Caregivers of New Jersey.      New York 

       Fulton Co Office for Aging & Youth, Livable Communities       Caregiver Collaborative, Livable Communities Alzheimer's/      Dementia Collaborative, Livable Communities Intergenerational       Collaborative, New York State Caregiving and Respite       Coalition.      Oklahoma 

       Oklahoma Caregiver Coalition, Sooner Success.      Pennsylvania 

       Alliance for Community Respite Care.      South Carolina 

       Central Midlands Area Agency on Aging, Charleston Area       Senior Citizens, Inc., Down Syndrome Association of the       Upstate, Evolve Senior Solutions, Family Connection of South       Carolina, Federation of Families of South Carolina, Leeza's       Care Connection, Richland/Lexington Disability and Special       Needs Board, South Carolina Autism Society, South Carolina       Respite Coalition, South Carolina Spinal Cord Injury       Association, Tri-County Adult Day Services, Inc.      Tennessee 

       Tennessee Respite Coalition.      Washington 

       Washington PAVE, Washington State Respite Coalition.      Wisconsin 

       Greater WI Agency on Aging Resources, Inc., Inclusa,       Respite Care Association of Wisconsin.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I have shared how important it is that we  pass this legislation, the Lifespan Respite Care Reauthorization Act of  2019, without further delay, and I urge my colleagues to support the  bill. 

    283, S. 995. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I know of no further debate on the bill,  as amended. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT