Ppp for Critical Access Hospitals Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to  allow nonprofit critical access hospitals (as defined by the Centers  for Medicare & Medicaid Services) that are undergoing Chapter 11  bankruptcy reorganizations to apply for forgivable loans under the  Paycheck Protection Program, if they are otherwise eligible. The  language of my bill, the ``PPP Critical Access Hospitals Act,'' mirrors  language originally introduced by Rep. Golden that was included in the  House-passed ``HEROES Act.'' 

  While hospitals are not prohibited from participating in the PPP,  those that have previously or are currently under bankruptcy protection  have been unable to access PPP funds, due to an interpretation of  underlying Small Business Administration 7(a) program rules. While I  recognize the importance of protecting taxpayer investments in the SBA  7(a) program, the PPP program, which I coauthored along with Senators  Rubio, Cardin, and Shaheen, is by design largely forgivable when used  for eligible expenditures. 

  The hospitals that would benefit from this bill are critical  infrastructure in the COVID-19 response effort, and many have  experienced substantial increases in expenses associated with preparing  for and responding to the pandemic. They simultaneously faced sharp  declines in revenue associated with declining patient volumes due to  the cancellation of routine and elective procedures, in order to  protect public health and conserve limited supplies of Personal  Protective Equipment, consistent with guidance from the Centers for  Medicare and Medicaid Services. 

  While these entities are few in number, they are vitally important to  the communities they serve, both as frontline health care providers  during this public health emergency and as anchor institutions that  provide the paychecks and local economic stability that Congress  intended the Paycheck Protection Program to preserve. These  institutions need temporary financial assistance to weather sharp  revenue decreases that have resulted from Federal and State  instructions to cancel elective medical procedures as part of COVID-19  response preparedness. Expanding the PPP to include these key employers  will allow them to keep their doors open until they can resume normal  operations once pandemic-related disruptions to their operations have  passed. 

  Two institutions in Maine that would benefit from this bill are  Penobscot Valley Hospital in Lincoln, and Calais Regional Hospital, in  Calais. Both are in the midst of Chapter 11 proceedings, and both have  suffered serious revenue shortfalls due to the cancellation or scaling  back of elective procedures during the pandemic. 

  The bill I am introducing today is carefully targeted to address a  unique financial situation that frontline critical access hospitals  face during this public health emergency. I urge my colleagues to  support it.      

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT