Prescription Drug Costs


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, first, I express my appreciation to the  chairman of the Committee on Finance, Senator Grassley, not only for  his leadership but also for his persistence on an issue that affects so  many Americans, and that is the soaring price of prescription drugs. 

  Three committees--the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Health,  Education, Labor, and Pensions, and the Committee on the Judiciary-- have all advanced bipartisan legislation to reform our broken drug  pricing system. 

  The Aging Committee, which I chair, has held eight drug pricing  hearings which have highlighted the burden of soaring prices and the  manipulation of the market by individuals like the infamous Martin  Shkreli. It is now past time for us to move forward to the Senate floor  to debate these bills that have  bipartisan support and that have garnered the approval of three major  committees. 

  The Finance bill, which Senator Grassley has crafted with Senator  Wyden and others and of which I am proud to be a cosponsor, makes  crucial improvements to Medicare Part D, such as protecting seniors  with an out-of-pocket spending cap as well as including cost control  measures, such as an inflationary cap to limit pharmaceutical price  hikes. 

  In one of the hearings that the Aging Committee held, it heard  testimony that was heartbreaking from a former teacher with multiple  myeloma who had to refinance her home in order to cover the cost of her  $250,000 cancer medication. We heard example after example. 

  I will never forget my standing in the pharmacy line in Bangor, ME,  where I live, and ahead of me was a couple who had just been told that  the couple's copay was $111. 

  The husband turned to his wife and said: Honey, we just can't afford  that. 

  They walked away--away from the medication that one of them needed. 

  I asked the pharmacist: How often does this happen? 

  He told me that it happens every day. 

  We have to take action. That experience led me to author legislation  that became law that prohibited gag clauses that were preventing  pharmacists from advising their patients, their customers, on whether  or not there was a less expensive way to purchase their prescription  drugs. I am proud to say that this legislation is now law, but there is  much more that we need to do. 

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, on which I  serve, has incorporated more than 14 measures to increase price  competition in its legislation on lowering healthcare costs. I know the  Presiding Officer is a member of that committee as well. I am pleased  to say that the bill includes major portions of the Biologic Patent  Transparency Act, which is a bill that I authored with Senator Tim  Kaine. It is intended to prevent drug manufacturers from gaming the  patent system. 

  Now, patents are very important. They help to spur innovation, and  that period of exclusivity encourages drug manufacturers to invest more  into lifesaving drugs. Yet the fact is, when the patent has expired,  generics should be allowed to come to the market and drive down the  costs. According to former FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb, if all of  the biosimilars--those are generics for biologic drugs--that had been  approved by the FDA had been successfully marketed in our country in a  timely fashion, Americans would have saved more than $4.5 billion in  2017. 

  A biosimilar version of HUMIRA, the world's best-selling drug, has  been on the market in Europe for more than a year, while American  patients must wait until 2023. We simply cannot allow this kind of  abuse of the patent system to continue. 

  The Judiciary Committee has also advanced proposals to empower the  Federal Trade Commission to take more aggressive action against  anticompetitive behaviors. Last month, the FTC charged the infamous  Martin Shkreli with an anticompetitive scheme of setting an increase of  more than 4,000 percent overnight for the lifesaving drug DARAPRIM.  That was the focus of an investigation on the Aging Committee that I  led with former Senator Claire McCaskill. I applaud the FTC for taking  action, and we simply must give them more authority and the resources  to pursue these kinds of anticompetitive cases that drive up the cost  of prescription drugs. 

  Finally, I hope that we have the opportunity to debate other worthy  proposals, including one that Senator Shaheen and I have introduced to  lower the skyrocketing price of insulin. 

  I want to commend the administration for today releasing a new plan  to drive down the cost of insulin for Medicare beneficiaries. The fact  is, between 2012 and 2016, the average price of insulin nearly doubled.  According to the Health Care Cost Institute, the price of an average  40-day supply of insulin rose from $344 in 2012 to $666 in 2016. There  is no justification for that. Insulin was isolated nearly 100 years  ago, and while there are different varieties of insulin, it is still  insulin. 

  As cochairs of the Senate Diabetes Caucus, Senator Shaheen and I have  introduced legislation which creates a new pricing model for insulin,  and our bill would hold pharmacy benefit managers, pharmaceutical  companies, and insurers accountable for surging insulin prices by  incentivizing reductions in list prices. 

  For the most popular insulins, this would result in as much as a 75- percent decrease in prices on average. Whether you are insured or you  are paying out of pocket, you would benefit from that significant  decline in the price if you need insulin to control your diabetes. 

  Congress has a tremendous opportunity to deliver a decisive victory  in both lowering healthcare costs and in improving healthcare for the  people in my State of Maine and throughout our country. 

  Let's not delay any longer. We must act on prescription drug  legislation without further delay. We have three committees that have  produced bills, and I believe this should be a priority for this  Chamber. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT