Senate unanimously passes Coons, Collins resolution recognizing U.S. leadership in global progress against maternal and child malnutrition


The Senate unanimously passed a resolution authored by U.S. Senators Chris Coons (D-DE) and Susan Collins (R-ME) recognizing the importance of U.S. leadership to improve nutrition and health of children and mothers around the world.  The resolution also supports USAID's commitment to global nutrition through its multi-sectoral nutrition strategy. "The number of children lost each year due to malnutrition is staggering. Too many families and communities around the globe are devastated by food insecurity, hunger, and nutrient deficiencies, and we must do more," said Senator Coons. "I'm proud the Senate adopted the bipartisan resolution I introduced with Senator Collins that recognizes the critical leadership role the United States and USAID play to reduce malnutrition worldwide." "Food security and access to good nutrition in early childhood are vital to children's physical and cognitive development.  Although progress has been made in improving nutrition for mothers and children, nearly half of all child deaths worldwide are related to malnutrition.  It is a tragedy that so many preventable deaths still occur,"said Senator Collins.  "Our bipartisan resolution recognizes the important role the United States plays in the global effort to end child and maternal hunger and applauds USAID's continued efforts to promote global food security."  The resolution highlights the severity of malnutrition across the globe and the negative effects that this has on child development, maternal health, and economic development.  It commends USAID's efforts and recognizes that the USAID Multi-Sectoral Nutrition Strategy, the U.S. Government Global Nutrition Coordination Plan, the Global Food Security Strategy, and the Scaling Up Nutrition movement are all platforms that can help reach global nutrition targets by 2025. Several advocacy groups have expressed support for the resolution including Bread for the World, RESULTS, Save the Children, CARE, and UNICEF. "U.S. leadership is crucial if we are to end global malnutrition," said Rev. David Beckmann, president of Bread for the World. "This resolution highlights the important role of U.S. leadership on global nutrition, and the effectiveness of USAID's work. Hunger is not a partisan issue and it is critical to have supporters in Congress on both sides of the aisle. I commend Senators Collins and Coons for championing this resolution, and for its bipartisan passage." "With nearly 1 in 4 of the world's children facing severe malnutrition, we're grateful for bipartisan congressional commitment to tackling this emergency," said Dr. Joanne Carter, Executive Director of RESULTS. "We're especially grateful to Senator Collins and Senator Coons for their leadership on this resolution, and to the grassroots advocates helping push it forward. Now we're counting on congressional leaders and the Administration to match the promise of this resolution with increased investment, priority, and leadership, particularly as we head toward the Nutrition for Growth Summit later this year. As an underlying cause of almost half of under five deaths, greater investment and focus on nutrition is essential to reaching our shared goal of the end of preventable child deaths." "Senators Collins and Coons are steadfast champions for the world's most vulnerable children," said Save the Children CEO Janti Soeripto. "I am thrilled that the Senate has passed their resolution recognizing U.S. government efforts to address malnutrition globally, which helps ensure children survive and thrive beyond their fifth birthday."