Senator Collins Announces More Than $500,000 for Maine Housing Authorities


U.S. Senator Susan Collins, the Chairman of the Housing Appropriations Subcommittee, announced that nine Maine housing authorities have been awarded a total of $509,826 in Cumberland, Androscoggin, Kennebec, Penobscot, and Aroostook counties.  This funding was awarded through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS) Program. 

 

"Maine's housing authorities provide an array of vital services to seniors, individuals with disabilities, and low-income individuals and families," said Senator Collins.  "As the Chairman of the Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, I am committed to ensuring that the housing needs of vulnerable individuals and families are met.  By supporting public housing agencies, these grants will help connect Mainers with the resources they need to achieve economic independence."

 

The funding will be allocated as follows:

 

Portland Housing Authority will receive $78,659. 

Maine State Housing Authority in Augusta will receive $62,467. 

City of Caribou will receive $57,446. 

Westbrook Housing Authority will receive $47,266. 

Lewiston Housing Authority will receive $58,873. 

Housing Authority of the City of Old Town will receive $47,944. 

Augusta Housing will receive $32,484. 

Housing Authority of the City of Brewer will receive $60,978. 

Bangor Housing Authority will receive $63,709. 

HUD's FSS Program helps local public housing authorities to hire Service Coordinators who work directly with residents to connect them with existing programs and services in the local community. These Service Coordinators build relationships with networks of local service providers, who provide direct assistance to FSS participants. The broad spectrum of services made possible through FSS enables participating families to find jobs, increase earned income, reduce or eliminate the need for rental and/or welfare assistance, and make progress toward achieving economic independence and housing self-sufficiency.

 

With the exception of Caribou, all of these public housing authorities are located in cities that are home to Opportunity Zones.  Created under the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Opportunity Zones aim to stimulate long-term investments in low-income communities.