Senate Resolution 535--Designating March As ``National `Slam the Scam' Day'' to Raise Awareness About the Increasing Number of Government Imposter Scams, to Encourage the Implementation of Policies to Prevent Government Imposter Scams, and to Encourage the Improvement of Protections From Government Imposter Scams for the People of the United States


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise to recognize today, March 5, as  National ``Slam the Scam'' Day. I first want to thank my colleague from  Arizona, Senator Sinema, for working with me on a Senate resolution  designating today as National ``Slam the Scam'' Day. This resolution  will help raise awareness of Government imposter scams with a single  message: hang up and tell someone. 

  In Government imposter scams, criminals claim to be from Government  agencies, such as the Social Security Administration, and call  Americans demanding payment or personal information. 

  These scams look real because they often begin with an unsolicited  robocall using a spoofed caller ID, showing the name of the Government  agency they are pretending to be. In reality, the Government would  never call to threaten you or demand payment using gift cards, cash,  wire transfers, or internet cryptocurrency. 

  Government imposter scams have been the number one complaint reported  to the Aging Committee's Fraud Hotline since its creation in 2013. Over  the last two years, nearly 2,000 Maine consumers reported Government  imposter scams to the Federal Trade Commission, with total losses of  more than $700,000. 

  Last year, the top reported scam to the Fraud Hotline, which the  Aging Committee featured in our first hearing of the year, was the  Social Security Administration impersonation scam. Americans reported  losing nearly $38 million to this scam in 2019 alone, according to the  Federal Trade Commission. That undoubtedly is the tip of the iceberg. 

  Scammers are ruthlessly targeting Americans, and particularly older  Americans, across the country. In 2016, Philip Hatch, an 81-year Navy  veteran from Maine, lost $8,000 of his hard-earned savings to a  Government impersonation scam. These scammers first posed as IRS agents  and then impersonated the Portland Police Department. 

  Just last year, a Maine senior reported a call from someone claiming  to work for the Social Security Administration. The caller told him  that his Social Security number matched a credit card used to rent a  car found on the Texas border filled with drugs and blood. The caller  provided an FBI ID number and correctly identified when my constituent  had recently visited Texas on business. When prompted by the scammer,  he confirmed his date of birth and Social Security number. 

  These pernicious scams not only steal the savings of hardworking  Americans and threaten to compromise their personal information; they  also erode public trust and make it more difficult for Federal, State,  and local government agencies to fulfill their missions. 

  The Aging Committee, which I chair, has held 25 hearings on scams  over the past seven years, and we have examined Government imposter  scams from a number of angles. Public awareness can help to stop these  scams from the start. 

  I urge my colleagues to join me in marking today as National ``Slam  the Scam'' Day by supporting our resolution. Let's work together to  hang up on these Government imposters and put them out of business once  and for all. Let's slam these scams.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT