Senators Collins, Kaine Secure $1 Billion in Funding for Community Services Block Grant Program Amid COVID-19 Pandemic


Following a bipartisan push by U.S. Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Tim Kaine (D-VA), the emergency economic relief package that passed the Senate by 96-0 and the House by voice vote last week included $1 billion in supplemental funding for the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) program.  CSBG serves more than 1,000 entities across the country and is well-positioned to immediately respond to the social services needs of millions of Americans affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. 

 

Senators Collins and Kaine recently sent a letter urging the Senate Appropriations Committee to prioritize robust supplemental funding for the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) program. 

 

"In a time such as this, we must get federal assistance to local communities as quickly as possible.  The CSBG program critically supports on-the-ground efforts to help address the everyday needs of millions of low-income individuals.  In addressing challenges related to employment, nutrition, health, and transportation, CSBG-funded entities such as Community Action Agencies are already being called to action," the Senators wrote.  "This is a financially challenging time for the country as a whole.  For individuals who were already experiencing, or were on the verge of, hardship, increased access to CSBG-funded services is needed now."

 

"Once again, Senator Collins has demonstrated her leadership on not only low-income issues, but the Community Services Block Grant and the communities that our agencies serve. The supplemental funding for the Community Services Block Grant in the coronavirus package will be of tremendous value to thousands of individuals and families in Maine. Although the Maine Community Action Network is acutely aware of Senator Collins' lifelong support for their activities and mission, because of Senator Collins, now every community in America has received a lifeline for low-income individuals and families to face the twin threat of the coronavirus pandemic and the financial meltdown," said David Bradley, Executive Director of the National Community Action Foundation (NCAF).

 

The COVID-19 pandemic is not only a health crisis--it is also a financial crisis for millions of families.  Nearly 60 percent of Americans have less than $1,000 in savings and 36 percent have none at all.