Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise today to join my colleague from  New Mexico, Senator Heinrich, in introducing the Two-Generation  Economic Empowerment Act. Our bipartisan bill would support an  innovative approach to fighting poverty, one that focuses on addressing  the needs of children and their parents--two-generations together--in  order to help break the cycle of intergenerational poverty. 

  Many current conversations about lifting families out of poverty  highlight record low unemployment and the booming U.S. economy as proof  that we are finally headed in the right direction. I see many  encouraging signs, such as the U.S. poverty rate finally in 2018  falling below the pre-recession level and Maine experiencing the  largest decline in child poverty in the Nation from 2016 to 2017, but I  also know far too many families still struggle financially. Over 38  million people, or about one in eight Americans, lived below the  poverty line in 2018. This sadly includes nearly 13 million children,  including 35,000 children in Maine. Despite recent progress, Maine's  child poverty rate is still higher than all the other New England  states. 

  In addition to recognizing the continued need to lift up families and  provide a brighter future for our Nation's youth, the economic  motivation for addressing intergenerational poverty points to one  simple fact--we must do something different. It is estimated that child  poverty costs the U.S. between $800 billion and $1.1 trillion a year.  For a sense of scale, the high end estimate of $1.1 trillion annually  is similar to the amount Congress appropriated in December to fund  programs across the entire government. 

  Our legislation marks an important first step toward reevaluating our  approach to poverty-reducing programs and encouraging innovative, more  effective uses of taxpayer dollars. We support an approach that is  aimed at equipping both parents and their children with the tools they  need to succeed and become self-sufficient. Oftentimes, Federal  programs intended to help low-income individuals address certain issues  in silos, overlooking the fact that the needs of family members are  usually interconnected. Our bill aims to change that. For example,  helping a mother secure safe, high-quality child care can have a  positive impact on her ability to succeed in the workforce, as well as  improving her child's ability to be ready for school. While that child  receives care and an education, her mother can be connecting with  skills training to help her improve her income. Connecting various  Federal programs that target both parents and children with supports  aimed at increasing economic security, educational success, social  capital, and health and wellbeing has the potential to lift whole  families out of poverty. 

  Listen to the story of Ambrosia Ross, a mother of three from  Washington County, Maine, who was part of the first cohort of  participants at Family Futures Downeast, a two-generation program  designed to improve economic outcomes for low-income families through  post-secondary education for parents at the same time their children  access high quality early childhood education. In a testimonial about  her experience, Ambrosia says, ``Family Futures Downeast opened up a  whole new world, not just for me but also for my children . . . . Both  of my boys talk about going to ``Mama's school'' and assure me that  they are going to go to college also! They watch me doing homework and  ask to do theirs as well. It means so much to me to know that not only  has FFD changed my life but also set my children on a brand new path.''  In addition to continuing to attend college full time, Ambrosia is  putting her new skills and education into practice by serving as a WIC  Breastfeeding Peer Support Counselor. Her sons are also both eager to  continue learning and her young daughter is already a ``wanna-be  reader.'' 

  Family Futures Downeast is just one example of the great strides we  have made in bringing communities and service providers together to  implement two-generation strategies. By blending federal dollars with  the help of the State of Maine, Family Futures Downeast has reached  nearly 230 individuals in Maine's most impoverished county with  astounding results. In 2015 when the program was just getting started,  I was proud to support Family Future Downeast's application to  participate in a federal demonstration project aimed at combatting  rural child poverty, which provided critical technical assistance and,  with additional support from the John T. Gorman Foundation in Portland,  helped the program get off the ground. The legislation we are  introducing today would build on efforts like Family Futures Downeast  that are increasing opportunities for families in need across the  country by funding projects that work. 

  Specifically, the Two-Generation Economic Empowerment Act would  create an Interagency Council on Multigenerational Poverty and Economic  Mobility to better coordinate federal efforts aimed at supporting  vulnerable families and moving them out of poverty. The Council would  also make recommendations to Congress on ways to improve coordination  of anti-poverty programs and to identify best practices. While I  applaud ongoing efforts across the federal government to implement two- generation strategies, this Council is needed to tackle logistical  challenges, such as lack of coordination and communication across  federal agencies--and in some cases different departments within a  single agency--and improve the dissemination of information and best  practices. 

  Our bill would also authorize a pilot program that would provide  additional flexibility for states and local governments to improve the  administration of programs using Two-Generation models. It would  authorize five states to participate in Two-Generation Performance  Partnerships, allowing states to achieve reductions in poverty by  blending similarly purposed funds across multiple federal programs.  Two-generation approaches are often created ``from the bottom up,''  meaning local organizations and states are at  the forefront of responding to local or regional needs. Therefore, our  role as federal policymakers should be to give states and local  organizations the flexibility they need to be creative in solving their  unique challenges. For this reason, our legislation would reduce  duplicative reporting and application requirements that may deter local  agencies and organizations from making the most effective use of  taxpayer dollars. To ensure accountability, the bill would require that  these pilot programs be targeted at specific, poverty-reducing  outcomes. 

  While federal programs have helped many of those living in poverty  manage day-to-day hardships, they are falling short of breaking the  cycle of poverty that has trapped too many families. With this bill, we  have the chance to make a permanent difference in the lives of families  and to break the multigenerational cycle of poverty. Just as a child's  ZIP code should not determine his or her future success, so should the  bureaucratic siloed approach to poverty not make it so difficult for  families to get the help they need to escape poverty. The federal  government can be an effective partner in providing opportunities for  parents and their children, lifting up families, and in turn, building  stronger communities. State and local governments can be at the  forefront of these efforts, and the increased flexibility proposed by  this bill would help reform practices across government. 

  In addition to strong support from national organizations like Ascend  at the Aspen Institute, I want to thank the Maine Community Action  Association and the Maine Head Start Directors Association for  endorsing this important legislation. I also thank Senator Heinrich for  his continued leadership and urge my colleagues to support this  innovative approach to moving families out of poverty by giving them  the tools they need to succeed.                                  ______                                   

      By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Reed, Ms. Duckworth,          Mr. Jones, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs.          Murray, Mr. Tester, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Casey, Mr. Whitehouse,          Mr. Menendez, Mr. Warner, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Sanders,          Mr. Cardin, Mr. Udall, Mr. Bennet, Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. Shaheen,          Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Kaine, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Carper, Mr. Van          Hollen, Mr. Booker, Mr. Brown, Ms. Hirono, and Mr. Coons): 

  S. 3339. A bill to restore military priorities, and for other  purposes; read the first time.                                  S. 3339  

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.  

       This Act may be cited as the ``Restoring Military       Priorities Act of 2020''.       SEC. 2. RESTORATION OF REPROGRAMMED FUNDS.  

       All amounts transferred under the Department of Defense       reprogramming action FY 20-01 RA, ``Support for DHS Counter-      Drug Activity Reprogramming Action'', shall be restored to       the appropriation accounts and the programs, projects, and       activities for which such amounts were appropriated or       otherwise made available by the Department of Defense       Appropriations Act, 2020 (division A of Public Law 116-93).       SEC. 3. LIMITATION ON GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.  

       Section 8005 of the Department of Defense Appropriations       Act, 2020 (division A of Public Law 116-93; ) is amended by       striking ``$4,000,000,000'' and inserting ``$1,798,000,000''.       SEC. 4. LIMITATION ON OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS/GLOBAL                     WAR ON TERRORISM TRANSFER AUTHORITY.  

       Section 9002 of the Department of Defense Appropriations       Act, 2020 (division A of Public Law 116-93; ) is amended by       striking ``$2,000,000,000'' and inserting ``$371,000,000''.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT