Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce, with my  colleagues Senator Rubio, Cardin, and Shaheen, legislation to  strengthen the Paycheck Protection Program, which has proven to be such  an important lifeline to America's small businesses and their employees  during this pandemic. 

  Senators Rubio, Cardin, Shaheen, and I worked together as part of the  Small Business Task Force to create this program during the development  of the CARES Act 2 months ago. 

  Since its launch in early April, this program has provided forgivable  loans totaling more than $510 billion to approximately 4.3 million  small employers across the country. The overwhelming majority of  borrowers are very small employers. 

  In phase 1 of the program, the average PPP loan size nationally was  $206,000. That translates to an average employer size of just 18  employees. As more loans have been approved in phase 2, the average  loan size nationally has dropped to $118,000, suggesting an average  business size of about 10 employees. 

  In Maine, the average loan size is even smaller, with borrowers  having an estimated 12 employees in phase 1 and just three employees in  phase 2. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, nearly two-thirds of the  small businesses in Maine have benefited from PPP loans, and that is, I  am pleased to say, among the highest rates in the Nation. 

  In many ways, it is not a surprise. Maine is the State of small  businesses. Ninety percent of all the Maine businesses are considered  to be small businesses, and they employ approximately 60 percent of all  the workers in our State. Overall, in Maine, the funds are sufficient  to support approximately 200,000 jobs. 

  Let's think about this. That means that a business that is seeing  receipts go down, is in a cash flow problem, liquidity has dried up can  still retain employees who otherwise would have been laid off. In more  cases, it has allowed a business to call back furloughed employees. And  even in cases where the business has been forced to close its doors  because of government orders, it has kept alive the connection between  the employer and his or her employees. That is so important because, as  the economy does open back up, we want to make sure that link between  the employer and the employees remains intact so that the workforce can  come back to work as soon as possible 

  It is important, as we discuss the economic data behind the PPP, to  remember that these are real businesses with real people--people like  Larry Geaghan, who owns and runs a craft brewery and pub in Bangor, ME.  Larry calls the PPP a ``lifeline bill'' that has made all the  difference in helping him to bring back 25 of his employees and reopen  for takeout business. 

  Another Maine borrower--the owner of a small marina--told me that the  PPP was exactly what he needed at exactly the right time. With the PPP,  this marina has been able to keep all of its employees on payroll, and  because they weren't worried about whether they would have a paycheck,  these employees continued spending as they normally would--exactly what  our Maine economy needs. 

  Another example of a small business helped by the PPP is the Frog &  Turtle Gastro Pub in Westbrook, ME. This pub just completed an  extensive renovation and is hoping to reopen June 1, the first day that  sit-down dining service will be allowed again in the State of Maine. 

  The owner of this pub wrote to me to say that the ``PPP program  allowed us to bring back our 15 employees and sustain our business  during these trying conditions,'' and that taking a PPP loan was the  ``right decision'' for his employees and for his small restaurant. 

  When we were initially developing the Paycheck Protection Program, we  had no idea how long the pandemic would last. We did not know that  there would be virtually universal economic shutdowns, nor did we know  how each State would respond to outbreaks in their communities. The  bipartisan bill that we are introducing today builds on the success of  the PPP by providing small businesses with additional flexibility so  that they can more effectively use these funds in conjunction with  State reopening plans. 

  And, again, I would remind my colleagues that when we were drafting  the first version of this, it was before there were widespread orders  shutting down restaurants and bars and retail establishments. 

  Specifically, the Paycheck Protection Program Extension Act that we  are introducing today would do the following: It would allow borrowers  the flexibility to use their 8 weeks of funding at a point of their  choosing within a 16-week period. Small businesses could choose the  period that they believe works best to coincide with the reopening of  their local economy. 

  So some small businesses took the loans very early, thinking that the  shutdowns would not last or that the pandemic would be on the way down  by now, which it is in some States, thank goodness, but not in all. 

  Well, this builds in more flexibility. You would have 16 weeks to use  the loan funds instead of 8.  

  Second, it extends the deadline to apply for a PPP loan from June 30  to December 31 of this year. 

  Again, this reflects the fact that shutdowns lasted far longer in  virtually every State than we anticipated when we were drafting the  bill in March. 

  Third, the bill would allow borrowers to use loan funds to purchase  personal protective equipment for employees and to pay for adaptive  investments needed to reopen safely. 

  Adaptive investments could include modifications to a commercial  property to comply with the social distancing regulations or guidelines  from the CDC. It could mean creating or expanding a drive-through  window service, erected physical barriers such as we see at the grocery  stores now, those plexiglass barriers or sneeze guards. It could mean  installing ventilation system upgrades or, as many restaurants have  mentioned to me, they would like to add an outside patio for outdoor  eating, which would allow them to maintain the same number of  customers, which they can't do now, and abide by the social distancing  guidelines. 

  The bill would also clarify that the current lender hold-harmless  provision relates to all Small Business Administration and Treasury  guidance regarding PPP loans. A lender that in good faith followed  Federal guidance related to PPP would not be later held liable if the  guidance subsequently changed. 

  I would like to give a shout-out to our small community banks and  credit unions in the State of Maine. They have really stepped up to the  plate for this program to serve the small businesses, small employers  in our State, for the small nonprofits, and that has made a real  difference to the employees of these establishments. 

  And finally, the bill would clarify that borrowers who have  maintained payroll for 8 weeks will not lose loan forgiveness due to  the extension of the program to 16 weeks. 

  Now, I would hope that that would be obvious, but we wanted to make  sure that we were explicit. 

  The Paycheck Protection Program is the single most critical stimulus  program protecting Main Street America from the economic devastation of  the measures taken to control the spread of COVID-19. The bill we are  introducing today strengthens the PPP to reflect the evolving nature of  this pandemic, the necessity of regulatory actions that have caused a  great deal of economic harm but were necessary to prevent the spread of  the virus, and I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill                                  ______                                   

      By Mr. CRUZ: 

  S. 3835. A bill to prohibit the use of funds for the production of  films by United States companies that alter content for screening in  the People's Republic of China, and for other purposes; to the  Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT