Statement on the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, trade with Canada and Mexico is vitally  important to Maine's economy, supporting numerous small businesses and  more than 53,000 jobs in our State. 

  In reviewing the text of the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, the  replacement for the deeply flawed NAFTA, my paramount concern was  ensuring that Maine workers will be protected. After careful assessment  of the benefits USMCA will have for those employed in Maine's  manufacturing industry, agriculture sector, and small businesses, I  will vote in support of the USMCA. 

  According to the U.S. International Trade Commission, USMCA is  projected to have a positive impact on all broad industry sectors,  increasing employment by 176,000 jobs and increasing real GDP by $68.2  billion. This agreement also makes important improvements to labor and  environmental standards and brings these issues into the core of the  agreement. This is a step in the right direction for modernizing trade  agreements. 

  Dana Connors, president & CEO of the Maine State Chamber of Commerce,  said:  

       Our border countries are important trade partners for Maine       businesses, in fact, trade with our friends to the north is       vital to many Maine businesses on a daily basis. The Maine       State Chamber of Commerce thanks Senator Collins for her       support of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA).       The USMCA's passage is vital for Maine businesses, will       restore trade uncertainty and help our economy to continue to       thrive.  

  One out of five Maine manufacturing firms exports to Canada and  Mexico, and the majority of these are small- and medium-sized  companies. Without tariff-free trade, Maine's manufactured goods  exported to Canada and Mexico could face $6.3 million to $26 million in  additional tariffs, jeopardizing Maine jobs. Companies like New  Balance, which employs hundreds of Mainers at its facilities in  Norridgewock, Norway, and Skowhegan, and Texas Instruments in South  Portland, depend on a stable North American supply chain. 

  Amy Dow, director of public relations and government relations for  New Balance, said:  

       On behalf of our company's Maine associates, New Balance       supports the passage of the USMCA that will enable the       continued success and future growth of our three       manufacturing facilities in Maine. Senator Collins' support       and leadership on this trade agreement has been vital to       ensure that our factories can continue to produce thousands       of pairs of shoes annually for export to the Canadian market.  

  Stephen Bonner, Texas Instruments vice president for worldwide  government relations, said:  

       Texas Instruments is a long-time supporter of predictable,       open-market based trade policies. We're pleased that the new       USMCA includes strong digital trade and intellectual property       provisions to adapt the agreement to the 21st century       economy, and support its passage.  

  Our agricultural producers also rely on a stable and predictable  trading environment. U.S. agricultural exports to Canada and Mexico  more than quadrupled between 1993 and 2017. In Maine, I have heard from  producers in the dairy, potato, and wild blueberry industries who have  shared their support for free and fair trade agreements. 

  Maine has a special relationship with Canada in particular, given our  shared border. While there remain frictions with Canada, including  fishing rights, right whale regulations, and softwood lumber issues,  Canada is our largest trading partner and has consistently been our top  U.S. export market. As a native of Aroostook County, I know how many of  our border communities are truly intertwined, with people and goods  traveling back and forth daily. In 2019, Maine and Canada traded an  average of $350 million in goods per month. 

  Ambassador Robert Lighthizer deserves recognition for his tremendous  work on this agreement. It is impressive to see a trade agreement  receive such strong bipartisan support.                           Vote on Motion to Waive  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT