Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Promoting  Alzheimer's Awareness to Prevent Elder Abuse Act. I am pleased to be  joined by my colleagues, Senators Menendez and Grassley, in sponsoring  this legislation that seeks to help combat elder abuse perpetrated  against those living with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias. 

  An estimated 5.8 million Americans aged 65 and older currently live  with Alzheimer's disease. This disease takes a tremendous personal and  economic toll on individuals and their families, and the COVID-19  crisis has made many of the challenges they face even more difficult. 

  People living with Alzheimer's and related dementias make up a large  proportion of all older Americans who receive adult day services and  nursing home care, making them among those most vulnerable to COVID-19.  Many of the public health and safety measures put in place to control  the spread of COVID-19, including social distancing, also may  contribute to social isolation, which is one of the greatest risk  factors for elder abuse. This crisis has also given rise to a number of  COVID-19-related scams seeking to financially exploit Americans of all  ages, including seniors. 

  Individuals with Alzheimer's are at greater risk for elder abuse.  According to the National Center on Elder Abuse, approximately one in  ten Americans aged 60 and older have experienced elder abuse. For  people with Alzheimer's and related dementias, the prevalence is much  higher, with some estimates putting it at just over 50 percent. 

  This abuse can take a number of forms. In 2015, the Aging Committee  heard from Philip Marshall, the grandson of philanthropist Brooke  Astor, who testified that his father neglected  his mother's health and safety and mismanaged her assets while she  suffered from Alzheimer's disease. 

  More recently, a constituent called the Aging Committee Fraud Hotline  after she discovered a contracting scam targeting her aunt and uncle.  These scammers repeatedly charged her aunt and uncle, who both have  dementia, for the same driveway sealing services and other handyman  tasks, stealing $34,000 of their hard-earned savings. 

  Identifying, investigating, and prosecuting elder abuse cases often  involve several challenges. Victims may not be able to report the abuse  they are experiencing, and prosecutors may need to prove the case  without the victim's testimony. When elder abuse victims or witnesses  have Alzheimer's or related dementia, these challenges can be  exacerbated. 

  Specialized knowledge and training can help address the issues of  abuse and fraud. The Elder Abuse Prevention and Prosecution Act, which  became law in 2017, required the Department of Justice to develop  training materials to help criminal justice, social services, and  health care personnel investigate elder abuse cases and assess, respond  to, and interact with the victims and witnesses in these cases. The  legislation I am introducing today would build on this law by requiring  the Department to ensure that these elder abuse training materials  incorporate best practices for responding to elder abuse victims and  witnesses who have Alzheimer's or other related dementias. 

  This legislation would also require the Department to consult with  federal, state, and local partners and stakeholders in developing its  elder justice training materials and to update these training materials  to reflect new best practices. 

  As Chairman of the Senate Aging Committee, one of my top priorities  is protecting seniors against abuse. The Promoting Alzheimer's  Awareness to Prevent Elder Abuse Act would help to ensure that the  frontline professionals who are leading the charge against elder abuse  have the training needed to respond to cases where the victim or a  witness has Alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia. I urge my  colleagues to support this bill. 

  Thank you, Mr. President.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT