Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Success for  Rural Students and Communities Act, a bill that would help rural  students achieve their higher education goals and connect their  successes with economic opportunities in their own communities. I want  to thank Senator Hassan for introducing this bill with me. 

  The Success for Rural Students and Communities Act aims to improve  the outcomes for rural students who are pursuing higher education and  skills-based credentials that will prepare them to meet the workforce  needs of their home communities. 

  According to the 2010 census, Maine is now the most rural State in  the Nation. Two out of three Maine schools are in rural communities,  and more than half of Maine's students attend those schools. While  nearly 90 percent of the students in my State graduate from high  school, only 62 percent enroll in higher education, at least right  away. According to a recent report by the Maine Department of Economic  and Community Development, only 30 percent of Maine students go on to  earn a 2-year or a 4-year degree. So we have a huge dichotomy between  the number of Maine students who graduate from high school and the  number who are successful in graduating from some sort of higher  education. 

  Maine's experience reflects the trends observed nationwide. Rural  students tend to graduate from high school at higher rates than their  peers in urban districts and at about the same rate as their peers in  suburban schools, but only 59 percent of rural graduates enroll in  college upon graduation, which is a lower percentage than their  counterparts in urban and suburban areas. 

  The Success for Rural Students and Communities Act would help spur  innovation, investment, and strategies that would improve college  access and success for rural students. It would create  a demonstration program to encourage rural community stakeholders to  partner together to help students go on to college or obtain some other  postsecondary education, complete this education, and enter the  workforce. These partnerships would draw on the talents of local school  districts, institutions of higher education, regional economic  development entities, rural community organizations, and the private  sector. The bill encourages these partnerships to develop and implement  strategies to help students and their families navigate higher  education opportunities and addresses the barriers to their  achievement. 

  For example, the bill calls for partnerships to coalesce around  approaches that boost higher education enrollment rates for referral  students by exposing students and their families to college campuses,  courses, internships, and career pathways to jobs at home. These  partnerships could also focus on rural incompletion rates of  nontraditional students who may need additional credentials or who once  began but did not finish higher education. 

  To meet the demands of today's workforce, many employees will need a  credential beyond a high school diploma--perhaps a college degree, a  skilled trade credential, or a professional certificate. The Success  for Rural Students and Communities Act encourages schools and employers  to forge partnerships that will put students on pathways into the high- demand jobs available where they live. That helps the rural  communities. It helps them keep their young people. It helps them keep  people who have the education and the skills those communities need to  be vibrant and successful and to have strong economies. 

  The bill highlights a number of strategies that could be developed  and tested, including work-based learning opportunities, such as  apprenticeships, internships, and stackable credentials that make up a  sequence of courses on the path to a certain skill or job. I have  toured apprenticeship programs in Maine, including one that helps to  train people for jobs in forestry, and I have seen firsthand how  successful those apprenticeship programs are. 

  When rural students enroll in college, they often face barriers that  prevent them from graduating, and that is why I have been a big  promoter of student success programs. I have seen a very effective one  at the Eastern Maine Community College in Bangor, where students are  helped with whatever the barrier is that is preventing them from  completing community college. In some cases, it is the need for some  mentoring; in others, tutoring in some areas. In other cases, it is  simply a short-term loan in order for them to fix their automobile so  they can get to class. In another case, it is childcare needs. Whatever  the barrier is, if we can help these students, they will be able to  complete their education. 

  Many are the first in their families to attend college, which means  they may have a more difficult time finding information about financial  aid or selecting an education program that meets their needs. With the  right supports in place, more and more rural students can complete  their postsecondary education. 

  Let me give a great example of the type of program I am talking about  that would fulfill the goals of this legislation. In Maine's Aroostook  County, where I was born and raised and where much of my family still  lives, the Aroostook Aspirations Initiative is using this kind of model  to help put students on pathways to academic and career success.  Launched with a generous donation from local philanthropic partners,  Aroostook Aspirations provides scholarships to high school students in  Aroostook County who are seeking postsecondary education. The  initiative collaborates with local colleges and universities, including  the University of Maine at Presque Isle, the University of Maine at  Fort Kent, Northern Maine Community College, and Husson University. It  works with the area businesses and entrepreneurs to offer seminars that  guide students throughout their college educations--the kind of  mentoring I was referring to. 

  Students can also team up with Aroostook County employers through  internships that give them experience in jobs they wish to pursue or  simply try out to see if the jobs fit them. They create relationships  with professional mentors, who help put them on the right path to  entering the workforce. 

  The Success for Rural Students and Communities Act would support  dynamic programs such as the Aroostook Aspirations Initiative and  encourage other communities in rural America to innovate in similar  ways. The Success for Rural Students and Communities Act would make a  meaningful investment in the educational aspirations of rural students  and their families and would strengthen the economy in rural America.  By helping students succeed in reaching their education and career  goals, we can also enhance the skills of our workforce in rural  America. I urge my colleagues to support the Collins-Hassan bill.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT