Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Medicare  Mental Health Inpatient Equity Act, legislation that eliminates  Medicare's arbitrary 190-day lifetime cap on inpatient services in  psychiatric hospitals. This change is long overdue given the steps that  Congress has taken to improve coverage of mental health services. I am  pleased to be joined by Senator Tina Smith (D-MN), who has been a  champion for greater access to mental health care. 

  Left untreated, mental illnesses are some of the most disabling and  destructive illnesses afflicting Americans. Unfortunately, our current  mental health system is fragmented, and family members with serious  mental illness all too often lack access to the care that they need.  That is why I have worked consistently and vigorously to improve mental  health services across the lifespan. 

  I was an original cosponsor of the Senator Paul Wellstone Mental  Health Parity Act, a landmark law that generally prevents group health  plans and health insurance issuers that provide mental health or  substance use disorder benefits from imposing less favorable benefit  limitations on those benefits than on medical and surgical benefits. I  was a longtime supporter of the Excellence in Mental Health Act, which  increased Americans' access to community mental health and substance  use treatment services through the Certified Community Behavioral  Health Clinic (CCBHC). I have also worked with my colleagues Senator  Durbin and Senator Portman to support greater residential treatment  options by modifying Medicaid's restrictive Institute of Mental Disease  exclusion as part of the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that  Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act  (the ``SUPPORT Act''). 

  As chairman of the Aging Committee, I also recognize that seniors  have significant unmet mental health  needs and that their Medicare coverage can be greatly improved. I was  an original cosponsor of the Medicare Mental Health Copayment Equity  Act, which was signed into law in 2008, that eliminated higher  outpatient copayments for mental health services I have also recently  re-introduced legislation with Senator Brown that would update the  Medicare program by recognizing clinical psychologists as independent  care providers, thus expanding mental health care options and access  for Medicare beneficiaries. 

  The legislation I am introducing today breaks down another barrier in  Medicare, the 190-day lifetime cap on inpatient services in psychiatric  hospitals. No other Medicare inpatient service has these types of  arbitrary caps, which is why elimination of Medicare's lifetime cap was  a recommendation of the 2016 White House Mental Health and Substance  Use Disorder Parity Task Force. 

  I recognize that this cap was originally intended to limit the  federal government's role in paying for long-term custodial support of  the mentally ill. And no one wants to go back to the abusive days of  long term institutionalization, which is why l have championed so many  measures to help bolster community mental health resources. At the same  time, keeping a cap on inpatient days at psychiatric hospitals-- particularly for patients who have been living with serious mental  illness from a young age--undermines patient treatment options and can  lead to disruptive transitions of care. Many general hospitals lack  psychiatric capacity and there are countless examples across the  country of psychiatric boarding in emergency departments. Skilled  nursing facilities may not be best suited to provide the complex and  specialized psychiatric care these beneficiaries need. Finally, too  many patients find themselves receiving care in prisons. 

  According to a 2019 Mathematica report commissioned by the Department  of Health and Human Services, most fee-for-service Medicare  beneficiaries who use inpatient psychiatric facilities have primary  diagnoses of schizophrenia, major depressive disorder, and bipolar  disorder, but Alzheimer's and related diagnoses are also common. We  need to help patients with serious mental illness recover regardless of  the setting where they are receiving care. The Medicare Mental Health  Inpatient Equity Act is supported by a wide range of mental health  groups, including the National Association of Behavioral Healthcare,  the American Psychiatric Association, the American Psychological  Association, and Mental Health America. 

  I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT