Supporting Older Americans Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, last night the Senate unanimously passed  my legislation, the Supporting Older Americans Act of 2020. I developed  this important legislation with Senator Bob Casey, who serves as the  ranking member of the Senate Aging Committee, which I chair, to  reauthorize and strengthen the landmark Older Americans Act. A  bipartisan group of 24 Senators cosponsored this reauthorization, and  128 national organizations endorsed it. I rise today to commend this  bipartisan achievement that will ensure that vital services for our  seniors continue and are strengthened. 

  Since 1965, the Older Americans Act has helped to ensure that  millions of seniors receive the support they need to age independently  and with dignity. Administered by the Administration for Community  Living, the Older Americans Act authorizes an array of services through  a network of 56 State units on aging and more than 600 area agencies on  aging, serving more than 10 million Americans throughout the Nation  each year. OAA programs provide nutritious food, transportation,  assistance to caregivers, and in-home services for older adults. These  investments foster a sense of community for older adults and save  taxpayers money by reducing hospitalizations and the need for long-term  residential care. 

  As our population ages, demand for Older Americans Act services has  grown. Our legislation extends OAA programs for 5 years and provides  increased investments to meet growing demands. For example, one  hallmark OAA program is Meals on Wheels. Last year, this home-delivered  nutrition program provided seniors with 358 million meals. In many  States, however, the need is soaring. In Maine, there is a waitlist of  400 to 1,500 people, depending on the time of the year and the location  in our State. That is why it is so important that this bill helps to  ensure that more seniors in need of nutritious food can be served  through important programs such as Meals on Wheels. 

  At $11 a day, a meal is far cheaper than the $2,400 average cost of a  hospital stay. Using Older Americans Act dollars, the Southern Maine  Agency on Aging conducted a pilot study that provided seniors  discharged from the hospital with 4 weeks' worth of food. The results  were astounding--hospital readmissions were reduced by 38 percent--a  387-percent return on investment. On a national scale, the savings  would be an astronomical $51 billion annually. 

  Our legislation also includes several provisions to combat social  isolation, which can have devastating health effects, particularly on  older adults who are already vulnerable. 

  As the executive director of the Eastern Maine Area Agency on Aging,  Dyan Walsh, said, The Older Americans Act is a great victory for the  aging services network and those we serve. There are many important  provisions in the bill, not the least of which is the focus on research  to study the negative consequences of social isolation and loneliness  which impacts so many rural older adults. We look to the future with a  renewed focus to integrate innovative  strategies that will advance our mission to support communities and  those who are the most vulnerable. 

  The Older Americans Act is a shining example of a Federal policy that  works. Every $1 invested into the Older Americans Act generates $3 by  helping seniors stay at home through low-cost, community-based  services. I thank the dozens of stakeholders we have worked with over  the past several months to reauthorize and strengthen OAA, including  the Leadership Council of Aging Organizations, AARP, the National  Association of Area Agencies on Aging, the National Alliance for  Caregiving, Meals on Wheels America, the National Association of  Counties, and the Alzheimer's Association.  

  I urge my colleagues in the House to support this important  reauthorization so that we can swiftly send it to the President's desk  to get signed into law.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT