Providing for Consideration of H.R. Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700515/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-further-additional-continuing-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. GARBARINO. Mr. Speaker, as chairman of the Committee on Homeland  Security, I rise today in support of the rule providing for  consideration of H.R. 7744.

As America faces heightened threats on U.S. soil and abroad, DHS is  in the midst of its second major shutdown in 6 months because of  Democrats' political games.

This lapse in appropriations means a disruption in our Nation's  disaster preparedness, transportation security, and critical  infrastructure resilience when we need it most.

As a lifelong New Yorker, I find it outrageous that DHS continues to  be undermined by Washington's dysfunction. Twenty-five years after the  worst terrorist attack on U.S. soil, I urge my Democratic colleagues to  not forget why this Department was established in the first place.

As we speak, the vast majority of DHS personnel are, once again,  continuing their essential missions to protect the American people  without knowing when their next paycheck will come, while others have  been furloughed, further undermining our preparedness.

The frustrating reality is that this was completely avoidable. House  Republicans sent this bipartisan and bicameral deal on full-year DHS  funding to the Senate nearly 2 months ago. This bill includes funding  for body cameras, support for the DHS Office of Inspector General,  additional resources for training, and new transparency and oversight  requirements for ICE.

By holding this bill up in the Senate, Democrats are also blocking  funding for FEMA's preparedness, response, and recovery efforts across  the country. They are blocking funding for TSA ahead of major events  like the World Cup. Democrats are blocking funding for Coast Guard  operations that we use to counter our adversaries. They are blocking  our funding for our cybersecurity workforce while Iran is attacking us  daily in our cybersecurity terrain.

The security of our homeland is not a partisan talking point. It is  an American imperative. Holding DHS hostage when lives and livelihoods  are on the line is reckless.

Mr. Speaker, I urge House Democrats to show their Senate counterparts  that the right thing to do is support this bill.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Now that we are on the point of thank-yous, my colleague suggested  that I get up and thank them for bringing this bill again.

I do think it is a waste of House resources doing the same thing over  again.

However, I do thank the gentleman because we are able to make the  point again to the American people about how bad ICE is. The American  people agree with us that what ICE is doing is not American. It is not  American to kill us point-blank--murders--for doing nothing more than  using a phone to video what they are doing.

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an  amendment to the rule to bring up H.R. 7481, the Department of Homeland  Security Appropriations Act, 2026, a bill which fully funds law-abiding  agencies under the Department of Homeland Security and not the unlawful  actions of ICE and CBP. That is because we agree that we need to fund  FEMA, TSA, and the Coast Guard. There is no reason to have these  important agencies tied to the funding for Trump's ICE cruelty agenda.

Indeed, Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro introduced a bill to fund FEMA,  TSA, and the Coast Guard. Last night, at Rules, I tried to make her  bill in order so the House could vote on it, so the House could say,  yes, we believe in these agencies, and we want to fund them. Every  single Republican in the committee voted against it.

Let's be honest about who is voting against funding for the Coast  Guard, for TSA, and for these agencies. It is Republicans. Republicans  voted against it last night, but we are going to ask Republicans once  again: Will they vote to fund the Coast Guard, FEMA, and TSA? We will  ask whether they will vote for that because we are going to give them  another opportunity to do that. We are going to do that.