Strengthening Cyber Resilience Against State-Sponsored Threats Act


Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 2659) to ensure the security and integrity of United  States critical infrastructure by establishing an interagency task  force and requiring a comprehensive report on the targeting of United  States critical infrastructure by Peoples Republic of China state- sponsored cyber actors, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2659

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Strengthening Cyber       Resilience Against State-Sponsored Threats Act''.       SEC. 2. INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE AND REPORT ON THE TARGETING OF                     UNITED STATES CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE BY                     PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA STATE-SPONSORED                     CYBER ACTORS.

(a) Interagency Task Force.--Not later than 120 days after       the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of       Homeland Security, acting through the Director of the       Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) of       the Department of Homeland Security, in consultation with the       Attorney General, the Director of the Federal Bureau of       Investigation, and the heads of appropriate Sector Risk       Management Agencies as determined by the Director of CISA,       shall establish a joint interagency task force (in this       section referred to as the ``task force'') to facilitate       collaboration and coordination among the Sector Risk       Management Agencies assigned a Federal role or responsibility       in National Security Memorandum-22, issued April 30, 2024       (relating to critical infrastructure security and       resilience), or any successor document, to detect, analyze,       and respond to the cybersecurity threat posed by State-      sponsored cyber actors, including Volt Typhoon, of the       People's Republic of China       by ensuring that such agencies' actions are aligned and       mutually reinforcing.

(b) Chairs.--

(1) Chairperson.--The Director of CISA (or the Director of       CISA's designee) shall serve as the chairperson of the task       force.

(2) Vice chairperson.--The Director of the Federal Bureau       of Investigation (or such Director's designee) shall serve as       the vice chairperson of the task force.

(c) Composition.--

(1) In general.--The task force shall consist of       appropriate representatives of the departments and agencies       specified in subsection (a).

(2) Qualifications.--To materially assist in the activities       of the task force, representatives under paragraph (1) should       be subject matter experts who have familiarity and technical       expertise regarding cybersecurity, digital forensics, or       threat intelligence analysis, or in-depth knowledge of the       tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) commonly used by       State-sponsored cyber actors, including Volt Typhoon, of the       People's Republic of China.

(d) Vacancy.--Any vacancy occurring in the membership of       the task force shall be filled in the same manner in which       the original appointment was made.

(e) Establishment Flexibility.--To avoid redundancy, the       task force may coordinate with any preexisting task force,       working group, or cross-intelligence effort within the       Homeland Security Enterprise or the intelligence community       that has examined or responded to the cybersecurity threat       posed by State-sponsored cyber actors, including Volt       Typhoon, of the People's Republic of China.

(f) Task Force Reports; Briefing.--

(1) Initial report.--Not later than 540 days after the       establishment of the task force, the task force shall submit       to the appropriate congressional committees the first report       containing the initial findings, conclusions, and       recommendations of the task force.

(2) Annual report.--Not later than one year after the date       of the submission of the initial report under paragraph (1)       and annually thereafter for five years, the task force shall       submit to the appropriate congressional committees an annual       report containing the findings, conclusions, and       recommendations of the task force.

(3) Contents.--The reports under this subsection shall       include the following:

(A) An assessment at the lowest classification feasible of       the sector-specific risks, trends relating to incidents       impacting sectors, and tactics, techniques, and procedures       utilized by or relating to State-sponsored cyber actors,       including Volt Typhoon, of the People's Republic of China.

(B) An assessment of additional resources and authorities       needed by Federal departments and agencies to better counter       the cybersecurity threat posed by State-sponsored cyber       actors, including Volt Typhoon, of the People's Republic of       China.

(C) A classified assessment of the extent of potential       destruction, compromise, or disruption to United States       critical infrastructure by State-sponsored cyber actors,       including Volt Typhoon, of the People's Republic of China in       the event of a major crisis or future conflict between the       People's Republic of China and the United States.

(D) A classified assessment of the ability of the United       States to counter the cybersecurity threat posed by State-      sponsored cyber actors, including Volt Typhoon, of the       People's Republic of China in the event of a major crisis or       future conflict between the People's Republic of China and       the United States, including with respect to different       cybersecurity measures and recommendations that could       mitigate such a threat.

(E) A classified assessment of the ability of State-      sponsored cyber actors, including Volt Typhoon, of the       People's Republic of China to disrupt operations of the       United States Armed Forces by hindering mobility across       critical infrastructure such as rail, aviation, and ports,       including how such would impair the ability of the United       States Armed Forces to deploy and maneuver forces       effectively.

(F) A classified assessment of the economic and social       ramifications of a disruption to one or multiple United       States critical infrastructure sectors by State-sponsored       cyber actors, including Volt Typhoon, of the People's       Republic of China in the event of a major crisis or future       conflict between the People's Republic of China and the       United States.

(G) Such recommendations as the task force may have for the       Homeland Security Enterprise, the intelligence community, or       critical infrastructure owners and operators to improve the       detection and mitigation of the cybersecurity threat posed by       State-sponsored cyber actors, including Volt Typhoon, of the       People's Republic of China.

(H) A one-time plan for an awareness campaign to       familiarize critical infrastructure owners and operators with       security resources and support offered by Federal departments       and agencies to mitigate the cybersecurity threat posed by       State-sponsored cyber actors, including Volt Typhoon, of the       People's Republic of China.

(4) Briefing.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the       submission of each report under this subsection, the task       force shall provide to the appropriate congressional       committees a classified briefing on the findings,       conclusions, and recommendations of the task force.

(5) Form.--Each report under this subsection shall be       submitted in classified form, consistent with the protection       of intelligence sources and methods, but may include an       unclassified executive summary.

(6) Publication.--The unclassified executive summary of       each report required under this subsection shall be published       on a publicly accessible website of the Department of       Homeland Security.

(g) Access to Information.--

(1) In general.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, the       Director of CISA, the Attorney General, the Director of the       Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the heads of appropriate       Sector Risk Management Agencies, as determined by the       Director of CISA, shall provide to the task force such       information, documents, analysis, assessments, findings,       evaluations, inspections, audits, or reviews relating to       efforts to counter the cybersecurity threat posed by State-      sponsored cyber actors, including Volt Typhoon, of the       People's Republic of China as the task force considers       necessary to carry out this section.

(2) Receipt, handling, storage, and dissemination.--      Information, documents, analysis, assessments, findings,       evaluations, inspections, audits, and reviews described in       this subsection shall be received, handled, stored, and       disseminated only by members of the task force consistent       with all applicable statutes, regulations, and Executive       orders.

(3) Security clearances for task force members.--No member       of the task force may be provided with access to classified       information under this section without the appropriate       security clearances.

(h) Termination.--The task force, and all the authorities       of this section, shall terminate on the date that is 60 days       after the final briefing required under subsection (h)(4).

(i) Exemption From FACA.--Chapter 10 of title 5, United       States Code (commonly referred to as the ``Federal Advisory       Committee Act''), shall not apply to the task force.

(j) Exemption From Paperwork Reduction Act.--Chapter 35 of       title 44, United States Code (commonly known as the       ``Paperwork Reduction Act''), shall not apply to the task       force.

(k) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term       ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--

(A) the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on       Judiciary, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the       House of Representatives; and

(B) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental       Affairs, the Committee on Judiciary, and the Select Committee       on Intelligence of the Senate.

(2) Assets.--The term ``assets'' means a person, structure,       facility, information, material, equipment, network, or       process, whether physical or virtual, that enables an       organization's services, functions, or capabilities.

(3) Critical infrastructure.--The term ``critical       infrastructure'' has the meaning given such term in section       1016(e) of Public Law 107-56 (42 U.S.C. 5195c(e)).

(4) Cybersecurity threat.--The term ``cybersecurity       threat'' has the meaning given such term in section 2200 of       the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 650).

(5) Homeland security enterprise.--The term ``Homeland       Security Enterprise'' has the meaning given such term in       section 2200 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.       650).

(6) Incident.--The term ``incident'' has the meaning given       such term in section 2200 of the Homeland Security Act of       2002 (6 U.S.C. 650).

(7) Information sharing.--The term ``information sharing''       means the bidirectional sharing of timely and relevant       information concerning a cybersecurity threat posed by a       State-sponsored cyber actor of the People's Republic of China       to United States critical infrastructure.

(8) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence       community'' has the meaning given such term in section 3(4)       of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).

(9) Locality.--The term ``locality'' means any local       government authority or agency or component thereof within a       State having jurisdiction over matters at a county,       municipal, or other local government level.

(10) Sector.--The term ``sector'' means a collection of       assets, systems, networks, entities, or organizations that       provide or enable a common function for national security       (including national defense and continuity of Government),       national economic security, national public health or safety,       or any combination thereof.

(11) Sector risk management agency.--The term ``Sector Risk       Management Agency'' has the meaning given such term in       section 2200 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.       650).

(12) State.--The term ``State'' means any State of the       United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of       Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States       Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and any other territory       or possession of the United States.

(13) Systems.--The term ``systems'' means a combination of       personnel, structures, facilities, information, materials,       equipment, networks, or processes, whether physical or       virtual, integrated or interconnected for a specific purpose       that enables an organization's services, functions, or       capabilities.

(14) United states.--The term ``United States'', when used       in a geographic sense, means any State of the United States.

(15) Volt typhoon.--The term ``Volt Typhoon'' means the       People's Republic of China State-sponsored cyber actor       described in the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security       Agency cybersecurity advisory entitled ``PRC State-Sponsored       Actors Compromise and Maintain Persistent Access to U.S.       Critical Infrastructure'', issued on February 07, 2024, or       any successor advisory.

Mr. GARBARINO.  2659.

Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2659, the  Strengthening Cyber Resilience Against State-Sponsored Threats Act.

Following the revelations of the Typhoon actors sponsored by the  People's Republic of China, the committee found that the response of  the previous administration was unsatisfactory. This legislation will  create an interagency task force chaired by the Director of  Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency to properly address  the cybersecurity threat posed by the People's Republic of China's  cyber actors.

Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to  the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Ogles).

Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I think I would be remiss if I did not  mention the ranking member of the full committee and the ranking member  of the subcommittee who worked so hard on getting this bill across the  finish line. I am very excited that this is a very nice bipartisan  effort on something that has to get done. There is a big focus that we  have to have on the People's Republic of China and what they are doing  when it comes to cybersecurity.

Madam Speaker, I yield such time as she may consume to the  gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Lee).

Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 2659. I  congratulate my colleague, the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Ogles) on  the great work he did on this bill, and I yield back the balance of my  time.

Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.