Strengthening Oversight of Dhs Intelligence Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696751/strengthening-oversight-of-dhs-intelligence-act


Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 2261) to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to  enhance the Department of Homeland Security's oversight of certain  intelligence matters, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2261

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Strengthening Oversight of       DHS Intelligence Act''.       SEC. 2. ENHANCED DHS OVERSIGHT OF CERTAIN INTELLIGENCE                     MATTERS.

The Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended--

(1) in paragraph (9) of section 201(d) (6 U.S.C. 121(d))--

(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' after the       semicolon;

(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end       and inserting ``; and''; and

(C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

``(C) any intelligence information under this Act is       shared, retained, and disseminated consistent with the       protection of privacy rights, civil rights, and civil       liberties, as determined, respectively, by the Chief Privacy       Officer and the Officer for Civil Rights and Civil       Liberties.'';

(2) in subsection (a) of section 222 (6 U.S.C. 142)--

(A) in paragraph (5)(B), by striking ``and'' after the       semicolon;

(B) in paragraph (6), by striking the period at the end and       inserting ``; and''; and

(C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

``(7) coordinating with the Under Secretary for       Intelligence and Analysis to--

``(A) ensure that any intelligence information under this       Act is shared, retained, and disseminated in a manner       consistent with the protection of the privacy rights; and

``(B) provide training to intelligence personnel on privacy       rights, regulations, and information practices as specified       in section 552a of title 5, United States Code (commonly       referred to as the `Privacy Act of 1974') and other relevant       laws, with a focus on personnel who have authority to       disseminate information analyzed by the Department pursuant       to paragraph (6) of section 201(d) or the responsibility to       review information to be disseminated pursuant to such       paragraph.''; and

(3) in subsection (a) of section 705 (6 U.S.C. 345)--

(A) in paragraph (5)(B), by striking ``and'' after the       semicolon;

(B) in paragraph (6), by striking the period and inserting       ``; and''; and

(C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

``(7) coordinate with the Under Secretary for Intelligence       and Analysis to--

``(A) ensure that any intelligence information under this       Act is shared, retained, and disseminated in a manner       consistent with the protection of civil rights and civil       liberties; and

``(B) provide training to intelligence personnel on civil       rights and civil liberties, with a focus on personnel who       have authority to disseminate information analyzed by the       Department pursuant to paragraph (6) of section 201(d) or the       responsibility to review information to be disseminated       pursuant to such paragraph.''.

Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2261, the  Strengthening Oversight of DHS Intelligence Act.

The Department of Homeland Security's Office of Intelligence and  Analysis has a distinct role within the intelligence community of  gathering and sharing intelligence across State, local, Tribal, and  territorial partners.

In recent years, the Office of Intelligence and Analysis has faced  criticism for overreach in its handling of bulk data that raises  privacy concerns for the sensitive information of U.S. citizens.

This legislation will mandate that all DHS intelligence products  undergo comprehensive reviews to ensure compliance with constitutional  protections.

Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I have no more speakers, and I am  prepared to close after the gentleman from Puerto Rico closes.

Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

As the chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, preventing  another 9/11 is my top priority.

Being a Member from New York, I congratulate my colleague on his  authorship and sponsorship of H.R. 2261. I urge all of my colleagues to  support it, and I yield back the balance of my time.