Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699901/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-undersea-cable-protection-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-securing-americas-critical-minerals-supply-act-and-for-other-purposes


Ms. SANCHEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to this  Republican rule.

Republicans continue to give President Trump a free pass to damage  our economy and punish our American families with his illegal tariffs.

The Constitution could not be clearer: Congress, not the White House,  has the authority to impose tariffs. It does not belong to President  Trump, no matter how many crazy rants he tweets out in the middle of  the night.

Yet Republicans continue to fold like cheap lawn chairs by refusing  to allow a vote on Trump's tariffs. Instead of standing up for their  constituents, they are acting as a cut-and-paste for Trump.

Why? It is because they are more afraid of his retribution than they  are concerned about the budgets of their families back home, families  who are paying for Trump's endless trade wars.

According to the Joint Economic Committee, Trump's tariffs cost  American households more than $1,600 last year--that is $1,600--and  that will continue to rise if Congress doesn't take the keys away from  Trump. Maybe that is pocket change for Trump and his billionaire  buddies. Higher prices on groceries, cars, housing, utilities, and  other basic necessities don't impact them.

However, working families, small businesses, and farmers are  certainly feeling the pain of these trade wars. Trump's tariffs are  increasing prices on everything for them, and Republicans are letting  it happen on their watch.

My Republican colleagues have a choice. They can stop cowering to  Trump and vote to strike down this rule because Americans want an end  to Trump's trade wars.

Let's reclaim our constitutional authority and put an end to his  abuse of tariffs once and for all.