Relating to A National Emergency By the President on February 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699972/relating-to-a-national-emergency-by-the-president-on-february-2025


Ms. SANCHEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution  rejecting President Trump's illegal tariffs on Canada--our friend, our  neighbor, and our ally.

The truth of the matter is that the arguments on the other side of  the aisle are to distract. The vast majority of fentanyl that comes  into the United States comes from China and comes in via boats in our  ports of entry.

They want to distract to take away from the real issue, which is that  the Constitution is very clear that the power to levy tariffs and  regulate trade belongs to the Congress, not to the President. Yet, too  many in this body are willing to give up that authority because  President Trump demands blind loyalty from them.

The fact is, we already have a trade agreement with Canada. President  Trump negotiated it, and this body ratified it. There is a lawful  review process that goes into effect next year to find ways to improve  it.

That is how responsible governments handle trade disputes, by  following the law, not through weird social media tantrums about  bridges and hockey trophies or through childish threats to annex a  sovereign nation and make it the 51st State.

His daily barrage against Canada does not make him look tough. It is  certainly not strategic. It is just reckless. Frankly, it is bizarre.

We are now seeing the consequences of allowing the President's  unhinged behavior go unchecked. American families, small businesses,  and farmers are paying the price for these endless trade wars.

Trump's tariff tantrums have cost households more than $1,600 a year  in higher prices. Families in the United States are paying more for  groceries, cars, housing, utilities, the basic necessities. What about  the deaths from families that are struggling from food insecurity? Do  those not matter?

It is pushing our allies closer to our adversaries. Last month,  Canada announced it was lowering its 100 percent tariffs on Chinese  electric vehicles. Those tariffs were imposed in coordination with the  United States during the leadership of the Biden administration.

That cooperation strengthened our position against China.

Now, because of this administration's chaotic trade policies, that  progress is  unravelling. Rather than target the real bad actors, the President is  picking fights with our friends. Instead of standing up for their  constituents and defending Congress' constitutional authority over  trade, most Republicans in this Chamber are surrendering it to the  President choosing blind allegiance to him over the people that they  are supposed to represent.

I commend the few Republicans who have the courage to break with the  President and join with Democrats to force this vote. Reasserting our  constitutional authority over trade should never have been a partisan  issue.

I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. Let's restore sanity  and stability to our American trade policy.