Amendment No. 1 Offered By Mr. Massie


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699282/amendment-no-1-offered-by-mr-massie


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman from Kentucky for his  work on this, and of course the chairman of the full committee for the  hard work on appropriations.

Look, none of us wants to be on the road with drunk drivers. Of  course, this was a solution intended to deal with them. All of us want  them to be dealt with.

I am going to remind everybody, as my friend from Kentucky just said,  there is already legislation in multiple States, dozens of States, that  deals with drunk drivers through the ignition interlock system.  Probably in your family somewhere, someone you know, you have dealt  with this. I know in my family and the people I know, I have dealt with  it.

Here is what I don't want to see in America: Everybody, including the  ones who don't drink and drive, being punished for the people who drink  and drive. I happen not to drink, but I am going to be forced to have  this thing in my car.

I am going to tell you what is next. After what Representative Massie  has said, the car is going to be the judge, jury, and sentencer for  your crime in the car. The next thing is going to be that we need to  hook this thing up to the government so we can dispatch the police.

I am just going to tell you what is going to happen next. They are  going to be shutting your car off when they decide whatever they decide  from wherever they decide it.

I don't know what everyone thinks about due process, the  Constitution, - the Fourth Amendment, and the right to not be imposed  upon by illegal, unlawful search and seizure, but punishing everybody  for this crime, whether they have committed it or not, whether they are  going to commit it or not, should be unconstitutional. This shouldn't  really be a question.

We all want to get to the problem, and we are happy to work with  everybody on all sides to deal with it, but you cannot punish and  convict everybody in the country for the sake of the ones who do things  that they shouldn't do.