Authorizing the Use of the Capitol Grounds for the National Peace Officers' Memorial Service and the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701223/authorizing-the-use-of-the-capitol-grounds-for-the-national-peace-officers-memorial-service-and-the-national-honor-guard-and-pipe-band-exhibition


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Ohio (Mr. Taylor)  and also my colleague from Arizona (Mr. Stanton). I am extremely  honored and humbled to once again introduce this resolution alongside  the Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management  Subcommittee ranking member, Representative Stanton, from Arizona.

This year marks the 45th Annual National Peace Officers' Memorial  event, which honors our law enforcement officers who have made the  ultimate sacrifice. According to the Fraternal Order of Police, over  the past 5 years, more than 2,000 police officers have been shot in the  line of duty.

In 2025, there were 347 shot in the line of duty, 45 of whom were  killed. It is completely unacceptable.

Tragically, three of those deaths were my constituents, my bosses. On  September 17, last year, a gunman ambushed police officers who were  serving an arrest warrant. During the attack, three police officers  were killed and two more were wounded. The officers who died in the  line of duty were Detective Sergeant Cody Michael Becker, Detective  Isaiah D. Emenheiser, and Detective Mark Edward Baker. All three  officers were longtime veterans of the Northern York County Regional  Police Department.

Mr. Speaker, this memorial service is for them and those like them  and all the officers that will come to attend and think about their  fallen comrades. These are the people in our community who run to the  danger, who run to the sound of gunfire. These are the people who get  up in the middle of the night not knowing whether they are coming home.  They do the shift work. They are underpaid and under-respected now in  our society, even among some of their very own leaders, their own  elected leaders. That is why this memorial service this year is more  important than ever.

It is my sincere hope that this memorial service will bring some  level of comfort to the families of the men and women who made the  ultimate sacrifice for our safety and for the safety of their  community.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues all to support this resolution. I  thank Representative Stanton from Arizona and Representative Taylor  from Ohio.