Congratulating the Big Spring High School Marching Bulldogs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698290/congratulating-the-big-spring-high-school-marching-bulldogs


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I am happy to congratulate the Big Spring  Marching Bulldogs from Big Spring High School in Newville,  Pennsylvania, on earning the Cavalcade of Bands Liberty A Conference  Championship.

This year's Band performed, ``Catch Me If You Can,'' based off the  movie, but featured Bon Jovi's ``Wanted Dead or Alive,'' Michael  Jackson's ``Smooth Criminal,'' and Imogen Heap's ``Hide and Seek.''  Their performance highlighted the Band's technical expertise and  creativity, character, and joy. They began preparation for the season  in June and competed throughout the fall in the Cavalcade of Bands--a  regional circuit of nearly 75 bands throughout Pennsylvania, New  Jersey, and Delaware.

The Marching Bulldogs were one of 16 bands in the Liberty A  Conference, continually placing near the top throughout the season. On  September 13, 2025, the Marching Bulldogs claimed First Place at  Greencastle-Antrim High School, earning a score of 75.55. On October  25, they took Second Place at the Manheim Central Baron Invitational  with a score of 88.45. At the Championship on November 1, 2025, the  Marching Bulldogs took the field with heart, determination, and  teamwork--and brought home First Place with a score of 94.063 in a  field of 16 incredibly talented bands.

After their victory, the Bulldogs were celebrated upon their return  to Newville. Two fire trucks escorted the Bulldogs' buses back to the  high school, and well over 200 people were waiting to cheer them and  recognize this monumental achievement.

This championship win is a story of perseverance and dedication that  has spanned multiple years. The COVID pandemic had a devastating impact  on Band membership, which hit a low in 2021 of only 31 members. In  2022, the Band earned a bronze medal in a much smaller division, which  piqued more interest and sparked growth. The Band continued to grow and  improve into 2024 after receiving a silver medal out of 12 bands in  their division. After moving to a larger division featuring bands from  50 to 70 members in 2025, the Marching Bulldogs truly stepped up; this  year's well-earned and hard-fought championship was their first in 14  years.

Mr. Speaker, the Big Spring Marching Bulldogs Cavalcade of Bands  Liberty A Conference Championship truly showcases their exceptional  determination, work ethic, and pride--not only as individuals, but in  each other as a team. They stayed focused on their mission, never  wavered, and performed at an extremely high level under immense  pressure. On behalf of the 10th Congressional District of Pennsylvania,  I'm honored and privileged to commend the Marching Bulldogs on their  well-earned victory. Bulldog Pride.