Falun Gong Protection Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690647/falun-gong-protection-act


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for allowing this bill  to come to the floor.

Mr. Speaker, I am here today to urge support of and for H.R. 1540,  the Falun Gong Protection Act, a bill I have introduced to confront one  of the most egregious, barbaric, and medieval human rights atrocities  of our current time.

As we stand on the precipice of this vote, I ask you to join me in  taking a stand against the Chinese Communist Party's systematic  persecution of Falun Gong practitioners.

Since the early 1990s, the Falun Gong, a spiritual practice rooted in  the principles of truth, compassion, and tolerance, has been targeted  by the Chinese Communist Party. By 1999, Mr. Speaker, an estimated 70  million to 100 million people, roughly 5 to 7 percent of China's  population, were practicing Falun Gong.

This popularity triggered a brutal response from the CCP, unleashing  a campaign of illegal detentions, forced labor, torture, and most  horrifically, forced organ harvesting, a practice that amounts to mass  murder.

On July 20, 1999, the CCP detained hundreds of thousands of Falun  Gong practitioners and banned their practice outright. Since then, the  persecution has only intensified.

Multiple studies, including the 2020 report from the Independent  Tribunal Into Forced Organ Harvesting, have exposed an incomprehensible  gap between the number of organ transplants performed in China and the  number of registered donors.

Mr. Speaker, the math simply doesn't add up, and we all know why.

Just think about it: An independent tribunal into forced organ  harvesting literally had to be set up to look into this because China  is a closed society. Regardless of what people might think because we  are allowed to travel to China, they are not showing you this part.

The CCP's secrecy ensures that China remains closed to scrutiny, but  the evidence is clear: Falun Gong practitioners are the primary victims  of this barbaric organ harvesting system.

The tribunal's findings are staggering. They concluded that forced  organ harvesting has been committed for years on a massive scale with  Falun Gong practitioners as the main source.

The report states that the CCP and its leaders have actively incited  the persecution, imprisonment, murder, torture, and humiliation of  these individuals solely to eradicate their beliefs. This is not just a  violation of human rights; it is a crime against humanity.

Now, far away in the United States, many in the organ transplant  community are unaware of China's illicit practices, shielded by the  CCP's repressive control of information and global propaganda, but the  truth is undeniable: The Chinese Communist Party has built an  infrastructure to persecute millions of not only Falun Gong  practitioners but also Uyghurs, Tibetans, Christians, and others it  deems a threat.

The CCP's utter disregard for human life shocks the conscience. This  barbaric practice must end, and it must end now.

H.R. 1540 is a historic step forward, the first binding commitment by  Congress to take decisive legal action against the persecution and  forced organ harvesting of Falun Gong practitioners.

This bill imposes sanctions on those who would participate in or  facilitate forced organ harvesting in China. It directs the Secretary  of State to investigate whether the CCP's actions constitute crimes  against humanity or genocide and to report on China's organ transplant  policies. It also establishes U.S. policy to reject any cooperation  with the PRC's illicit organ transplant industry while the CCP remains  in power.

Mr. Speaker, this bill paves the way for accountability, sanctions,  punishment, and acknowledgement of those complicit in these atrocities.

The Speaker pro tempore (Mr. Patronis). The time of the gentleman has  expired.

Mr. PERRY. The United States cannot continue to stand idly by. We  must use our authority. We must use our position as leaders in the  world to curb these practices and send a clear message to everybody  that not only will we not tolerate this assault on human dignity, on  humanity itself, but that no country, no people should.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a vote in favor of H.R. 1540. Let us stand  together not just for Falun Gong practitioners but for the millions  suffering under the CCP's oppression and tyranny. Let us affirm that  the United States will always champion truth, compassion, and  tolerance.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the chair, again, for bringing the bill to the  floor.