Recognizing Mr. Nathanael Etzweiler


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701696/recognizing-mr-nathanael-etzweiler


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor and recognize Mr. Nathanael  Etzweiler on earning the Royal Rangers Gold Medal of Achievement with  Merit.

Nathanael has been a valued member of the Royal Rangers Outpost 242  for the past ten years, where, in line with the Four Gold Points on the  Royal Ranger Emblem, he has grown mentally, physically, spiritually,  and socially. His time in the Royal Rangers has helped him focus on his  physical health, grow his social network through the church and sports,  and strengthen his relationship with God through prayer and scripture.

Nathanael's service in the Royal Rangers has allowed him to give back  to the local community in myriad ways; to name a few, he has served  Christmas dinner and provided gifts to children and staff of the York  Youth Development Center, he regularly serves meals at local Veterans'  breakfasts, does yardwork/cleanup for elderly families in his area,  volunteers at the Christian Life Assembly church as a greeter at  concerts and holiday services, and is a part of the Food Bank Prayer  Team.

Throughout each level of Royal Rangers, Nathanael has received high  honors, including the Ranger Kids Gold Trail, the Discovery Gold Eagle,  and the Adventure Gold Medal. To earn these awards, he completed nine  Leadership Merits, 232 Bible Lessons, and 35 various Skill Merits. He  has read the entire Bible and, with the guidance of a mentor, has  completed the Royal Rangers Capstone project--a self-evaluation and  goal-setting study using Doug Marsh's book A Guy's Journey to Manhood.

Outside of Royal Rangers, Nathanael enjoys studying God's Word and  praying. He loves the peace of the outdoors and enjoys hunting and  trail walking with his father. He plays football, and is a natural  leader and teacher who is patient and thorough. Nathanael aspires to  continue to serve and grow in honoring God with his life.

On May 2, 2026, Nathanael will receive both the Gold Medal of  Achievement and the Gold Medal of Achievement with Merit. These awards  are a profound testament to his hard work, his passion for God, his  ``service before self'' attitude, and his commitment to the Royal  Rangers Code.

Mr. Speaker, I am honored to congratulate Nathanael Etzweiler on his  auspicious and impressive achievements thus far in his life. His  service to our community and love for the Lord will have a profound and  lasting impact, and I wish him Godspeed on his future successes and  adventures.