Recognizing Dr. Hagir Elsheikh


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693665/recognizing-dr-hagir-elsheikh


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to recognize Dr. Hagir Elsheikh,  a distinguished resident of the 10th Congressional District, for her  exemplary public service, charitable leadership, and extraordinary  contributions to healthcare and autism advocacy within the Commonwealth  and the Nation. Dr. Elsheikh is the Chairwoman and CEO of Hagir Network  and the founder of multiple mission-driven organizations, including  Kareem's Mission Autism Support Center, Tomorrow's Smile Inc., HSE  Staffing Agency LLC, Autism Care Solutions LLC, and KMission TV LLC.

A serial entrepreneur, nurse, educator, and a former Sudanese refugee  who survived political torture and violence, Dr. Elsheikh came to  Pennsylvania in 2001, where she rebuilt her life and impacted thousands  through programs that serve children with autism, train and employ  caregivers, and create educational media. She also mentors women and  youth throughout Pennsylvania in leadership, business, and civic  engagement.

Dr. Elsheikh has earned awards such as the 2025 Globe St.  Humanitarian Woman of Influence Honoree, Honorary Doctor of Humane  Letters from Central Penn College, 2024 YWCA Carolyne L. Smith Legacy  Award Recipient, 2024 Harambee Award, Life Esteem Inc., Pennsylvania  Senate Citation Honoree, and her work was featured on France 24, BBC,  WITF, ABC, AlhurraTV, and VOA. Her memoir, Through Tragedy and Triumph:  A Life Well Traveled, supports survivor scholarships and peacebuilding  initiatives.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the 10th Congressional District, I am  honored to recognize Dr. Hagir Elsheikh as a courageous leader,  international diplomat, and philanthropist for her exceptional service  to the Citizens of Pennsylvania, and for her tireless efforts to build  love and compassion into every sector she touches, from healthcare to  charity. Her life stands as a model of resilience, passion, and public  service.