Recognizing Corporal George Ivanoff, Usmc


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I'm honored to recognize Corporal (Cpl)  George Ivanoff, United States Marine Corps (USMC), on the auspicious  occasion of his 100th Birthday on July 24, 2025.

Cpl Ivanoff, born in Harrisburg in 1925, left Harrisburg Catholic  High School early to answer the call of duty to our Country by joining  the USMC in 1943. He served with valor in the Pacific Theatre on the  islands of Peleliu and Okinawa, where he was twice awarded the Purple  Heart medal for wounds suffered in combat. On the occasion when his  Corpsman was wounded, Cpl Ivanoff attempted nobly to evacuate him, but  both were struck by enemy mortar fire that ultimately killed his  Corpsman and forced his own medical evacuation.

Once healed from his wounds, Cpl Ivanoff rejoined his unit in the  pivotal battle of Okinawa, where he fought valiantly for 45 days. While  advancing on the enemy position, incoming fire forced him to take cover  in an artillery shell hole. Looking out to spot the enemy, he was shot  through the face. Unconscious for a time, he woke to feel a gaping hole  in his face. Confronted with the thought of imminent death, he prayed  to the Lord for forgiveness, and lost consciousness--seemingly for the  last time. To his surprise, he regained consciousness again. Spotting a  couple fellow Marines taking cover behind rocks from the same sniper  who had shot him, Cpl Ivanoff asked for a rifle, offering to risk his  life to take the sniper out; but they forced him away.

He was carried on a stretcher to the hospital tent where he fully  expected to die. He was given Last Rites by the Company Chaplain and  left by himself. Presumed dead by the doctors and nurses, he was not  tended to. Eventually, one doctor said ``Hey, this guy is still  alive!'' Miraculously, after his wounds were addressed and he was  stabilized, he not only survived, but fully recovered.

Cpl Ivanoff returned home a hero. He finished his education at  Harrisburg Catholic High School and began his civilian career at the  Post Office. He became an accomplished amateur golfer, earning the 1968  Harrisburg Championship, and still golfs at 100 years young.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the Citizens of the 10th Congressional  District and a grateful Nation, I'm honored, humbled, and privileged to  recognize United States Marine Corps Corporal George Ivanoff on his  100th Birthday. I wish him continued great health, love, and happiness  in his future adventures, and continued Godspeed. For his selfless,  honorable, and tireless service to our great United States of America,  ``Thank You'' will never be enough. He is the standard by which we all  should be judged.