Recognizing Master Gunnery Sergeant Scott A. Pifer


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701369/recognizing-master-gunnery-sergeant-scott-a-pifer


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker. I rise today to congratulate Master Gunnery  Sergeant Scott A. Pifer upon the occasion of his retirement from the  United States Marine Corps after 26 years of selfless and dedicated  service.

A native of New Kingstown, Pennsylvania. Master Gunnery Sergeant  Pifer enlisted in the Marine Corps in March 2000 and entered Recruit  Training at Parris Island. After superiors noticed his professionalism,  leadership, and promotions while serving under Marine Aircraft Control  Group 24 in Hawaii, he was selected for the Marine Corps Embassy Group.  Between 2003 and 2006, he served as a Marine Security Guard at the U.S.  Mission in Switzerland and the U.S. Embassy in Russia, where he  protected personnel and information crucial to our National security.  Master Gunnery Sergeant Pifer later served as a J-3 Deputy Director of  Regional Operations at the Pentagon in the Office of the Chairman of  the Joint Chiefs of Staff. During his illustrious career, he deployed  to Japan with the Heavy Marine Helicopter Squadron and the U.S. 7th  Fleet (2002 and 2009), to Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring  Freedom (2011-2012), and to Qatar in support of Operation Inherent  Resolve (2017).

Master Gunnery Sergeant Pifer earned a multitude of awards and  decorations, to include the: Defense Meritorious Service Medal; the  Meritorious Service Medal; Joint Service Commendation Medal (2nd  award); Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal (3rd Award); and  Marine Corps Good Conduct Medal (8th Award). His administrative  leadership at the squadron, battalion, regimental, and Marine  Expeditionary Force levels has been instrumental in enhancing Marine  air-ground task force combat effectiveness.

In 2017, Master Gunnery Sergeant Pifer was selected for the  Congressional Fellowship Program and served as a Fellow in the House of  Representatives. He also completed a tour with the National Security  Agency and U.S. Cyber Command, where he managed personnel requirements  as a military liaison officer. At the time of his retirement, Master  Gunnery Sergeant Pifer serves as the Staff Non-Commissioned Officer in  Charge of the Installation Personnel Administration Center at the  Marine Corps Air Station in Yuma, Arizona, where he oversees primary  administrative operations and ensures personnel readiness for over  3,000 Marines and Sailors.

Mr. Speaker, I am honored to recognize Master Gunnery Sergeant Scott  A. Pifer upon the auspicious occasion of his retirement from the United  States Marine Corps after 26 years of honorable, tireless, and selfless  service. His vast assignments allowed him to operate and engage in more  than 20 countries, broadening his perspective and reinforcing the  importance of service, diplomacy, and leadership at every level. The  relationships he has fostered and the Marines he developed throughout  decades of service guided by the Marine Corps values of Honor, Courage,  and Commitment leave a legacy that will endure long after his  retirement and set the standard by which all should be judged.