Recognizing Chief Steven Kingsborough


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698017/recognizing-chief-steven-kingsborough


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Chief Steven Kingsborough  of the Middlesex Township Police Department on his retirement upon 40  years of tireless service.

Chief Kingsborough's decorated tenure protecting the Citizens of  Middlesex Township began as a patrol officer in August 1985. In 1986,  he attended the Pennsylvania State Police Academy in Hershey and  graduated as a member of the 49th Municipal Police Training Class. He  was promoted to Corporal in January 1987 and served for 10 years before  being promoted to Sergeant. In 2017, he was promoted to Lieutenant,  where he served for three years before being named Chief of Police and  Director of Public Safety on January 1, 2020.

Throughout his outstanding and tireless career, Chief Kingsborough  was recognized by Middlesex Township with an Exceptional Service award,  a Medal of Honor, a Purple Heart, 2 Meritorious Service awards, 2  Outstanding Arrest awards, an Outstanding Community Service award, 2  Medals of Valor, and a Silver Star.

Chief Kingsborough also finishes his career as the Certified  Instructor for First Aid and CPR classes, Firearms qualifications  training, Self Defense training, Non-Lethal Force training, and Taser  and OC Spray usage training for the Department and for the Municipal  Police Officers Training and Education Commission. He is also certified  by the federal government in National Incident Management Systems and  Federal Motor Carrier Commercial Vehicle Inspections.

Mr. Speaker, I am honored and privileged to congratulate Chief Steven  Kingsborough's selfless, tireless, dedicated, and exceptional career of  40 years of law enforcement service to community, Commonwealth, and  Country. He has made a lasting mark on Middlesex Township and its  citizens in countless ways, and he embodies the term ``servant  leader.'' Chief Kingsborough's service sets the standard by which we  all should be judged.