Recognizing Jackson Township Board of Supervisors Chairman Jonathan D. Holmes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697178/recognizing-jackson-township-board-of-supervisors-chairman-jonathan-d-holmes


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to recognize Jonathan D. Holmes,  Chairman of the Jackson Township Board of Supervisors, for his many  years of service to Jackson Township, York County, Pennsylvania.

Jon has dedicated his life to serving the great People of Jackson  Township. He began in 1990 after being appointed as an alternate to the  Township Zoning Hearing Board, where he served for almost two years. In  1992, he became a full member of the Zoning Hearing Board. In April  2003, he was appointed to the Township Board of Supervisors to fulfill  another member's term, and became Chairman of the Board in 2005, where  he has served for nearly 21 years.

Jon's career as a Civil Engineer has benefited the Township greatly.  As a graduate of Penn State's Engineering program, he always understood  the Township's infrastructure needs and made efforts to improve the  quality of life for all residents. Under his leadership, he took the  Township's Public Works Department to the next level. The Township  implemented a roadway improvement program that funded proper paving  versus tar and chip, thus improving the safety and durability of town  roads. He also improved the equipment in the Department, giving town  employees the necessary tools to keep things running.

Jon led the Board during the purchase of land titled for Little Creek  Community Park, the Township's first park. Today, the park includes a  nine-hole golf course, walking trails, playground equipment, and a  pavilion; it's a heavily used community center and loved by residents  and non-residents alike, yet another tangible example of how Jon's  leadership impacted the communities in and outside of Jackson Township.

Jon's leadership was recognized not only by residents, but by other  leaders in Pennsylvania. He was honored by the Pennsylvania State  Association of Township Supervisors and inducted into its Hall of Fame  in 2025, which speaks broadly to his leadership abilities and legacy.

Mr. Speaker, I am honored and privileged to recognize Chairman  Jonathan Holmes for his selfless, tireless, and dedicated service to  the Citizens of Jackson Township, York County, Pennsylvania. His  leadership, professionalism, and fidelity will be greatly missed, and  his service sets the standard for all to be judged.