Sharia-Free America


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701399/sharia-free-america


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I thank both my friends, the gentlemen from  Texas, for having the guts to do this.

Unfortunately, it is now acceptable. It is now acceptable. As we  watched in Texas, it is amazing. If you built a community in any State,  including Texas, and you said that only Christians need to apply, only  Christians, can you imagine? Can you imagine?

Our Constitution--I have it right here--very specifically says:  ``Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion,  or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.'' Yet, this is what is  literally being attempted in States like Texas.

Mr. Speaker, sharia means the law. That is the definition of it  generally, and it is all-encompassing. It is everything about your  being, your spirituality, your actions. It means the law.

There are Muslims in the world. There are Muslims in my community who  are persecuted because they are the wrong kind of Muslims, because they  don't agree with this one or that sect of the Muslim faith.

They will come to me and say that they don't believe in sharia by the  sword, which is comforting. It is comforting. I don't want to see my  community and my country taken over in violent overthrow because I  don't believe the same thing.

Yet, they will say that they do believe in sharia by the pen--by the  pen. So it is not violent, Mr. Speaker, but what they are talking about  is conquering your nation one way or the other. We have to decide what  we are going to do about this.

I hear that there are sharia courts overseas in the U.K. and in  Europe, but there aren't any where I live or maybe in the United States  of America, but how would you know?

I suspect that the gentleman from Texas will tell us that there are  sharia courts in Texas and that the community is very tight-knit, so if  they are going to adjudicate things in a sharia court, which is even  against the law because it flies in the face of the Constitution of the  United States of America and our laws, how can you prove that there has  been an infraction of the law when you have no witnesses since there  are no witnesses because they will not speak out against their own  laws?

Let's talk about what some of those things include. Leaving the  faith, under sharia, is punishable by death. Things like theft, which  is a serious crime--and we have punishments in the United States of  America, but they don't involve removing your limbs, but that is true  in sharia.

If a woman is charged with adultery, the punishment is stoning to  death. They have honor killings in sharia. For forced marriages, if a  young lady barely out of her teens or still in her teens refuses to  marry as she is directed by her parents, they are justified under  sharia in killing her.

This has no place in America. It just simply has no place in America.

People will say that it is over there. It is not here. I want to  remind everybody: Egypt was not always under sharia. Neither was Syria.  Neither was Turkiye. Neither was Iran. These countries were all  something else. We have just grown up in our lifetime thinking that  that is what they always have been because that is what we have always  known them to be. They were not always that way.

Sharia is tolerated, I think, because it is characterized as a  religion. It is characterized as a religion, but I would ask you this:  If it is characterized as a religion, and there are many in this body  who fight continuously for, as they call it, the separation of church  and state, which, by the way, cannot be found in the United States  Constitution, how is it that schools in some States are now forcing  sharia-compliant meals in their schools?

The schools are funded by the States. The schools are funded by the  Federal Government. How is that possible? Yet, it is possible. It is  possible, and it is happening.

My friend from Texas mentioned the Holy Land Foundation  investigation, the largest terror investigation in the United States'  history, where it was laid out by the Muslim Brotherhood how they were  going to conquer America. We have the plan. We know the plan, under  sharia.

Since 1991--it is 2026--their plan is, generally, to come not to be  Americans but to be in America, to act as the underclass, to use the  sympathy and guilt of the nation that they have come to and prey upon  those who feel sympathy and guilt for them being in the underclass.  They refuse to assimilate to that culture, whether it is America,  Europe, or any other culture other than their own. They just live in  that culture.

Others around them, because they don't want to be a part of that,  move away. Then, more sharia-compliant individuals move into the  neighborhood. Once they reach a critical mass, they start instituting  sharia law. That is how it goes.

I am not saying, and I don't think either gentleman from Texas--we  all know. I have upstanding, law-abiding, life-loving, freedom-loving,  Constitution-loving Muslims living in my community. There are whole  nations, believe it or not, of those kinds of folks.

But I will tell you this: Once the local imam says that you are going  to comply or become an apostate, and the wages and the penalty for  apostasy are death, that is a very strong motivator to say that I know  I live in America, or I know I live in the U.K., or I know I live in  Ireland or Spain or France, but my religion says this.

Sharia law has no place in America, and it is time for all of us to  wake up and make sure that we have a righteous conversation with all  Americans--with Christians, with Buddhists, with Muslims, with  atheists, with everybody to preserve what we all love in America, which  is the freedom to exercise our own beliefs.

There is only one so-called law, sharia law, that disallows that for  everyone else, and that is why it is not appropriate to have it.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas for yielding to me.