Stock Trading Ban for Members of Congress


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691224/stock-trading-ban-for-members-of-congress


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, when I first started running for Congress a  number of years ago, my wife and I sold all of our individual stocks,  and I made a commitment that if I were elected, I wouldn't trade  individual stocks while in office because being a Representative isn't  just a title; it is a responsibility that we all have, and that  responsibility is to serve the people and not our own financial  interests.

Let's face it: Too many Americans have lost faith in government. They  wonder whether their elected officials are truly working for them. We  can't allow that doubt to grow. We have the power to help fix it.

That is why I have long supported legislation to ban Members of  Congress from trading individual stocks, and I am encouraged that we  are working together in a bipartisan way to get this done.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Magaziner, Representative Roy,  and others who have been working together for some time on this. We  have a lot of momentum. Today, as was said, Speaker Johnson said that  he supports a stock trading ban. Leader Jeffries supports a stock  trading ban. President Trump has said that he would sign a stock  trading ban into the law.

Again, this is not a partisan issue. Poll after poll shows  overwhelming support. Approximately 80 percent of Americans want  Congress to pass a ban on Members stock trading. They want to know that  their Representatives are here to serve the public, not to profit from  their positions.

Recent events have only made this more urgent. Last month, markets  moved sharply after the reversal of tariffs that had been threatened.  Just hours before that announcement, there were posts on social media.  I don't need to recount all of that now, and we don't know exactly who  had advance notice of that decision or whether anybody acted on it, but  that is exactly the problem.

Americans should never ever have to wonder if public officials are  using any sort of inside knowledge to enrich themselves. That is why we  need to act now. We need a law that says, clearly and without  exception, if you serve in Congress, you cannot trade individual  stocks. No more gray areas. No more questions; just clear rules that  restore trust and put the public interest first. We have the support.  We have the momentum, and we have a responsibility to get this done.

Speaker Johnson, please work with us. Allow a vote on a stock trading  ban. Let's begin the long process to restore confidence in this body.  The time to act is now.