Hoyer, Cardin, Van Hollen Announce Nearly $90,000 for COVID-19 Public Health Research at University of Maryland, College Park


Congressman Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05) and Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen announced $89,240 in federal funding for the University of Maryland, College Park to conduct public health research related to the 2019 novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) through the National Science Foundation (NSF). This project will use data on individuals' mobility and the spread of COVID-19 to help improve our ability to understand and respond to rapidly spreading pandemics. 

"I'm pleased that the University of Maryland, College Park will receive this critically important funding to further study COVID-19," said Congressman Hoyer. "Testing and tracking the spread of this virus will help communities in Maryland and around the nation better respond to this pandemic, including opening businesses and the economy. I will continue to advocate for funding for our research institutions, and look forward to learning more about the results of their studies."

"Gathering real-time data on the spread of COVID-19 is a critically important piece of our public health response," said Senator Cardin, a member of the Senate Finance Committee Health Subcommittee. "Maryland's top-tier research institutions, including the University of Maryland College Park, have a big role to play in that work. I look forward to the advancements made through this project and will continue to fight for federal funding for public health research."

"Understanding the spread of the coronavirus is a crucial first step to controlling the disease and ultimately reopening our country. These funds will allow the University of Maryland, College Park to conduct research that is critical to these efforts. We will continue working to bring federal resources to Maryland to provide relief and support the State's response," said Senator Van Hollen, a member of the Senate Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee.

The full abstract and additional information may be found through NSF here. The National Science Foundation (NSF) supports research, innovation, and discovery that provides the foundation for economic growth in this country. By advancing the frontiers of science and engineering, our nation can develop the knowledge and cutting edge technologies needed to address the challenges we face today and will face in the future.ce today and will face in the future.