Letter to Mitch McConnell, Senate Majority Leader, and Chuck Schumer, Senate Minority Leader - Baldwin Leads Call for Emergency OSHA Standard to Protect Essential Workers in COVID-19 Response Legislation


Dear Leader McConnell and Leader Schumer:

We write to request that any future COVID-19 pandemic legislation include language thatensures proper training and protection for workers on the front lines fighting this virus, and thoseworking to provide the essential supplies and services for all of us during these unprecedentedtimes. The single best way to do this is to require the Occupational Safety and HealthAdministration (OSHA) to issue an Emergency Temporary Standard (ETS) requiring employersto develop and implement a comprehensive plan to protect their workers. We feel strongly thatemployees need enforceable standards in place to be safe at work and for those they serve to besafe as well. Without explicit standards from OSHA directing employers on necessary steps,businesses are left with little direction or incentive to create a safe workplace and instillconfidence in their workforce. 

Millions of Americans are bravely going to work every day, helping in the direct response toCOVID-19 and providing essential services to keep our country running. These frontlineworkers are doctors, nurses, and health care staff in our hospitals, emergency responders, grocerystore workers, farmworkers, meat and poultry processing plant workers, construction workers,transit workers, and many more. 

Many of these workers are working shoulder to shoulder yet lack necessary personal protectiveequipment (PPE), access to hand sanitizer, or the facilities to wash their hands with warm waterand soap as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). We feelstrongly that the federal government has an obligation to protect employees during this publichealth emergency. There is a current lack of consistency surrounding the monitoring ofsymptoms, sanitation practices, social distancing, personal protective equipment standards, andcommunication requirements that must be addressed.

Food producers, processors, and grocery retail workers exposure to the virus endangers ournation's food supply and the families that depend on it. The United Food and CommercialWorkers union--which represents 1.3 million retail, food package/processing, and groceryworkers--is reporting that at least 30 grocery store workers have died, and at least 3,000 havesymptoms or have been exposed to COVID-19. Major meat processing companies such JBSUSA in Colorado, Smithfield Foods in South Dakota, and Tysons Food Inc. in Iowa havetemporarily shut down certain operations due to COVID-19 cases among employees and concerns that it may spread. Closure of these operations could lead to shortages of beef, pork,and poultry in our nation's supermarkets and, therefore, in working families' kitchens.

No one can feel safe and secure if the workers providing them essential supplies and services arescared for their own health and safety on the job, or are unable to work. A recent surveyconducted by Forrester Research Inc. reported that 41 percent of workers surveyed in a randomsampling of 504 US adults who work part- or full-time "are afraid to go to work because of therisk of exposure." Further, if we do not mitigate the spread of COVID-19 in the workplace, itwill continue to spread in the community and endanger the public at large.

The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 grants OSHA the authority to issue an ETS ifworkers are at grave risk of danger from a new hazard. An ETS in these circumstances shouldrequire certain employers to develop and implement comprehensive infectious disease exposurecontrol plans, to provide PPE and protect essential workers at elevated risk from exposure toviruses such as SARS--CoV--2. The ETS and feedback from stakeholders would then provide theframework to develop a comprehensive permanent infectious disease standard that will betterprepare us for any future emergencies. A permanent standard will also help prevent shortages ofPPE which our frontline healthcare workers are experiencing now. By creating an enforceablestandard requiring proper training and use of PPE, industry will have a more certain market tomanufacture and sell this equipment to.

The COVID-19 pandemic underscores the immediate need for OSHA to issue an ETS to protectall those who are required to work during this public health emergency from exposure to thecoronavirus. In developing such a standard, OSHA should consult with the CDC, the NationalInstitute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), unions, and worker advocacyorganizations. Additionally, OSHA should work with the CDC and NIOSH to track workrelated COVID-19 infections and make recommendations on needed actions or guidance toprotect such employees. Finally, any ETS must be followed by a finalized, long-term, permanentstandard afterwards as the ETS is by nature only temporary

As OSHA prepares the ETS, the agency should amend the recently released enforcement memo,which is primarily focused on healthcare workers, to include all essential workers. The memoalso seems to lack meaningful OSHA inspection and enforcement authority for lack ofcompliance to suggested guidelines. An enforcement memo should establish policies and helpensure uniform procedures to minimize occupational exposure risk to the virus for all essentialwork. A memo -- released in November 2009 in reaction to the H1N1 influenza -- providesprecedent and a framework for immediate action the Administration should have taken.OSHA must be required to conduct inspections, cite enforcement and set a baseline of safety standardsfor all workplaces. For non-health care workplaces, OSHA should at the very least, enforce thesanitation, social distancing, provision of masks, and communication recommendations outlinedin the current Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidance plus any additionalstandards necessary to keep essential workers safe. The public is told to mitigate the pandemic by practicing social distancing, to wear masks, and to wash their hands with soap many timesduring the day -- but in essential workplaces such as meatpacking, grocery stores, pharmaciesand others, employers are not taking these same precautions because they are voluntary, whilethey should be required by OSHA. We cannot fight this virus if workers and the general publicthey interact with are following different safety procedures.

We urge you to take immediate action -- proactively providing workers and their employers withthese important protections.

Sincerely,