Van Hollen, Markey, and Bennet Lead Colleagues in Urging GOP to Ensure All Students Can Remotely Continue Education during Coronavirus Emergency


U.S. Senators Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), and Michael Bennet (D-Colo.) led 16 of their colleagues in a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Commerce Committee Chairman Roger Wicker, urging them to support robust funding for all K-12 students to have adequate home internet connectivity if their schools close due to the ongoing pandemic in the next version of the coronavirus relief package. The Senators expressed their profound disappointment with the coronavirus relief package that Senate Republicans proposed today for its failure to included adequate funding for students to learn at home.

"Children without connectivity are at risk of not only being unable to complete their homework during this pandemic, but being unable to continue their overall education," write the lawmakers in their letter to Leader McConnell and Chairman Wicker. "Congress must address this issue by providing additional financial support for home internet access in the next emergency relief package so that no child falls behind in their education." 

Also signing the letter are Senators Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Mark Warner (D-Va.), Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wisc.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Angus King (I-Maine), Jacky Rosen (D-Nev.), and Bob Casey, Jr. (D-Penn.). 

In their letter, the lawmakers specifically request at least $2 billion in E-Rate funds for schools and libraries to provide Wi-Fi hotspots or other devices with Wi-Fi capability to students without adequate connectivity at their home. The coronavirus pandemic has shone a bright light on the "homework gap" experienced by the 12 million students in this country who do not have internet access at home and are unable to complete their homework -- at a time when more than 70 percent of educators assign schoolwork that requires internet access. Research has shown that the homework gap affects students in both rural and urban areas and disproportionately affects lower-income students and students of color. Students without internet access at home consistently score lower in reading, math, and science. Without Congressional action, this existing inequity will only be exacerbated by the high number of schools that are suspending in-person classes and have transitioned to remote learning over the internet to protect the health of students, faculty, and staff.