Van Hollen, Cardin, Brown Press Social Security Administration on Telework Policies


Today, U.S. Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) along with Senators Ben Cardin (D-Md.) and Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) urged Social Security Administration (SSA) Commissioner Andrew Saul to expand telework availability at SSA and provide clear communication to their employees on these policies. In December of last year, the Senators wrote to SSA conveying their concerns about SSA's decision to end telework for nearly 12,000 employees. This year, SSA made further cuts to telework in other divisions, announced on January 27, just four days prior to when coronavirus was declared a public health emergency in the United States.

The Senators write, "We are deeply concerned about the coronavirus response thus far at the Social Security Administration (SSA). Your workers have raised concerns to us about SSA impeding the ability of employees to be telework-ready. The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) has directed agencies to maximize telework in their continuity of operations plans, and to reassess telework eligibility factors to determine if more employees can be eligible for telework. Please provide us with the number of additional positions, if any, that SSA has made newly eligible for telework since January 31, 2020, when Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex M. Azar II declared a public health emergency for the coronavirus in the entire United States."

They continue, "Today, the Office of Management and Budget encouraged agencies to maximize telework flexibility for high-risk populations and areas. We strongly urge SSA to grant telework requests now, to the greatest extent practicable, to all employees who are able to perform their duties outside of the office At an absolute minimum, SSA should immediately rescind its recent cuts to telework programs for Operations, Analytics Review and Oversight, Hearings Operations, and other components. Cutting telework during a public health emergency makes no sense."  

The Senators close the letter, noting, "Finally, we urge you to meet with the labor organizations representing your employees and to work collaboratively with them to respond to this public health emergency. Your workers have concerns and ideas that deserve your full attention and consideration."