-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699791/9999


Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I urge the Senate to take up and pass S.  Res. 598.

Last May, President Trump announced a deal to green-light several  billion dollars' worth of advanced AI chips to the United Arab  Emirates. The deal alarmed national security officials.

Why in the world was Donald Trump rolling back critical national  security safeguards in order to hand over sophisticated U.S. technology  to a country with a long history of helping China acquire sensitive  chips that it needs for its military? Why in the world was Donald Trump  trying to ship off our state-of-the-art chips to the UAE--and China-- when American startups, American universities, and American small  businesses needed them here at home?

Well, now we know. Now we know that the UAE greased the skids months  earlier when it secretly agreed to pour hundreds of millions of dollars  into a Trump family crypto venture just 4 days before President Trump's  inauguration. Now we know that a powerful Abu Dhabi royal known as Spy  Sheikh signed a secret deal to pay half a billion dollars to take  almost a majority stake in the Trump family's crypto company, World  Liberty Financial.

And just a few months later, the Trump administration and Secretary  Howard Lutnick authorized the sale of advanced AI chips to the UAE.  This was a victory for Abu Dhabi and the Spy Sheikh, who had been  unsuccessfully trying for years to get their hands on those chips.

Inside our own government, national security officials tried hard to  stop this deal. They warned that handing advanced AI chips to the UAE  would have serious national security consequences. Look, some of these  chips would go to G42, a UAE AI company that American national security  officials have said could be a conduit for funneling technology to  China. The CIA has reportedly warned about G42's working closely with  blacklisted firms like Huawei that are tied to the Chinese military.

Now, President Trump is denying that he knew anything about the  secret deal. Oh, please. President Trump's own son signed the deal for  half a billion dollars. An initial payment of $187 million was  reportedly directed to flow to Trump family companies. Another initial  payment of $31 million was reportedly directed to flow into entities  connected to the family of Steve Witkoff, Trump's golf buddy who had  been named U.S. Special Envoy to the Middle East.

Here we are, 1 year into Donald Trump's second term, and Trump has  amassed more than $1.5 billion from his crypto ventures like World  Liberty Financial. Trump is profiting off the Presidency while American  families are worried about their jobs, the rising cost of groceries,  and how they will pay their bills. Trump is profiting from decisions  that make it easier for countries like China to get their hands on some  of our most sensitive and advanced technologies.

Congress needs to grow a spine. We cannot allow American national  security simply to be sold to the highest bidder. The Senate must pass  this resolution to condemn this corruption and call on Donald Trump to  reverse his decision to allow the export of advanced AI chips to the  UAE.