Alex Padilla


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692473/alex-padilla


Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, this is a horrifying moment in our  Nation's history. Today, U.S. Senator Alex Padilla was violently  removed from a public briefing for asking questions on behalf of the  people he represents, people in California who deserve answers about  the brutal crackdown on protesters.

I have watched the video, as many of you have as well. Let me just  describe what it shows. Officers pushed Senator Padilla backward, out  of the room, as he said the words: I am Senator Padilla. I have  questions for the Secretary.

He was then shoved to the ground. When the Senator complied with the  officers and went on his knees, he was forcibly pinned onto his  stomach. He was ordered to put his hands behind his back. He can be  heard on the video saying he is trying to comply with their orders.  Officers then put handcuffs on the Senator while he was lying on the  ground. His staff was then told to stop recording the handcuffing.

He was put in handcuffs for asking a simple question. He was put in  handcuffs for doing his job as a U.S. Senator. He was put in handcuffs  for standing up for the Constitution of the United States. He was put  in handcuffs for representing the people of California.

Now, if you are not yet convinced that President Trump and his  administration are trying to suppress free speech, then just watch the  video. Watch the video. If you are not yet convinced that President  Trump and his administration are trying to undermine the foundations of  our democracy, watch the video. If you are not yet convinced that  President Trump and his administration are hellbent on punishing people  with differing opinions than those of the President, then watch the  video.

And here is the really chilling part. Make no mistake, what happened  to Senator Padilla today is happening every day all across this  country. Every day, DHS agents are throwing people to the ground and  violently handcuffing them while they are not resisting, detaining them  for exercising their First Amendment rights of free speech. Every day,  Donald Trump is making this Nation look more and more like a fascist  state.

If this is how Federal agents treat a U.S. Senator who peacefully  asked questions of this administration, then we all have to ask: How  far will they go? How violent will they get?

I know my Republican colleagues can see what happened today was  wrong, but will any Republican Senator speak up for our democracy?

They know Senator Padilla's character. They know that Senator Padilla  is a kind man, a man who is concerned for his children, a man who is  concerned for his home, a man who has dedicated his life to public  service, a man who is a patriot.

Where are our Republican colleagues? Where is the Republican Senate?  Where are you? Stand up and speak out.

This is a continuation of what we have been seeing: Intimidate every  other check on Presidential power in this country. Fire the civil  service. Get rid of those people. Threaten to imprison judges.  Criminally charge House Members who try to visit an ICE facility.  Arrest Senators who ask questions.

This is not a drill. This is an assault on our democracy. I am  calling on my Republican colleagues to join us in demanding a  bipartisan investigation into this incident.

What happened at this press conference was disgraceful. It was un- American. And every Member of the U.S. Senate should condemn it and  condemn it now.