Direct File Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701768/direct-file-act


Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I want to say thank you to my partner in  these efforts, Senator Blumenthal, and to all the others who have come  here to speak on tax day about how outrageous it is that a program to  actually let people pay their taxes online for free has been destroyed  by Donald Trump and the Republicans.

So I am about to call up a bill to the floor that would let Americans  file their taxes for free directly with the IRS. It is amazing to me  that anyone could oppose this, especially when filing your taxes is  something that Americans are required by law to do every year. But as  sure as the Sun will rise, Republicans are going to block my bill.

For years, giant tax prep companies like TurboTax and H&R Block have  rigged our system so they can cash in on your hard-earned dollars, and  the result is that people spend now an average of 8 hours and $160 each  year just to file their taxes using tax prep services.

These big companies don't just take a fee for filing your taxes; they  have actually become experts at figuring out ways to upsell, to charge  junk fees, and to make money off your personal information. It is  really outrageous.

So I drafted a bill that would allow Americans to file their taxes  online for free and directly with the IRS through a program called  Direct File.

Now, tens of millions of people wouldn't have to go to a paid  preparer if they didn't want to. They could just file directly with the  IRS.

Over 160 Members of Congress have joined me on this bill. Over 100  unions  and advocacy groups and national organizations have endorsed this bill.  And I am forcing the Senate to decide today: Will we pass this bill?

During the Biden administration, the IRS ran a pilot program for  Direct File. People who had a chance to use it loved it. Ninety-four  percent of taxpayers who used the program described their experience as  ``excellent'' or ``above average,'' which, by the way, is not exactly  how most Americans describe paying their taxes most of the time. But  Direct File worked. We have seen it. We actually made it work.

And once it was fully operational, Direct File was projected to save  taxpayers $23 billion a year and more hours than anyone could count.

So why do we not have Direct File today? We already had it. We set it  up during the Biden years, ready to go, and had it underway. It was  working. Well, the answer is tax prep companies hated it, and they  hated it because it cut into their bottom line.

Why would people pay for TurboTax if they could easily file their  taxes online for free?

And that is why, for years, big tax prep companies have lobbied the  government to keep people from using a program like Direct File.

Now, the Direct File pilot project was a huge success, and yet it was  dropped. Why? Well, first, the company that runs TurboTax, Intuit,  donated a million dollars to Donald Trump's inauguration. And then, a  few months later, reports came out that Donald Trump and Elon Musk  wanted to kill the free tax filing program. And last fall, they  delivered. That is exactly what they did.

This story tells you everything you need to know about why  Republicans will block my bill today. This is all about money and  power. It is about letting big corporations donate to politicians and  then politicians just opening the doors so those big companies can rip  off the American people.

To Republicans who say that making filing your tax for free with the  IRS is too expensive, I just want to point out that for one day of  bombing in Iran, we could pay for 20 years of Direct File.

And to Republicans who say that it is already free to file your  taxes, I say: Go talk to the millions of people who paid over 100 bucks  to file their taxes this year and ask them just how free it was, even  when they click on the ``free'' buttons, and how it is that these guys  have managed to put them in places where they end up paying.

And to the Republicans defending the status quo, just ask yourselves:  Why are you on the side of TurboTax and H&R Block, instead of your  constituents?

Filing your taxes should be easy and free, and I urge every Senator  to vote yes on the Direct File Act. Let's save people some time and  some money and show the American people that we can actually make  government work not just for giant corporations, but we can make  government work for them.

3948; that the bill be considered read a third time and passed; and  that the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the  table.

Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I truly am shocked to hear my colleague  from across the aisle describe Direct File as too expensive for the  American people. I think he said it cost $41 million to administer this  system. If it is fully operational, Direct File is projected to save  taxpayers $23 billion a year and countless hours of hassle. There are  very few things that happen here in Washington that give such a good  return on investment to taxpayers.

Senator Crapo said that people didn't use Direct File and suggested  they didn't like it somehow. You know why people didn't use Direct File  last year with the Republicans in charge? Maybe it was because the  Trump administration and the Republicans accepted millions of dollars  from the tax prep companies and did their best to sabotage the program.  Here is what we know for sure: Polling shows that over 75 percent of  Americans support free tax online filing from the IRS. If you invest in  free tax filing, Americans are going to use it.

In fact, we know that because in the pilot project run by the Biden  administration, 94 percent of those who used the program said it was  excellent or above average. Not usually the kind of responses we get  from people when they are paying their taxes.

The argument that Republicans make that Americans can already file  their taxes for free with Free File, all I will say is: Well, tell that  to the millions of people who paid more than a hundred bucks each to  file their taxes this year. Independent watchdogs have concluded over  and over and over again that the tax prep companies that run Free File  make it incredibly hard for people to find it; and, once they find it,  incredibly hard for them to use it. So what do people do? They end up  paying through the nose just to file their taxes.

And you know who never got charged to file their taxes? The people  who used Direct File. Direct File is the only truly free online filing  option for Americans.

You know, the Republicans have argued that it presents conflict of  interest for the IRS to both prepare and audit your taxes. I think  somehow they seem to misunderstand how Direct File works. People who  use Direct File are the ones preparing their own taxes, not the IRS-- just like the people who use TurboTax are the ones using a program to  prepare their own taxes.

And you know what happened when people used Direct File to prepare  their taxes? Their returns got accepted at a higher rate than any other  self-prep software--that is, it worked better than TurboTax; it worked  better than the services that Americans are paying for.

Look, we know what is going on here, and that is that the Trump  administration and the Republicans are accepting millions of dollars in  donations--a point that was not refuted by the objector to this bill.  They are accepting millions of dollars in donations from these tax prep  companies; and then in return for that money, shutting down Direct  File. That is where the real conflict of interest is.

Look, we have a choice to make as a U.S. Senate, and that is: Who are  we here for? Why are we here to protect two multibillion-dollar  companies that manage to make big bucks by charging individual families  $100, $150, $175 just to pay the taxes that they are legally required  to pay?

We have a system that works. It would save people billions of dollars  across this country. The only reason that we are not doing this is  because the tax prep companies have figured out that making political  contributions to the Republicans pays off big time. They can kill off a  program that would be good for the American people but would hurt their  own profitability.

You have got to make a decision: Whose side are you on? The Democrats  are on the side of saving money for American taxpayers. The Republicans  are on the side of two big tax prep companies because they get paid to  be on their side.

So we may not get this one through today, but we will keep coming  back.