Government Accountability Office Opinion Letter


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699835/government-accountability-office-opinion-letter


File: B-337673.      Date: January 16, 2026.                                    digest

In March 2025, the National Credit Union Administration       (NCUA) announced that it would no longer require federally       insured credit unions with more than $1 billion in assets to       disclose income from overdraft and non-sufficient funds fees,       and NCUA therefore ceased publishing this information for       individual credit unions (withdrawal of the Reporting       Requirements). NCUA stated that it would continue to collect       this information as part of its separate credit union       examination process and would continue publishing this       information in aggregated form.

The Congressional Review Act (CRA) requires that before a       rule can take effect, an agency must submit the rule to both       the House of Representatives and the Senate, as well as the       Comptroller General. CRA adopts the definition of a rule       under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) but excludes       certain categories of rules from coverage. We conclude that       the withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements meets the APA       definition of a rule, and no CRA exception applies.       Therefore, the withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements is a       rule subject to CRA's submission requirements.                                   decision

In March 2025, the National Credit Union Administration       (NCUA) announced that it would no longer require federally       insured credit unions (FICUs) with more than $1 billion in       assets to disclose income from overdraft and non-sufficient       funds (NSF) fees, and NCUA therefore ceased publishing this       information for individual credit unions (withdrawal of the       Reporting Requirements). NCUA stated that it would continue       to collect this information as part of its separate credit       union examination process, the results of which are not made       public at the individual credit union level. We received a       request for a decision as to whether the withdrawal of the       Reporting Requirements is a rule for purposes of the       Congressional Review Act (CRA).

Our practice when rendering decisions is to contact the       relevant agencies to obtain factual information and their       legal views on the subject of the request. Accordingly, we       reached out to NCUA on July 30, 2025. We received NCUA's       response on August 14, 2025.                                  BACKGROUND       NCUA's Role and Responsibilities

NCUA is an independent federal agency which ``insures       deposits at [FICUs], protects the members who own credit       unions, and charters and regulates federal credit unions,''       and is under the management of the National Credit Union       Administration Board. NCUA also administers the National       Credit Union Share Insurance Fund which insures members'       deposits in FICUs.

All natural person credit unions are required to submit       reports to NCUA on a quarterly basis. These reports, known as       Call Reports, are required by the Federal Credit Union Act       and include information such as the credit union's assets,       liabilities, and capital, as well as income and expenses.       According to NCUA, ``Call Report data serves a regulatory and       public policy purpose by assisting . . . NCUA in fulfilling       its mission of ensuring the safety and soundness of       individual FICUs and the credit union system.'' Call Report       data is made publicly available on NCUA's website and is       published in both aggregated and disaggregated form.

In addition to the Call Report requirement, NCUA also       carries out its oversight of federal credit unions through       its examination, supervision, and enforcement programs. NCUA       ``is authorized to examine any insured credit union or any       credit union making application for insurance of its       accounts,'' which may include ``all records, reports,       contracts to which the credit union is a party, and       information concerning the affairs of the credit union.''       Unlike data from quarterly Call Reports, examination reports       are not publicly available and, according to NCUA, are exempt       from release under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).      The Reporting Requirements

Beginning in the first quarter of calendar year 2024, NCUA       required FICUs with more than $1 billion in assets to submit       their year-to-date revenues from overdraft and NSF fees in       their quarterly Call Reports. NCUA continued to collect and       analyze these data in Call Reports in 2024.

Then, in advance of the March 31, 2025, Call Report Cycle,       NCUA announced that it would no longer be collecting       overdraft and NSF fee data from FICUs as part of the       quarterly Call Reports, thereby withdrawing the Reporting       Requirements. NCUA's Press Statement, which identifies the       withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements as a ``policy       change,'' notes that ``NCUA will collect overdraft and NSF       fee data as part of the examination process. The agency will       continue to publish overdraft and NSF fee income data in the       aggregate once updates to its examination system are       complete.'' As a result, information regarding overdraft and       NSF fees for these credit unions would no longer be published       on a public, individualized basis.      The Congressional Review Act

CRA, enacted in 1996 to strengthen congressional oversight       of agency rulemaking, requires federal agencies to submit a       report on each new rule to both houses of Congress and to the       Comptroller General for review before a rule can take effect.       The report must contain a copy of the rule, ``a concise       general statement relating to the rule,'' and the rule's       proposed effective date. CRA allows Congress to review and       disapprove of federal agency rules for a period of 60 days       using special procedures. If a resolution of disapproval is       enacted, then the new rule has no force or effect.

CRA adopts the definition of rule under the Administrative       Procedure Act (APA), which states that a rule is ``the whole       or a part of an agency statement of general or particular       applicability and future effect designed to implement,       interpret, or prescribe law or policy or describing the       organization, procedure, or practice requirements of an       agency.'' However, CRA excludes three categories of rules       from coverage: (1) rules of particular applicability; (2)       rules relating to agency management or personnel; and (3)       rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice that do       not substantially affect the rights or obligations of non-      agency parties.

NCUA did not submit a CRA report to Congress or to the       Comptroller General on the withdrawal of the Reporting       Requirements. In its response to us, NCUA provided additional       information and stated that it believed the withdrawal of the       Reporting Requirements involves a change to an information       collection under the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA), and       therefore is not a rule subject to review under CRA. As       explained below, we conclude that the scope of CRA does not       automatically exclude agency action subject to the PRA.       Instead, the agency action must be analyzed under CRA.                                  DISCUSSION

At issue here is whether the withdrawal of the Reporting       Requirements meets CRA's definition of a rule, which adopts       APA's definition of a rule with three exceptions. As       explained below, we conclude that the withdrawal of the       Reporting Requirements meets the APA definition, and no       exceptions apply. Therefore, the withdrawal of the Reporting       Requirements is a rule subject to CRA's submission       requirements.      The Withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements is a Rule Under           APA

Applying APA's definition of a rule, the withdrawal of the       Reporting Requirements meets all of the required elements.       First, the withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements is an       agency statement because it was effectuated through NCUA's       Call Report update and was announced by NCUA's chairman in an       agency press statement. NCUA is an independent federal agency       within the executive branch. Second, the withdrawal of the       Reporting Requirements is of future effect because it       describes changes to the information certain FICUs are       required to provide when submitting future Call Reports,       beginning with the March 31, 2025, Call Report cycle.

Third, the changes to the Reporting Requirements implement       or prescribe law or policy. An agency action implements,       interprets, or prescribes law or policy when the       action prescribes new regulations, changes regulatory       requirements or official policy, or when it alters how the       agency will exercise its discretion, among other things.       Here, the withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements changes       how and whether NCUA will collect and publish overdraft       and NSF fees data from regulated entities--a decision       which NCUA itself described as a ``policy change.''       According to NCUA, while it may still obtain information       from credit unions relating to these fees through other       means at its discretion, it will no longer do so as part       of the Call Report process.

In addition, under the previous reporting policy, overdraft       and NSF fee data collected in the mandatory quarterly Call       Reports was made publicly available on both an individual       credit union basis and in the aggregate. Beginning with the       March 31, 2025, Call Report cycle, however, the information       would only be collected through the examination process--when       initiated by NCUA--and published in aggregate form. NCUA's       decision to no longer collect overdraft and NSF fee data       through the Call Report process and exclusively collect these       data through its examination procedures implements and       prescribes a new policy, in addition to implementing the       provisions of the Federal Credit Union Act and NCUA's       accompanying regulations requiring credit unions to submit       Call Reports.

In its response to us, NCUA asserted that the withdrawal of       the Reporting Requirements is not a rule under the APA       definition because it involves changes to an information       collection subject to the PRA. According to NCUA,       ``[S]ubmission to Congress and GAO under . . . CRA is not       required for information collections subject to [Office of       Management and Budget (OMB)] review and approval under the       PRA.'' The PRA is intended to minimize the paperwork burden       associated with the government's collection of information       from individuals, small businesses, and state and local       governments, among others. The PRA imposes specific duties on       federal agencies before an agency can collect information       from 10 or more persons through identical questions or       reporting requirements, such as requiring agencies to publish       proposed information collections in the Federal Register and       to solicit public comments, as well as submission of the       proposed collection to the Office of Information and       Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) within OMB for review. According to       NCUA, it submitted the initial inclusion of the Reporting       Requirements in the Call Report to OMB under the PRA in       December 2023, and similarly submitted the withdrawal of the       Reporting Requirements under the PRA in February 2025.

Contrary to NCUA's statements, rules under APA and       information collections under the PRA are not mutually       exclusive categories of agency action. Unlike the distinction       between orders and rules, which are mutually exclusive ways       to implement agency actions, APA rules may include       information collection requirements under the PRA, in which       case they are subject to the requirements of both statutes.       OMB's implementing regulations confirm the overlapping nature       of the two statutes. For example, in defining an information       collection subject to the PRA, OMB's regulations state that       ``[a]ny recordkeeping, reporting, or disclosure requirement       contained in a rule of general applicability is deemed to       involve ten or more persons. In addition, OMB's regulations       specify separate procedures for agencies to use when an       information collection is contained in a proposed rule or       current regulations. Those procedures expressly provide that       when OMB disapproves or makes a change to an information       collection in a current regulation, the agency must       ``undertake such procedures as are necessary in compliance       with [APA] and other applicable law to amend or rescind the       collection of information, and shall notify the public       through the Federal Register.''

In support of its argument that the withdrawal of the       Reporting Requirements cannot be a rule subject to CRA's       submission requirements, NCUA cites to National Fair Housing       Alliance v. Carson, arguing that information collections       subject to the PRA are distinct from rules under APA. There,       the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)       promulgated a 2015 rule, which, among other things, announced       that HUD would be rolling out Assessment Tools for certain       block grant program participants to use to demonstrate       compliance with a statutory requirement to ``affirmatively       further fair housing'' (AFFH requirement).

One of these Assessment Tools, for use by local       governments, was published in the Federal Register in 2015       and underwent two rounds of public comments as well as       approval from OMB in 2017, pursuant to the PRA. Subsequently,       in 2018, HUD published a notice delaying the deadline for       local governments to submit their AFFH compliance assessments       using the Assessment Tool, and then later withdrew the use of       the Assessment Tool altogether. Three nonprofit housing       organizations sued HUD, arguing, in relevant part, that the       delay and subsequent withdrawal of the local government       Assessment Tool required notice-and-comment rulemaking       procedures under APA before it could take effect.

In response, HUD argued that it was not required to       undertake notice-and-comment procedures to withdraw the local       government Assessment Tool, because the PRA ``does not       otherwise impose any requirements on the withdrawal of an       information collection rule.'' HUD argued that here, the       local government Assessment Tool was ``more properly       described as [an] `information-collection device[ ] governed       by [the PRA],' '' and therefore the agency did not need to       undertake notice-and-comment procedures before withdrawing       it.

The District Court for the District of Columbia agreed with       HUD, finding that the local government Assessment Tool was       essentially a ``questionnaire[ ],'' which the Supreme Court       has previously noted is a ``[t]ypical information collection       request[ ].'' The district court here noted that ``[r]ather       than effecting a substantive change in existing law or       policy, . . . the Assessment Tools [we]re meant to aid       program participants in determining if and where conditions       exist that may restrict fair housing choice and access to       opportunity, and to guide program participants in considering       certain factors constituting the AFFH requirement. In       particular, the court disagreed with the plaintiffs'       assumption that the Assessment Tools were ``legislative'' or       ``substantive'' rules that would therefore be subject to       APA's notice-and-comment requirements.

In sum, the court concluded that the action under review       was not subject to APA's notice-and-comment requirements. But       the court did not determine that the action was not a rule       under APA. Instead, the court reviewed the withdrawal of the       Assessment Tool as an ``agency action'' under APA to       determine whether it violated the APA's requirements or was       ``arbitrary and capricious.'' And in evaluating the       plaintiffs' claims, the court distinguished between two types       of rules--a ``legislative,'' or ``substantive,'' rule versus       a rule ``more properly classified as an `information       collection' mechanism''--concluding that the latter type of       ``rule is not subject to APA notice-and-comment procedures.''

We have long held that the scope of CRA is not limited to       rules subject to notice-and-comment requirements. In the       joint statement of Senators Nickles, Reid, and Stevens issued       shortly after the passage of CRA, the senators noted coverage       of CRA was intended `'to be interpreted broadly with regard       to the type and scope of rules that are subject to       congressional review.'' They went on to note that whether an       action is covered by CRA ``does not turn on whether a given       agency must normally comply with the notice-and-comment       provisions of the APA, or whether the rule at issue is       subject to any other notice-and-comment procedures.'' Rather,       CRA's coverage broadly extends to all actions satisfying the       elements of the APA definition of a rule, so long as none of       CRA's three exceptions, discussed in detail below, applies.

Though some information collections subject to the PRA's       requirements may not be rules under APA and CRA, the fact       that an agency action may be subject to the PRA does not       automatically exempt it from CRA's coverage. We still must       look to see whether the action satisfies the elements of the       APA definition of a rule. The distinction between       legislative, or substantive, rules and other rules may bear       upon whether an agency action is subject to APA's notice-and-      comment requirements, as the court in National Fair Housing       Alliance noted , but the same distinction does not       necessarily determine whether the action is covered by CRA.       As explained above, the withdrawal of the Reporting       Requirements is an agency statement of general applicability       and future effect that implements, interprets, or prescribes       law or policy. Therefore, the withdrawal of the Reporting       Requirements satisfies the APA definition of a rule      CRA Exceptions

Having concluded that the withdrawal of the Reporting       Requirements satisfies the APA definition of a rule, we must       next determine whether any of CRA's three exceptions apply.       CRA provides for three types of rules that are not subject to       its requirements: (1) rules of particular applicability; (2)       rules relating to agency management or personnel; and (3)       rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice that do       not substantially affect the rights or obligations of non-      agency parties.

(1) Rule of Particular Applicability

First, the withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements is a       rule of general applicability, rather than particular       applicability. Rules of particular applicability are rules       addressed to specific, identified persons or entities and       determine actions that person or entity may or may not take,       considering facts and circumstances specific to those persons       or entities. Here, the withdrawal of the Reporting       Requirements changes the requirements for all FICUs with over       $1 billion in assets. While it may be possible to identify       which FICUs in fact satisfy this threshold amount and would       therefore be subject to the changes in the Call Reports, the       withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements applies to all       entities satisfying those criteria. Therefore, it is a rule       of general, rather than particular, applicability.

(2) Rule of Agency Management or Personnel

Second, the withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements is not       a rule of agency management or personnel. We have previously       held that rules that fall into this category relate to purely       internal matters, such as controlling, directing, or       supervising internal management issues. Because the       withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements is concerned with       the information regulated       entities must provide to NCUA and how interested parties may       access that information, rather than management of NCUA       itself or its personnel, it is not a rule of agency       management or personnel.

(3) Rule of Agency Organization, Procedure, or Practice             With No Substantial Effect on Non-Agency Parties

Third, the withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements is not       a rule of agency organization, procedure, or practice that       does not substantially affect the rights or obligations of       non-agency parties. We have previously explained that this       exception was modeled on the APA exception to notice-and-      comment rulemaking requirements for ``rules of agency       organization, procedure, or practice,'' which some courts       have limited to rules that do not have a substantial impact       on non-agency parties. The purpose of the APA exception is to       ensure ``that agencies retain latitude in organizing their       internal operations,'' so long as such rules do not alter the       rights or interests of parties.

As an initial matter, we must first determine whether the       withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements is a rule of agency       organization, procedure, or practice. Rules of agency       organization, procedure, or practice are ``limited to an       agency's methods of operation or how the agency organizes its       internal operations,'' including the way that regulated       entities submit information to an agency, how the agency       reviews that information, and rules that affect the type or       timing of actions the agency will take based on that       submission. We have only applied this exception to rules that       primarily focus on the internal operations of an agency.

Here, the withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements deals       with how regulated entities present information regarding fee       collection to NCUA as part of the Call Report process. NCUA       will no longer collect this information from all FICUs with       over $1 billion in assets in the mandatory quarterly Call       Report process, but instead will only collect this       information through its private examination process.       Therefore, the withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements is a       rule of agency organization, procedure, or practice.

Next, we must determine whether the withdrawal of the       Reporting Requirements substantially affects the rights or       obligations of non-agency parties. We have previously       determined that ``[a] rule that does not alter the rights or       interests of non-agency parties but merely alters the manner       in which parties present themselves or their viewpoints to       the agency does not substantially affect those parties'       rights or obligations.'' For example, in B-329916, May 17,       2018, we evaluated an Internal Revenue Service (IRS)       Statement announcing that it would be altering the timing of       certain compliance checks it conducted on individual income       tax returns. IRS's previous policy was to assess compliance       with certain statutory requirements after the tax return had       been filed, IRS had processed the return, and the taxpayer       paid taxes due or received a refund. In its Statement, IRS       announced that it would instead be assessing compliance when       the taxpayer filed the return, and that it would no longer       accept noncompliant filings. There, we concluded that the IRS       Statement did not substantially affect the rights or       obligations of non-agency parties because the Statement       merely altered the timing of IRS's compliance assessment but       did not alter the underlying substantive obligations of the       taxpayers to comply with the relevant statutes. Because the       Statement did not impose or confer new burdens, penalties, or       rights on the taxpayers, we concluded that the Statement fell       within that exception.

Similarly, in B-336217, Aug. 6, 2024, we concluded that a       Supervision and Regulation Letter from the Board of Governors       of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) that, among other things,       set a 30-day deadline for state member banks to submit a       required notification to FRB relating to certain dollar token       activities did not substantially affect the rights or       obligations of non-agency parties. There, the state member       banks already had an underlying obligation to report the       required information to FRB relating to their dollar token       activities. Therefore, the imposition of a new 30-day       deadline for submission ``merely affect[ed] the manner in       which state member banks present[ed] themselves and their       viewpoints to FRB and [did] not substantially affect the       banks' rights or obligations.''

Here, the withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements means       that for FICUs with greater than $1 billion in assets, data       related to overdraft and NSF fees will no longer be collected       in quarterly Call Reports at all and will no longer be       publicly available at an individualized level. Instead, these       credit unions will only be required to report this       information to NCUA when NCUA chooses to engage in the       examination process--the results of which will not be made       public. Whereas in B-329916 and B-336217, only the timing or       manner of submission to the agency was changed, here, the       withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements removed the       mandatory reporting requirement altogether and eliminated the       publication of this information for individual credit unions.       Interested parties will no longer have access to overdraft       and NSF fee income information for individual credit unions,       and, according to NCUA, this information is also exempt from       release under FOIA.

In the Press Statement announcing the withdrawal of the       Reporting Requirements, NCUA's chairman discussed the effect       of previously publishing this information for individual       credit unions, stating that it ``incentivized credit unions       to avoid serving the needs of low-income and underserved       communities'' and that overdraft and NSF fees can be the best       option in certain situations. The withdrawal of the Reporting       Requirements was thus aimed at encouraging credit unions to       use overdraft and NSF fees when appropriate, which affects       the non-agency parties who would be subject to the imposition       of such fees. We have previously held that rules that       encourage regulated entities to change internal operations or       policies have a substantial impact on non-agency parties.       Similarly, the withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements       substantially affects the rights or obligations of affected       credit unions. As a result, no CRA exception applies to the       withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements.                                  CONCLUSION

The withdrawal of the Reporting Requirements is a rule for       purposes of CRA because it meets the APA definition of a rule       and no CRA exception applies. Therefore, the withdrawal of       the Reporting Requirements is subject to CRA's requirement       that it be submitted to Congress and the Comptroller General       before it can take effect.                                              Edda Emmanuelli Perez,      General Counsel.