Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, when I was elected to serve in the U.S.  Senate, I swore an oath to support and defend the Constitution of the  United States. Every U.S. Senator takes the same oath. The Constitution  makes clear that no one is above the law, not even the President of the  United States. 

  Over the past 2 weeks, the Senate has heard overwhelming evidence  showing that the President of the United States, Donald J. Trump,  abused the power of his office to pressure the President of Ukraine to  dig up dirt on a political rival to help President Trump in the next  election. The President then executed an unprecedented campaign to  cover up his actions, including a wholesale obstruction of Congress's  effort to investigate his abuse of power. 

  The Constitution gives the Senate the sole power to conduct  impeachment trials. A fair trial is one in which Senators are allowed  to see and hear all of the relevant information needed to evaluate the  Articles of Impeachment, including relevant witnesses and documents.  The American people expected and deserved a fair trial, but that is not  what they got. Instead of engaging in a pursuit for the truth, Senate  Republicans locked arms with the President and refused to subpoena a  single witness or document. They even refused to allow the testimony of  the President's former National Security Advisor, John Bolton, who  possesses direct evidence related to the issues at the heart of the  trial, even as more evidence continued to come to light and as Bolton  repeatedly volunteered to share what he knows. 

  This trial boils down to one word: corruption--the corruption of a  President who has repeatedly put his interests ahead of the interests  of the American people and violated the Constitution in the process;  the corruption of this President's political appointees, including  individuals like U.S. Ambassador to the European Union Gordon Sondland,  who paid $1 million for an ambassadorship; the corruption running  throughout our government that protects and defends the interests of  the wealthy and powerful to the detriment of everyone else. 

  Americans have a right to hear and see information that further  exposes the gravity of the President's actions and the unprecedented  steps he and his agents took to hide it from the American people. But  more importantly, Americans deserve to know that the President of the  United States is using the power of his office to work in the Nation's  interest, not his own personal interest. 

  I voted to convict and to remove the President from office in order  to stand up to the corruption that has permeated this administration  and that was on full display with President Trump's abuse of power and  obstruction of Congress. I will continue to call out this corruption  and fight to make this government work not just for the wealthy and  well-connected but to make it work for everyone. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT