Letter to Vice President Mike Pence, Mark Esper, Secretary of Defense, and Alex Azar Secretary of Health and Human Services - Warren, Schakowsky Call on Trump Administration to Ramp Up Efforts Publicly Manufacture COVID-19 Medical Products


Dear Vice President Pence, Secretary Azar, and Secretary Esper:

We write to you today to request information on the federal government's capacity to developand manufacture therapeutics and vaccines to combat the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)pandemic.

Starting in 2012, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) "established three newcenters to develop and manufacture medical countermeasures, such as vaccines and medicines"in the event of infectious disease outbreaks or bioterrorist attacks.1 The Centers for Innovation inAdvanced Development and Manufacturing (CIADM) were intended to provide the UnitedStates with an infrastructure of "flexible, nimble, and modern vaccine manufacturing"capabilities--"the first major domestic infrastructure" of its kind. These centers operated in apublic-private partnership model, "bringing together the innovative ideas of small biotech firms,the training expertise of academic institutions, and the development and manufacturingexperience of large pharmaceutical companies."

To date, HHS and the Department of Defense have invested nearly $670 million in four CIADMfacilities, and have utilized these facilities in the nation's Ebola and Zika outbreaks response.

This public manufacturing capacity could be critical in combatting COVID-19. However,according to reporting from The Washington Post, "none of the sites -- in Florida, Maryland,North Carolina and Texas -- have developed or are close to delivering medicines to counter the[COVID-19] outbreak."  Two of these sites are expected "to conduct small-scale testing ofpotential coronavirus vaccines," while the other two sites are not expected to take a role at all infighting COVID-19.6 Instead, without federal government manufacturing support, HHS'ssolicitation proposals for the development of COVID-19 medical products have emphasized thatthe agency is "particularly interested" in products and technologies that already "haveestablished domestic large-scale commercialmanufacturing capability."

Reportedly, in 2018, HHS Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response Robert Kadlecinstructed a team of HHS and Pentagon officials to conduct a review of the CIADM sites.According to the review, "operational capability has not been adequately developed" and wouldneed to be improved in order "to meet biodefense MCM [medical countermeasures] missionrequirements."8 Assistant Secretary Kadlec initiated another review by nonprofit MitreCorporation, which reportedly found "similar deficiencies."

These reports, if true, represent the short sightedness and unwillingness to invest in the publicalongside the private sector that has hamstrung the federal government's public response to theCOVID-19 pandemic. Now, the Administration is reportedly in the process of organizing apublic-private partnership between pharmaceutical companies, executive agencies and themilitary called "Operation Warp Speed." The project intends to speed the nation's developmentof a COVID-19 vaccine with the goal of producing 300 million doses by next January 2021.The Administration appears to be relying on private sector actors to deliver on this promise.

We have proposed legislation, the COVID--19 Emergency Manufacturing Act of 2020, whichwould give the federal government authority to immediately manufacture and enter into contractsto manufacture various pharmaceutical drugs, medical devices, and other COVID-19 products toensure that we can adequately meet the demands of the moment.

We intend to keep working to make that plan law. In the interim, however, the federalgovernment should work expeditiously to coordinate its domestic manufacturing efforts forCOVID-19 medical products. In order to better understand the status of CIADM facilities andother federal government manufacturing efforts, we request answers to the following questionsby no later than May 20, 2020:1. According to HHS's National Health Security Strategy 2019-2022, the United Statesincreased "pre-pandemic vaccine antigen manufacturing capacity from 60 million dosesto 600 million doses" after the 2009 H1N1 pandemic.13 Please provide a list of federalgovernment facilities currently manufacturing products for COVID-19. What is thecurrent output and maximum capacity of each of these facilities to manufacture medicalcountermeasure products, including each of the following:a. Vaccines, including RNA vaccines, DNA vaccines, recombinant protein vaccines,viral vector-based vaccines, live attenuated vaccines, and inactivated vaccines;b. Personal protective equipment, including surgical masks, surgical gowns, faceshields, and N95 masks;c. Testing materials, including chemical reagents, test swabs, and materialsnecessary to develop serological COVID-19 tests; andd. Drugs and biological products that the Food and Drug Administration havereported to be in shortage.2. Please provide a list of federal government facilities that could be rapidly re-tooled tomanufacture the products listed above. What is the added capacity of each of thesefacilities for each of the subcategories listed above?3. Please provide copies of reviews of CIADM conducted at the instruction of HHS in thepast five years.4. Please provide copies of contracts issued by the Biomedical Advanced Research andDevelopment Authority (BARDA) and through "Operation Warp Speed" to private sectoractors for the purposes of large-scale manufacturing.5. Please describe the role of the newly formed National Biopharmaceutical ManufacturingPartnership between HHS and the Department of Defense to manage these centers.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely,