Letter to Nancy Pelosi, Speaker of the House, and Kevin McCarthy, House Minority Leader , Mitch McConnell, Senate Majority Leader, and Chuck Schumer, Senate Minority Leader - Warren, Pressley, Sanders, & Over 135 Colleagues Seek Additional Funding for Community Health Centers in Upcoming COVID-19 Stimulus Packages


Dear Speaker Pelosi, Minority Leader McCarthy, Majority Leader McConnell, and MinorityLeader Schumer:

We write to express our utmost gratitude for Congress' continued support for our nation'scommunity health centers (CHCs). We appreciate your response to our bicameral calls1to secure robust and long-term funding for CHCs as part of the Coronavirus Preparedness and ResponseSupplemental Appropriations Act and the CARES Act. However, as this unprecedented publichealth pandemic continues to wreak havoc on our nation, substantially more resources aredesperately needed to address the needs of our most vulnerable communities. As negotiationscontinue for any upcoming stimulus package, we urge you to take immediate action and provide$77.3 billion for community health centers as quickly as possible, including at least $7.6 billionin emergency supplemental funding.

As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to devastate communities across America, mostspecifically people of color and low-income communities, it is imperative to our broader publichealth and safety goals that CHCs receive the funding they need to effectively meet thechallenges before them.

Throughout this pandemic, CHCs have served as one of our nation's most critical frontlineproviders. Serving almost 30 million rural and urban low-income people across America, CHCsprovide testing and medical care within the nation's most vulnerable and hardest hitcommunities. Recent race and ethnicity data published by the Centers of Disease Control andPrevention (CDC) and state and local public health departments have shown COVID-19infections, hospitalizations, and deaths have a disproportionate effect on Black and Latinx communities.In Massachusetts alone, home to more than 52 federally qualified health centers,the East Boston Neighborhood Community Health Center has provided culturally-responsive andaffordable care for more than 300 COVID-19 patients, many of whom are residents in Chelsea,MA ─ a majority Latinx community ─ in what is now the largest hot spot in the state.3 The trendof disproportionate infection rates in Black and brown communities is happening in cities andstates across the country, from Chicago to Baton Rouge to Queens.

Further, as the economic ramifications of this pandemic continue to grow, CHCs have becomeincreasingly relied upon. Today, as many as 26 million people have lost their jobs and with itemployer-sponsored health coverage, leaving millions of people without adequate access tohealth care.4 By the Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS) own admission, CHCsare being asked to step up and provide medical care for this vulnerable population. CDC DirectorRedfield, for example, recently described federally qualified health centers as "an importantcomponent of the national response to the COVID-19 virus" and highlighted the centers' role in"assess[ing] whether a patient needs further [COVID-19] testing" and providing "primary healthcare servicesat a reduced cost or free of charge." It is unfair and unsustainable for CHCs to meet an increased demand all while operating with limited funding and resources. Nothing ismore fundamental to our recovery than the strengthening of America's public health safety net.

Robust emergency funding, in addition to the long-term five-year reauthorization of theCommunity Health Center Fund, will not only help our health centers meet the immediate needsof all of their patients during this pandemic but set a strong foundation for the long-termrecovery that lies ahead. And, when the pandemic subsides and every single American needsCOVID-19 testing, and later, vaccinations, our health centers can and will be ready. Like theyhave for decades, CHCs will ensure every community, including uninsured individuals,immigrants, low-income people, and people with disabilities, have access to the health care theyneed ─ when they need it.

We look forward to working with you to support our CHCs and provide $77.3 billion, includingat least $7.6 billion in emergency funding, to help meet the immediate needs of today, but ensuretheir financial stability well after this pandemic is over.

Sincerely,