Letter to Stephen Hahn, Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration - We Need True Positives, True Negatives: Doggett and DeLauro Press FDA for Data on the Accuracy of COVID-19 Tests


Dear Commissioner Hahn:

In response to the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, the Food and DrugAdministration (FDA) has acted to increase the availability of possible COVID-19 treatments,diagnostic tests, and other medical products. We write to request information about how theagency is tracking the usage, safety, and effectiveness of these products in order to protect andensure the health and safety of all Americans during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA), the FDA Commissioner may issueEmergency Use Authorizations (EUAs), which "allow unapproved medical products orunapproved uses of approved medical products to be used in an emergency to diagnose, treat, orprevent serious or life-threatening diseases when there are no adequate, approved, andavailable alternatives."

Since February 4, 2020, the FDA has issued 112 EUAs for COVID-19-related medical products,including tests, personal protective equipment, and ventilators.This is an unprecedented expansion of EUAs--only 77 EUAs were issued between 2005 and 2018.3 The seriousness ofthe COVID-19 pandemic indeed warrants extraordinary measures, but it also places on the FDAthe burden to track the usage of these newly-authorized products.

As the FDA rapidly expands access to COVID-19-related medical products, it must also trackthese newly authorized products and uses to ensure that any benefits are not outweighed bynegative consequences and to inform the agency's future decisions. Federal law mandates thatthe FDA require the monitoring and reporting of adverse events in certain products approvedthrough EUAs. For example, FDA required such monitoring and reporting in a March 28, 2020 EUA for chloroquine phosphate and hydroxychloroquine sulfate ("hydroxychloroquine"). It is critical that the FDA is able to track and analyze this data as efficiently and comprehensively aspossible to appropriately evaluate the safety and efficacy of products that are authorized under alower evidentiary standard than what would be imposed when evaluating the products under theclearance or approval standards.

Concerns raised about the safety, efficacy, and quality of hydroxychloroquine for the treatmentof COVID-19 highlight how important it is for the FDA to track the health and safety outcomesof products authorized via EUA. The FDA issued an EUA for hydroxychloroquine on March 28,2020, not long after President Trump reportedly "contacted Dr. Stephen Hahn, the FDAadministrator, and other top health officials, questioning whether they were moving rapidlyenough to make the drugs more widely available."7 We are concerned that the EUA may beenissued despite known issues relating to safety, efficacy, and quality.8 There is limited evidence ofhydroxychloroquine's effectiveness in treating COVID-19, but well-known lethal cardiac sideeffects. There are also reports that the FDA lowered its quality-control standards so that theAdministration could accept Bayer Pharmaceutical's donation of millions of hydroxychloroquinetablets for distribution under the EUA, and could import hydroxychloroquine from IpcaLaboratories, which had previously been cited by the FDA for manufacturing lapses.11 Finally, astudy of patients hospitalized with COVID-19 at U.S. Veterans Health Administration hospitalsfound that there was no benefit to patients who took hydroxychloroquine to treat COVID-19,12and the FDA has now cautioned against its widespread use.13 This information underscores thecritical importance of tracking and reporting the post-EUA safety, efficacy, and quality ofproducts authorized to fight COVID-19. 

Dr. Anthony Fauci, Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said onApril 29, 2020, that data from a trial testing the antiviral drug remdesivir was promising, andsaid that it "will be the standard of care."14 On May 1, 2020, the FDA issued an EUA forremdesivir to be used for the treatment of patients hospitalized with COVID-19.15 The EUArequires that Gilead Sciences, the maker of remdesivir, as well as healthcare facilities andproviders receiving remdesivir, track serious adverse events and report them to the FDA.16Healthcare facilities are also required to maintain records regarding the use of remdesivir thatmust be made available to FDA for inspection upon request. Given that demand for remdesivirwill likely be extremely high, it is imperative that the FDA track and analyze all available dataand information associated with the administration of remdesivir under the EUA, includingreported adverse events, to ensure that remdesivir's benefits outweigh its risks. Furthermore, theFDA must ensure that Gilead Sciences, and healthcare facilities and providers, report adverseevents and maintain records as required by the EUA.In the face of this pandemic, the FDA has an important role enabling the rapid emergency use ofvarious drugs, biological products, and devices, including diagnostics, using data-driven,science-based decision-making processes. We urge the FDA to track and analyze adverse events,outcomes data, and product quality issues for products authorized under EUAs to ensure theirbenefits outweigh their risks. We also request that you provide answers to the followingquestions by May 20, 2020.1. Please describe the systems and procedures that the FDA has in place for trackingadverse events related to the wide array of COVID-19-related products that have beenauthorized by EUAs.a. Are the same systems and procedures in place for blanket EUAs? If not, how arethey different?2. Please describe the systems and procedures that the FDA has in place for trackingpostmarket outcomes data and information on COVID-19-related medical products.a. The EUA for hydroxychloroquine includes that "If and when HHS establishes aprocess for collecting outcomes data [associated with the use of the authorizedchloroquine phosphate or hydroxychloroquine sulfate], HHS will inform publichealth authorities about such process."17 Has HHS established such a processand/or informed the FDA of such process? Please share any communications ordocuments regarding such a process.3. Please describe the systems and procedures that the FDA has in place for trackingproduct quality data and information related to COVID-19-related products that havebeen authorized by EUAs.4. Please provide a document describing, for each active COVID-19-related EUA, anyarrangement the FDA has with companies, healthcare facilities, providers, or other entities, to collect, monitor, and report adverse events, outcomes, and product quality dataand information, and whether any such arrangement is a condition of said EUA.5. Please provide any documents or policies regarding how the FDA uses adverse events,outcomes, and product quality data and information to inform future EUAs for COVID19-related medical products. What plans or processes has the FDA established forrevoking or amending EUAs, if necessary, based on this data?6. What is FDA doing to ensure that companies, healthcare facilities, and providers areappropriately collecting, monitoring, and reporting adverse events, outcomes, andproduct quality data and information? What actions, if any, is FDA prepared to take ifthese entities are not collecting, monitoring, or reporting this data and information?7. Has the COVID-19 pandemic exposed shortcomings in the FDA's authorities andabilities to obtain and use postmarket data and information that should be addressed bylegislative action? Does FDA have sufficient authority to revoke EUAs and recallmedical products subject to those EUAs if necessary?Sincerely,