Letter to Joseph Cuffari, Inspector General of the Dep. of Homeland Security, and Christi Grimm, Deputy Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services - Harris, Colleagues Call for Broad Investigations of the Trump Administration's COVID-19 Response


Dear Inspector General Cuffari and Principal Deputy Inspector General Grimm:

We write to request a joint investigation into the management and distribution of medicalsupplies by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and U.S. Department ofHealth and Human Services (HHS) in response to the 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19)pandemic. Medical supplies, including personal protective equipment (PPE) and ventilators, areurgently needed to protect health care workers, patients, and other essential workers during thispublic health crisis, yet their distribution by the Trump administration has lacked transparencyand failed to provide timely supplies to states and people in need.The Administration's Distribution of Materials from the Strategic National Stockpile HasBeen Slow, Opaque, and Inconsistent

The Strategic National Stockpile (SNS) was created in 1999 to supplement state and localpharmaceutical and medical supplies in the event of a national public health emergency, such asa pandemic. In 2018, the Trump administration transferred the responsibility of managing theSNS from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to the HHS Assistant Secretaryfor Preparedness and Response.2 During national emergencies, responsibility for its deploymenthas shifted to FEMA.3 Stockpile supplies have been deployed during previous public health emergencies, including hurricanes and the H1N1 pandemic.4 However, the COVID-19 publichealth emergency is unprecedented and has strained the SNS's capacity and supplies5--many ofwhich have not been substantially replenished since 2009 when the H1N1 "triggered the largestdeployment of federal supplies in U.S. history of the Strategic National Stockpile."6 As a result,states and localities have struggled to access SNS supplies, putting frontline workers' andpatients' safety at risk.

The distribution of SNS supplies during the coronavirus crisis has been slow andinconsistent, raising questions as to how decisions are made to distribute items from thestockpile. To date, Massachusetts, which was one of the first states hit by COVID-19, hasreceived only a fraction of its request for PPE and other medical supplies from the SNS, whileFlorida received the full quantity of supplies within three days of its first request7and also received the full quantity of a second order.8

HHS originally said that distribution from the stockpile was based on a formula whereby"25 percent of a state's requests were fulfilled based on its population and 25 percent on itsnumber of covid-19 cases."9 FEMA then updated the distribution protocol, saying thatdistributions are based on population and need.10 Most recently, FEMA has said that itsallocation process "is now focused on meeting future demand models where patient levels areexpected to strain state and local medical conditions in coming weeks" based on data from HHSand CDC.11 Details regarding distribution decisions have been limited, causing confusion anddistress among states who are desperately trying to secure materials. 

States are Concerned Distribution of Medical Supplies May be Improperly Influenced byPolitical Considerations

This confusion has been exacerbated by President Trump's public statements suggestingthat governors' political support for his administration could influence how much support theyreceive from the federal government, saying "All I want them to do -- very simple -- I want themto be appreciative."12 President Trump has called the federal government's relationship withgovernors a "two-way street", telling Fox News, "They have to treat us well, also. They can'tsay, "Oh, gee, we should get this, we should get that."13 He has even directed Vice PresidentMike Pence, head of the White House Task Force on Coronavirus, "don't call the governor inWashington, you're wasting your time with him. Don't call the woman in Michigan. If theydon't treat you right, I don't call."14

A White House aide recently credited electoral concerns and President Trump's closerelationship with Governor Ron DeSantis of Florida for the prompt fulfillment of Florida'srequest for supplies from the SNS, saying "The president knows Florida is so important for hisreelection, so when DeSantis says that, it means a lot He pays close attention to what Floridawants."15 President Trump has also claimed that Florida's procurement of supplies from thestockpile was due to the state being "very aggressive in trying to get things."16 In reality,Governor DeSantis delayed closing public beaches during spring break and resistedimplementing a statewide lockdown until the beginning of April when the states' cases hadballooned to nearly 8,000.17 Meanwhile, Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker sent a request tothe SNS and issued a state public health emergency in early March.18

President Trump may also be using his influence to deliver medical supplies to certainstates as a way to support vulnerable Republican Senators up for re-election in the fall. On April8, 2020, President Trump announced through a tweet that FEMA "will be immediately sending 100 Ventilators to Colorado at the request of Senator Gardner!"19 But days before the Presidenttweeted this news, CNN reported that FEMA had acted to cancel Colorado's request for 500ventilators because the state "is not on their priority list."20 Similarly, Senator Martha McSally ofArizona announced via Twitter, "I spoke with @realDonaldTrump on Wednesday afternoon torequest additional ventilators from the Strategic National Stockpile. Today, POTUS delivers with100 ventilators headed to AZ. Thank you to President Trump and @VP for hearing our call."21

All the while, the President has told other governors that they should not expect federalhelp with procuring supplies, warning them that the federal government is "not a shippingclerk."22 White House senior advisor and President Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner,commented that the SNS is "supposed to be our stockpile; it's not supposed to be state stockpilesthat they then use," directly contradicting the express purpose of the SNS.23 The SNS websitewas edited the next day to reflect that its duties as written more closely matched Kushner'sdescription, despite no changes to the SNS' operational purpose.

The Administration's Distribution of Medical Supplies Through the Private SectorDemands Scrutiny and Transparency

The SNS is now nearly depleted with 90% of the SNS's inventory of PPE having alreadybeen distributed, and no additional supplies being distributed from the SNS to states. However, as the administration continues to procure equipment, questions regarding distribution andconcerns about speed of deployment remain.

The administration has implemented a public-private partnership for distributing medicalsupplies, called "Project Airbridge." Through this program, FEMA provides shipment of medicalsupplies by air freight, expediting shipments procured by private medical suppliers that wouldotherwise be made by ocean freight. Upon landing in the United States, distributors are required to direct half of the supplies to "hotspots" determined by HHS and FEMA, and the remaininghalf into the distributors' "normal supply chain."26

The novelty and complexity of this arrangement demands heightened scrutiny andtransparency. However, the administration's implementation of Project Airbridge has beencompletely opaque. It has not been transparent about how it identifies COVID-19 hotspots,except to say that "these areas are determined by HHS and FEMA based on CDC data."27Furthermore, such a dependence on the private sector demands that the administration exertstrong oversight on private suppliers to, for example, ensure that they do not engage in pricegouging, especially for the 50 percent of supplies that will be fed into distributors' "normalsupply chain."

Our concern about how FEMA directs the distribution of medical supplies is heightenedby the fact that the administration has been confiscating or "commandeering" supplies orderedby states and local medical systems, for redistribution by FEMA--in contrast with PresidentTrump's earlier direction that states find equipment for themselves.29 For example, a health caresystem operating hospitals in Oregon, Washington, and Alaska reported that testing kits wereseized by federal authorities; the lack of testing kits increased the system's use of PPE sinceCOVID-19 patients could not be identified as quickly. The administration has not describedhow it determines which supply orders to seize, has provided no detail about where thosesupplies go once seized, and does not properly notify states about the status of their orders oncecommandeered. We are concerned by the possibility that the administration is seizing medicalsupplies and entrusting them to private distributors with minimal oversight and transparency.FEMA has denied this reports, raising questions about whether these actions are unauthorized orbeing carried out by another agency entirely: on April 9, 2020, FEMA issued a statement sayingthat "[r]eports of FEMA commandeering or re-routing such supplies are false," and that "PPEbeing distributed internally within the United States is not being seized or re-routed byFEMA."32 This obfuscation underscores the need for clarity as to how decisions regarding theseizure and redistribution of supplies are being made, and whether or not they are tainted withpolitical interference.

The involvement of Jared Kushner in Project Airbridge and management of supply chaincomplicates matters further. Mr. Kushner appears to believe that requests from the states areinflated, saying "In some cases, people are requesting 10 times what they actually need."33 Newsreports allege that Mr. Kushner may be "circumventing protocols" as he handles states' requests.Allegedly, Mr. Kushner has served as a "liaison to different donors, to different corporate alliesof this administration," and the White House may be "directing FEMA and HHS officials toprioritize specific requests from people who are able to get Kushner on the phone."34

According to news reports, President Trump is able to exercise influence over the supplychain through his close relationship with Mr. Kushner. The Washington Post has reported that"Decisions are made by FEMA, but recommendations sometimes come from Trump, VicePresident Pence, Kusnher and others based on their interactions with states."35 Politico hasreported that states are "sending messages to Jared  even asking mutual friends to call Trumpor sending him signals on TV and Twitter."36 Sometimes, these workarounds are successful.Reportedly, New York received 4,000 Tyvek suits after President Trump called Mr. Kushner,"after he heard from a friend in New York that the city's public hospital system was low onsupplies."37 In a dangerous and rapidly-evolving crisis where a clear chain of command iscritical, his involvement has reportedly created confusion about whether companies should workthrough Kushner or other avenues in the administration.

Questions

The slow distribution of supplies and lack of transparency suggest a process plagued byconfusion, inconsistency, and potential political interference. To provide clarity to states andimprove federal government distribution procedures, we urge you to immediately investigate thedistribution of medical supplies from the SNS and Project Airbridge as well as any otherinquiries your offices find appropriate, including the following questions regarding distributionfrom the SNS:

1. What criteria are used to determine the quantity of medical supplies that states receivefrom the SNS?a. How are these criteria established, and are they applied consistently?b. Are the criteria based solely on public health needs? If not, what other criteriaare considered and how heavily are they weighted against public healthneeds?c. Who are key decisionmakers at HHS and FEMA?2. In cases where SNS supplies were insufficient to fulfill all state orders, how was thisinformation communicated to states and federal partners? How were state ordersprioritized?3. For each state order, what percentage of requested materials from the SNS wereshipped within one week, two weeks, three weeks, and one month of their receipt?4. What influence, if any, do President Trump, Vice President Pence, Jared Kushner, orother political appointees exert over decisions about how supplies are distributed tothe states from the SNS?I also request that your investigation look into the following questions regarding FEMA'sdistribution of other medical supplies, including from Project Airbridge:5. What criteria are used to determine what quantity of medical supplies states receivefrom this program?a. How are these criteria established, and are they applied consistently?b. Are the criteria based solely on public health needs? If not, what other criteriaare considered and how heavily are they weighted against public healthneeds?c. Who are key decisionmakers for Project Airbridge?6. How does the administration determine which areas are "hotspots," for the purposesof supply distribution?7. For the half of supplies that are not directed to hotspots but are "fedintodistributors' normal supply chain and onto their customers in other areas,"39how does the federal government monitor and influence the establishment of pricesby distributors? Are prices higher than before the COVID-19 pandemic? If so, whataccounts for these price increases? How does the administration ensure that thesedistributors are not marking up prices excessively?8. What agency is responsible for seizing medical supply orders made by states andother entities?a. By what legal authority are these seizures made?b. What entities are responsible for re-distributing these seized supplies?c. How are decisions made regarding which orders are seized?9. What influence, if any, do President Trump, Vice President Pence, Jared Kushner, orother political appointees exert over decisions about how supplies are distributed tothe states through Project Airbridge? 10. What non-governmental entities have been involved in the Supply Chain StabilizationTask Force and Project Airbridge, as contractors, subcontractors or on an advisory orvoluntarily basis?a. As these outside entities have been engaged, have agencies taken thenecessary steps to ensure that relevant statues and regulations have beenfollowed including those related to acquisition, ethics and record keeping?b. What air carriers have been involved in the air bridge operations? How werethese companies engaged, i.e. via existing contracts or subcontracts? To theextent new contracts were issued, were they opened for competitive bidding?11. How much material was transported by Project Airbridge? Please compile a list of theflights that includes the date of the flight, the carrier, the origin and destination, a unitcount of each product, and the cost of the flight.

Thank you for your consideration of this urgent matter.

Sincerely,