Rep. Lynch And MA Congressional Delegation Announce Over $59 Million AmeriCorps Funding For Commonwealth


U.S. Representative Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) joined U.S. Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA), and U.S. Representatives Richard Neal (D-MA-01), William Keating (D-MA-09), Joseph P. Kennedy III (D-MA-04), Katherine Clark (D-MA-05), Seth Moulton (D-MA-06), Ayanna Pressley (D-MA-07) and Lori Trahan (D-MA-03) to announce that the Commonwealth of Massachusetts will receive a total of $59,806,212 in AmeriCorps funding from the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS).

25 organizations in Massachusetts will receive $38,397,271 in competitive funding to support approximately 6,598 AmeriCorps members in their efforts to tackle some of the toughest problems in Massachusetts, including early childhood education, job-readiness, and environmental conservation. CNCS will provide an additional $18,408,144 in Segal AmeriCorps Education Awards for the AmeriCorps members funded by these grants. After completing a full term of service, AmeriCorps members receive an award of approximately $6,000 that they can use to pay for college or to pay off student loans.

The Massachusetts Service Alliance, the Governor-appointed state service commission, will also receive $3,000,797 in non-competitive formula funding, which will in turn be awarded to Massachusetts organizations to support additional AmeriCorps members in the coming months.

17 grants are going to support Massachusetts-based organizations, including:

$422,421 to The Literacy Lab in Springfield, MA$ 526,895 to Springfield College in Springfield, MA$444,290 to Student Conservation Association, Inc.in Plainfield, MA$ 1,026,560 to TerraCorps, Inc. in Lowell, MA$769,932 to South Coastal Counties Legal Services, Inc. in Fall River, MA$478,725 to Social Capital, Inc. in Woburn, MA$320,521 to 826 Boston, Inc. in Roxbury, MA$757,320 to Boston University College Advising Corps in Boston, MA$722,820 to BPE, Inc. in Boston, MA$6,338,100 to City Year, Inc. in Boston, MA$786,172 to Northeastern University in Boston, MA$387,181 to Playworks Education Energized in Boston, MA$426,894 to Tenacity, Inc. in Boston, MA$498,434 to The Mass Mentoring Partnership Inc. in Boston, MA$1,987,477 to Jumpstart Massachusetts in Boston, MA$640,456 to United Way of Massachusetts, Inc. in Boston, MA$506,152 to AmeriCorps Cape Cod Program in Barnstable, MAAnother eight grants are going to national organizations headquartered in Massachusetts that operate around the country, including:

$3,208,050 to SAGA Innovations, Inc. in Newton, MA$15,612,853 to City Year, Inc. in Boston, MA$706,275 to The Match Foundation, Inc. in Jamaica Plain, MA$13,736,247 to YouthBuild USA, Inc. in Somerville, MA$703,501 to Blueprint Schools Network in Boston, MA$4,588,394 to Jumpstart for Young Children, Inc. in Boston, MA$444,125 to Generation Teach Inc. in Boston, MA$765,621 to Campus Compact in Boston, MA"The AmeriCorps grants help finance critical programs like Jumpstart Massachusetts, which provides early education to help disadvantaged children improve their literacy and social skills so they are better prepared when they enter schooling," said Rep. Lynch.  "I am proud to see Massachusetts remains committed to supporting these types of valuable programs that provide education, employment and healthcare services for individuals and families across the state."

"AmeriCorps gives young people everywhere a chance to serve our country and strengthen their communities," said Senator Warren. "I'm proud of the Commonwealth's leadership in public service, and I'm glad that this new funding will help thousands of committed AmeriCorps members continue their service and help our nation recover from this public health emergency."

"A tradition of public service and volunteerism a hallmark of the United States, and AmeriCorps is a key pillar of our national service system," said Senator Markey. "This funding will ensure we can continue mobilizing dedicated AmeriCorps volunteers to be a cornerstone of our response to the coronavirus pandemic and beyond. Our Massachusetts communities need these vital and effective AmeriCorps programs now more than ever."

 "I have been a supporter of AmeriCorps since its inception under President Clinton in 1993," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "Since that time, I have seen the program in action across my district and across the country. The selfless public service participants conduct to meet the needs of the community are tremendous and contribute to the overall success of our hometowns and their residents."

"Cape Cod's AmeriCorps volunteers provide a vital service each year working alongside municipal and not for profit organizations to strengthen ecological resiliency, improve public works, and keep our communities and environment clean," said Congressman Keating. "AmeriCorps participants are able to leave a lasting positive impression in the communities they work while their experience with the program teaches them the value of public service. This funding will provide a much needed boost to our local program so that it can continue its important work on Cape Cod."

"Throughout this pandemic and long afterwards, we will rebuild our communities from the ground up," said Congressman Kennedy. "This funding will help organizations, woven deeply in the fabric of our neighborhoods, do just that."

"AmeriCorps volunteers fuel the organizations that are the very heart of our local cities and towns," said Congresswoman Clark. "I'm incredibly grateful for this funding that will allow thousands of committed young people help our nation recover from this pandemic and tackle some of the persistent challenges we face as a Commonwealth, from economic and educational inequalities to climate change."

"Our country has a long and proud tradition of meeting moments of national tragedy with a call to national service. Americans stepping up to serve is pure patriotism at its best. On top of that, Americorps is a good investment, returning $4 to our community for everyone $1 Congress invests," Rep. Seth Moulton said.

"Our AmeriCorp volunteers contribute so much to  our communities and our country," said Congresswoman Pressley. "This funding will allow AmeriCorps volunteers and the programs that rely on them in the Massachusetts 7th and across the commonwealth to continue contributing to our communities and building a stronger and more equitable Massachusetts for all."

"Our communities need the service of AmeriCorps volunteers now more than ever," said Congresswoman Trahan. "This funding will allow them to continue their work making cities and towns across Massachusetts better places to call home. I am particularly pleased to see additional funding for TerraCorps Inc., an outstanding organization based in Lowell that supports land trusts, urban agriculture, and food justice nonprofits."

Every year, 75,000 AmeriCorps members serve through 21,000+ schools, nonprofits, and community and faith-based organizations across the country. These citizens have played a critical role in the recovery of communities affected by disasters and helped thousands of first-generation college students access higher education. They also tutor and mentor young people, connect veterans to jobs, care for seniors, reduce crime and revive cities, fight the opioid epidemic, and meet other critical needs.

AmeriCorps is funded by the Corporation for National and Community Service, the federal agency for volunteering and service, and recently marked its 25th anniversary. Since the program's inception in 1994, more than 1.1 million AmeriCorps members have served the nation, providing more than 1.6 billion hours of service and earning nearly $4 billion in education awards to pay for college or pay back student loans. Those interested in joining AmeriCorps can learn more at AmeriCorps.gov/Join.