Senators Warren and Markey Urge FCC to Take Emergency Action to Ensure Students, Workers, and Patients Have Equal Access to the Internet during COVID-19 Outbreak


United States Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) sent a letter to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) urging the agency to take emergency action to address broadband internet accessibility for students, workers, and patients, and ensure equal access to the internet during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak.

"[T]he government and private sector must do as much as possible on a comprehensive basis to assist individuals struggling with access to school, work, and health care during the outbreak," the lawmakers wrote.

Lack of reliable internet access at home harms students, workers, and patients. For example, transitioning to online learning poses problems for students who lack access to reliable internet. Those students are more likely to struggle to keep up with assignments, exposing the hard truth that too many households in this country are stuck on the wrong side of the digital divide.

This problem also extends to the millions of workers who have or will be asked to stay home or telecommute. Lack of access to reliable broadband at home will pose difficulties even for workers fortunate enough to have the option to continue working from home.

Effective telemedicine also depends on widespread access to broadband internet. Without it, health care providers will be unable to interact with prospective patients through connected care and the most disadvantaged individuals will be left without the same access to health care services as others.

"It is critical that we use every opportunity to keep American families healthy and stabilize the educational, economic, and social challenges that households and communities will face as the virus spreads," the lawmakers wrote. "It is for this reason that we write to you seeking information on the FCC's authority to expand access to broadband."

Senators Warren and Markey have requested responses to their letter no later than March 26, 2020.