Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690534/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-global-tariffs


Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, President Trump took a strong American  economy and broke it in less than 100 days.

Right now, Republican Senators are at a crossroads. Will they vote to  stop Trump's chaotic tariffs and save our economy, or will they  continue bending the knee to Donald Trump? That is the vote that we are  forcing tonight.

When he ran for office, Donald Trump promised, over and over and  over, that he would lower costs on day one. Those were his words: Lower  costs on day one. In fact, he said after he was elected that it was one  of the main reasons that he won. But as soon as the election was over,  he ignored that promise.

Instead of working to lower costs on day one, he has decided to start  the dumbest trade war in U.S. history, which is already increasing  costs for American households and damaging our economy.

So let's take a step back and talk about what has happened since  Trump started this trade war.

The stock market took the biggest plunge since the early days of the  pandemic, sinking millions of Americans' retirement accounts.  Businesses have begun hiking prices and laying off workers. Americans  are worried that they won't be able to survive a cratering economy.  And, just today, Americans woke up to the news that Donald Trump  single-handedly shrunk our economy in 3 months and raised the cost of  their groceries.

The warning lights are all flashing red. We have seen this before,  but this time our economy is teetering on the edge not because of a  mortgage meltdown or a one-in-a-century virus but because of one man  alone: the President of the United States.

Unless we reverse course quickly, many economists believe that a  recession is inevitable. And like in all recessions, the pain will fall  hardest on working families. Many Americans will face the one-two punch  of job losses on top of overwhelming debt burdens. A cascade of  defaults and foreclosures and personal bankruptcies could follow.

With so many indications that American families are in serious  trouble, our government should be throwing them a lifeline. Instead,  President Trump is throwing them an anchor, while he carves out  exceptions for a few well-connected billionaires who have bent the  knee.

This is the moment for Congress to step up. And where are the Senate  Republicans? Watching? Waiting? Hoping it doesn't get worse? Hoping  that maybe somebody else will step up?

Well, I am here to say: It is up to us in the U.S. Senate. No one  else is coming to save us. We are the ones who have to act.

If Republicans care about the American people, they will vote yes on  our resolution today and turn off the fake emergency that Donald Trump  is using to impose his on-again, off-again red-light, green-light  tariffs--the tariffs that are pushing our economy off a cliff.

Let me repeat: Congress can end this economic threat today. All we  need are some Republican Senators to join us to vote down the  President's abuse of emergency authorities.

Unless we take action now, millions of people will lose their jobs,  families will be destroyed, and our economy will take years to recover.  But this time, it will be the President of the United States who  destroyed our economy, and it will be congressional Republicans who  helped him do it because they didn't have the spine to stand up to  Donald Trump.

So I say to my Republican colleagues: Let's get this done. You have a  choice. You can either continue to enable Donald Trump's tariff chaos,  or you could actually stand up for our constituents. It is truly that  simple.

The chaos and corruption of Trump's first 100 days can be curbed. The  President is no King, and he only has as much power as Congress is  willing to let him keep.

It is time for us--Democrats, Republicans, and Independents--to step  up and head off a crisis before millions more American families are  hurt. We have the power. We just need the courage to use it.