Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696350/trump-administration


Ms. WARREN. Thank you very much.

I just want to go back to this point as I tee up the question for  Senator Merkley here, and that is, Donald Trump right now is sending  $40 billion to Argentina, and I just want to go through the list again  about what could we do with that $40 billion if we kept it right here  in the United States.

Forty billion dollars would stop health insurance premiums from  doubling. Forty billion dollars would restore food assistance for  families that will be hurt by Donald Trump's cuts. Forty billion  dollars would cancel a chunk of student loan debt for nearly 4 million  borrowers. Forty billion dollars would fund public media.

Ms. WARREN. OK. I am almost there.

Am I recognized to do that, Mr. President?

Ms. WARREN. As I was saying, I was talking about what this $40  billion that Donald Trump is sending to Argentina could be used here at  home, and that is to stop the doubling of health insurance premiums, to  restore food assistance for families that the Trump administration is  cutting, to cancel student loan debt, to fund public media, and to  restore humanitarian aid and USAID.

To put it in a different perspective, that same $40 billion could  fund childcare for military families for nearly 20 years; it could fund  the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to stop big banks and giant  corporations from scamming people, for almost 50 years; and it could  pay for 100 Qatari jets--one for every Governor in the United States,  plus a spare jet for them.

So there you have it.

Remember Donald Trump's promise to lower costs for Americans on day  one? Well, instead, Donald Trump is bailing out his ``favorite  President'' and bailing out rich Wall Street investors who invested in  Argentina debt.

The American people are begging us to do something about the  skyrocketing cost of living. They are crying out for help. But Donald  Trump can't hear them over the sound of the bulldozers that are  demolishing a chunk of the White House to build his brandnew ballroom,  a $250 million ballroom--a monument to Donald Trump himself, paid for  by big corporations that are trying to suck up to the administration  for special favors.

The American people told Donald Trump to cut the cost of living.  Instead, he is cutting off part of the White House for his new  billionaires' ballroom.

Families are missing car payments, but Donald Trump is too busy  building his ballroom to notice.

The price of coffee is up nearly 30 percent, but at least Donald  Trump will have a fancy, new ballroom in the White House. The price of  coffee is up nearly 30 percent, but at least Donald Trump will have a  fancy, new ballroom where the White House is supposed to be.

Farmers are going bankrupt, but Trump is too worried about the  construction of his ballroom to help.

The cost of baby strollers--or, as Donald Trump calls them, the  things you carry babies around in--those are going up, but Trump is too  busy building his fancy ballroom to notice.

So my friend Jeff Merkley is exactly right. We are not in normal  times. All of us need to stand up, speak out, and push back.

My question for you, Senator Merkley, is, How is the fight to lower  costs for families all around this country linked to the fight against  Donald Trump's authoritarianism?