Medal of Honor Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688214/medal-of-honor-act


Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Kentucky for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the Medal of Honor  Act.

The Medal of Honor is our Nation's highest military decoration. It  recognizes the extraordinary valor that distinguished men and women of  our military demonstrated in critical moments during their service to  our great Nation.

There are 63 living Medal of Honor recipients, including heroes like  Army Staff Sergeant Ryan Pitts of New Hampshire, who served two tours  in Afghanistan. During his second deployment, hundreds of insurgents  attacked the Army base where he was stationed. Sergeant Pitts was badly  wounded by a grenade but continued to fight with a tourniquet on his  leg, singlehandedly holding his outpost for 2 hours.

That battle is now known as the Battle of Wanat, one of the bloodiest  battles of the war in Afghanistan. Thanks to the bravery of Sergeant  Pitts, Americans were able to turn the tide in that battle and hold  their position, leading Taliban fighters to withdraw from the area.

As ranking member of the Economic Opportunity Subcommittee of the  Veterans' Affairs Committee, I am focused, with my colleagues, on how  we can make good on our promises to our veterans and be worthy of their  sacrifice.

It is our responsibility as Americans to ensure that all of our  servicemembers, veterans, and their families have the support that they  earned and deserve. One way we can do that is by ensuring that veterans  are financially secure when their military service is over.

Medal of Honor awardees receive a monthly pension that has not been  raised in 23 years. It is well past time to do the right thing and  increase the pension for these distinguished American warriors. This  bill ensures their extraordinary acts of bravery are not forgotten  and that their sacrifices are valued by a grateful Nation.

I have been really glad to partner with Congressman Nehls on this  bill to introduce this legislation and get it to the floor today. I  thank him for his determined leadership on this issue and hope that we  can get all of our colleagues on board later today with a strong vote  in passing this legislation over to the Senate and seeing it signed  into law.

Mr. Speaker, this is the right thing to do by our veterans and by our  Medal of Honor recipients, and I urge all of my colleagues to support  this legislation.