Recognizing Tess Kuenning


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695528/recognizing-tess-kuenning


Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Tess  Kuenning, president and CEO of Bi-State Primary Care Association. Her  community-based approach to public health and exceptional leadership  have significantly improved both the quality and accessibility of  health care in New Hampshire, Vermont, and the rest of the country.

Tess has dedicated her entire career to improving public health.  After earning her Master's in Nursing and Public/Community Health in  1990, she worked in Nepal as a Peace Corps nurse for five years. There,  Tess taught women to be birth attendants and designed sustainable  maternal and child health programs. While Tess loved working one-on-one  with patients and clinicians, she wanted to expand her impact to the  community level, pushing her to transition to public health. After  returning to the United States, she worked for the U.S. Department of  Health and Human Services as the principal public health advisor  throughout New England and as a nurse consultant for the Health Care  Finance Administration.

For the past thirty years, Tess has led Bi-State Primary Case  Association, which advocates for Community Health Centers in New  Hampshire and Vermont. Community Health Centers play a crucial role in  delivering primary care, especially in areas where medical services are  limited or unaffordable. Offering accessible, preventive, and routine  care, they serve as a vital lifeline for low and moderate-income  families who might otherwise go without essential health services. As  president and CEO of Bi-State PCA, Tess has been instrumental in  leveraging her clinical background, experience in public health, and  many connections to stakeholders, nonprofits, and Congressional Offices  like my own to uplift community health centers in our state. Under her  leadership, Bi-State has grown from a staff of 6 to over 20 and now  serves over 312,000 patients across New Hampshire and Vermont.

I have had the pleasure of meeting with Tess multiple times over the  past few years, and I am always inspired by her determination,  creativity, positivity, and genuine passion for community health. I am  so grateful to Tess for sharing her experience and knowledge with me  and other Members of Congress, helping us improve our healthcare  system. Tess is a true leader and public servant, and I want to  acknowledge the profound positive impact she has had on community  health in her community.

On behalf of my constituents in New Hampshire's 1st Congressional  District, I thank Tess Kuenning for her selflessness and dedication to  the patients she serves. Her dedication to advocating for community  health centers has improved healthcare in our state and has made her  community a better place. Tess's work has brought us one step closer to  ensuring that health care is a right, not a privilege, for all. I wish  her all the best in the years to come.