Recognizing William ``bill'' Cass, Commissioner of New Hampshire Department of Transportation


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699267/recognizing-william-bill-cass-commissioner-of-new-hampshire-department-of-transportation


Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of William  ``Bill'' Cass, Commissioner of the New Hampshire Department of  Transportation (NHDOT), and his retirement after 40 years of service to  our state. As Commissioner of NHDOT, Bill has fostered a supportive  work environment and spearheaded multiple major transportation projects  to help improve Granite State roads, bridges, and infrastructure.

A lifelong Granite Stater, Bill grew up in Rollinsford, New  Hampshire, and went on to earn a Bachelor of Science in Civil  Engineering from the University of New Hampshire. He began working at  NHDOT early in his career in 1986 and has risen through the ranks of  the department throughout his tenure. Before his role as NHDOT  Commissioner, he served as the Final Design Supervisor, Preliminary  Design Section Head, Chief Project Manager, Assistant Director of  Project Development, and Director of Project Development at NHDOT.

As a distinguished leader, Bill has implemented large-scale  transportation projects that have made a lasting impact in New  Hampshire. Projects include: the Interstate 93 expansion from Salem to  Manchester, the largest undertaken by the NHDOT; the Sarah Mildred Long  Bridge project; the Memorial Bridge Project; and many other projects  that have and will continue to improve transportation in New Hampshire.  Bill's service extends beyond his commissioner title, with him actively  involved on committees for the American Association of State Highway  and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) and the Northeast Association of  State Transportation Officials (NASTO), bringing him to Washington,  D.C. annually to advocate for nationwide transportation policy and  solutions.

Bill is known as a leader who is an avid listener, a bipartisan  solution finder, patient, diplomatic, and an individual from whom you  could learn countless leadership skills. Through Bill's leadership and  decades of service, New Hampshire's transportation system has greatly  improved and has a clear plan for future success.

On behalf of my constituents in New Hampshire's 1st Congressional  District, I thank Bill Cass for his commitment and dedication to  helping improve New Hampshire's transportation for the past 35 years  and his 40 years of public service dedicated to New Hampshire. I would  also like to thank Bill for his selfless service and for his leadership  in the state. I wish him and his wife, Colleen, all the best in his  retirement and future endeavors.