Recognizing Renee Goins' 96th Birthday


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700474/recognizing-renee-goins-96th-birthday


Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 96th birthday  of Mrs. Renee Goins. Born on February 2, 1930, in Liverpool, England,  Renee is a cherished community member of Portsmouth, New Hampshire.

Renee first moved to the U.S. in 1966, where she settled down with  her first husband, Edward, and their three boys in a house on Coakley  Road in Portsmouth. Renee instantly became an active member of the  Portsmouth community, working many different jobs and advocating for  youth and civil rights.

She started and managed her own business for about three years, then  moved on to work at the local IRS office in town, then the Portsmouth  Naval Shipyard for twenty years, and finally as a housing inspector at  Pease Air Force Base until its closing in 1991. After retiring at age  61, Renee worked part time for the New Hampshire Lottery Commission and  as an usher at the Music Hall in Portsmouth.

As an active member of the Portsmouth community, Renee established  the NAACP library in the former Portsmouth library and helped organize  fundraising dances to raise money for NAACP college scholarships for  local high school students. The NAACP still gives out these  scholarships every year.

Renee was also a close friend of the late Mrs. Vernis M. Jackson, a  teacher and local Portsmouth hero, together they helped bring Kwanzaa  celebrations to Portsmouth through the Seacoast African American  Cultural Center (SAACC). The SAACC, which celebrated its 25th  anniversary in 2025, has been a hub for showcasing the contributions of  Black organizations and individuals in the Seacoast community.

On behalf of my constituents in New Hampshire's 1st Congressional  District, I wish Mrs. Renee Goins a happy 96th birthday and thank her  for her leadership and dedicated work to celebrate the achievements of  Black Americans of New Hampshire. I hope that she had a wonderful  celebration with her family and friends.