Recognizing Mrs. Lillie Mae Bynum's 100th Birthday


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700941/recognizing-mrs-lillie-mae-bynums-100th-birthday


Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Mrs. Lillie  Mae Bynum, who is celebrating her 100th birthday on April 7, 2026.  Lillie moved to Goffstown, New Hampshire, in 1961, and ever since has  been an active and beloved member of her community.

Lillie was born in Birminghaln, Alabama, in 1926 to Lessie and Edmond  Grant. From a young age, she demonstrated a sharp mind, a strong work  ethic, and a passion for serving others. She was the valedictorian of  her graduating class at A.H. Parker High School in Birmingham and  continued her education at the Grady School of Nursing in Atlanta,  Georgia, where she graduated in 1944.

Lillie and her husband, E.B. Bynum, moved to Goffstown while he  served our country in the United States Air Force. They only intended  to stay for two years, but they quickly established themselves as  integral members of the community. Before passing away in 1996, E.B.  proudly served as a town selectman, budget committee member, charter  commission member, and historic district commissioner, leaving an  indelible mark on the Goffstown community. All the while, Lillie worked  tirelessly as a dedicated and respected nurse, earning the praise and  gratitude of countless individuals who have crossed her path.

Away from her lifesaving work, Lillie is devoted to her family and  faith. Together, she and E.B. raised seven children. She is also the  devoted grandmother of ten and is proud to have three great- grandchildren as well. Her family have described her mother, Lessie, as  her best friend, and she also holds a deep love and respect for her  father and her older brother, Alex. After moving to New Hampshire in  the 1960s, she converted from the Southern Baptist church to  Catholicism, and ever since has remained a devout presence at St.  Lawrence Roman Catholic Church in Goffstown.

Ten years ago, Lillie was featured in the NH Business Review in an  article that celebrated her life and accomplishments in honor of her  90th birthday. As she celebrates her 100th birthday, Lillie offers a  powerful example that our age alone does not define us. She still  embodies an independent life and spirit and carries herself with the  same grace, perseverance, and dignity that she has always exhibited.  She continues to live on her own, is active in town, and remains a  faithful St. Lawrence Church parishioner.

In a time rife with bitter divisions across our country and the  world, Lillie's love and devotion to her family, her faith, and her  community are an inspiring model for how to bring people together. For  her 100th birthday, it is my honor to recognize her on behalf of the  people of Goffstown and New Hampshire's 1st Congressional District. We  honor her for her achievements, thank her for her and her husband's  service, and congratulate her as she celebrates this exciting  milestone. I wish her a very happy birthday and all the best in the  years to come.