Recognizing the Black Heritage Trail of New Hampshire for Black History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700309/recognizing-the-black-heritage-trail-of-new-hampshire-for-black-history-month


Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of the Black  Heritage Trail of New Hampshire, in celebration of Black History Month.

Originally founded in 1994, the Portsmouth Black Heritage Trail,  which has since grown into the Black Heritage Trail of New Hampshire,  has fought to uncover and honor the often-overlooked Black history in  the Granite State and southern Maine for more than 30 years.

The mission of the Black Heritage Trail of New Hampshire is to  promote awareness and appreciation of African American history and life  in order to build more inclusive communities today. The Trail shares  stories of prominent African American figures from New Hampshire and  southern Maine, and since becoming a statewide organization in 2016,  has expanded its outreach efforts through tours, educational public  programs, partnerships with schools, and markers in more than seventeen  cities and towns. More recently, the Trail has begun enhancing its  efforts to foster more inclusive and informed communities through  augmented experiences, the first of which was unveiled at the African  Burying Ground Memorial Park in Portsmouth in 2025. This information  will soon turn sites across the state into a veritable outdoor museum  of African American history.

Through events, discussions, conferences, publications, tours, and an  ever-growing network of historical markers, the Trail provides  opportunities for everyone in our state to learn these stories of  encouragement and achievement. These experiences create a lasting  impact as they highlight the critical role that African Americans have  had in shaping our country. They help all of us to understand,  confront, and overcome the challenges that we still face today in  realizing the promise of our founding documents.

As we recognize the Black Heritage Trail of New Hampshire, I also  want to highlight the organization's Executive Director, JerriAnne  Boggis. Taking up the mantle of Portsmouth Black Heritage Trail founder  Valerie Cunningham, Ms. Boggis has worked not only to preserve NH's  African American history but has relentlessly advocated for its central  place in American history. In doing so, she is helping to shape a  better future for all of us.

The Black Heritage Trail helps confront the systemic racism, bias,  and injustice that have festered in our country for too long. On behalf  of my constituents in New Hampshire's 1st Congressional District, I  thank Ms. JerriAnne Boggis, her staff, and the tour guides, volunteers,  board members, sponsors, and supporters of the Black Heritage Trail of  New Hampshire for their commitment to bringing Black history to light  and ensuring that these stories are never forgotten. I thank the Black  Heritage Trail of New Hampshire for helping us learn about our history  and working to create a stronger future for everyone.