Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694192/coast-guard-authorization-act-of-2025


Mr. CARBAJAL. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I am pleased to rise in support of H.R. 4275, the  Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025.

This bill is a prime example of the Transportation and Infrastructure  Committee's bipartisanship under the leadership of Chairman Graves,  Ranking Member Larsen, and Chairman Ezell.

As ranking member of the subcommittee, I am proud of all the good  work that we have done on this bill to ensure that we reauthorize,  enhance, and support the critical missions of the U.S. Coast Guard to  save lives, protect our maritime environment, and prioritize  servicemembers both in and out of the workplace.

These significant investments in the service signal our confidence in  the capability of the Coast Guard to conduct each of their diverse  missions to better serve the American people.

This bill puts coasties first by addressing the need for more  affordable and quality housing. It also provides enhancement of our  coasties' quality of life, such as family leave policies, career  flexibility, tuition assistance incentives, and behavioral healthcare.

Equally important, this bill capitalizes on the extensive work that  former Commandant, Admiral Fagan, did to make institutional changes to  address sexual assault and sexual harassment.

Our coasties deserve better, and this legislation provides oversight  and the tools needed for the Coast Guard to prevent these crimes,  protect victims, and hold perpetrators accountable.

Moreover, I am proud that this bill includes several provisions that  I sponsored regarding U.S. merchant mariners. This bill tackles long  outdated methods for processing mariner credentials by investing in and  revamping the Coast Guard's process.

This bill also improves merchant mariner credentialing tests by  ensuring the most relevant and technologically critical elements are  included. We want the best mariners in the industry, and by removing  outdated entry barriers, we will help ensure steady, long-term  employment opportunities.

Madam Speaker, I, once again, thank Chairman Graves for his  leadership and bipartisan collaboration in crafting this bill. I am  proud to have worked with my colleagues on this important legislation,  and I look forward to seeing it pass into law.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes,'' and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. CARBAJAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from  Washington (Mr. Larsen).

Mr. CARBAJAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  California (Mr. DeSaulnier).

Mr. CARBAJAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman  from New York (Ms. Gillen).

Mr. CARBAJAL. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, I support H.R. 4275, the Coast Guard Authorization Act  of 2025. I encourage all my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do  the same.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.