Defending American Property Abroad Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701481/defending-american-property-abroad-act-of-2026


Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding. I thank  Representative Pfluger for his leadership today.

I rise in support of the Defending American Property Abroad Act. This  is a commonsense and targeted bill that gives the United States a real  tool to respond when foreign governments unfairly seize property owned  by Americans without due process.

The bill would look to identify foreign ports, harbors, and marine  terminals where American-owned property has been expropriated or taken  without due process.

Once identified, goods loaded at those facilities and passenger  vessels serving them may be restricted from entering or operating in  United States ports.

Let me be clear about what this means.

It means that if you take American property, you don't get to do  business as usual with the United States. We can identify those ports  and terminals and restrict the ships that use them from entering our  ports.

That is real consequences, not just words.

It is a targeted solution to support American innovation. This  legislation focuses on one bad actor.

In recent years, an American company, Vulcan Materials, invested in  port and terminal infrastructure in Mexico in good faith under the  expectation that its property rights and contracts would be respected.

Instead, the Mexican Government took action that resulted in the  seizure of that port facility, despite longstanding agreements.

What makes this even more frustrating is the justification that was  offered. Mexican officials pointed to environmental and permitting  concerns, but the same government that is accusing this company of  environmental harm awarded six Clean Industry awards from PROFEPA,  which is their environmental enforcement agency, for the company's  environmental stewardship.

You can't speak out of both sides of your mouth.

And at the same time, the Government of Mexico has allowed for the  use of Vulcan's deepwater port by another company.

That is not what good faith partnerships look like, especially from  our largest trading partner.

Trade should not be a race to the bottom. It should support good- paying jobs, protect the environment and labor standards, and  strengthen local communities.

And it should be grounded in mutual respect, where countries that  benefit from access to U.S. markets also respect the rights of workers,  investors, and communities tied to that trade.

This bill reinforces that principle.

Just like I have been willing to call out unfair practices by foreign  governments, I have also spoken out when our own government does  something similar, including under President Trump, who has imposed  blanket tariffs without rhyme or reason, an equally reckless action.

This bill is a targeted solution. I urge my colleagues to also  support this bill.