Recognizing the California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699776/recognizing-the-california-polytechnic-state-university-san-luis-obispo


Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, this year marks 125 years since the  founding of Cal Poly San Luis Obispo. From its inception, Cal Poly has  been a pillar of the San Luis Obispo community embodying the spirit of  its motto ``learn by doing''.

In the past 125 years Cal Poly SLO has educated more than 230,000  individuals who have gone on to be everything from astronauts to iconic  football players, and even world-famous musicians.

The university's partnerships with local communities, industry and  government exemplify the vital role public higher education plays in  advancing opportunity, innovation and regional prosperity.

The university has been a constant over these past 125 years in  providing high quality education throughout various fields of study,  earning its place for the past several decades as one of the top public  universities, not only in California, but in the entire Nation.

Cal Poly SLO consistently ranks higher year after year in the top 500  public and private not-for-profit universities in the United States,  coming in 55th place just last year. In the state of California, Cal  Poly SLO has continued to climb, ranking 12th overall for two  consecutive years.

The university has already established an unforgettable legacy for  its longstanding commitment to academic excellence, innovation, and  public service. Cal Poly has distinguished itself as a national leader  in hands-on education, preparing generations of students to contribute  meaningfully to all aspects of their communities.

Cal Poly's emphasis on practical learning, research, and community  engagement has produced graduates who serve as leaders across  engineering, agriculture, business, education, public service and the  sciences.

I commend Cal Poly San Luis Obispo for its enduring impact on the  Central Coast and the State of California, and for its continued  dedication to student success and service to the public good. May the  next 125 years be as great as the last.