Recognizing Hollister City Administrator Rick Ziegenfuss


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690124/recognizing-hollister-city-administrator-rick-ziegenfuss


Mr. BURLISON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Hollister City  Administrator Rick Ziegenfuss, who is retiring this month after 23  years in this position.

Mr. Ziegenfuss is a native of Cedar Falls, Iowa, but came to Missouri  when he took his Army Infantry basic training at Ft. Leonard Wood in  central Missouri. During his 22-year Army career, he graduated from  Infantry Officer Candidate School, Infantry Officer Basic Course,  Infantry Officer Advanced Course, and the Army's Command and General  Staff College, where he graduated with honors. He held a series of  command positions and earned numerous service awards and medals. He was  discharged honorably as a Lieutenant Colonel.

Following his military service, Mr. Ziegenfuss started an  environmental company, which he subsequently sold, was vice president  of operations for Creative Printing and Design, was owner and president  of Ameri Trade Corp., and then became the director of economic  development for the City of Hollister before he was promoted to city  administrator.

Mr. Ziegenfuss holds a Bachelor of Arts in personnel management from  Mary Crest College in Davenport, Iowa. He has served on multiple boards  in the Branson, Missouri, area and has been recognized with the  Missouri Award, the Holllister Area Chamber of Commerce Heart of  Hollister Award, the Branson Lakes Area Chamber of Commerce Pioneer and  Community Spirit awards, and the True American Hero Award from the  Branson Veteran's Task Force.

Mr. Ziegenfuss is married to the former Dana Woodall, and they have  three daughters; Beth, Brooke, and Brittney; a stepdaughter, Jordan; a  stepson, Logan; six grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.

I'd like to congratulate Mr. Ziegenfuss on his outstanding career.  Please join me in thanking him for his many years of service to others  and wishing him well on his retirement.