Recognizing the U.S. Marine Corps on its 250th Birthday


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696652/recognizing-the-us-marine-corps-on-its-250th-birthday


Mr. BURLISON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the brave members of  the U.S. Marine Corps as they celebrate their 250th birthday today.

The Marine Corps was born in Philadelphia on November 10, 1775, when  two battalions of Continental Marines were established as a service  branch of infantry troops capable of fighting both at sea and on shore.  Two hundred fifty years later, it remains the maritime land force  service branch of the United States Department of War.

Over the years, Marines have been called by many nicknames, including  ``leathernecks'' due to the stiff leather collars worn in their 18th-  and 19th-century uniforms, which protected against sword slashes and  encouraged good posture; ``jarheads,'' which was initially due to the  appearance of their high-collared dress uniforms that made their heads  look like a mason jar in the early 1900's and has since evolved to also  reference the popular ``high and tight'' haircut; and ``devil dogs''  from the German nickname given to them during the Battle of Belleau  Wood in World War I. The term originated from the German soldiers'  perception of the Marines' tenacious and fierce fighting style.

However, I merely call them patriots and believe the words of the  Marine Corps Anthem best describe their character and their mission and  I hereby include them in the Record:       From the Halls of Montezuma To      the shores of Tripoli;      We will fight our country's battles      In the air, on land, and sea;      First to fight for right and freedom      And to keep our honor clean;      We are proud to claim the title Of      United States Marine.

Our Marine Corps men and women--both our veterans and those in active  service--deserve our eternal gratitude for the battles they have fought  to keep Americans free. I would like to congratulate all the Marine  Corps members serving across America, especially those in Detachment  No. 993 in Missouri's 7th District, for their commitment to God and  country, and to serve and protect us against our enemies. They serve a  noble cause. May they ever carry the torch of liberty and continue to  serve honorably for the next 250 years.