Fighting Dhs Immigration Raids


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697459/fighting-dhs-immigration-raids


Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Speaker, Trump's unhinged immigration raids started in  downtown Los Angeles, in my congressional district, not targeting the  ``criminal'' immigrants that he promised he would go after, but  targeting anybody that looked like me, looked like my colleagues,  looked like my family members, looked like the people who live in Los  Angeles.

I don't know any MS-13 members, gang members, who work at a car wash  or as day laborers. That is where he was targeting, not focused on  people he said he was going to go after.

We warned everybody in this country that this would continue, that  they would go on to other cities, using immigration as a pretext to try  to intimidate blue cities in blue States and blue cities in red States,  and that a violation of the rights of immigrants and the rights of  people across the country is not going to be contained in L.A. It is  going to spread. They went on to D.C., Chicago, Portland, Charlotte,  and New Orleans, just as of today. That is what they are going after.

They want to intimidate people. They want to intimidate people who  don't agree with them, and that was before Donald Trump and the  Republicans passed the one big, beautiful bill. That included a $175  billion slush fund that would turn ICE and CBP into its own personal  national police force, where he could send it wherever he wants,  whenever he wants, without any accountability.

That is dangerous. That is a threat to our Republic. That is a threat  to our States. That is a threat to our communities.

We need to stand up and put an end to it. The way we do that is by  taking that money away and reinvesting it into something that the  American people need.

I introduced a bill called the Make Housing Affordable and Defend  Democracy Act. It takes that $175 billion to tackle the housing  affordability crisis in our country by investing that money to help  start a 21st century housing boom that will build 1 million units of  housing per year for the next 6 years, help renters with assistance to  get by, and, at the same time, give first-time home buyers money for a  downpayment.

If we want to tackle the affordability crisis that is at the top of  the agenda for the American people that is not a con job, then we need  to pass the Make Housing Affordable and Defend Democracy Act. It is  about affordability, not authoritarianism. It is about American values,  not Donald Trump's wins.