Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''; Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Defining Larger Participants of A Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment Applications''; Providing for Consideration of H.R. No Rogue Rulings Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689414/providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-overdraft-lending-very-large-financial-institutions-providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-defining-larger-participants-of-a-market-for-general-use-digital-consumer-payment-applications-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-no-rogue-rulings-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Speaker, I think Speaker Johnson doesn't get it.

First, what the Speaker is trying to do regarding this rule is to  kill a process that has been in place for a very, very long time and  really undermine the majority will of this body. The American people  want us to work together. When we finally do work in a bipartisan way,  the Speaker tries to use a procedural move to undo that.

Mr. Speaker, I rise on behalf of the Dads Caucus in support of  Representative Luna's and Representative Pettersen's proxy voting bill  that will allow new parents to spend a limited time, 12 weeks, with a  newborn child. That is all we are asking.

The reason is it is not just about those new parents, but it is also  about making a Congress that is representative of the people in this  country, men and women who are starting a family and who are taking  care of a newborn child, those who are struggling to make ends meet,  those who are struggling to figure out how to take care of this new  person that is living among us and to make sure that they have a  healthy start in life. That is what this is about.

Mr. Speaker, when we make this body more representative and make it  easier for people to serve, all of a sudden, we will make decisions  that are more representative of our country.

Mr. Speaker, I rise to ask for a rejection and a ``no'' vote on the  rule because this is about a democracy that truly represents working  men and women and their kids.