Recognizing the Achievements of Sandra Figueroa-Villa


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696024/recognizing-the-achievements-of-sandra-figueroa-villa


Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor non-profit leader and  lifetime activist, Sandra Figueroa-Villa. Born and raised in South Los  Angeles, Ms. Figueroa-Villa has devoted over four decades to the non- profit sector, most notably serving as the Executive Director of El  Centro del Pueblo since 1980.

At El Centro del Pueblo, Ms. Figueroa-Villa has worked to address and  mitigate the impacts of gang violence in Los Angeles. Thanks to her  leadership, El Centro was transformed from an organization with a  budget deficit and two part-time employees to a nationally recognized  social services provider with 80 employees and an annual budget of $10  million.

Ms. Figueroa-Villa has expanded El Centro's services to include  family preservation, employment services, and youth delinquency  prevention programs, which helps reduce youth violence and strengthen  local families. In addition, El Centro is home to the Echo Park Family  Source Center, providing financial counseling, tax preparation,  tutoring and college prep classes and other critical services to  Angelenos.

Ms. Figueroa-Villa has also been active in public service, serving on  the Board of Police Commissioners. In this role, she improved policies  for the Police Department's interactions with homeless individuals, and  the Department's de-escalation and use of force protocols. Ms.  Figueroa-Villa continues to serve on numerous executive boards and  commissions, notably including the City's Children, Youth, and Family  Commission and the Los Angeles Unified School District's Redistricting  Commission.

In recognition of Ms. Figueroa-Villa's decades of leadership in  advancing social justice and community empowerment, the city has named  the intersection of W. Sunset Boulevard and Lemoyne Street, adjacent to  El Centro del Pueblo's main office, as ``Sandra Figueroa-Villa  Square.'' This historic renaming will ensure Ms. Figueroa-Villa's  legacy is remembered by all Angelenos in the years ahead.

On behalf of my colleagues in Congress, I sincerely thank Ms.  Figueroa-Villa for her continued dedication to Los Angeles and lifelong  career in public service.