ABC News - Interview by Linsey Davis: McSally Pushes to Deliver Economic Relief to Workers, Small Businesses


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) spoke with ABC News' Linsey Davis yesterday to discuss her push to deliver economic relief to American workers and small businesses in a timely manner. 

Watch her interview HERE and see excerpts below:

LINSEY DAVIS: So first off, some are accusing your Republican colleague Louie Gohmert of holding up the House's bill that passed with an overwhelming bipartisan majority last Friday saying that he wants to read the whole thing so many Americans want help now. Do you expect that the Senate will pass the bill by the end of the night and do plan to vote for it?

MCSALLY: Well, we need to act swiftly. There were some technical problems with the first version of the bill so they need to fix those. We've been hearing from small businesses that have been back in Arizona saying that they want to help, they want to be able to support their employees, staying home if they're sick, but we also need to make sure that they don't get crushed under this. And there's mechanisms to get funds directly to them to pay for that family leave, so we're working with the Treasury as quickly as possible to make sure those resources are available, and our hearts go out first of all to everybody who is being impacted by this virus and those whose families are impacted. So this is a time for us to be unified Republicans and Democrats, but let's make sure that we're able to get resources quickly out to those families, individuals, and those small businesses that are going to be able to support these people to stay home if they're feeling sick and help our country to get through this.

LINSEY DAVIS: Right, and talking about those small businesses, what's your plan to make sure a waitress in Phoenix who may be out of working definitely can make her rent or what about a firefighter in Tucson that that still has a job but now needs daycare for their kids. 

MCSALLY: Yes, so I've been meeting people like us all the time. Today, on the way to the airport I met a woman who owns a shoeshine business and she just had one person and she's concerned about paying her rent. You know I talk to people like this all the time. I think we need additional resources quickly with this second piece of legislation. First was the emergency supplemental. Now this is focused on supporting people to allow their employees to stay home but there needs to be more so that individuals who are impacted, as we see this economic impact, are able to pay their rent, pay their groceries and look this time for all of us to come together. This is a whole of society issue. We need a strong federal response. But we also [need] the faith-based community [and others]. You know I reached out to my neighbors who are elderly saying please stay home, what do you need? I'll go to the store for you. What else can we do to maybe babysit for nurses who need to be caring for patients, but they don't have daycare anymore? You have to be, you know, healthy for you to do this. Don't have grandma and grandpa, because they're the ones who are vulnerable. But I think there's ways that we as a society can also address this with compassion and selflessness, while we here in DC are trying to get those funds out there to keep businesses afloat and keep families afloat.

LINSEY DAVIS: Your colleague Mitt Romney proposed $1,000 a month income for all American adults during this pandemic which could help a lot of Americans or may who may soon or currently out of work is that something that you're ready to support.

MCSALLY: I think we need to do something like that very quickly. I don't think rich people need another thousand dollars so think about mechanisms where we're not setting up a new bureaucracy. This has been done before, just get some resources to those who need it, so they can stay afloat. So I look forward to working with Senator Romney and others. Let's move something quickly the next single digit days I think really matters for my constituents--small businesses and families, for them to be able to get through this next phase, and as quickly as we can pass resources out to support them. We'll get on the other side of this, we will, but right now is a critical couple of weeks for us.

Background:

On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke to Gov. Doug Ducey to discuss how state and federal representatives can work together to ensure Arizona is fully equipped to respond to COVID-19.On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke with senior officials at the Phoenix VA to discuss COVID-19 preparation.On March 5, Sen. McSally voted to provide over $8 billion in emergency funding to combat the spread of coronavirus in Arizona and across the United States.On March 4, Sen. McSally asked Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to prioritize and prevent the spread of coronavirus within nursing homes and other long-term care facilities.On March 1, Sen. McSally spoke with Vice President Pence about the Administration's response to the spread of the disease and encouraged him to set up screening procedures for travelers to the U.S.On February 28, Sen. McSally sent a letter to the acting commissioner of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) urging him to ramp up their preparedness at the border and ports of entry.On February 18, Sen. McSally visited an infectious disease research facility in Flagstaff, which has developed genomics-based test that can easily be used in a doctor's office or hospital emergency room to diagnose the COVID-19 virus.