Fox Business - Interview with Maria Bartiromo: McSally: WHO Director-General Should Resign After Running Interference for China on Coronavirus


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) spoke with Fox Business's Maria Bartiromo this morning and called for immediate change at the World Health Organization (WHO) amid its ongoing efforts to cover for the Chinese government in the wake of the country's coronavirus outbreak.

Watch her interview HERE and see excerpts of the transcript below:

MARIA BARTIROMO: Thank you for joining us so early. It is earlier there in Arizona so we appreciate you joining us here. Look you have done a lot on China given your work for this great country and your service for this great country and also all of the reporting that you have done, what is your take in terms of what China is doing and how they've downplayed this from the get-go?

SEN. MARTHA MCSALLY: It is not surprising. I have been studying communist China my whole life in the military. I've never trusted a communist and their cover-up of this virus that originated with them has caused unnecessary deaths around America and around the world, so this report is not surprising at all. They need to come clean and another piece of this is the WHO needs to stop covering for them. I think Doctor Tedros needs to step down. We need to take some action to address this issue. It is irresponsible, it's unconscionable what they have done here while we have people dying across the globe.

BARTIROMO: Are you going to take action as a U.S. senator in terms of legislation to stop reliance on China or legislation to hold them accountable after all this is done? What are you going to do about it?

MCSALLY:  Yes, I am. We're working on the defense bills coming up and I've already talked to my team about how we can get language in the annual defense bill. We need to bring manufacturing home of all the things that we've been relying on China for: our medicines, our medical supplies. They also hold a trillion dollars of our debt. I think that should be forgiven, as a minimum, and we need to look at addressing the WHO as well. We have all sorts of levers in our power. China needs to be held accountable. Right now, we need to save American lives and defeat the virus, which we will with the American spirit of innovation. China has to be held accountable. They still keep lying and covering up today