Fox Business - Interview with Liz MacDonald: McSally: Greatest Minds at Work on Coronavirus Cure


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) spoke with Fox Business's Liz MacDonald this evening about the rapidly developing coronavirus research and ongoing progress toward a cure.

Watch her interview HERE and see excerpts below:

LIZ MACDONALD: Senator, officials warn no city will be spared. Cases breaking out in the Midwest, in the south. Now we have 28 states with shelter-in-place orders for 200 million Americans. We're talking about the worst of it is going to hit two weeks away from now. More than half the economy in shelter-in-place. Where does this lead? Where do you think this is going in terms of the president's plan to potentially get us out and reopen by June 1st? He is talking now, we'll be in recovery, but he needs to get the governors to lift their shelter-in-place orders. He doesn't have the power. 

SEN. MARTHA MCSALLY: I am back in Arizona now. Last time I talked to you I was in DC. We're collaborating with the governor and also with our local leaders. This is an all hands on deck approach but we're seeing the virus hit at different rates across the country. We still need more testing capability here in Arizona and I think the more we learn about this virus as the experts have shared, understanding how it behaves, how it spreads, I think if we can get to a place where we're able to, for example, to test every health care worker when they go on shift or every nurse in a nursing home or skilled nursing facility, so that we have a better understanding of who has had the virus and no longer does and then perhaps they are immune as we're studying some antibodies. That's happening here at the University of Arizona and the tests that are happening to maybe harness these anti-bodies to help our frontline health care workers. We don't know. Arizona gets hot pretty soon. We don't know whether the heat is going to impact this virus like it does with other similar ones, so there's still a lot of questions as we see local, state and federal decisions because this is impacting at different rates although we understand how important it is for us to be socially distancing in order to save other people's lives.

MACDONALD: They are tightening the borders of Florida and Texas calling for travelers from the New York metro area to self-quarantine for two weeks. I want to move on to this, Johnson & Johnson now says human testing of the vaccine to begin in September. Newspapers like "The Washington Post" quoting health experts saying we can't do this forever. Leader of France saying that we can't shut down forever. We need to have an economy to pay for the cures, to pay for public health, so that is an excruciating decision to be made. Infectious disease specialists talking about a reopening plan, this is out of the American Enterprise Institute, to what you're saying they're talking about testing 750,000 Americans. Do you think that is enough? 

MCSALLY: We need to get to a place where the development of the vaccines need to continue. I think at last count there is about a dozen efforts going on. Again, another one here in Arizona at Arizona State University. That's ultimately going to be able to defeat this disease but in the meantime we need to continue to be investing in the treatments, the trials for the anti-virals, harnessing the antibodies, the plasma, all those things you're hearing about because we can't wait until the fall. We can't wait until 2021. We want to make sure whatever treatments we're using are safe but they are really fast-tracking these trials so that we can get through the next weeks and months. Ultimately defeat this virus and a vaccine will protect but we also need to study obviously if it is mutating and whether the vaccine will be impactful next year. This is what all the experts, the greatest minds in America are on this. I'm very proud of their efforts. Things are moving faster than we've ever seen before because this is such a critical situation and so many lives are on the line. 

Background: 

On March 25, Sen. McSally secured COVID-19 relief for Arizona families, small businesses, and tribes with the passage of the coronavirus relief package.On March 24, Sen. McSally spoke on the floor urging swift passage of the relief package.On March 24, Sen. McSally introduced legislation to withhold pay from all U.S. Senators until a COVID-19 relief and support package was passed.On March 21, Sen. McSally shared resources for Arizonans in search of work.On March 20, Sen. McSally and Sen. Steve Daines sent a letter to Congress requesting that emergency funding for America's tribal communities be included in the latest coronavirus relief package.On March 19, Sen. McSally announced the availability of economic injury disaster loans for Arizona small businesses impacted by the coronavirus outbreak.On March 19, Sen. McSally issued a Public Service Announcement urging Arizonans to stay home to help flatten the curve to avoid overwhelming the nation's health care system and slow the spread of coronavirus.On March 19, Sen. McSally made a statement in support of the tax payment deadline extension.On March 18, Sen. McSally spoke with members of Arizona's National Federation of Independent Business to hear their concerns.On March 18, Sen. McSally spoke with the Arizona Multihousing Association about renter protections and eliminating evictions.On March 18, Sen. McSally called the Phoenix and Tucson Airport Authorities to hear how coronavirus is impacting their business.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with Arizona hospital CEOs to get feedback on what they need now, including access to testing and supplies.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with the Arizona Chamber of Commerce to discuss the efforts in Congress to deliver relief to Arizona workers and businesses.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with county health officials to receive an update and discuss their work to serve all impacted Arizonans.On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke to Gov. Doug Ducey to discuss how state and federal representatives can work together to ensure Arizona is fully equipped to respond to COVID-19.On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke with senior officials at the Phoenix VA to discuss COVID-19 preparation.On March 5, Sen. McSally voted to provide over $8 billion in emergency funding to combat the spread of coronavirus in Arizona and across the United States.On March 4, Sen. McSally asked Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to prioritize and prevent the spread of coronavirus within nursing homes and other long-term care facilities.On March 1, Sen. McSally spoke with Vice President Pence about the Administration's response to the spread of the disease and encouraged him to set up screening procedures for travelers to the U.S.On February 28, Sen. McSally sent a letter to the acting commissioner of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) urging him to ramp up their preparedness at the border and ports of entry.On February 18, Sen. McSally visited an infectious disease research facility in Flagstaff, which has developed genomics-based test that can easily be used in a doctor's office or hospital emergency room to diagnose the COVID-19 virus.