Fox News - Interview with Brian Kilmeade: McSally Calls on Young People to Stay Home, Save the Greatest Generation


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) joined "Fox & Friends' this morning to discuss combating COVID-19.  During the interview, McSally called on America's young people to stay home, even if they feel healthy. 

Watch her interview HERE and see excerpts below:

BRIAN KILMEADE: Now, one of the lawmakers he met with, the Secretary of Treasury, yesterday behind closed doors is Senator Martha McSally and the senator joins us now. Senator, could you describe the tone and tenure behind closed doors yesterday. 

SEN. MARTHA MCSALLY: Brian, look our hearts all go out to the people who are struggling right now with coronavirus, their families, seniors, and the vulnerable who are deeply concerned about their own health and health care workers on the front lines. Everybody's hearts are heavy. We want to act. We want to act quickly and we want to make sure that we get resources--cash--directly to American workers, families. You know in Arizona I met with just this weekend like the single mom down the street with three kids who has a food truck, she is literally out of business right now because everything is cancelled and I saw her at the supermarket with an empty cart looking for what she can do to support her family. We need to a check to her and everyone like her as quickly as possible, and the small businesses who support the economy being hurt right now.

KILMEADE: Senator, is it also safe to say as Bloomberg is reporting that the Secretary of Treasury said we could have unemployment up to 20%? 

MCSALLY: Well, I don't want to put a number on it, but if you see what's happening in Arizona with restaurants and other small businesses in Flagstaff, which is the gateway to the Grand Canyon, we have entire businesses for rafting trips that have zero bookings, they are having to lay everybody off so you ripple this across not just the airlines and the big hotels but what's happening which is what we need to be doing around the country to flatten the curve. This impact is significant and it's our responsibility to ensure people have cash to pay their rent, to buy food so that we can protect seniors, the vulnerable, and health care workers and flatten this curve so we can beat this virus and get on the other side of it and get back to a stronger America. 

KILMEADE: Senator, you wanted to point something out, those people on the beach, well-meaning spring breakers, your message to them? 

MCSALLY: I am begging them, their grandparents saved the world from tyranny. The greatest generation is at risk right now. It is my generation's responsibility and the younger generation's responsibility to listen, to stay home, to stay away from other people. Asymptomatic people are spreading this virus and if they keep spreading it fast, the nursing home workers, nurses, and doctors are going to get it and it could overwhelm our healthcare industry. America is amazing but we each have to do our part so do your part young people, stay home, stay away from people, and let's save the greatest generation. 

KILMEADE: Chinese say five of the six that had this virus didn't even know it and that's what would spread it before they had to quarantine entire cities so as odd as it feels, as good as you may feel, we need you to be responsible. Senator thanks so much for that message today and hopefully you will get something in a bipartisan way out of the Senate today. 

MCSALLY: This is all about America. We need to be unified and do our part. Thanks, Brian, and our prayers are with everybody out there. 

KILMEADE: Thank you, senator. Thanks for getting up with us.

Background:

On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with Arizona hospital CEOs to get feedback on what they need now, including access to testing and supplies.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with the Arizona Chamber of Commerce to discuss the efforts in Congress to deliver relief to Arizona workers and businesses.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with county health officials to receive an update and discuss their work to serve all impacted Arizonans.On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke to Gov. Doug Ducey to discuss how state and federal representatives can work together to ensure Arizona is fully equipped to respond to COVID-19.On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke with senior officials at the Phoenix VA to discuss COVID-19 preparation.On March 5, Sen. McSally voted to provide over $8 billion in emergency funding to combat the spread of coronavirus in Arizona and across the United States.On March 4, Sen. McSally asked Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to prioritize and prevent the spread of coronavirus within nursing homes and other long-term care facilities.On March 1, Sen. McSally spoke with Vice President Pence about the Administration's response to the spread of the disease and encouraged him to set up screening procedures for travelers to the U.S.On February 28, Sen. McSally sent a letter to the acting commissioner of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) urging him to ramp up their preparedness at the border and ports of entry.On February 18, Sen. McSally visited an infectious disease research facility in Flagstaff, which has developed genomics-based test that can easily be used in a doctor's office or hospital emergency room to diagnose the COVID-19 virus.