Fox Business - Interview with Stuart Varney: McSally: Congress Working on "Rescue, Support' Package to Protect Workers, Small Businesses


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) spoke with Fox Business's Stuart Varney this morning about the economic relief package Congress is working on to protect American workers and small businesses hurt by the coronavirus outbreak.

Watch her interview HERE and see excerpts below: 

STUART VARNEY: Arizona senator, Republican Martha McSally joins us now. Senator, you're a Republican but you're gonna have to be a big, big spender, aren't you?

SEN. MARTHA MCSALLY: Well this is important to protect workers across America and in Arizona and small businesses. I like the words you used, you called it rescue and support. It's not bailout, it's not stimulus. This is unprecedented. People who live paycheck to paycheck like many I talked to this week, they need to be able to pay their bills and we're going to get them cash as fast as we can.

VARNEY: It will be done, right? 

MCSALLY: We have to do it and we have to do it in the swiftest way so that the bureaucracy doesn't get in the way so it's easily implementable. So those who are being impacted, hourly workers, waitresses, small business owners. I talked to the Flagstaff Mayor. They have companies doing rafting trips in the Grand Canyon. They are zero customers right now, so we need to help them, keep the lights on so that when we get past this, they can open up business again, they don't go bankrupt.

VARNEY: Senator, I would say tens of millions of Americans woke up this morning knowing that they're probably going to miss a paycheck or two in the immediate future.

MCSALLY: Yes.  

VARNEY:  Your job i think, you know your job better than i do, but it is to get money somehow or another to support those people because they are desperate right now. 

MCSALLY: I agree. I talked to many of them in Arizona. We need to get them resources fast for them to be able to buy food, for them to be able to pay their rent, support their medical bills that they have outside of the coronavirus. This is all hands on deck. This is all of society. And look I would also encourage philanthropists, others, people who can, I mean I'm personally trying to see what I can do to help my neighbors.

VARNEY:  Yeah. 

MCSALLY: This can bring out the best of us, not the worst of us, when we help each other. We have our part to do for the government, but let's all work together, faith-based, non-profit, philanthropists, individuals [to] support our neighbors and we are going to get the checks out as quickly as possible.

VARNEY:  There is personal element to this not just government action, not just that, it is one-on-one.

MCSALLY: Yes.

VARNEY:  I saw a young volunteer where I live just the other day, volunteering to go with a senior citizen. I will go do the grocery shopping for you. I will bring it back for you, don't worry. I think that is happening all across the country. 

MCSALLY: It's amazing. It's inspiring and this is exactly what America is all about. Across every single community, where we see what the needs are. We want the vulnerable and seniors to stay home, so we have to go shopping for them. Leave it at the doorstep. Don't visit because you may be a carrier and you don't realize it without symptoms. Also, if you can babysit for nurses and doctors who have kids at home and schools are closed. Whatever we can do in every community across America this can again bring out the best in us. We will get through this and we will be stronger, but what we do now is so critical in these next days. It is an all-of-America approach.

VARNEY: Last one, if i may, you're a little concerned about millenials? They are getting bad publicity recently because they like to go to bars, they like to go on Spring Break. Arizona is good destination for that kind of thing. Are you a little worried? 

MCSALLY: Well, I think we have to get the message to them. I've encouraged the White House to use the text message emergency system. Many of them are not watching cable news. I think when they understand and they see what is happening in Italy and they also understand that what they do now can flatten that curve, even if they get sick, they may be fine. It's about them saving their grandparents, the Greatest Generation, those who went to war to protect us from tyranny. They can now save lives by staying home and I think when we get that message directly to them they're Americans, they're patriotic, they will do the right thing so we can save the vulnerable together.

VARNEY: Watch cable television, for heaven's sake. All right, Senator, always a pleasure. Great to have you with us again.

Background:

On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with Arizona hospital CEOs to get feedback on what they need now, including access to testing and supplies.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with the Arizona Chamber of Commerce to discuss the efforts in Congress to deliver relief to Arizona workers and businesses.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with county health officials to receive an update and discuss their work to serve all impacted Arizonans.On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke to Gov. Doug Ducey to discuss how state and federal representatives can work together to ensure Arizona is fully equipped to respond to COVID-19.On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke with senior officials at the Phoenix VA to discuss COVID-19 preparation.On March 5, Sen. McSally voted to provide over $8 billion in emergency funding to combat the spread of coronavirus in Arizona and across the United States.On March 4, Sen. McSally asked Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to prioritize and prevent the spread of coronavirus within nursing homes and other long-term care facilities.On March 1, Sen. McSally spoke with Vice President Pence about the Administration's response to the spread of the disease and encouraged him to set up screening procedures for travelers to the U.S.On February 28, Sen. McSally sent a letter to the acting commissioner of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) urging him to ramp up their preparedness at the border and ports of entry.On February 18, Sen. McSally visited an infectious disease research facility in Flagstaff, which has developed genomics-based test that can easily be used in a doctor's office or hospital emergency room to diagnose the COVID-19 virus.