Fox News - Interview with Shannon Bream: McSally: The U.S. Needs to Reduce Dependence on China


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) spoke with Fox News's Shannon Bream Thursday evening and called on America to stop outsourcing to China the manufacturing of items that are critical to our national security, including pharmaceuticals and basic medicines.

Watch her interview HERE and see excerpts below:

SHANNON BREAM: Let's dig a little deeper now into how China is working to change the narrative of its role in the pandemic. Good to see you tonight, Senator. I want to ask you about this, because Real Clear Politics said it's basically a propaganda war -- China is fighting a propaganda war, shift away from China all blame for the outbreak the initial response and its early spread into the broader world After dealing with its first global crisis of the 21st century, the world must fundamentally rethink its dependence on China.

SEN. MARTHA MCSALLY:  Absolutely. You know I've never trusted the Chinese Communist Party and their totalitarian regime, if they had actually done the right thing early on, so many lives would've been saved in their own country and now around the world. They have been on a path to try to have global dominance through many different sectors, and now instead of taking responsibility and having transparency to stop this pandemic, now they are taking advantage of it. They could have come hat in hand with humility perhaps to help others after they screwed this up but instead it seems they are going on a propaganda campaign and some of our media outlets unfortunately are parroting that propaganda, trying to supplant us in global dominance and it's disgusting but it's not surprising.

BREAM: Yeah and we don't know, but we feel like we are getting data from them which is helpful, and trying to figure out some of the things that are going on. There's a lot of skepticism about what we hear from them, here is what one of your colleagues, Senator Tom Cotton, is proposing now. he's been a tough opponent of china, the practices, not the people necessarily but here's what he says about how things should work moving forward. 

SEN. TOM COTTON (clip): China unleashed this plague and they have to be held accountable. That's why I am introducing legislation that will say we are no longer going to buy our basic pharmaceuticals from China. The Department of Defense, the VA, Medicare, Medicaid and so forth and we will have incentives for manufacturers to make those it medicines in America once again. It's too great a threat to let our health rest on Chinese drugs.

BREAM: How quickly do you think that picks up speed? Do you think there will be bipartisan buy in on that measure?

MCSALLY: I do. There's actually another bipartisan bill, I think we are all on the same page here, Marsha Blackburn has one that I'm a cosponsor of. I think America is waking up, over the last decade we have allowed ourselves to outsource things that are critical for our national security--minerals, pharmaceuticals, basic medicines, manufacturing for crises like this, and it has to stop. We have to bring that home and for sure when we are buying it for the Department of Defense and the VA, we can make that happen. We will be marketing up the defense bill and I hope we include that in this year's defense bill but we need to incentivize American manufacturing for these very critical capabilities. We have to move it home and that needs to be one of the follow-throughs immediately from this crisis.

Background:

Sen. McSally is a cosponsor of Sen. Blackburn's Securing America's Medicine Cabinet.On March 5, Sen. McSally urged local and state officials to turn down any transportation project bids from companies owned by or affiliated with the Chinese government. On March 19, Sen. McSally issued a Public Service Announcement urging Arizonans to stay home to help flatten the curve to avoid overwhelming the nation's health care system and slow the spread of coronavirus.On March 19, Sen. McSally made a statement in support of the tax payment deadline extension.On March 18, Sen. McSally spoke with members of Arizona's National Federation of Independent Business to hear their concerns.On March 18, Sen. McSally spoke with the Arizona Multihousing Association about renter protections and eliminating evictions.On March 18, Sen. McSally called the Phoenix and Tucson Airport Authorities to hear how coronavirus is impacting their business.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with Arizona hospital CEOs to get feedback on what they need now, including access to testing and supplies.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with the Arizona Chamber of Commerce to discuss the efforts in Congress to deliver relief to Arizona workers and businesses.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with county health officials to receive an update and discuss their work to serve all impacted Arizonans.On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke to Gov. Doug Ducey to discuss how state and federal representatives can work together to ensure Arizona is fully equipped to respond to COVID-19.On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke with senior officials at the Phoenix VA to discuss COVID-19 preparation.On March 5, Sen. McSally voted to provide over $8 billion in emergency funding to combat the spread of coronavirus in Arizona and across the United States.On March 4, Sen. McSally asked Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to prioritize and prevent the spread of coronavirus within nursing homes and other long-term care facilities.On March 1, Sen. McSally spoke with Vice President Pence about the Administration's response to the spread of the disease and encouraged him to set up screening procedures for travelers to the U.S.On February 28, Sen. McSally sent a letter to the acting commissioner of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) urging him to ramp up their preparedness at the border and ports of entry.On February 18, Sen. McSally visited an infectious disease research facility in Flagstaff, which has developed genomics-based test that can easily be used in a doctor's office or hospital emergency room to diagnose the COVID-19 virus.