Fox News - Interview with Charles Payne: McSally: U.S. Best Equipped in World to Combat Coronavirus


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) spoke with Fox News' Charles Payne this afternoon about the nation's preparedness to combat coronavirus and the role the National Guard will play in containment efforts if deployed.

Download video of the interview HERE and see transcript below:

CHARLES PAYNE: The mayor of New Rochelle, New York dealing with the containment zone. Could we see more of this as the World Health Organization declares a global pandemic? Here to discuss, Senate Armed Services Committee member, Arizona's Republican Senator Martha McSally. Senator McSally, thanks for joining us.

SEN. MARTHA MCSALLY: Absolutely, Charles. Thanks for having me on.

PAYNE: We start hearing about the National Guard getting rolled out and we get very, very nervous. Where are we right now? Are there any protocols in place for this to continue to happen?

SEN. MCSALLY: Charles, absolutely there are. Look, the Administration is doing a great job and I will say in Arizona the coordination with our governor, localities is going well. Each governor does have National Guard, there's a lot of flexibility in how they can be used, but in this case, it is reported they're going to be cleaning surfaces and handing out meals to people. So we need to take that into context and also understand the authorities--it's not like the movies. You are not going to see active duty military involved. It's against a law called posse comitatus for them to be doing any law enforcement or anything like that. Case by case, we can support civil authorities in its very limited support roles. But again, I think it really is too early for anybody to be looking at that scenario.

PAYNE: And keeping them safe, keeping these folks who are being called in to do this kind of work.

SEN. MCSALLY: Exactly. The military also needs to make sure with the travel that happens with our military that they're ready to do their mission, protecting them and their families. And again, governors with their National Guard units--sometimes when they have a flood or other things, the military comes in and fills sandbags and delivers logistics. So there are roles there that will actually assist people if they are having to stay at home and you don't want them out at the grocery store, so this where the Guard can be useful.

PAYNE: President Trump just now tweeting and I want to share it with you, "I will be addressing the nation this evening at 9:00 p.m. Eastern from the Oval Office." Senator, what would you like to hear from the President and the commander in chief?

SEN. MCSALLY: Well, we are meeting with him constantly. We had lunch with the President, the Vice President yesterday. We're on the phone all the time. I think it is important the President needs to continue to let people know where to get their information. It's not time to panic, it is time to be prepared. You can go to coronavirus.gov to get the facts of the situation. Basic health practices of washing your hands and staying home if you're sick. If you are elderly or immune compromised, there's extra precautions you should be taking. The CDC, the FDA, the NIH, and others are coordinating to get test kits and other things out to local communities. That coordination has been extraordinary. I think people need to make sure they understand what the facts are, what we can do as a country. We are the best prepared of anybody. This originated in China, a lot of misinformation and failures on their part that made it spread globally. But we are the best equipped in the world to be able to take care of people and prevent it any further.

PAYNE: Amen, and to your point, I think it is up to government and folks like you to keep reminding people because unfortunately, there is a lot of misinformation out there. Senator, thank you so much.