Hearing of the Senate Committee on Aging - Opening Statement of Sen. Martha McSally, Hearing on Protecting Seniors from Social Security Impersonation Scams


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) today pressed U.S. officials on their efforts to protect seniors and vulnerable Arizonans from receiving calls from scammers looking to steal their hard-earned savings.

During a U.S. Senate Committee on Aging hearing on protecting seniors from social security impersonation scams, McSally questioned the inspector general for the Social Security Administration on the agency's scam investigation process.

The hearing comes in the wake of news that U.S. prosecutors filed for a restraining order against an Arizona telecommunications provider identified as facilitating fraudulent robocalls.

"Yesterday, we learned that the Justice Department has sought restraining orders against two companies--one of which is in Arizona," McSally said. "It facilitated hundreds of millions of fraudulent robocalls coming into the U.S. from overseas. TollFreeDeals.com in Arizona carried 720 million calls in just a 23-day period--most of which lasted for less than a second. Going after these companies is the first of its kind and I really applaud all the effort it took to get to this place."

"There's a special place in hell for people who are scamming our veterans and our seniors, and I'm disgusted that there is an Arizonan that is doing this. Can you share a little more about the challenges of identifying these awful companies that are preying upon our seniors? What more can be done?"

Gail S. Ennis, Inspector General for the Social Security Administration, said: "We've had agents working on this for quite some time. It's a lot of analysis and tracking things down. The new online form that the agency helped us develop has been instrumental in helping us move this case along a little bit better because we get more real-time information. Prior to getting real-time information from the online reporting, we had a lot of processing time and it took days to get things to us."