Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. McSALLY. Mr. President, on Wednesday, I voted against convicting  President Trump of the two Articles of Impeachment. The Senate has  spent the last 3 weeks in a Presidential impeachment trial for only the  third time in our Nation's 244-year history. Adam Schiff and House  Democrats demanded that the Senate overturn the results of the 2016  Presidential election, remove President Trump from office, and take him  off the 2020 ballot. These outcomes would be deeply disruptive to the  functioning of our government, would further divide our Nation, and  would prevent the American people from deciding who their President  should be at the ballot box. The American people collectively are  better fit to judge Donald Trump's Presidency as a whole than the  partisan politicians in Washington who brought forth this impeachment.  Despite the celebrations by Nancy Pelosi and House Democrats, this is a  grave and serious matter with implications far beyond this President,  this Congress, and this generation. 

  During the trial, I have remained committed to my oath to administer  impartial justice with the same seriousness as my oath to protect the  Constitution that I put my life on the line for in uniform. I listened  carefully to the presentations by both the House managers and the  President's counsel. I researched the law, reviewed historical  precedents, and asked questions. I discussed the evidence and the  issues with colleagues, and I came to my own conclusion. 

  The text, history, and purpose of the Constitution support acquittal.  Our founding document gives the House the sole power of impeachment and  the Senate the sole power to try all impeachments. Further, it requires  a two-thirds vote to convict and remove any President. The Founding  Fathers were concerned that impeachment would be frequently used as a  partisan political weapon. Because of this concern, they deliberated  whether to include Presidential impeachment at all. Then, they  considered the scope of the offenses subject to the grievous, divisive,  and disruptive punishment of decapitating one branch of our government.  At the constitutional convention, the Founders rejected vague,  standard-less terms like ``malpractice,'' ``neglect of duty,'' and  ``maladministration.'' James Madison, the father of our Constitution,  objected that vague terms would be ``equivalent to a tenure during the  pleasure of the Senate.'' Madison's view prevailed, and the framers  settled on ``treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors''  to minimize the risk of partisan abuse of impeachment. 

  Madison and the other Founders intended impeachment to be an  extremely disruptive last resort to save the Republic. What our  constitutional text and tradition teach us is that no President should  be impeached and removed from office without the support of both  parties and the American people. The reason that President Andrew  Johnson avoided conviction in his trial was that a mixed group of both  Democrats and Republicans voted to find the President not guilty.  Richard Nixon's impeachment inquiry vote passed the House 410 to 4.  Senator Chuck Schumer and Speaker Nancy Pelosi used to agree. ``I  expect history will show that we've lowered the bar on impeachment so  much, we've broken the seal on this extreme penalty so cavalierly--that  it will be used as a routine tool to fight political battles,'' Schumer  said in 1998. ``My fear is that when a Republican wins the White House,  Democrats will demand payback.'' Likewise, Speaker Pelosi stated last  March: ``Impeachment is so divisive to the country that unless there's  something so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan, I don't think  we should go down that path because it divides the country.'' Before a  few months ago, the consensus--articulated well by Senator Schumer and  Speaker Pelosi, was that a partisan impeachment is not a proper  impeachment. 

  The first Article of Impeachment for ``abuse of power'' does not  warrant removal from office and the ballot. The President is not  perfect, and the way in which he evidently attempted to address his  legitimate concerns about corruption involving the Bidens was  inappropriate. But even if all that the House Democrats allege in fact  occurred, even if John Bolton supports their allegations in his book,  even if other negative information comes out in the future, this does  not rise anywhere near the level of throwing the President out of  office or off the ballot for the first time in American history. Abuse  of power is a vague offense that the House managers have failed to  define with precision, but even accepting all the House managers' facts  as true, the alleged conduct does not justify conviction. 

  The second Article of Impeachment for ``obstruction of Congress'' is  frivolous and dangerous for the separation of powers that is  foundational to our Republic. Presidential clashes with Congress are  not just routine but are baked into our constitutional DNA. The  separation of powers painstakingly negotiated by our Founders is  working--and that is a positive thing. The Framers designed tension  between the coequal executive and legislative branches of our  government. Congress often wants access to everyone and everything in  the executive branch. The executive branch, in contrast, has legitimate  grounds to prevent certain advisors or documents from being hauled  before Congress. This article, if legitimized, would cede unprecedented  power to one Chamber and would permit the House to remove a President  from office any time that it does not get what it wants from the  President, exactly as James Madison feared. 

  Not only do the two articles fail, but I also cannot in good  conscience vote to convict because every step of this slapdash  impeachment process has been characterized by a lack of fundamental  fairness. I am troubled by the speed and cheerful eagerness with which  the House Democrats railroaded through their investigation and vote on  the articles. Unlike the Nixon and Clinton impeachments, the  investigation into the alleged wrongdoing was hastily conducted and  sloppily executed. The House Democrats made it clear that their  objective was to impeach the President by Christmas, and they trampled  over fairness and well-established legal processes on the way. After  initially failing to vote to authorize the inquiry, they went from a  vote authorizing an inquiry to impeaching the President in just 48  days. 

  What is more, the House Intelligence Committee failed to afford the  President with procedural rights. The House should have voted to  authorize the impeachment before investigating and should have  attempted the usual accommodation process to resolve the tensions with  the executive branch. The fundamentals of due process also include the  right to have counsel present during interviews with investigators, the  right to cross-examine witnesses, the right to call your own witnesses,  and the right to submit evidence. Here, House Democrats called only  their preferred witnesses, and they denied President Trump's counsel  the opportunity to be present for examinations. The Democrats  conducting the investigation also failed to subpoena individuals whom  they now claim are key witnesses. If Adam Schiff genuinely wanted to  hear from John Bolton, he should have subpoenaed him, should have  allowed the President to assert immunity, and should have gone to the  courts to sort out the competing claims. But that wouldn't have fit the  House Democrats' rushed timeline or narrative.  

  Once the process was handed over to the House Judiciary Committee,  House Democrats had a single hearing with law professors on December 4  before announcing on December 5 that they were committed to drafting  Articles of Impeachment. The committee approved the articles on  December 13. To put this in perspective, this meant that the relevant  committee spent 1 week drafting the articles before Speaker Pelosi  spent 4 weeks sitting on the articles. And on the Senate side, I am  likewise concerned that Adam Schiff, House Democrats, and Chuck Schumer  demanded that the Senate do the House's job and clean up the House's  shoddy work. Democrats have insisted that the Senate subpoena witnesses  that the House refused to call and that the Senate shut itself down for  weeks or months to allow for an investigation that the House should  have conducted before proceeding to a final impeachment vote. The House  Democrats showed testimony of 13 witnesses during the trial and  submitted 28,000 pages of documents. Having repeatedly stated that  their evidence was overwhelming, they then claimed that they needed  more witnesses and documents to make their case. You can't have it both  ways. 

  I am particularly troubled that in the Senate, the House managers  sought to have the Senate address issues of executive privilege in a  way that it has never done before. Executive privilege is a right-- asserted by all Presidents of different parties for decades--to prevent  close advisers from divulging confidential communications. But now, for  the first time in our Nation's history, the Democrats sought to have  the Senate displace the judiciary and resolve, by majority vote, highly  complicated questions on executive privilege--a task that would raise  substantial constitutional and institutional questions. 

  Even more disturbing was the House and Senate Democrats' casual  attempt to drag the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court into this  process. With a straight face, Adam Schiff repeatedly called for the  Chief Justice to be the decisionmaker on serious and complex issues, as  if attempting to remove a President and adjust the relationship between  the House and the Senate forever weren't enough. On top of this,  Democrats tried to bring the third branch of government into this  partisan political exercise with no concern for the seismic  implications for our Republic. 

  Although my vote against convicting President Trump lies with the  failure of House Democrats to prove impeachable conduct, I would be  remiss if I did not emphasize one crucial fact: The historical record  is clear that President Obama was weak on Russia and trivialized the  geopolitical threat posed by Putin. In 2009, Obama's Secretary of State  presented the Russian Foreign Minister with a ``reset'' button,  grinning alongside him in a photo opportunity. That year, President  Obama, at Russia's request, cancelled plans to build a missile defense  system in Eastern Europe. In 2011, an open microphone caught Obama  telling Russian President Medvedev that he would ``have more  flexibility'' with easing pressure on Russia--``particularly with  missile defense''--after the Presidential election. During the 2012  election, President Obama mocked his opponent for expressing  geopolitical concern about Russia. ``The 1980s are now calling to ask  for their foreign policy back,'' Obama said. Two years later, Russia  annexed Crimea and then invaded eastern Ukraine. Obama refused to  provide lethal aid to Ukraine to defend itself and his policies toward  Russia were a national security disaster. 

  In contrast, President Trump has placed unprecedented sanctions on  Russia and provided lethal weapons like the Javelin anti-tank missile  to Ukraine to defend itself. Several of the House managers who  attempted to remove President Trump for a minor delay in security- assistance funding, which was separate from the Javelin missile  purchases, voted against providing lethal aid to Ukraine in multiple  defense authorization and funding bills. Should we have impeached Obama  for not providing lethal aid to Ukraine? No. It was bad policy and weak  compared to what Trump has done but not impeachable. 

  This Presidential impeachment is historic for dangerous reasons. It  is the first partisan House impeachment with bipartisan opposition. It  is the first to deny procedural fairness protections to the President  during the House inquiry. It is disturbing because this entire matter  should have been handled via the normal oversight processes available  to Congress with subpoena disputes resolved in the courts. 

  With all the above in mind, I conclude that the President did not  engage in conduct rising to the level of treason, bribery, or other  high crimes and misdemeanors. Democrats have been trying to impeach  President Trump repeatedly since he was elected. They filed eight  impeachment resolutions for everything from undermining the freedom of  the press to using insulting language. 

  Our country has a Presidential election in 9 months, with the first  votes in Iowa already completed. The American people deserve to be  represented by the President they elected. They also deserve to choose  who is the President for the next 4 years. While I have concerns about  the upcoming 9 months, I am likewise concerned about the next 90 years.  Looking at the process that unfolded in the House and the  constitutional contortionism that the Democrats displayed in the  Senate, it would be a dangerous precedent to normalize how House  Democrats have carried out this process. If rewarded, this precedent  would trivialize impeachment, distort the relationship between the two  Chambers, and forever alter the relationship among the three branches.  In the future, any House controlled by the opposite party of the  President could trample on due process, ram through an unfair  impeachment for vague accusations, and demand that the Senate shut down  its legislative work to investigate on behalf of the House. No future  House of Representatives run by Democrats or Republicans should take  this path. 

  I have heard it said repeatedly throughout this trial that Benjamin  Franklin left Americans ``a Republic--if you can keep it.'' I vote to  keep it.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT