Letter to Alex Azar, Secretary of the Dept. of Health and Human Services, and Seema Verma, Admin. for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services - Sinema Leads Arizona Congressional Delegation in Urging Federal Government to Provide Relief for Arizona's Medicaid Providers


Dear Secretary Azar and Administrator Verma,

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic places substantial financial burdens on Arizona's health care systemand providers. While we understand that the distribution of some Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and EconomicSecurity (CARES) Act relief payments have begun, many hospitals and providers face severe cashshortages and uncertain futures. In the coming weeks, many facilities will have difficulties meetingpayroll and purchasing needed supplies to respond to the disaster. Therefore, we request that you giveimmediate consideration to the state of Arizona's request for a Section 1115 waiver to allow retainerpayments be made to essential Medicaid providers. The request was submitted on March 24, 2020 by ourstate's Medicaid program, known as the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System (AHCCCS).

Hospitals and health care providers have been asked to ramp up capacity in anticipation of a surge ofseriously ill COVID-19 patients. Since the first reported cases in Arizona, our health systems expendedconsiderable sums to acquire diagnostic tests, purchase additional personal protective equipment (PPE),and increase staff to ensure the safety and health of Arizona communities. In addition, on March 26,2020, Arizona Governor Doug Ducey issued Executive Order 2020-16 requiring all hospitals to increasebed capacity by 50 percent by April 24, 2020, further straining budgets. At the same time, all Arizonahealth care facilities experienced revenue declines of 30 to 40 percent, primarily related to thecancellation of elective procedures and reduced emergency department visits. Some estimates indicatethat hospitals in Arizona have seen a revenue reduction of $430 million to $575 million per month sinceMarch.

Retainer payments through AHCCCS could allow providers to address shortfalls resulting from the lossof revenues associated with fewer elective procedures and reduced service volumes. The payments willprovide an important source of supplemental funding to ensure provider sustainability during this time asmembers of the public stay at home and reduce unnecessary visits. While the recently passed coronaviruslegislation provided new flexibilities to enable the expansion of telehealth capabilities, many patients andproviders in rural Arizona lack access to reliable broadband. Additionally, telehealth cannot provide allservices. Ensuring that our health care providers can remain financially viable and keep their doors opento serve our communities during and after this public health emergency is critical. AHCCCS has a strongrecord of program integrity, and we trust its ability to approve retainer payments in a fiscally responsiblemanner for service providers most in need.

While some facilities may eventually be able to access new small business loans in the CARES Act, andmay have started to receive funding from the Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund and the Medicare Advance Payment program, it could take many weeks before the funding arrives and isavailable for AHCCCS providers. Some of our rural, safety net providers informed us that they may be indanger of closing their doors permanently before the end of this month. In accordance with all existingagency rules, regulations, and ethical guidelines, we therefore ask that you approve Arizona's request fora Section 1115 waiver to authorize retainer payments for all appropriate provider types, including but notlimited to hospitals, physicians, dentists, and home and other providers.

Sincerely,