McSally Secures Critical Relief for Arizona's Family Farmers, Ranchers


Following extensive advocacy by U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ), the Small Business Administration (SBA) announced on Monday the opening of a portal to allow farmers and ranchers to access the Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL) and EIDL Advance programs.  

SBA's EIDL portal is reopening as part of the Paycheck Protection Program and Healthcare Enhancement Act signed into law last week, which made agricultural businesses impacted by the coronavirus pandemic eligible for the federal loans and grants.

"Today's announcement is a crucial win for Arizona farmers and ranchers who have been hard hit by the coronavirus outbreak," McSally said. "While farms have not traditionally been eligible for EIDL, we created new requirements specific to coronavirus for a limited time in the CARES Act that we intended to also apply to small agricultural businesses and farms. I have pressed the administration to immediately implement this update and am glad to see they responded. Now Arizona farmers and ranchers can get access to these low interest loans to help them survive the pandemic."

McSally last month sent a letter to SBA Administrator Jovita Carranza requesting that she issue updated guidance to allow farmers to apply for EIDL as intended under the CARES Act. McSally also heavily advocated Senate leadership and other members of the Trump administration for this change to be made.

Agricultural businesses include businesses engaged in the legal production of food and fiber, ranching, and raising of livestock, aquaculture, and all other farming and agricultural related industries. Eligible agricultural businesses must have 500 or fewer employees.

The SBA will begin accepting new EIDL applications on a limited basis only, in order to provide unprecedented relief to U.S. agricultural businesses. For agricultural businesses that submitted an EIDL loan application through the streamlined application portal prior to the legislative change, SBA will move forward and process these applications without the need for re-applying. All other EIDL loan applications that were submitted before the portal stopped accepting new applications on April 15 will be processed on a first-in, first-out basis.