McSally Urges Proactive Wildfire Prevention Amidst COVID-19


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) today pressed the U.S. Forest Service on its wildfire prevention efforts given increased traffic to public lands during the pandemic.

During a U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources hearing, McSally asked what new mitigation techniques federal foresters are using this season.

"Social distancing guidelines have reinvigorated America's love for the outdoors," McSally said. "As stay-at-home orders have relaxed, Americans have flocked to campgrounds, national forests, and public lands for healthy socially distant recreation. We're seeing this around all the amazing places we have in Arizona. Many campgrounds and outdoor recreation sites in northern Arizona's cool pines reported their busiest days ever over Memorial Day weekend this year. In general, this is a good trend: more people outdoors enjoying public land and rebuilding our rural economies but more people in the forests also brings increased risk of human-caused wildfires. Mr. Phipps, what are the federal foresters doing differently this year to encourage safe recreation on public lands, which is greatly needed during this pandemic, while mitigating the high risks of human-caused fire?"

John Phipps, Deputy Chief of State and Private Forestry at the U.S. Forest Service, said: "We've accelerated our ad campaign with the Smokey Bear messaging to get the word out that it's really important, as always but more so in the pandemic, to be careful with fire so we can reduce the amount of human starts which are the majority of fire starts. We're increasing our patrols in the forest and in some cases where fire risk is at a particularly high level we would be preemptively banning campfires if needed."

McSally also highlighted Arizona's leadership in developing best practices that can be used throughout the country to keep wildland firefighters healthy during the pandemic.

"Because Arizona's fire season starts earlier than most of the rest of the West, our fire crews have already been successfully fighting wildfires while implementing COVID-19 mitigation measures where possible," McSally said. "As the fire season progresses, the debriefs and lessons learned from our crews in Arizona will help those around the West better prepare to successfully battle wildfires while mitigating COVID-19 impacts."

In addition, McSally asked Forest Service leadership about the status of Phase 2 of Arizona's biggest forest restoration project, the Four Forests Restoration Initiative (4FRI), and was told the Forest Service was on track to award a contract for Phase 2 in September.