McSally Announces $707 Million in Grants to AZ Hospitals, Health Providers


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) today announced the release of $707 million in grant funding for Arizona's hospitals and health care providers as part of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act.

This is a first payment to be released to state health care providers from the Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund in the CARES Act.

"We designed the CARES Act to support our frontline health care workers and hospitals, so they can continue to save lives," McSally said. "This first payment will allow our hospitals and health care heroes to use their discretion to purchase whatever they need to serve patients, and will allow our rural providers to keep the lights as we combat the coronavirus. I'll continue working with the Administration and our federal agencies to ensure that all the funding from our CARES Act is released quickly." 

On April 8, McSally called for a permanent global ban on wet markets.On April 8, McSally called for the immediate passage of $2.5 billion in additional funding for the Payment Protection Program.On April 7, McSally led a letter urging the SBA to include small tribal gaming enterprises in the Payment Protection Program.On April 7, McSally requested flexibility for states using Coronavirus Relief Fund.On April 6, McSally opposed the appointment of a Chinese official to the United Nation's Human Rights Group.On April 3, McSally requests relief for farmers to ensure the continuity of food supply during the COVID-19 pandemic.On April 2, McSally updated Arizonans on coronavirus relief resources during her telephone town hall.On April 2, Sen. McSally called for the immediate banning of China's wet markets following reports they have reopened despite being linked to the first cases of COVID-19 in the country's Hubei province.On April 2, Sen. McSally called on the World Health Organization's Director-General to resign after he ran interference for China on coronavirus.On March 30, Sen. McSally called on Health and Human Services Secretary Azar to provide immediate financial assistance to rural hospitals and clinics.On March 26, Sen. McSally urged the Federal Trade Commission to protect seniors from coronavirus-related scams.On March 26, Sen. McSally voted for the latest coronavirus relief package to provide swift aid to Arizona families.On March 24, Sen. McSally spoke on the floor urging swift passage of the relief package.On March 24, Sen. McSally introduced legislation to withhold pay from all U.S. Senators until a COVID-19 relief and support package was passed.On March 21, Sen. McSally shared resources for Arizonans in search of work.On March 20, Sen. McSally and Sen. Steve Daines sent a letter to Congress requesting that emergency funding for America's tribal communities be included in the latest coronavirus relief package.On March 19, Sen. McSally announced the availability of economic injury disaster loans for Arizona small businesses impacted by the coronavirus outbreak.On March 19, Sen. McSally issued a Public Service Announcement urging Arizonans to stay home to help flatten the curve to avoid overwhelming the nation's health care system and slow the spread of coronavirus.On March 19, Sen. McSally made a statement in support of the tax payment deadline extension.On March 18, Sen. McSally spoke with members of Arizona's National Federation of Independent Business to hear their concerns.On March 18, Sen. McSally spoke with the Arizona Multihousing Association about renter protections and eliminating evictions.On March 18, Sen. McSally called the Phoenix and Tucson Airport Authorities to hear how coronavirus is impacting their business.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with Arizona hospital CEOs to get feedback on what they need now, including access to testing and supplies.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with the Arizona Chamber of Commerce to discuss the efforts in Congress to deliver relief to Arizona workers and businesses.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with county health officials to receive an update and discuss their work to serve all impacted Arizonans.On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke to Gov. Doug Ducey to discuss how state and federal representatives can work together to ensure Arizona is fully equipped to respond to COVID-19.On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke with senior officials at the Phoenix VA to discuss COVID-19 preparation.On March 5, McSally voted to provide over $8 billion in emergency funding to combat the spread of coronavirus in Arizona and across the United States.On March 4, Sen. McSally asked Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to prioritize and prevent the spread of coronavirus within nursing homes and other long-term care facilities.On March 1, Sen. McSally spoke with Vice President Pence about the Administration's response to the spread of the disease and encouraged him to set up screening procedures for travelers to the U.S.On February 28, Sen. McSally sent a letter to the acting commissioner of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) urging him to ramp up their preparedness at the border and ports of entry.On February 18, Sen. McSally visited an infectious disease research facility in Flagstaff, which has developed genomics-based test that can easily be used in a doctor's office or hospital emergency room to diagnose the COVID-19 virus.