McSally Acts to Protect Servicemembers, Veterans from Scams in Financial Marketplace


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) yesterday announced her intent to introduce legislation to protect servicemembers and veterans from scams in the financial marketplace. 

The Financial Protection for Our Military Families Act would extend the authority of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to include the Military Lending Act (MLA), giving the federal agency authority to proactively seek out wrongdoers that take advantage of our active duty and retired servicemen and women.     

During a U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs hearing on the CFPB's semi-annual report to Congress, McSally spoke with CFPB Director Kathleen Kraninger about the effects of financial scams and predatory lending on veterans, their families, and combat readiness. 

 "I'm a veteran. I served 26 years and I've always said there's a special place in hell for people who prey upon our military and our veterans," said McSally. "I want to ensure that there are appropriate financial protections for our veterans and our military families as they're serving."

"The last thing they need to worry about -- especially when they're deployed -- is being preyed upon in the financial marketplace. I believe that Congress should very clearly codify into law that CFPB has clear supervisory authority over the Military Lending Act, which is something many Republicans and Democrats agree upon. If we were to pass this legislation, how would that impact your posture, specifically for your supervisory authority?" McSally asked. 

Director Kraninger replied: "Thank you Senator. It is something that I am seeking. It is the first legislative proposal that I sent to Congress, explicitly calling for that authority."

McSally asked: "So if you had that authority, how would that better protect veterans and the military?"

Director Kraninger replied: "It would really enable us to make that a pointed effort of our exams and it gets back to my push to prevent harm."

McSally asked: "Is there any downside in your view to us passing this and making it very clear that you have that authority of supervisory?"

Director Kraninger replied: "I certainly don't see a downside to Congress providing clarity, particularly where it's clear that everyone would like us to act, I would like to act, and I do not have the authority today."

McSally answered: "Nor do I, but I plan to lead on legislation to give that clear authority so we can protect my fellow servicemen and women and veterans and give you the authority you need to protect them."