McSally Speaks to Over 19,400 Arizonans


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) today spoke to over 19,400 Arizonans during her fifth telephone town hall as a U.S. Senator.

During the one-hour event, McSally addressed Arizonans' concerns about the rising cost of prescription drugs and discussed the legislation she introduced today to lower Arizonans' out-of-pocket costs and enforce prescription price transparency. 

"Right now, Arizonans are struggling to support their families and pay for much-needed prescriptions," McSally said. "During today's town hall, I heard again and again from Arizonans about the personal impact of rising drug costs. I introduced legislation today to hold pharmaceutical companies accountable and the lower the cost of prescription drugs. If you didn't get a chance to participate in this event, do not hesitate to reach out to my team and let us know how we can help. You can call my office at 602-952-2410 or visit my website at mcsally.senate.gov."

During the call, McSally asked participants to respond to a poll question about their prescription prices.

POLL RESULTS:

Do you believe your out-of-pocket prescription drug costs are simply too high?

70% of people responded yes.30% of people responded no.  BY THE NUMBERS:

Over 19,400 people participated in the event.18 people spoke live on the call with McSally and 146 Arizonans spoke to a member of McSally's team. Over 79,900 Arizonans received a voicemail from McSally in an attempt to invite them to participate.Today, McSally introduced the Lowering Prescription Drug Prices for America's Seniors and Families Act of 2020.BACKGROUND:

Sen. McSally's bill would lower the cost of prescription drugs for all Americans through four key provisions:

Allow Medicare to directly negotiate prices of drugs that are past their original patent expiration but still maintain a monopoly for that drug. Permit the safe re-importation of prescription drugs from Canada that meet FDA safety standards.Curb the ability of drug companies to abuse the patent system to delay competition and prevent cheaper alternatives from entering the market.Cap the out-of-pocket costs for prescription drugs for seniors on Medicare at $3,100 each year.