McSally, Kudlow Share Economic Relief and Outlook with Arizonans


U.S. SENATE -- U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) and top White House economic advisor, Larry Kudlow, spoke with over 31,000 Arizonans about the United States' economic forecast and the financial relief available to Arizonans during McSally's fourth telephone town hall since the coronavirus outbreak.

During the hour-long call, Kudlow announced that as of today, 497,000 small business loans amounting to over $128 billion have been approved through the popular Payment Protection Program. The small business relief program was officially launched last Friday.

Kudlow spoke of the potential for strong economic growth in the third and fourth quarters of this year.

 "I think when we have this rolling reopening, people will return to work. I think work is a virtue. I think people are very happy. You know the unemployment numbers were fabulous before this," Kudlow said. "We will get through this fairly soon and when we do we will continue to create a lot of growth and jobs. We're the best entrepreneurs in the world. We're the best technology inventors in the world. We're putting all our resources to work and so I look at this as an optimist."

McSally answered questions pertaining to the Payment Protection Program and status of relief checks, as well as on the testing capabilities available for essential workers. She also spoke to Marana Mayor Ed Honea about the resources available to smaller Arizona communities through the Coronavirus Relief Fund. 

"We will get through this crisis stronger than ever thanks to the ingenuity and resilience of our doctors, researchers, first responders, and all our essential workers," McSally said. "I'm grateful Larry Kudlow could join me on my telephone town hall today to share his perspective with Arizonans. I agree with him that this situation is not permanent, it is temporary. Our economy will bounce back and we will thrive again as a nation. I'll continue to update Arizonans on the resources available to them during this crisis and I encourage everyone to visit my website at mcsally.senate.gov for the latest updates on COVID-19." 

BY THE NUMBERS

31,065 Arizonans participated in the event172 Arizonans spoke to a member of Sen. McSally's team.15 people spoke live on the call with Sen. McSally.222,903 Arizonans received a voicemail from Sen. McSally inviting them to participate.On April 8, McSally called for a permanent global ban on wet markets.On April 8, McSally called for the immediate passage of $2.5 billion in additional funding for the Payment Protection Program.On April 7, McSally led a letter urging the SBA to include small tribal gaming enterprises in the Payment Protection Program.On April 7, McSally requested flexibility for states using Coronavirus Relief Fund.On April 6, McSally opposed the appointment of a Chinese official to the United Nation's Human Rights Group.On April 3, McSally requests relief for farmers to ensure the continuity of food supply during the COVID-19 pandemic.On April 2, McSally updated Arizonans on coronavirus relief resources during her telephone town hall.On April 2, Sen. McSally called for the immediate banning of China's wet markets following reports they have reopened despite being linked to the first cases of COVID-19 in the country's Hubei province.On April 2, Sen. McSally called on the World Health Organization's Director-General to resign after he ran interference for China on coronavirus.On March 30, Sen. McSally called on Health and Human Services Secretary Azar to provide immediate financial assistance to rural hospitals and clinics.On March 26, Sen. McSally urged the Federal Trade Commission to protect seniors from coronavirus-related scams.On March 26, Sen. McSally voted for the latest coronavirus relief package to provide swift aid to Arizona families.On March 24, Sen. McSally spoke on the floor urging swift passage of the relief package.On March 24, Sen. McSally introduced legislation to withhold pay from all U.S. Senators until a COVID-19 relief and support package was passed.On March 21, Sen. McSally shared resources for Arizonans in search of work.On March 20, Sen. McSally and Sen. Steve Daines sent a letter to Congress requesting that emergency funding for America's tribal communities be included in the latest coronavirus relief package.On March 19, Sen. McSally announced the availability of economic injury disaster loans for Arizona small businesses impacted by the coronavirus outbreak.On March 19, Sen. McSally issued a Public Service Announcement urging Arizonans to stay home to help flatten the curve to avoid overwhelming the nation's health care system and slow the spread of coronavirus.On March 19, Sen. McSally made a statement in support of the tax payment deadline extension.On March 18, Sen. McSally spoke with members of Arizona's National Federation of Independent Business to hear their concerns.On March 18, Sen. McSally spoke with the Arizona Multihousing Association about renter protections and eliminating evictions.On March 18, Sen. McSally called the Phoenix and Tucson Airport Authorities to hear how coronavirus is impacting their business.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with Arizona hospital CEOs to get feedback on what they need now, including access to testing and supplies.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with the Arizona Chamber of Commerce to discuss the efforts in Congress to deliver relief to Arizona workers and businesses.On March 17, Sen. McSally spoke with county health officials to receive an update and discuss their work to serve all impacted Arizonans.On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke to Gov. Doug Ducey to discuss how state and federal representatives can work together to ensure Arizona is fully equipped to respond to COVID-19.On March 13, Sen. McSally spoke with senior officials at the Phoenix VA to discuss COVID-19 preparation.On March 5, McSally voted to provide over $8 billion in emergency funding to combat the spread of coronavirus in Arizona and across the United States.On March 4, Sen. McSally asked Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to prioritize and prevent the spread of coronavirus within nursing homes and other long-term care facilities.On March 1, Sen. McSally spoke with Vice President Pence about the Administration's response to the spread of the disease and encouraged him to set up screening procedures for travelers to the U.S.On February 28, Sen. McSally sent a letter to the acting commissioner of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) urging him to ramp up their preparedness at the border and ports of entry.On February 18, Sen. McSally visited an infectious disease research facility in Flagstaff, which has developed genomics-based test that can easily be used in a doctor's office or hospital emergency room to diagnose the COVID-19 virus.