McSally Secures Key National Security, Arizona Wins in Annual Defense Bill


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ), who serves on the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC), released the following statement after helping to craft the annual National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that passed out of committee after an all-day session yesterday.

"Congress has no more important duty than providing for the defense of our nation," McSally said. "I fought to ensure that this annual defense bill includes crucial support to Arizona's men and women in uniform and to the critical missions at Arizona bases. In addition to a 3 percent pay raise for our troops, I championed improved support for our military families with special needs. Military family readiness is a key component to national readiness. Once again, with the credibility as an A-10 pilot and combat squadron commander, I successfully championed preventing proposed cuts to the A-10 fleet. This bill also contains strong support for our F-35 fleet, and new training grounds for the Arizona National Guard. This bill will prioritize infrastructure improvements at key airfields including Gila Bend Air Force Auxiliary Field, which is crucial to emergency operations for both Luke and Davis-Monthan Air Force Bases." 

"The United States must bring home key national security supply chains from our adversary China," McSally said. "I included language in this bill directing the Secretary of Defense to conduct an analysis of certain materials and technology sectors, such as personal protective equipment, medical supplies, and microelectronics to determine what actions are needed with respect to sourcing or investment to address industrial capacity. The Secretary of Defense must also submit a report to the Congressional defense committees assessing the merits of establishing a Functional Center for Security Studies in Irregular Warfare with the consideration of locating that functional center in Tempe, Arizona."

"Building on historic reforms I successfully included in last year's defense bill to combat sexual assault in our military, I secured new provisions to support victims of military sexual assault and improve the investigation process," McSally continued. "Chief among those is a mandate that the Department of Defense maintain military justice records, regardless of the cases' outcome, for not less than 15 years, and language to protect victims of sexual assault at military service academies from being placed in classes with their assailants."