McSally: China to Blame for Deaths of Thousands of Americans


U.S. Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ) spoke with Fox Business's Neil Cavuto this afternoon about the devastation facing the U.S. as a result of the reckless response to the COVID-19 outbreak by both the Chinese government and the World Health Organization.

NEIL CAVUTO: Let me ask you about it, how are the virus cases in Arizona and where do things stand now?

SEN. MARTHA MCSALLY: Well, they're growing. I'm talking to constituents every single day. Just like every state, we need additional testing capability. Our health care workers on the front lines are just doing amazing things all across the country and our hearts continue to be with the families who are suffering from coronavirus and those who have lost their lives. So we're doing everything we can as a state to get ready for a surge if needed, but also doing our part to flatten the curve.

CAVUTO: What will it take in your opinion, Senator, just your opinion, no one is right or wrong on these things, to get people to unwind from the stay at home provisions? The President of course is holding out to the end of April to reassess that. Are you comfortable, maybe, slowly returning people back if we have, you know, a slowdown in the increase in cases, not a reversal of cases but say we have consistent period?I guess the authorities say 14 straight days where the increase is ebbing, is that good enough for you?

MCSALLY: Well, Neil, we're talking to the experts. We're learning more about this virus every day. I think listening to them and just engaging, I think we need widespread testing, so we know who has it. We need to protect our front line health care workers and nursing home staff. We need to protect the vulnerable. We also need widespread antigen testing so we know who had it and is now likely to be immune. We're learning more about the virus every day and, unfortunately, because of China's communist coverup of it, we could have learned all of this back in January. So as our experts understand the virus more and more we'll be able to make more targeted decisions moving forward. Unfortunately, again, it could have been earlier but China put us in this position because of their lies and the coverups and the complicit World Health Organization.

CAVUTO: But it might not have been just the World Health Organization. Now we have reports that Peter Navarro was warning the President of a danger, of a virus, that could have huge impact on the economy to say nothing of the health of Americans. What do you think of those developments, if true? We don't know, Senator, to be fair if this got up to the level of the President's attention, but does it trouble you?

MCSALLY: Neil, this is what I know: I learned the day I entered the military, never trust a communist. China is to blame for this pandemic and the death of thousands of Americans. They knew about this virus. Their dangerous, inhumane, and deadly wet markets where live and dead animals are being sold allowed this to spread, allowed people to continue to travel. [They] locked down their doctors and did not allow them to speak out and punished them when they did. They then used a propaganda machine and kicked out journalists so the rest of the world would not understand what is happening with this pandemic, and it looks like the World Health Organization was parroting their propaganda, so that is what we do know. One thing is for sure, we would be in a better place as a country, clear-eyed, realistic, to attack this virus and kill this virus and minimize the economic impact, if China, communist China, and the World Health Organization wasn't so reckless.

Background:

On April 1, Sen. McSally called for the Director-General of the World Health Organization to resign.