Don't Mess with My Home Appliances Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700167/dont-mess-with-my-home-appliances-act


Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Guthrie for yielding the  time and for his support of my bill, the Home Appliance Protection and  Affordability Act.

Mr. Speaker, I will set the stage on exactly why this bill is  necessary. In 1975, Congress established the Energy Policy and  Conservation Act, or EPCA, to increase American energy production,  encourage efficient energy use, and bolster national security.

Under EPCA, the Department of Energy sets efficiency standards for 60  product categories. These standards must be cost-effective,  significantly save energy, and be technologically feasible.

However, under the Biden administration, the EPCA language was  persistently misinterpreted to impose more stringent standards on the  use of conventional home appliances and force the costly rush-to-green  agenda on the American people in their outright war on the fossil fuel  industry.

All of this was done with the stroke of a pen and threatened the  affordability and availability of reliable appliances that Americans  rely on every day. I can tell you firsthand. I was in my district last  week. My constituents in the 12th District of Georgia do not need the  Federal Government to tell them which household appliances will best  meet the needs of their families, period.

One example is that I have a small business in my district, and they  have warehouses and whatnot that they rent. The owner of that small  business explained that he has a 5-year-old HVAC unit, heating,  ventilation, and air-conditioning. He had a problem with it, and the  contractor came out and said that they had a little problem. The unit  is 5 years old, and he can't get the part to fix it.

Mr. Speaker, I will tell you the end of the story. He has to replace  the entire unit, and it is going to cost three times as much as it cost  5 years ago. Are you telling me that this is going to save money? You  have to be kidding.

The second example is the gas stove. They want to do away with our  gas stoves. They said that you can't cook with gas anymore, and there  was such an uproar that we didn't hear about that anymore.

In the third example, I have a little place up here that is about  1,400 square feet, and the unit went out. Of course, it couldn't keep  it warm anyway because it is an electric heat pump, mandated by this  city, and I have a gas line right in front of my house. I told the  contractor that I want to put in gas heat, like I have back home in  Georgia. He said that you can't do it.

A heat pump will not work below 32 degrees. Plus, you have a total  electrical system when the heat pump shuts down.

Why are we running short of electricity? Because they aimed  everything at electricity. There was a war on our gas industry, or  fossil fuel industry, and that is the very industry that reduced our  carbon footprint by 1,400 tons. The nearest nation to us is 200 tons.

Mr. Speaker, they are trying to put the very people who put us in  this position out of business.

The Home Appliance Protection and Affordability Act is a necessary  measure to prevent future administrations, like the past one, from  issuing burdensome standards on household appliances that would drive  up costs and reduce availability. It is that simple.

The naysayers, or those who will vote in opposition to this bill  today, will stand here and tell you that this bill isn't necessary.  They will question  why this is what we are voting on this week. To that, I say that they  can thank the previous administration.

The egregious appliance standards like those issued under President  Biden's Department of Energy have caused homeowners to spend 34 percent  more on appliances than they did 15 years ago, while also having to  replace them at a faster rate, like the story I told about my  constituent. Even more, these standards were neither economically  justifiable nor significantly more efficient.

I would challenge anyone in this Chamber to find someone who wants  the Federal Government to tilt the scales on what appliances they can  and cannot buy while also increasing costs and reducing reliability.

Mr. Speaker, no amount of fear-mongering on energy efficiency and  climate standards will justify the 4-year war waged on domestic energy,  the use of natural gas, and consumer choice under the Biden-Harris  Presidency. From gas stoves, refrigerators, and freezers to washers,  dryers, dishwashers, and air-conditioners, no household appliance was  off-limits in their pursuit of the green new scam.

We cannot allow that to happen again, and I have been proud to work  closely with House Republicans this last year to right the ship and  undo the many regulatory burdens that have caused the cost of living to  skyrocket.

That is why we are here today: to protect consumer choice, lower  costs, and ensure that American families have the freedom to decide  what suits the needs of their families.

Mr. Speaker, I am thankful to Energy and Commerce Committee Chairmen  Guthrie and Latta for their support of this bill, House Republican  leadership for bringing it to the floor, and all of my colleagues who  have offered their support. I urge a ``yes'' vote on H.R. 4626.