Emergency Reporting Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701894/emergency-reporting-act


Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 5200) to direct the Federal Communications Commission to  issue reports after activation of the Disaster Information Reporting  System and to make improvements to network outage reporting, and for  other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 5200

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Reporting Act''.       SEC. 2. REPORTS AFTER ACTIVATION OF DISASTER INFORMATION                     REPORTING SYSTEM; IMPROVEMENTS TO NETWORK                     OUTAGE REPORTING.

(a) Reports After Activation of Disaster Information       Reporting System.--

(1) Public hearings.--

(A) Requirement.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the       Commission shall hold not less than 1 public hearing relating       to all events during the preceding 1-year period for which       the System was activated for not less than 7 days.

(B) Inclusion of certain individuals in hearings.--For each       public hearing held under subparagraph (A), the Commission       shall consider including--

(i) representatives of State governments, local       governments, or Indian tribal governments in areas affected       by such events;

(ii) residents of the areas affected by such events, or       consumer advocates;

(iii) providers of communications services affected by such       events;

(iv) faculty of institutions of higher education;

(v) representatives of other Federal agencies;

(vi) electric utility providers;

(vii) communications infrastructure companies; and

(viii) first responders, emergency managers, or 9-1-1       directors in areas affected by such events.

(2) Reports.--Not later than 120 days after the date on       which a public hearing held under paragraph (1) concludes,       the Commission shall issue a report that includes, with       respect to the events to which such hearing relates and to       the extent known without requiring the collection of       additional information--

(A) the number and duration of any outages of--

(i) broadband internet access service;

(ii) interconnected VoIP service;

(iii) commercial mobile service; and

(iv) commercial mobile data service;

(B) the approximate number of users and the amount of       communications infrastructure potentially affected by an       outage described in subparagraph (A);

(C) the number and duration of any outages that prevent       emergency communications centers from receiving caller       location or number information or receiving emergency calls       and routing such calls to emergency service personnel; and

(D) any recommendations of the Commission on how to improve       the resiliency of affected communications services or       networks.

(3) Development of reports.--In developing a report       required by paragraph (2), the Commission shall consider       information collected by the Commission with respect to the       events to which such report relates, including information       collected through the System and the relevant public hearing.

(4) Publication of reports.--

(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B),       the Commission shall publish each report required by       paragraph (2) on the website of the Commission upon the       issuance of such report.

(B) Exclusion.--In publishing a report under subparagraph       (A), the Commission shall exclude information that is       otherwise exempt from public disclosure under the       rules of the Commission or that was submitted to the       Commission with a proper request for confidential treatment       as described in section 0.459 of title 47, Code of Federal       Regulations (or any successor regulation).

(b) Improvements to Network Outage Reporting.--Not later       than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the       Commission shall conduct an investigation and publish on the       website of the Commission a report on--

(1) the value to public safety agencies of originating       service providers including visual information to improve       situational awareness about outages in the notifications       provided to emergency communications centers, as required by       the rules of the Commission;

(2) the volume and nature of 9-1-1 outages that may go       unreported under the outage notification thresholds of the       Commission;

(3) the balance between the value described in paragraph       (1) to public safety agencies and the burden and practicality       for originating service providers of including visual       information in outage notifications as described in such       paragraph; and

(4) recommended changes to the rules of the Commission to       address the matters reported under paragraphs (1) and (2).

(c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be       construed to provide the Commission or any other person       authority over any provider of broadband internet access       service beyond what is specifically authorized under this       section.

(d) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Broadband internet access service.--The term       ``broadband internet access service'' has the meaning given       such term in section 8.1(b) of title 47, Code of Federal       Regulations (or any successor regulation).

(2) Commercial mobile data service.--The term ``commercial       mobile data service'' has the meaning given such term in       section 6001 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation       Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1401).

(3) Commercial mobile service.--The term ``commercial       mobile service'' has the meaning given such term in section       332(d) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 332(d)).

(4) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal       Communications Commission.

(5) Emergency communications center.--

(A) In general.--The term ``emergency communications       center'' means--

(i) a facility that--

(I) is designated to receive a 9-1-1 request for emergency       assistance; and

(II) performs 1 or more of the functions described in       subparagraph (B); or

(ii) a public safety answering point (as defined in section       222 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 222)).

(B) Functions described.--The functions described in this       subparagraph are the following:

(i) Processing and analyzing 9-1-1 requests for emergency       assistance and information and data related to such requests.

(ii) Dispatching appropriate emergency response providers.

(iii) Transferring or exchanging 9-1-1 requests for       emergency assistance and information and data related to such       requests with 1 or more other emergency communications       centers and emergency response providers.

(iv) Analyzing any communications received from emergency       response providers.

(v) Supporting incident command functions.

(6) Indian tribal government; local government.--The terms       ``Indian tribal government'' and ``local government'' have       the meanings given such terms in section 102 of the Robert T.       Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42       U.S.C. 5122).

(7) Interconnected voip service; state.--The terms       ``interconnected VoIP service'' and ``State'' have the       meanings given such terms in section 3 of the Communications       Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 153).

(8) Outage.--The term ``outage'' has the meaning given such       term in section 4.5 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations       (or any successor regulation).

(9) System.--The term ``System'' means the Disaster       Information Reporting System of the Commission.

Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, H.R. 5200, the  Emergency Reporting Act, led by Representative Matsui.

The reliability and resiliency of our emergency communications  infrastructure are paramount. This legislation would direct the FCC to  hold hearings and issue reports related to 911 outages after natural  disasters and to make recommendations to improve outage reporting,  bolster resiliency, and enhance coordination with State and local  emergency officials. This will help make our communications systems  stronger in the face of natural disasters.

Madam Speaker, this legislation has strong bipartisan support. I  encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve the balance  of my time.

Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I thank Ms. Matsui and my colleague from  Virginia for their support of this bill. In closing, I encourage a  ``yes'' vote on this bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.