Expediting Federal Broad- Band Deployment Reviews Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701934/expediting-federal-broad-band-deployment-reviews-act


Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1681) to require the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for  Communications and Information to establish an interagency strike force  to ensure that certain Federal land management agencies, including the  organizational units of such agencies, prioritize the review of  requests for communications use authorizations, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1681

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Expediting Federal Broadband       Deployment Reviews Act''.       SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF INTERAGENCY STRIKE FORCE.

(a) Interagency Strike Force.--

(1) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date       of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall       establish an interagency strike force to ensure that each       Federal land management agency, including each organizational       unit of the agency, prioritizes the review of requests for       communications use authorizations.

(2) Members.--The strike force shall be composed of--

(A) the Assistant Secretary;

(B) the head of each Federal land management agency;

(C) a designee of the Secretary of Agriculture, other than       the Chief of the Forest Service; and

(D) a designee of the Secretary of the Interior, other than       the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.

(3) Duties.--The duties of the strike force shall include--

(A) conducting periodic calls between the members of the       strike force to ensure that each Federal land management       agency, including each organizational unit of the agency,       prioritizes the review of requests for communications use       authorizations;

(B) establishing objective and reasonable goals for the       review of requests for communications use authorizations; and

(C) monitoring, and facilitating the accountability of,       each Federal land management agency, including each       organizational unit of the agency, with respect to meeting       such goals.

(4) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the       date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary       shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a       report on the effectiveness of the strike force in ensuring       that each Federal land management agency, including each       organizational unit of the agency, prioritizes the review of       requests for communications use authorizations.

(b) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term       ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--

(A) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of       Representatives;

(B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of       Representatives;

(C) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation       of the Senate;

(D) the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the       Senate;

(E) the Committee on Agriculture of the House of       Representatives; and

(F) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry       of the Senate.

(2) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary''       means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications       and Information.

(3) Communications facility.--The term ``communications       facility'' has the meaning given the term ``communications       facility installation'' in section 6409(d) of the Middle       Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C.       1455(d)).

(4) Communications use.--The term ``communications use''       means the placement and operation of a communications       facility.

(5) Communications use authorization.--The term       ``communications use authorization'' means an easement,       right-of-way, lease, license, or other authorization--

(A) provided by a Federal land management agency;

(B) to locate or modify a communications facility on       covered land; and

(C) for the primary purpose of authorizing the occupancy       and use of such land for communications use.

(6) Covered land.--The term ``covered land'' means--

(A) public lands; and

(B) National Forest System land.

(7) Federal land management agency.--The term ``Federal       land management agency'' means each of the following:

(A) The Bureau of Land Management.

(B) The Forest Service.

(8) National forest system.--The term ``National Forest       System'' has the meaning given that term in section 11(a) of       the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of       1974 (16 U.S.C. 1609(a)).

(9) Organizational unit.--The term ``organizational unit''       means--

(A) with respect to the Bureau of Land Management--

(i) a State office;

(ii) a regional office;

(iii) a district office; or

(iv) a field office; and

(B) with respect to the Forest Service--

(i) a regional office;

(ii) a management unit; or

(iii) a ranger district office.

(10) Public lands.--The term ``public lands'' has the       meaning given that term in section 103 of the Federal Land       Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).

(11) Strike force.--The term ``strike force'' means the       interagency strike force established under subsection (a)(1).

Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1681, the Expediting  Federal Broadband Deployment Reviews Act, sponsored by Representatives  Evans and Craig.

This legislation establishes an interagency strike force to help  prioritize permitting reviews for deploying broadband on Federal lands.

Broadband has become an essential part of everyday life. We need  broadband for work, to stay connected with loved ones, and even for  healthcare and education. However, too many Americans still lack access  to broadband. Thus, Congress has provided billions of dollars to ensure  that every American gets connected.

Deploying on Federal lands is a critical part of closing the digital  divide. Many unserved communities are near Federal lands, and thus  broadband providers must transverse these lands to reach these unserved  homes and businesses.

Unfortunately, deploying broadband on Federal lands can be  burdensome, particularly when it comes to the permitting process.  Providers have testified that this complicated process moves slowly,  and they are often left in the dark on the status of their  applications. As a result, unserved communities are left without the  broadband they need as providers wait for agencies to approve their  permits.

We need to reform the broadband permitting process. Not only do we  need to streamline how we review permits, we need to ensure the  agencies that manage Federal lands prioritize these reviews. H.R. 1681,  the Expediting Federal Broadband Deployment Reviews Act, will help  ensure this happens.

H.R. 1681 directs the National Telecommunications and Information  Administration to create an interagency strike force that includes the  head of each Federal land management agency to ensure that they are  prioritizing the review of broadband-permitting applications. In  addition to holding periodic calls, the strike force will establish  goals for the review of the requests, and monitor and hold each agency  accountable for these goals.

This strike force is necessary to expedite the permitting process so  that every American has access to broadband.

Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from  Colorado (Mr. Evans) to speak on the bill.

Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Virginia (Ms.  McClellan) for her support of this important legislation. I, too, urge  a ``yes'' vote on this important bill, H.R. 1681, for immediate  approval.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.