Federal Broadband Deployment Tracking Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701931/federal-broadband-deployment-tracking-act


Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1343) to require the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for  Communications and Information to submit to Congress a plan for the  Assistant Secretary to track the acceptance, processing, and disposal  of certain Form 299s, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1343

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Federal Broadband Deployment       Tracking Act''.       SEC. 2. PLAN FOR ASSISTANT SECRETARY TO TRACK THE ACCEPTANCE,                     PROCESSING, AND DISPOSAL OF CERTAIN FORM 299S.

(a) Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall submit       to the appropriate congressional committees a plan containing       a description of--

(1) the process by which the Assistant Secretary proposes       to--

(A) track the acceptance, processing, and disposal of each       Form 299 for communications use authorization;

(B) provide applicants additional transparency with respect       to the status of the applicable Form 299 for communications       use authorization; and

(C) most expeditiously implement the plan; and

(2) any potential barriers to implementing the plan that       are identified by the Assistant Secretary.

(b) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term       ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--

(A) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of       Representatives; and

(B) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation       of the Senate.

(2) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary''       means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications       and Information.

(3) Communications facility.--The term ``communications       facility'' has the meaning given the term communications       facility installation in section 6409(d) of the Middle Class       Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1455(d)).

(4) Communications use.--The term ``communications use''       means the placement and operation of a communications       facility.

(5) Communications use authorization.--The term       ``communications use authorization'' means an easement,       right-of-way, lease, license, or other authorization--

(A) provided by the Secretary of the Interior or the       Secretary of Agriculture;

(B) to locate or modify a communications facility on       covered land; and

(C) for the primary purpose of authorizing the occupancy       and use of such covered land for communications use.

(6) Covered land.--The term ``covered land'' means--

(A) public lands; and

(B) National Forest System land.

(7) Form 299.--The term ``Form 299'' means the form       established under section 6409(b)(2)(A) of the Middle Class       Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C.       1455(b)(2)(A)), or any successor form.

(8) National forest system.--The term ``National Forest       System'' has the meaning given the term in section 11(a) of       the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of       1974 (16 U.S.C. 1609(a)).

(9) Public lands.--The term ``public lands'' means land       under the management of--

(A) the Bureau of Land Management;

(B) the National Park Service;

(C) the United States Fish and Wildlife Service; or

(D) the Bureau of Reclamation.

Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1343, the Federal  Broadband Deployment Tracking Act, sponsored by Representatives Pfluger  and Soto.

This bill requires the National Telecommunications and Information  Administration to develop a plan for tracking the broadband permitting  application on Federal lands.

Broadband is essential to participate in everyday activities. Most  Americans rely on their broadband connection for their work,  healthcare, education, and more.

Congress has provided billions of dollars to close the digital  divide. Indeed, NTIA is in the process of administering the BEAD  Program to connect every unserved and underserved American.

Too often, broadband deployment is delayed or prevented due to  unnecessary red tape in the form of burdensome permitting requirements.  Federal agencies are some of the biggest culprits behind this red tape,  delaying the deployment of broadband to the communities that most need  it.

The process of application and approval for some of these permits  has, unfortunately, become duplicative, ineffective, and time- consuming. Worse, there is no transparency in this process.

Opaque Federal permitting review processes leave applicants in the  dark on whether their application is complete, where it is in the  review process, and when they can expect a final decision. This  uncertainty is not good for the planning of projects.

The Federal Broadband Deployment Tracking Act addresses these  concerns by requiring NTIA to develop a plan to improve the tracking of  Federal broadband permit applications. This plan would include a  process to give applicants transparency into the status of their  reviews, which would improve the speed and disposition of applications.  This is essential to provide clarity into the Federal permitting  process.

This is an important moment in time, and we must do all that we can  to ensure that every American can access reliable broadband.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I thank  the sponsors for their work on this bill.

Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Virginia for  her support for H.R. 1343, and I urge a ``yes'' vote on this bill. I  yield back the balance of my time.