First Responder Network Authority Reauthorization Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701925/first-responder-network-authority-reauthorization-act-of-2026


Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 7386) to amend the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act  of 2012 to reauthorize the First Responder Network Authority, and for  other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 7386

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

(a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``First       Responder Network Authority Reauthorization Act of 2026''.

(b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act       is as follows:  Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. Sec. 2. Reauthorization of First Responder Network Authority. Sec. 3. Authority of NTIA over First Responder Network Authority. Sec. 4. Board of First Responder Network Authority. Sec. 5. Associate Administrator. Sec. 6. Components of nationwide public safety broadband network. Sec. 7. Flexibility in establishing fee amounts. Sec. 8. Reports to Congress on First Responder Network Authority. Sec. 9. Business continuity and disaster recovery plan. Sec. 10. Outage notifications. Sec. 11. Submission to Congress of FirstNet contract. Sec. 12. Definitions.       SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF FIRST RESPONDER NETWORK AUTHORITY.

Section 6206 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job       Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1426) is amended--

(1) in subsection (f), by striking ``the date that is 15       years after the date of enactment of this title'' and       inserting ``September 30, 2037''; and

(2) in subsection (g)--

(A) by striking ``Not later than 10 years after the date of       the enactment of this Act'' and inserting ``Not later than 7       years after the date of the enactment of the First Responder       Network Authority Reauthorization Act of 2026'';

(B) by striking ``15-year sunset'' and inserting       ``termination''; and

(C) by adding at the end the following: ``Such report shall       also contain recommendations for Congress and the NTIA       regarding preparations for the expiration of any contract       between the First Responder Network Authority and the       FirstNet contractor with respect to building, operating, or       maintaining the nationwide public safety broadband       network.''.       SEC. 3. AUTHORITY OF NTIA OVER FIRST RESPONDER NETWORK                     AUTHORITY.

(a) In General.--Subtitle B of title VI of the Middle Class       Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1421 et       seq.) is amended--

(1) in section 6204(a), by striking ``as an independent       authority'';

(2) in section 6206--

(A) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g) as       subsections (e), (f), (g), and (h), respectively;

(B) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:

``(d) Actions Subject to Approval of NTIA.--

``(1) In general.--Any action taken by the First Responder       Network Authority shall be subject to the approval of the       NTIA.

``(2) Manner of approval.--

``(A) Prior approval.--Except as provided in subparagraph       (B), the First Responder Network Authority may not take an       action unless the NTIA has provided prior approval for such       action.

``(B) Actions for which prior approval not required.--The       First Responder Network Authority may take any of the       following actions without prior approval by the NTIA:

``(i) Deploying emergency response capabilities and       resources to emergencies and disasters.

``(ii) Setting strategic priorities and conducting planning       activities with respect to the nationwide public safety       broadband network.

``(iii) Maintaining and updating the First Responder       Network Authority Strategic Plan and Roadmap or a similar       document with respect to the growth, evolution, and       advancement of the nationwide public safety broadband       network.

``(iv) Establishing performance expectations and investment       priorities with respect to the nationwide public safety       broadband network.

``(v) Developing and adopting the annual budget of the       First Responder Network Authority and outlining all network       reinvestment decisions and task orders with respect to the       nationwide public safety broadband network.

``(vi) Making written recommendations to the NTIA for       action upon network reinvestment decisions and task orders       with respect to the nationwide public safety broadband       network.

``(vii) Managing the device and application ecosystem with       respect to the nationwide public safety broadband network.

``(viii) Receiving reports from the Public Safety Advisory       Committee or other advisory committees established by the       First Responder Network Authority.

``(ix) Communicating with and conducting outreach to public       safety entities and public safety professionals.

``(x) Reporting to and briefing Congress, in accordance       with this subtitle.

``(xi) Such other actions as the NTIA may specify.

``(C) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this paragraph may       be construed to alter the requirement of subsection (c) of       section 6208 that fees may only be assessed under such       section if approved by the NTIA.''; and

(C) in subsection (h) (as so redesignated), by striking       ``subsection (f)'' and inserting ``subsection (g)''; and

(3) in section 6208(d)--

(A) by striking ``The First Responder Network Authority''       and inserting the following:

``(1) In general.--The First Responder Network Authority'';       and

(B) by adding at the end the following:

``(2) NTIA action on network reinvestment decisions and       task orders.--Not later than 60 days after the date on which       the NTIA receives a written recommendation from the First       Responder Network Authority for action upon a network       reinvestment decision or task order with respect to the       nationwide public safety broadband network, the NTIA shall       take action upon such network reinvestment decision or task       order.''.

(b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 6205(b)(2) of the Middle       Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C.       1425(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``If'' and inserting       ``Subject to section 6206(d), if''.

(c) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section       shall apply with respect to--

(1) except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection,       actions taken by the First Responder Network Authority on or       after the date of the enactment of this Act; and

(2) in the case of paragraph (2) of section 6208(d) of the       Middle Class Tax Relief and Job       Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1428(d)), as added by this       section, written recommendations received by the National       Telecommunications and Information Administration on or after       the date of the enactment of this Act.       SEC. 4. BOARD OF FIRST RESPONDER NETWORK AUTHORITY.

(a) Public Safety Professionals.--Section 6204(b)(2)(A) of       the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47       U.S.C. 1424(b)(2)(A)) is amended by amending clause (iv) to       read as follows:

``(iv) ensure that, on and after the date that is 3 years       after the date of the enactment of the First Responder       Network Authority Reauthorization Act of 2026, the Board       includes not fewer than 5 individuals serving as State,       local, or Tribal public safety professionals in the fields of       fire response services, emergency medical services, emergency       management services, law enforcement, or 9-1-1 services.''.

(b) Staggered Terms.--

(1) In general.--Section 6204(c)(2) of the Middle Class Tax       Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1424(c)(2)) is       amended--

(A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking ``3 years'' and       inserting ``not more than 3 years''; and

(B) by amending subparagraph (D) to read as follows:

``(D) Staggered terms.--In making appointments under       subsection (b)(1)(D), the Secretary of Commerce shall ensure       that the terms of office of individuals so appointed are       staggered, as the Secretary considers appropriate to reduce       the likelihood that the terms of office of more than 4 such       individuals will expire at the same time.''.

(2) Applicability.--The amendments made by this subsection       shall apply with respect to appointments made on or after the       date of the enactment of this Act.       SEC. 5. ASSOCIATE ADMINISTRATOR.

(a) In General.--Section 6204 of the Middle Class Tax       Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1424) is       amended by adding at the end the following:

``(h) Associate Administrator.--

``(1) In general.--The First Responder Network Authority       shall have an Associate Administrator, who shall be a career       appointee (as defined in section 3132(a) of title 5, United       States Code) in the Senior Executive Service and who shall be       appointed by the Assistant Secretary from among 3 individuals       nominated by the Board. The Assistant Secretary shall make       such appointment under the merit procedures applicable to       appointing such career appointees under subchapter II of       chapter 31 of such title 5.

``(2) Duties.--The Associate Administrator shall do the       following:

``(A) Subject to the direction of the Board and approval by       the Assistant Secretary under section 6206(d), manage the       staff and operations of the First Responder Network Authority       in order to ensure that the duties and responsibilities of       the First Responder Network Authority are carried out.

``(B) Serve as a liaison between the Board and the       Assistant Secretary, including with respect to ensuring       compliance by the First Responder Network Authority with       section 6206(d).

``(3) Annual performance reviews.--The NTIA, in       consultation with the Chair of the Board and any committee of       the Board relating to governance and risk, shall conduct an       annual performance review of the Associate Administrator.''.

(b) Continuation in Office.--The individual serving as the       Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of the First       Responder Network Authority on the day before the date of the       enactment of this Act may serve as the Associate       Administrator under subsection (h) of section 6204 of the       Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47       U.S.C. 1424), as added by subsection (a), on and after such       date of enactment without the need for appointment under such       subsection (h).       SEC. 6. COMPONENTS OF NATIONWIDE PUBLIC SAFETY BROADBAND                     NETWORK.

Section 6202(b) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job       Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1422(b)) is amended, in the       matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``and initially       consists of'' and inserting ``and consists of such       technologies and services as necessary to enable secure,       interoperable, resilient, and prioritized broadband       communications for public safety entities, including''.       SEC. 7. FLEXIBILITY IN ESTABLISHING FEE AMOUNTS.

Section 6208(b) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job       Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1428(b)) is amended--

(1) by inserting ``(or other period specified by the First       Responder Network Authority)'' after ``for each fiscal       year''; and

(2) by striking ``the fiscal year involved'' and inserting       ``such fiscal year (or other period)''.       SEC. 8. REPORTS TO CONGRESS ON FIRST RESPONDER NETWORK                     AUTHORITY.

(a) Additional Matters to Be Included in First Responder       Network Authority Audit Report.--Section 6209(b)(2) of the       Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47       U.S.C. 1429(b)(2)) is amended--

(1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; and'' and       inserting a semicolon;

(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end       and inserting ``; and''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(D) an evaluation of the performance of the FirstNet       contractor under the contract in building, operating, and       maintaining the nationwide public safety broadband       network.''.

(b) Annual Reports to Congress.--Subtitle B of title VI of       the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47       U.S.C. 1421 et seq.), as amended by the preceding provisions       of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the       following:       ``SEC. 6214. ANNUAL REPORTS ON FIRST RESPONDER NETWORK                     AUTHORITY.

``(a) Report on Network Matters.--The NTIA shall submit to       Congress an annual report that includes information on       cyberattacks, cyber defense efforts, and unscheduled service       outages of all causes with respect to the nationwide public       safety broadband network. Each such annual report--

``(1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may       contain a classified annex; and

``(2) at the request of the Board, shall include a       statement from the Board with respect to such information.

``(b) Report on Adoption Rates.--The NTIA shall submit to       Congress an annual report on adoption rates, by profession       and geographic area, with respect to the nationwide public       safety broadband network that, at the request of the Board,       shall include a statement from the Board with respect to such       adoption rates.''.

(c) Annual Briefing.--Subtitle B of title VI of the Middle       Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1421       et seq.), as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act,       is further amended by adding at the end the following:       ``SEC. 6215. ANNUAL BRIEFINGS ON FIRST RESPONDER NETWORK                     AUTHORITY.

``Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of       this section, and annually thereafter, the NTIA shall provide       to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate a briefing on activities with       respect to the First Responder Network Authority that, at the       request of the Board, shall include the participation of the       Chair of the Board (or a designee thereof).''.       SEC. 9. BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND DISASTER RECOVERY PLAN.

Subtitle B of title VI of the Middle Class Tax Relief and       Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.), as amended       by the preceding provisions of this Act, is further amended       by adding at the end the following:       ``SEC. 6216. BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND DISASTER RECOVERY PLAN.

``(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date       of the enactment of this section, and every 5 years       thereafter, the FirstNet contractor shall submit to the NTIA       for approval, and to the Board for review, a business       continuity and disaster recovery plan to ensure rapid       restoration of the nationwide public safety broadband network       following an outage resulting from a natural disaster or       other emergency.

``(b) Timing of Approval or Request for Resubmission.--Not       later than 180 days after the date on which the NTIA receives       a plan submitted under this section, the NTIA, in       consultation with the Board, shall--

``(1) approve such plan; or

``(2) provide to the FirstNet contractor a written notice       of--

``(A) the reasoning for not approving such plan; and

``(B) the timeframe and process, as determined by the NTIA,       for resubmitting such plan for approval.''.       SEC. 10. OUTAGE NOTIFICATIONS.

Subtitle B of title VI of the Middle Class Tax Relief and       Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.), as amended       by the preceding provisions of this Act, is further amended       by adding at the end the following:       ``SEC. 6217. OUTAGE NOTIFICATIONS.

``In the case of any unscheduled service outage with       respect to the nationwide public safety broadband network--

``(1) as soon as practicable, but not later than 30       minutes, after the FirstNet contractor has confirmed such       outage, the FirstNet contractor shall notify the First       Responder Network Authority of such outage; and

``(2) the FirstNet contractor shall provide to the       departments and agencies that use such network a network       status tool that provides timely information on such       outage.''.       SEC. 11. SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS OF FIRSTNET CONTRACT.

Subtitle B of title VI of the Middle Class Tax Relief and       Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.), as amended       by the preceding provisions of this Act, is further amended       by adding at the end the following:       ``SEC. 6218. SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS OF FIRSTNET CONTRACT.

``Not later than 7 days after receiving a request, in       writing, from the Chair and Ranking Member of the Committee       on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, or       from the Chair and Ranking Member of the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the       Assistant Secretary shall submit to such Committee any       contract between the First Responder Network Authority and       the FirstNet contractor with respect to building, operating,       or maintaining the nationwide public safety broadband       network.''.       SEC. 12. DEFINITIONS.

Section 6001 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job       Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1401) is amended--

(1) by redesignating paragraphs (15) through (33) as       paragraphs (16) through (34), respectively; and

(2) by inserting after paragraph (14) the following:

``(15) Firstnet contractor.--The term `FirstNet contractor'       means the entity that, under contract with the First       Responder Network Authority, builds, operates, and maintains       the nationwide public safety broadband network.''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, H.R. 7386, the First  Responder Network Authority Reauthorization Act, led by Representative  Dunn. The First Responder Network Authority, FirstNet, was born to  solve the problems first responders faced during the 9/11 terrorist  attacks.

In 2012, Congress established FirstNet as the dedicated network for  first responders so they would never again suffer the severe  communication failures that undermined their ability to coordinate and  respond to the attacks. Nearly 15 years later, FirstNet has become a  vital tool for first responders nationwide, and it is time for Congress  to reauthorize this program so they can continue to do their lifesaving  work.

Plain and simple, this legislation reauthorizes this important tool  for first responders and makes improvements to ensure long-term success  of the network, while increasing transparency and accountability within  the program.

This legislation has strong bipartisan support.

Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Virginia for her  support of this important legislation.

Like I said, this is a bipartisan bill, and I urge support of this  bill and ask for immediate passage.