Kari's Law Reporting Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701906/karis-law-reporting-act


Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 5201) to direct the Federal Communications Commission to  publish a report on implementation of the Kari's Law Act of 2017, and  for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 5201

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Kari's Law Reporting Act''.       SEC. 2. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF KARI'S LAW ACT OF 2017.

(a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Commission shall publish on the       website of the Commission a report regarding the enforcement       by the Commission of section 721 of the Communications Act of       1934 (47 U.S.C. 623), which shall include--

(1) a summary of the extent to which multi-line telephone       system manufacturers and vendors have complied with such       section;

(2) potential difficulties and obstacles in complying with       such section;

(3) potential ways, if necessary, to improve the policies       of the Commission to better enforce such section; and

(4) recommendations to Congress, if necessary, on further       legislation that could mitigate problems like those that are       addressed by such section.

(b) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal       Communications Commission.

(2) Multi-line telephone system.--The term ``multi-line       telephone system'' has the meaning given such term in section       721(f) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 623(f)).

Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, H.R. 5201, Kari's Law  Reporting Act, led by Representative Matsui.

Kari's Law, enacted in 2018, was named in honor of Kari Hunt, who was  killed in a motel room in Marshall, Texas, in 2013. Ms. Hunt's 9-year- old daughter tried to call 911 for help four times from the motel room  phone, but the call did not go through because the phone system  required dialing 9 for an outbound call before dialing 911.

The law requires multiline telephone systems, such as those in  offices, campuses, and hotels, to allow direct 911 dialing without  extra digits when a 911 call is made. This legislation would require  the FCC to issue a report within 180 days to determine the extent to  which multiline telephone system manufacturers are complying with  Kari's Law Act of 2017. Requiring these systems in large buildings or  campuses will help save lives in case of an emergency.

This legislation has strong bipartisan support.

Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues for their support of  this bill and Ms. Matsui for her work on this bill.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, I encourage a ``yes'' vote on this bill, and  I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.