Protecting Prudent Investment of Retirement Savings Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699156/protecting-prudent-investment-of-retirement-savings-act


Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding his time,  for his tireless work on behalf of American workers, and specifically  for his support of the legislation before us today.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2988, the Protecting Prudent  Investment of Retirement Savings Act, legislation I introduced earlier  this year to ensure hardworking Americans do not have their retirement  savings jeopardized by politically motivated mismanagement. What I am  hearing is that, I think, this bill fixes everything that the other  side has been talking about as far as free markets and capitalism.

For those listening at home, it is important to understand how we got  here. In 2022, the Biden administration heavy-handedly put the  retirement security of over 150 million Americans at risk by issuing a  deeply flawed rule to enable retirement plan fiduciaries to consider or  choose investments based on environmental, social, and governance, or  ESG, factors. That is not free market. That is not capitalism.

It is proven that ESG factors often charge steeper fees, carry higher  risks, have lower returns, and are well-known underperformers. That is  precisely why this rule garnered bipartisan, bicameral disapproval in  the form of a Congressional Review Act resolution that passed both the  House and Senate.

However, the Biden-Harris administration vetoed the resolution,  choosing to prioritize leftwing environmental and social issues ahead  of retirees' financial security.

As chairman of the HELP Subcommittee, I remain committed to  protecting the retirement savings of workers, retirees, and their  families. The Protecting Prudent Investment of Retirement Savings Act  would codify that retirement plan sponsors must make investment  decisions solely based on economic factors and financial returns.

Additionally, the bill states that the decision to exercise a  shareholder right is subject to the purchase and loyalty duties under  ERISA. It states that proxies held by ERISA plans must be voted in the  economic interests of the plan, not used to advance radical policies  and favors to crony capitalists.

The bill declares that race, color, religion, sex, or national origin  may not be taken into consideration when selecting a fiduciary,  counsel, employee, or service provider of an ERISA plan.

Lastly, it implements a notice requirement on defined contribution  plans, explaining the difference between choosing from investments  selected by ERISA fiduciaries and choosing from investments through a  brokerage window.

Mr. Speaker, I think most would agree that advancing a political  agenda at the expense of retirement savings is wrong. Let's be clear:  Americans invest to secure a brighter future for themselves and their  families, not to bankroll Democrats' radical initiatives and pet  projects and take care of their crony capitalists.

Retirement plan sponsors have a duty to prioritize financial returns,  ensuring Americans' hard-earned savings are invested in a sensible  manner. The Protecting Prudent Investment of Retirement Savings Act  delivers a significant win to retirees across the Nation, and I  strongly urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support its  passage.

I thank my staff for their diligent work on this bill. I thank  Chairman Walberg for his support throughout the committee process and  Leader Scalise and Speaker Johnson for bringing H.R. 2988 to the House  floor.