Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Commercial Refrigerators, Freezers, and Refrigerator- Freezers''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689128/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-office-of-energy-efficiency-and-renewable-energy-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-commercial-refrigerators-freezers-and-refrigerator-freezers


Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.J. Res. 75.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle will say this resolution  is unnecessary. We have heard that. Let's be clear. What is unnecessary  is placing so-called energy standards on commercial refrigerators and  freezers, which will only lead to higher equipment costs and additional  burdens on small businesses.

I come from the small-business community. I have felt that, and,  again, that is what we are hearing from our small businesses and why I  am standing here today.

Time and time again, the Biden-Harris administration imposed new  standards with high price tags. First, it was regulations on cars and  trucks. Then, it was gas stoves and washing machines and, now,  commercial refrigerators and freezers. The list goes on and on.

In fact, I stood on the House floor in the last Congress and defended  my very own wife's gas stove, and we won that battle.

Fortunately for the American people, under the leadership of House  Republicans and President Trump, common sense has a seat at the table  again.

All we are doing is rolling back the senseless and unending  bureaucratic red tape ushered in under the previous administration that  harms hardworking Americans and small businesses.

In fact, the Department of Energy estimates that these standards on  commercial refrigerators and freezers will cost approximately $8  billion, as stated earlier, which we know will be passed down to  consumers.

When did the Department of Energy get into the appliance business?

Mr. Speaker, this is an easy ``yes'' vote. I encourage all of my  colleagues to support H.J. Res. 75, and I thank Congressman Goldman for  his leadership.