Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program for Appliance Standards: Certification Requirements, Labeling Requirements, and Enforcement Provisions for Certain Consumer Products and Commercial Equipment''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688546/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-for-appliance-standards-certification-requirements-labeling-requirements-and-enforcement-provisions-for-certain-consumer-products-and-commercial-equipment


Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.J. Res. 42, which will  roll back another burdensome Biden-Harris rule on the Department of  Energy efficiency standards for appliances and equipment.

Let's be clear: People elected us to make the laws, and these  agencies are making rules. I think Congress is entitled to speak on  this issue.

Alongside President Trump, House Republicans are on a mission to  reclaim American energy dominance, and that means continuing to  eliminate President Biden's burdensome energy regulations that have  limited consumer choice. Again, we represent the people, and the people  are telling us that these things have to stop.

This final rule that we will overturn today imposes unnecessary and  duplicative labeling, certifying, and reporting requirements for  various appliances and commercial equipment. This is part of a broken  system that needs major reforms. The American people are done paying  for it with higher costs, created by government bureaucrats, for at- home appliances.

Under the Biden administration alone, the DOE implemented more than  30 appliance and equipment efficiency rules, at a cost of $60 billion,  many of which negatively impact consumers and manufacturers in my  district.

Amazingly, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle were stuck in  their seats last night as President Trump spoke about unleashing  American energy and lowering costs. Regardless, House Republicans will  deliver.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Clyde for his leadership, and I urge a  ``yes'' vote.