Reducing and Eliminating Duplicative Environmental Regulations Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701784/reducing-and-eliminating-duplicative-environmental-regulations-act


Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, the gentleman from  Alabama, for yielding the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6398, the RED Tape Act.  Under current law, as we have heard here today, the EPA is required to  review and comment on the environmental impacts of Federal projects  from other Federal agencies.

Perhaps this would make sense if the EPA wasn't already involved in  the initial environmental review and development of the environmental  impact statement for Federal projects. What we have here is another, as  we said, duplicative and inefficient government process that for  decades has delayed development, slowed economic growth, and only hurt  American families and businesses in making it more unaffordable for the  American people.

Furthermore, in the 30 years since Congress enacted section 309 of  the Clean Air Act, agencies have developed their own expertise in  preparing environmental impact statements. That is why the Supreme  Court ruled that EPA's separate review and comment on broader  environmental impacts of proposed Federal actions are no longer  appropriate.

I come from the construction industry. I understand how unpredictable  timelines and Federal red tape can increase costs and negatively impact  job creators. Let me be clear: The RED Tape Act in no way undercuts the  environmental review of Federal projects. In no way does it remove  EPA's expertise from the process.

It simply streamlines the Federal review process by eliminating  duplicative requirements. It seems that my colleagues on the other side  of the aisle are just fundamentally opposed to efficiency and a sense  of urgency.

This legislation is a commonsense solution that benefits job creators  and the communities we represent. It makes life more affordable for the  American people, and I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 6398.