Unlocking Our Domestic Lng Potential Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697085/unlocking-our-domestic-lng-potential-act-of-2025


Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding. Mr.  Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1949, the Unlocking our Domestic LNG  Potential Act, and I thank Representative Pfluger for his leadership on  this bill.

In January of last year, former President Joe Biden unveiled the  latest of many attacks on our domestic energy capabilities when he  announced an indefinite pause on all pending approvals of liquefied  natural gas exports, or LNG.

This certainly made the Russians happy, and Europe could have used  some help with their energy demand.

Not only was this decision completely unnecessary, but it was also  economically and strategically dangerous. Under both Democratic and  Republican administrations, DOE has consistently found that U.S. LNG  exports serve the public interest, contributing positive economic  benefits and strengthening energy security for the American people.

Even more, recent studies confirmed that increased American LNG  exports do not significantly raise global emissions. In fact, it is  quite the opposite. Clean natural gas is a major reason why the United  States has significantly reduced emissions.

Thankfully, we now have a Commander in Chief who understands the  importance of embracing an all-of-the-above energy strategy and  unleashing the production and export of clean, affordable, and reliable  American LNG.

In the first days of this administration, the President signed an  executive order reversing President Biden's LNG pause, an important  step in reclaiming global energy dominance and lowering costs across  the board.

It is shocking to me that House Democrats will run to the news  cameras and clamor about the cost of living while they also offered  their full support for reckless anti-domestic energy policies from the  Biden administration that caused prices to skyrocket in the first  place.

I mean, look at the price of gasoline at the pump 2 years ago. Look  at the price of gasoline at the pump today. That is all you have to do.

The reason that energy prices are spiking is because input costs are  spiking.

Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I am hopeful that my colleagues on the other  side of the aisle will join us in passing H.R. 1949, which amends the  Natural Gas Act to repeal all restrictions on the import and export of  natural gas, effectively overturning the Biden-Harris administration's  attempt to undermine U.S. domestic energy production.

Removing unnecessary export controls on LNG will strengthen the  domestic economy and increase the energy security of the U.S. and our  allies.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote on H.R. 1949.