Congressional Award Program Reauthorization Act


Mr. HUDSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 284, which is  identical to the bill I introduced in the House, H.R. 860, and I urge  the House to pass this important bill.

This bill simply reauthorizes the Congressional Award program,  Congress' official youth recognition program and the highest honor that  Congress can award our Nation's youth.

This program has helped generations of young people set goals, serve  others, and push themselves to achieve more. Specifically, young  Americans have to set and complete rigorous personal goals focused on  volunteer service, personal development, exploration, and physical  fitness.

One of my constituents, Caroline Harris, from Greensboro, North  Carolina, has spent more than 3 years working toward her goal, earning  a Gold Medal at the age of 17. She is one of the youngest to earn the  Gold Medal.

Caroline is a very impressive young woman. She spent 400 hours  volunteering to help our military families, volunteering with youth in  her community, and volunteering with her peers. Caroline completed a  physical fitness challenge. She even learned a new language while  planning a trip abroad.

In 2025, Caroline joins a long list of impressive young Americans  from North Carolina's Ninth District to earn this award. Among them,  Amaria Youmans of Fayetteville and Connor Ambrose from Raeford were  Bronze Medalists in 2022, and Fred Vinson from Pinehurst was a Bronze  Certificate earner in 2024. It is a great honor to represent these  hardworking young people.

This bill will ensure the Congressional Award program continues to  challenge young Americans like Caroline, Amaria, Connor, and Fred to  set goals and dedicate themselves to their community and to their own  success and self-improvement.

There are over 48,000 Americans enrolled in this program throughout  the country in every single congressional district. These young people  give back to their communities and make investments in themselves. It  is very important that we reauthorize this successful program so that  we can continue to inspire and reward our young Americans and encourage  each of them to reach their full potential.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to vote in support of S. 284.