Improving Interagency Coordination for Pipeline Reviews Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698064/improving-interagency-coordination-for-pipeline-reviews-act


Mr. HUDSON. Mr. Speaker, my bill, H.R. 3668, would guarantee we  protect the environment, ensure we protect public health, and lower  energy costs by speeding up energy projects through much-needed reforms  to the permitting of interstate natural gas pipelines.

The development of interstate pipelines currently faces significant  regulatory and statutory hurdles. In fact, in 2024, we produced less  than half the pipeline miles we built just 5 years ago.

Our regulatory and statutory permitting process must both protect the  environment and reflect the urgency and importance of the projected  growth in natural gas demand.

Despite the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission being granted  increased authority under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, pipeline  project approvals are consistently delayed because of a lack of  coordination between the numerous agencies involved in the permitting  process.

My bill would make this process more efficient by bringing  stakeholders, including agencies, to the table so concerns can be  identified early in the process. From there, agencies participating in  the permitting process would perform important environmental reviews  while complying with schedules established by FERC.

H.R. 3668 would also improve the water quality review process by  moving that responsibility from the States to FERC.

For the past decade, a few States, especially in the Northeast, have  used this federally delegated section 401 authority to obstruct  interstate projects. These States have stood outside the FERC-led  National Environmental Policy Act process and used their section 401  authority as a one-State veto of a multistate project of national  significance. This has been detrimental to the development of critical  pipeline infrastructure.

I want to be clear: My bill would continue the safeguards of the  environment. We have some of the strongest environmental laws on the  planet. This legislation protects those laws while expediting critical  energy infrastructure.

We want to fuel our Nation forward. If we want to lower costs for  consumers, win the AI race against China, and strengthen our position  as an energy superpower, it is critical that we have a regulatory and  statutory process in place that allows us to build infrastructure in  this country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in support of this  legislation.