Innovative Mitigation Partnerships for Asphalt and Concrete Technologies Act


Mrs. FOUSHEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1534, the  bipartisan Innovative Mitigation Partnerships for Asphalt and Concrete  Technologies Act, or the IMPACT Act, which will strengthen the  competitiveness of American manufacturing through innovation and  development of technologies to decarbonize and improve the efficiency  of cement, concrete, and asphalt production.

U.S. producers are leading the way in the innovation of critical  building materials production, and we have a real opportunity in front  of us to bolster our Nation's infrastructure while making significant  strides to reduce global emissions.

The climate crisis remains one of the most pressing issues of our  lifetime, and it is vital that we take action now by investing in clean  technologies and creating pathways here at home to accelerate and  commercialize these new opportunities to reduce harmful emissions.

Globally, cement manufacturing accounts for nearly 8 percent of all  carbon emissions, and we have a unique opportunity to reduce pollution  in industrial emissions by creating new manufacturing opportunities  here at home that can take the place of aging processes based on fossil  fuels.

This bill will enable partnerships between industry, innovators, and  the U.S. Government that will enhance existing production methods,  unlock new and innovative techniques, and offer technical assistance to  entities seeking to promote the application of low-emission cement,  concrete, and asphalt.

Together, the IMPACT Act--alongside IMPACT Act 2.0, introduced in the  House earlier this month by Congressman Miller and me, and the Senate's  Concrete and Asphalt Innovation Act, led by Senators Coons and Tillis-- will bolster U.S.-led efforts to deploy clean technologies in the  industrial sector while enhancing the global competitiveness of  American innovation.

The United States is leading the way into the 21st century, and this  can be seen in my own district, North Carolina's Fourth, where local  startup Biomason is revolutionizing the cement industry through its use  of biotechnology to manufacture low-carbon concrete.

With global demand for building materials set to rise through this  century, we must prioritize investments in advanced materials science  and scale-up domestic manufacturing by fostering an innovation pipeline  that creates jobs and enhances our competitiveness on the world stage.  This bill does just that.

With this commonsense piece of legislation, everyone wins. It will  help us achieve measurable and meaningful emissions reductions,  modernize manufacturing, and improve workers' health and public health,  all while creating good-paying jobs across America.

I am proud to join Representative Max Miller in introducing the  IMPACT Act, which passed the House last Congress and through the House  Science Committee unanimously. It has received strong and bicameral  support from industry and industry partners, innovators, climate  organizations, manufacturing, and trade associations nationwide.

I encourage my colleagues to support this bipartisan and commonsense  legislation, which will unlock innovation and clean manufacturing in  the United States, create domestic job opportunities, and protect our  planet.