Providing for Consideration of H.R. 2550 to Nullify the Executive Order Relating to Exclusions From Federal Labor-Management Relations Programs, and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697864/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-2550-to-nullify-the-executive-order-relating-to-exclusions-from-federal-labor-management-relations-programs-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. GOLDEN of Maine. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to clause 2 of rule XV, I  call up the motion to discharge previously noticed.

Mr. GOLDEN of Maine. Mr. Speaker, I rise to make a motion to  discharge H.R. 2550, the Protect America's Workforce Act.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes,'' and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. GOLDEN of Maine. Mr. Speaker, I support this motion, and I  encourage my colleagues, including the 226 Members of this Chamber who  cosponsored the bill and the 218 of them who signed the discharge  petition, to support the motion.

Mr. GOLDEN of Maine. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

Mr. GOLDEN of Maine. Mr. Speaker, during consideration of this  resolution, all time yielded is for the purposes of debate only.                                General Leave

The Protect America's Workforce Act would overturn President Trump's  executive order from March that ended collective bargaining rights for  roughly 1 million Americans who work for the Federal Government.

Since the order was made, the administration has ripped up more than  700,000 union contracts. The order was the largest act of union busting  in American history, and it left our Federal workforce more vulnerable  to unfair treatment and political interference.

I am proud that since introducing this bill, it has won the support  of 226 of my colleagues in this Chamber. This majority includes  Democrats and Republicans who recognize that collective bargaining is  not a partisan issue. It is about fairness, dignity on the job, and a  voice in the workplace.

In his order, President Trump said ending collective bargaining was  about protecting our national defense, but in my district and many  others, affected workers build our warships and care for our veterans.  These workers make our country safer and stronger every single day.

America didn't vote to silence these workers, but this bill gives all  of us a chance to restore their voices. Every one of us in this body  was sent here by our constituents to represent their voice in Congress.  While the majority leadership has broad prerogative to set the calendar  and control the flow of legislation, no one here believes they should  have absolute power to determine which bills see the light of day and  which don't.

The discharge petition process exists to give Members of Congress  some agency. It is a release valve to ensure that good bills with broad  support cannot be held up forever by a leadership team. It gives us a  fair shot at building a coalition to do the people's work and get an  up-or-down vote on the floor.

That is exactly how my colleagues and I have spent the past several  months. We have built a bipartisan coalition representing a majority of  the House in support of this bill and done the work to bring it to the  floor.

I know that none of us ran for office with the vision of governing by  discharge petition. Most of us long for the return of regular order  where bills are assessed in committee, seriously debated, and given a  vote. However, here we are. As it stands, we must use every tool  available to do the people's work.

I am grateful to my eight Republican colleagues who cosponsored the  bill, led by my friend Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania,  and to the five Republicans who signed the discharge petition to ensure  that this Chamber would hold this vote.

If the majority we built over the past few months sticks together, we  can overturn this union-busting executive order, and we can show  America that this body will protect workers' rights.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the rule. Let these workers  have their day on the House floor. Give them an up-or-down vote. They  deserve that much.

Mr. GOLDEN of Maine.  Dexter).

Mr. GOLDEN of Maine.  Hoyle).