Big, Beautiful Bill


Mr. SCHMIDT. Mr. Speaker, I will have no comment on that last comment  from my colleague from Utah.

Mr. SCHMIDT. Mr. Speaker, I am very proud to join my colleagues  tonight in recognition of National Small Business Week, and actually,  all the parts we have talked about are connected.

National Small Business Week recognizes the importance of the small  businesses throughout all of our communities, and the numbers aren't  that different from State to State.

In my home State of Kansas, 99 percent of the businesses that operate  are small businesses. Whether they are small businesses on Main Street,  small mom-and-pop shops, little manufacturing operations, farming  operations, or supporting operations, 99 percent of our businesses are  small businesses.

Those 99 percent in my State employ about 600,000 Kansans, which is  roughly half the total number of Kansans who work. All but 1 percent  our businesses, 99 percent, employ half of our people who rely on them  for their livelihood, for their hope, for their jobs, for their  benefits in many cases, and for filling their days because they,  obviously, have to work in order to support their families and pursue  their dreams.

We cannot overstate the importance of small businesses to all of us,  the people we represent. Yet, that often doesn't get reflected in the  decisions and the actions that come out of this town.

My colleagues have talked a bit about reconciliation, and I say these  are connected because we are going to make large policy decisions here  in the House, in the Senate, and with the President over the course of  the coming weeks that are going to have huge implications for all of  those small businesses on our Main Streets and all of those individuals  who work in them and rely on them for their livelihoods.

We talk a lot about the tax implications. That is not my focus this  evening. It is critically important. We have to extend the small  business and middle-class tax relief so that those businesses can  continue to operate and continue to employ the people we represent.

I want to talk a little bit tonight about the regulatory environment  and the burden that we have created--really, a tax by another means.  When the government says to a small business, ``thou shalt do this,''  the compliance cost of doing it is borne by that business, and it comes  out of their bottom line or out of their pockets. It takes away from  their ability to invest in expanding, growing, and hiring more people.  It has the same effect as taking another dollar of tax out of their  pocket to pay not for their priorities, their community's priorities,  or their employees' priorities, but for the government's priorities.  That is true whether it is a dollar taken out of their pockets  collected in tax, in cash, or whether it is a dollar taken out of their  pockets and ordered by the government to be used to comply with a  government requirement, a mandate, a regulation.

I am one who believes, because my constituents have told me this,  that one of the most important things we can and must do in this  Congress is make real progress on regulatory relief for the small  businesses that all of our communities rely on. We have begun to take  some steps.

You know, Mr. Speaker, that we are currently using one of several  tools available to us in this body to undo some--a small number, but  some--of the newer regulations that have piled burdens on our small  businesses. We are using the Congressional Review Act. We only have a  short amount of time that we can use that tool, so we have to strike  while the iron is hot.

So far, in the House, we have used that tool to propose undoing 15  new regulations that were adopted in  roughly the last 6 months of the prior administration. Of those 15 that  we have approved here, 3 have been signed into law by the President. We  have done three. Another six have been approved by the Senate and are  currently awaiting President Trump's signature. Then, there are an  additional six that are awaiting consideration and, I hope and expect,  passage in the Senate.

That is good. It is a good thing. We are using the tool available to  try to make progress to provide some relief for those small businesses,  but, Mr. Speaker, it is barely a drop in the bucket.

The chart next to me was compiled by George Washington University. It  shows the number of pages in the Federal Register, starting back in  1950. The Federal Register, of course, is the government book, the  government entity, where all the agency regulations, not the laws  passed by this body, but the agency regulations, the bureaucratic  regulations, get published.

They have the force and effect of law. They are just as burdensome  and binding on somebody running a mom-and-pop shop on Main Street in  Kansas as is a statute enacted by this body. Usually, they are  regulations adopted by an agency at the direction or, arguably, with  the permission of this body. We fight over that sometimes when agencies  exceed the authority they were given.

There is a penchant here in Congress to avoid some of the hard  decisions and just ship it downtown, let the agencies have a lot of  running room. As a result of that, you get lots of decisions.  Sometimes, they are not consistent.

One administration goes one way, and another administration goes the  next way, or they adopt one regulation, then pile another regulation on  top of it, and then another on top of that. I heard a term the other  day--I had never heard it before--``coral reefing,'' this idea that you  lay down something that is living and makes sense, then that layer  dies, and you just build another on top and another on top. Eventually,  you get this giant dead mass. That is what we have done with a lot of  these agency regulations. Part of it is Congress' fault. Part of it is  the agency's fault.

If you look at this chart, Mr. Speaker, back in 1950, roughly the  time they started publishing the Federal Register, compiling all these  agency rules, diktats, actions, there were about 10,000 pages. That is  about how long it was, the sum of all regulations adopted by agencies.  The year I was born in, 1968, it had grown fivefold to 50,000 pages.  When this chart was compiled about a year ago, a little more, it was  nearly 200,000 pages. Nearly 200,000 pages of regulations that folks in  our country, our small businesses, have to comply with.

By the way, to put that in comparison, the number of pages in the  U.S. Code, the laws actually adopted by the people's Representatives in  this body, last time it was compiled, it was around 60,000 pages, so  about four times, roughly, three or four times as many rules and  requirements on Main Street businesses written by people nobody out in  the real world ever voted for as opposed to laws that their elected  Representatives are accountable for.

By the way, this chart is not current. It doesn't include those  regulations piled on top of this last tallest bar. Since this chart was  compiled, we know that in the last 5 months of the Biden administration  alone, more than 1,400 new regulations were adopted and shoved out the  door. That is not 1,400 pages. That is 1,400 regulations, most of which  were long, so this chart is actually much higher.

Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight to remind all of my colleagues and all of  us who serve in these roles how important it is that, during this Small  Business Week, as we are doing our reconciliation bill and doing all  the things we do, we not forget about this hidden tax, that we have  created this burden that we have placed on the 99 percent of small  businesses in our community, which employ half the people working in my  State, making it harder for them to do what they do, what we rely on  them to do, what we count on them to do, and, more importantly, what  the people we represent, our constituents, count on them to do.

We can't lose sight of it. We must fix this system, tear down some of  the coral reef, and get those lines moving back down.