Destroying Unnecessary, Misaligned, and Prohibitive Red Tape Act


Mr. SCHMIDT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, it is my pleasure to rise in support today of H.R. 4305,  the DUMP Red Tape Act.

I am back again on this subject with this chart that shows the growth  and the number of pages in the Federal Register where all of the  Federal regulations are published. It is where they are codified. That  is where you go to look them up, and the number of pages has quadrupled  in my lifetime.

Let me just offer a couple of thoughts on how this bill is, in my  view, important for small businesses to get at that problem of the  creeping weight of Federal overregulation.

In my district, the Second District of Kansas, the eastern part of  the State, it is, more or less, 80 percent of the small businesses in  the State employ 20 or fewer people. Eighty percent of them are really  small businesses. There are about 93 percent if you go under 500  employees. For a lot of us that sounds like a big number, in my part of  the world, but under 20 employees, that is a small business. Those are  the Main Street businesses we are talking about.

I talk with a lot of people that own those businesses, that work in  those businesses. They are all active in their communities. They  support everything from the local sports team to the local charity to  the local school's foundation. That is what they are focused on: making  a living, making their business work, whatever it is they do: providing  professional services, other services, retail items, manufacturing  items. That is what they are focused on.

They are not focused on this. They don't have an army of compliance  attorneys and compliance consultants to help them figure out what is in  these 200,000 pages of Federal regulation and what that means for how  they conduct their behavior in their communities each and every day.

Mr. Speaker, how do we figure out where to start? I think this bill  is a very commonsense answer: Ask the people who are most affected. The  whole point of the red tape hotline that President Trump set up and  that this bill codifies and makes permanent is to allow the people in  the small business world who are affected by regulatory decisions made  in this town, our Nation's Capital, to tell somebody who has the  ability to aggregate that information and do something about it. Let's  bring it to the attention of lawmakers that this is where you need to  focus. This one, of all of these, is what is making a difference in  preventing me from adding more employees or having a little more  liquidity so that I can maybe redo the storefront on Main Street. Maybe  I can give a little more to the local charitable cause or maybe my  family will just be a little bit more comfortable going into the  holidays.

Mr. Speaker, ask the people affected and listen to their voices. That  is what this bill does. It makes sure we put in place a simple  structure that is permanent so that the vagaries of this town don't  change things on Main Street.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this measure. It is just common  sense.