Small Business Regulatory Reduction Act of 2025


Mr. SCHMIDT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman and the ranking member  for this debate on the floor today.

I rise in strong support of H.R. 2965, the Small Business Regulatory  Reduction Act of 2025.

I certainly join those remarks of my colleagues on this side who have  advocated for the bill. I would like to back up a bit and talk more  generally about regulatory burden and how this bill is an important  step in dealing with a much larger problem.

The chart on my right shows the number of pages in the Federal  Register. The year I was born, 1968, there were about 50,000 pages.  Today there are almost 200,000 pages. In my lifetime, the number of  rules and regulations written by unelected Federal bureaucrats, the  people in the real world that we all represent--in my case in eastern  Kansas--must comply with, has quadrupled.

I will guarantee you, Mr. Speaker, that is a silent tax increase on  every American and every small business in all of our States.

The estimated regulatory compliance cost for businesses in the United  States is about $3 trillion per year. As has been mentioned, about $1.8  trillion of that was added in just the 4 years of the prior  administration. To put that in context, the entire Federal budget is  about $7 trillion per year.

Do you know what the difference is between a tax and a regulatory  command, Mr. Speaker? With a tax, the Federal Government says to, in  this case, a small business owner: Give me your money, and we will  spend it on priorities that we decide. With a regulation, the Federal  Government says to that same small business owner: You take your money  and spend it on the priorities that we decide. Not on hiring more  people, not on growing and expanding, not on giving charitable support  in our communities, not on doing all of the things that small  businesses do, but as people in this town have decided. That is what is  at stake here. That is why we have to take this action.

Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of this measure because it is one step  toward peaking that mountain of regulation, making small businesses  freer to do what they do, making life more affordable to all the people  I represent who buy and sell on Main Street each and every day.