Stop Illegal Entry Act of 2025


Mr. SCHMIDT. Madam Speaker, our colleagues on the other side think  that if they just talk about enough other things long enough, the clock  will run out and that the American people will forget the disaster that  the policies of the prior administration created not just on our border  but throughout our communities in this country for the prior 4 years.

They are mistaken. We are not going to forget. We are not going to  stop until we fix the holes in our law that enabled bad policies to  drive through them.

That is what this bill is about. This bill is about focusing on the  worst of the worst. It is about focusing on those who are not deterred  under current law by the threat of a 2-year prison sentence. Perhaps it  is because they are being paid by the cartels or enabled by the  cartels, and the risk is worth it. That is who this is aimed at. That  is why a 5- to 10-year prison sentence is warranted, valid, and  necessary.

Madam Speaker, I will share just one story from my home State of  Kansas about why we care about this issue. This is just one example. In  March of 2016, Pablo Antonio Serrano-Vitorino, an illegal alien from  Mexico, shot and killed four people in my State. Then, while fleeing  from law enforcement, he killed another person in Missouri.

Here is the kicker: It wasn't his first time in the country. It  wasn't his first crime in our country. In 2004, he was convicted in  California of making a terrorist threat. He was deported, and he came  back. In the years that ensued, he encountered law enforcement when he  committed battery, when he committed drunk driving, and when he  committed traffic infractions. He came back, and he stayed.

I can't say with certainty that if ICE had done their job and shown  up, if the prosecutors had actually prosecuted, if the law were tough  enough, that none of that would have happened, but I can sure say the  odds are much better that those five people might still be alive. I can  certainly say that justice would have been done.

This bill is a good first step. We need to do it. It is the right  thing.

Madam Speaker, I encourage all of my colleagues to support it. Let me  just say, I hope we don't stop here. Let's put this on the President's  desk. Let's keep going and finish the job.