100th Anniversary of the New England Council


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the 100th  anniversary of the New England Council, which was founded in September  1925 when the six Governors of New England gathered with business  leaders in Poland Spring, ME, to better collaborate across our region's  shared and intimately intertwined economic interests. Shortly after,  the New England Council was founded as a nonpartisan and nonprofit  entity to facilitate this work. For 100 years now, the council has been  an indispensable partner advocating for the New England region.

The New England States--our economies, culture, and interests--have  been interconnected since before the founding of our Nation. While we  may have much in common, our States are often considered the most  ``independent-minded'' states. At one time, this tendency may have  predisposed our States to chart our own paths forward and work  fervently to protect our individual interests. Indeed, this history of  self-governance and independence led directly to the events that  founded the United States and laid the foundation for the principles of  the Nation that we cherish. Now, and for the past 100 years, the New  England Council has helped carry our region's independent spirit  forward by bringing our States' interests together and helping ensure  that New England is heard on the ever-changing national stage.

To be sure, the New England Council's ability to be a convener of  political leaders--on both sides of the aisle--business leaders,  nonprofits, and academic and health institutions sets the council apart  from many of its peers. Its ability to do so comes from the council's  reputation as a nonpartisan, fact-driven organization that represents  many diverse viewpoints embedded across our staunchly independent  States. That is to say: when the Council speaks as one, we know the  issue reflects consensus and is in service to its mission to promote  New England's economic growth and safeguard a high quality of life for  all New Englanders.

The council's mission becomes even greater in times of turbulence.  Whether during shared national struggles, like World War II or the  COVID-19 pandemic, or in times of sharp political debate, our region's  shared economic interests become more pronounced. In these times, the  council does more than bring people together and advocate for  solutions; it amplifies the voice of a region. This ability again  relies on its ironclad nonpartisan reputation. Because it is so well  regarded, the council can ensure that all New Englanders, even those  who may not be politically well connected, can be heard by their  representatives and the Federal Government. That means that when the  national environment is loud, when there are many different  stakeholders making their perspectives clear, the New England Council  can definitively speak in one voice to ensure that our region's  priorities break through the noise.

On behalf of Rhode Island, I want to congratulate the New England  Council, president and CEO Jim Brett, the entire board of directors,  and all its members on a well-earned centennial. From working to  address our region's housing shortage and infrastructure challenges to  advocating for reliable and affordable energy, thank you for a century  of working to advance Rhode Island's and New England's economic  interests.