Caribbean Boat Strike


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to address a matter of grave  concern regarding the Trump administration's military operations in  South and Central America and specifically the September 2 strike on a  suspected drug vessel that has now been the subject of deeply troubling  press reporting.

The facts as we understand them are these: On September 2, U.S.  forces conducted a strike on a vessel in the Caribbean. From his own  public statements, we know that Secretary Hegseth authorized and  oversaw the strike. According to press reports, the initial strike left  survivors in the water, clinging to the wreckage. Then U.S. forces  carried out a second strike on the vessel, which killed the survivors.

Initially, as he often does, the Secretary of Defense and his office  denied the reporting when it broke last weekend. But then, on Monday,  White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt confirmed that, in fact,  Secretary Hegseth did authorize these strikes and that Admiral Bradley,  the operational commander, did order a second strike. The White House  has admitted what the Secretary denied, and we cannot ignore what that  means.

The Department of Defense's Law of War Manual states that members of  the Armed Forces must refuse to comply with clearly illegal orders,  including law of war violations. It even provides a definition and an  example to avoid confusion:

For example, orders to fire upon the shipwrecked would be       clearly illegal.

This is not a complex legal theory. This is not a gray area. The  manual addresses this exact situation with crystal clarity. Orders to  fire upon the shipwrecked are clearly illegal, and this principle has  been long ingrained in the Department of Defense and the Navy.

Multiple legal experts, including former Judge Advocates General,  have stated that if this reporting is accurate, this strike appears to  constitute a war crime. Indeed, many of my Republican colleagues have  joined Democrats in recognizing that the reported facts of this strike  would be clearly illegal. Yet, in his own words yesterday, the  Secretary of Defense claimed that the second strike was the ``correct  decision.'' This by itself is an alarming admission.

But I am, frankly, not surprised by the Secretary's statements. For  years, he has expressed contempt for the law of armed conflict and has  championed servicemembers convicted of war crimes. During the first  Trump administration, he lobbied for the pardoning of several military  personnel who were turned in by their own teammates for war crimes as  well as military contractors convicted of killing 14 Iraqi civilians.  He has also called for reinstating waterboarding and other forms of  torture.

In his book ``The War on Warriors,'' he wrote:

Should we follow the Geneva Conventions?. . . . If our       warriors are forced to follow rules arbitrarily and asked to       sacrifice more lives so that international tribunals feel       better about themselves, aren't we just better off in winning       our wars according to our own rules?

Since then, Secretary Hegseth has acted exactly how we might expect.  In October, at Quantico, he told hundreds of generals and admirals:

Don't fight with stupid rules of engagement. We untie the       hands of our warfighters to intimidate, demoralize, hunt and       kill the enemies of our country. No more politically correct       and overbearing rules of engagement, just common sense,       maximum lethality and authority for warfighters.

He then gave them an ultimatum:

If the words I'm speaking today are making your heart sink,       then you should do the honorable thing and resign.

Secretary Hegseth demands military leaders conform to his  interpretation of the law or be dismissed. This is profoundly  dangerous. It contradicts the ethic and the ethos of the American  military that is sworn to uphold the Constitution, sworn to obey the  laws of armed conflict. That dedication is to ensure that when our  personnel are disabled in the water, when they are prisoners of war,  they are treated with the legal requirements of the Geneva Convention  and of other legal constraints. If we kill people with impunity, how  can we object to the same behavior from our opponents?

Now, when he first came to the Department of Defense, he dismissed  the Judge Advocates General of each service--the TJAGs. These are  officers with more than 30 years of apolitical service providing legal  oversight on military justice, operational law, and adherence to the  law of armed conflict. Without these decades of military experience,  the services seem to be losing their way and not supporting the men and  women in uniform as these men and women deserve.

When this latest story came to light, the Secretary immediately began  pointing the finger at others. He and the White House have repeatedly  attempted to place responsibility for the September 2 strike squarely  on Admiral Bradley's shoulders.

I served in the Army on Active Duty for 12 years, and one of the  first and most important lessons I learned is that a military leader  can delegate authority, but you can never delegate responsibility. You  give the orders. You own the results. Every officer knows this, but  Secretary Hegseth is once  again giving orders and rejecting responsibility when bad results come  in. I can guarantee that every combat leader under his command is  taking careful note of his behavior. It is not the behavior they have  dedicated their lives to perform.

More broadly, what troubles me most is the administration's refusal  to explain itself to Congress and the American people. This suggests  they know this operation and the tortured legal rationale they use to  justify it cannot withstand scrutiny.

Chairman Wicker--and I applaud him for his very forceful  determination to investigate this situation. We both have formally  requested the Executive orders that guide these operations and the  full, unedited videos and audio from each strike. We have asked for the  intelligence that identified these vessels as legitimate targets. We  have asked for the rules of engagement governing these operations. We  have asked for casualty assessments and the criteria used to  distinguish combatants from civilians. And my Democratic colleagues and  I have asked that the legal documents justifying these operations be  declassified and shared with the public.

These are fundamental questions that any lawful military operation  should be able to answer clearly and definitively. These are not  courtesy requests; they are statutory requirements under multiple laws,  including the War Powers Resolution and several National Defense  Authorization Acts. But after 3 months of asking for material that  legally should have been provided to us promptly, the Pentagon has  provided only limited information while it has refused to answer basic  questions about even that limited material.

Legal experts across the political spectrum have nearly unanimously  denounced these operations as unlawful. Yet, rather than provide  justification, the administration withholds information.

If this operation serves vital American interests, if it can achieve  its stated objectives, and if it is legal under domestic and  international law, then why won't they defend it before Congress and  the American people? The stonewalling suggests they lack genuine  answers. The secrecy suggests they know that this operation does not  make sense, is not good policy, and, indeed, is quite illegal in many  respects.

Now, Mr. Hegseth's credibility is not the exclusive issue here--the  issue is the law--but his repeated dishonesty makes oversight even more  essential. I am calling for immediate action.

First, the Department of Defense must initiate an investigation into  the September 2 incident. This is standard military practice for  accountability and establishing lessons learned. The investigation must  include a thorough review of the orders and chain of command decisions.  This is how we ensure procedures were followed and prevent future  violations.

Second, the Pentagon must declassify and publish the full, unedited  video of the September 2 strike. If they followed the laws of war, it  will be clear for all of us to see. If they have nothing to hide,  transparency would be welcomed and obvious. The American people deserve  to see what is being done in their name, and I can only say their  reluctance to do so suggests that they are reluctant for a reason.  These films could be highly incriminating. The American people deserve  to see them.

Third, the White House must declassify the Department of Justice's  Office of Legal Counsel's opinion underpinning their legal argument for  this operation. There is no reason for this document to remain hidden.  The American people deserve to know why this administration believes it  has a license to kill in their name and what parameters govern that  authority. If the legal reasoning is sound, it should withstand public  scrutiny. If it cannot, then these operations should not continue.

These are not unreasonable demands. They are basic requirements of  democratic accountability and the rule of law.

I have spoken with General Caine, and I will speak with Admiral  Bradley later this week. It is imperative that the military personnel  involved be truthful and forthright. The truth will come out--maybe not  this week or next week. But it will come out. It always does.

The problem, regrettably, is that I do not believe Mr. Hegseth. He  has lied repeatedly about this operation and others, claiming news  stories are false, only to be contradicted by the White House or other  sources. His argument boils down to: Take him at his word; trust him.  But, frankly, I cannot--not when the law is this clear, not when the  stakes are this high.

Shamelessly violating the laws of armed conflict puts our own service  men and women at risk of receiving the same treatment in the future by  our adversaries.

My colleagues and I are actively gathering more information about the  September 2 strike. If the reported details are true, they represent a  grave breach of the laws of war. There must be bipartisan oversight  actions taken, committed to facts, truth, and the law above all else.

Chairman Wicker and I have given the Department more than enough time  to respond in good faith to reasonable questions. Secretary Hegseth has  refused. But the law demands better. The American people deserve  better. And, most importantly, our servicemembers deserve better.