Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. REED. Mr. President, last week, this body advanced a War Powers  Resolution to rein in President Trump's unauthorized military actions  in Venezuela. This week, we will vote on final passage. I urge my  colleagues to support it.

It is important to recall how we arrived here. What happened on  January 3--the military raid in Caracas, the capture of Nicolas Maduro,  and the President's declaration that the United States will ``run''  Venezuela and seize its oil--was not an isolated incident; it was a  culmination of a monthslong campaign built on dubious legal arguments,  institutional failures, and Congress' willful abdication of our  constitutional duties.

For months, my colleagues and I warned that President Trump's  military campaign against the alleged drug boats was strategically  incoherent and legally questionable. We warned that the massive  military buildup was not about narcotics trafficking. We warned that  this campaign was always directed at military action against Venezuela.

At every turn, this body had the opportunity to exercise oversight  and demand accountability, and at every turn, we failed to do so. Now  we must correct that failure.

President Trump began laying the foundation for this operation--all  the operations in Venezuela--the moment he was sworn in. On his first  day in office, he designated multiple drug cartels as terrorist  organizations. Shortly thereafter, he ended temporary protected status  for some 350,000 Venezuelan migrants and authorized holding some at the  naval station at Guantanamo before deportation.

On March 15, the President invoked the Alien Enemies Act--a wartime  authority that had not been used since World War II--and declared that  Tren de Aragua, or TdA, was a cartel plotting to invade and actively  invading the United States as an ``invading force.'' He did this  despite a National Intelligence Council assessment in April of 2025  that concluded the Venezuelan Government was not directing an invasion  of the United States by TdA.

It would not be the last time President Trump disregarded the law and  the facts to achieve his policy goals.

Also, by last summer, it was clear that, in addition to Secretary  Hegseth, Deputy Chief of Staff Stephen Miller and Secretary of State  Marco Rubio were engaged in planning these various proposed operations,  and their personal agendas converged. Their goal was ultimately to  destabilize and depose Maduro and secure access to Venezuelan's oil  reserves.

Over the summer and fall, the Department of Defense flowed massive  military assets into the Caribbean: the Iwo Jima Amphibious Ready  Group, the 22nd Marine Expeditionary Unit, attack submarines, P-8  Poseidon aircraft, Aegis destroyers, F-35 fighter jets, and eventually  the USS Gerald R. Ford Carrier Strike Group. The administration never  explained why this buildup was necessary other than vague references to  drug interdiction. It was clear then and it is perfectly clear now that  they were preparing for an attack on Venezuela.

By late summer, President Trump had signed a secret directive  ordering the Pentagon to conduct maritime strikes on drug boats.  Secretary Hegseth then signed an execute order, or EXORD, directing  lethal military strikes against alleged drug boats. He has refused to  submit that EXORD to Congress despite legal requirements for him to do  so. By not following a statutory requirement to submit these EXORDs to  Congress, Secretary Hegseth and the President are breaking the law.

On September 2, the U.S. military carried out its first strike,  killing 11 individuals on an alleged drug boat. Additional strikes  continued throughout the fall and winter, and to date, the U.S.  military has conducted 35 known strikes, killing at least 120 people.

President Trump tries to justify these lethal attacks by creating a  new term--``designated terrorist organization''--a term that does not  exist in U.S. law or anywhere else, so far as we have been able to  determine. What does exist in law--authorized by Congress--is the  ``foreign terrorist organization'' designation, which authorizes legal  and economic sanctions. In other words, designating a cartel as a  foreign terrorist organization limits that group's financial, property,  and travel interests. It does not authorize lethal military action. We  have searched high and low for a designation authorized by Congress of  a group that would automatically allow lethal action, and we have not  found it. Congress is still waiting for the President to publicly  release the legal opinion underlying these legal actions preceding the  recent operation in Venezuela, Operation Absolute Resolve. They have  not done so yet, although they have released the latest legal opinion.

Even more troubling is that, in the process of conducting these  strikes on the alleged drug boats, the JAGs--the judge advocates  general--who had to opine on the legality, did not have access to this  controlling legal opinion by the Department of Justice. They didn't get  access to it until November, which was long after many of these strikes  took place.

The legal foundation for this campaign and the operations that  President Trump engaged in became extraordinarily tenuous during the  September 2 strike. According to numerous public reports, after the  initial attack, two survivors were left floating on the wreckage of  their boat, miles from land. The United States had complete control of  the skies and waters for miles around. Yet, after monitoring these  survivors on video for the better part of an hour or at least 40-some- odd minutes, the order was given to fire lethal rounds at these  survivors.

Even if one accepts the President's determination that we are in an  armed conflict with cartels, the Geneva Conventions still apply.  Article 12 of the second Geneva Convention defines ``shipwrecked''  persons as those ``in peril at sea or in other waters from any cause.''

The U.S. Navy's ``Commander's Handbook on the Law of Naval  Operations'' makes clear that ``following each naval engagement at sea,  belligerents are obligated to take all possible measures to search for  and rescue the shipwrecked.''

The Department of Defense's ``Law of War Manual'' states that members  of the Armed Forces must refuse to comply with clearly illegal orders,  including law of war violations. It even provides a definition and an  example to avoid confusion:

For example, orders to fire upon the shipwrecked would be       clearly illegal.

That is our law. That is the manual of the Department of Defense.

The administration has released a video of all of these attacks  except this one, and I think it would be helpful to the public--to all  of us--to make that video available.

As we all know, on January 3, this campaign reached a climax. U.S.  forces conducted airstrikes to neutralize anti-aircraft systems,  carried out cyber operations to shut down power in Caracas, and  executed a helicopter assault  on the Presidential compound to seize Maduro and his wife. The tactical  success of this mission is a testament to their capabilities and also  to the incredible courage and quality of the men and women of our Armed  Forces.

However, military skill is not the same as strategic wisdom.  Executing a successful raid does not constitute a plan for governing a  nation. Indeed, alleviating the plight and misery of the Venezuelan  people appears nowhere in the administration's stated plans for the  future of Venezuela.

Instead, President Trump announced that the U.S. was ``going to run  the country'' and seize control of Venezuelan oil production. He stated  that ``we are ready to stage a second and much larger attack if we need  to.'' So the possibility of hostilities certainly still exists in the  President's mind, and he expects to be involved in Venezuela for years  to come. This is not really a plan; it is an aspiration. Even the  experts in the oil industry suggest that it is not one that is feasible  at this moment.

Under international law, the raid on January 3 violates article 2(4)  of the United Nations Charter, which prohibits the threat or use of  force against the territorial integrity or political independence of  any state. The United States is bound by treaty to follow the U.N.  Charter. The Constitution makes treaties part of the ``supreme law of  the land,'' and the President is bound by his oath to ensure the laws  are faithfully executed.

The administration, however, seems to have determined that it can  ignore the supreme law of the land because it claims it was simply  enforcing the law. That is wrong and cynical, and we are in a situation  where the President continues to assert that we can use hostilities at  any time. In fact, on January 9, he said, ``We are not afraid of boots  on the ground.''

Let me, for a moment, point out another great hypocrisy that has  arisen in this situation. This all began as a way to prevent drugs from  reaching this country and affecting families throughout this country.  The President was standing up and down, spouting about how he has  gotten rid of fentanyl. Of course, fentanyl does not come out of this  area of the world.

But this is one of the interesting things that happened just last  night: President Trump canceled $2 billion in grants for the Substance  Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. These were grants  intended to fund overdose prevention work in communities, to provide  lifesaving reversal drugs, and to fund treatment for people with opioid  addiction. These are the very programs that put people on a path toward  long-term recovery to avoid deaths through drugs. The Trump  administration is prepared to commit billions of dollars to attack  Venezuela but will take it from those people who are suffering from  drug addiction in the United States.

It is our duty to ensure that the United States engages in armed  conflict only after having the approval of Congress. This body has had  every opportunity up until now to demand accountability, and too many  of us have refused. The President has flouted the law, and we have  failed in our duty to correct it. So we must, I think, vote for this  resolution. It is our responsibility. It is the oath we took, and it is  the oath, tonight, that we must follow.