National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration


Mr. REED. Mr. President, my key topic this morning is to speak about  the tremendous value that NOAA--the National Oceanic and Atmospheric  Administration--provides the American people.

Over the past few weeks, we have heard alarming reports that the  Trump administration wants to make good on its Project 2025 promise to  ``break up and downsize'' and privatize portions of NOAA, including the  National Weather Service. Destroying NOAA in this way would be an  enormous blunder that would hurt our economy, hamper innovation, and  increase the risks to American lives and property.

The fact is that NOAA accounts for just one-tenth of 1 percent of the  Federal budget. Yet it is delivering information and research that are  absolutely vital to our economic prosperity.

The reports we see on the local news, on the Weather Channel, and all  our smart phones are built on forecasts and information generated by  the National Weather Service and its array of scientists, satellites,  and equipment.

NOAA's tornado and hurricane warning systems provide local emergency  managers critical information to prepare and respond to storms, often  up to a week in advance.

NOAA's aviation forecasts help ensure planes can take off and land at  their destinations safely.

NOAA's seasonal forecasts help farmers plant and grow our food.

On the seas, NOAA's nautical charting and mapping services are used  by everyone, from recreational boaters to international shipping  companies. Its exploration of uncharted portions of the ocean floor  give us insight into parts of our planet that are still as mysterious-- maybe even more mysterious than outer space.

NOAA works to protect our fishing industry and bring American seafood  to kitchen tables around the world, supporting 1.7 million fishing  jobs, a quarter of a trillion dollars in seafood industry sales, and  $117 billion in value-added impacts.

And the list goes on and on and on.

A study by the American Meteorological Society found that every  dollar invested in the National Weather Service produces $73 in value  to the American people.

NOAA isn't a creature of Washington, DC. It is in Norman, OK, where  NOAA's Storm Prediction Center tracks severe weather and tornado  warnings. It is in Florida, where NOAA's National Hurricane Center  monitors incoming storms to save lives and mitigate property loss. It  is in Alaska, where scientists at NOAA's Fisheries Science Center work  to maintain healthy fish populations to support local fishermen.

It is in my home State of Rhode Island, the Ocean State, where NOAA  is building Atlantic Marine Operations Center, which will centralize  its operations and take advantage of the expertise found in Rhode  Island and our nearby States.

We have an incredible concentration of oceanographic and marine  scientists.

We have the Naval Undersea Warfare Center in Newport. They are  leaders in research for underseas vessels, issues that are critical to  our national security. The University of Rhode Island, just across the  bay, has a nationally recognized School of Oceanography, and they have  just devoted millions of dollars to upgrade and improve that. They will  receive a new research vessel shortly.

We have a partnership with Woods Hole in Massachusetts, just probably  45 minutes away. This is where the scientific center on oceanography is  gradually emerging, and so NOAA's arrival will be beneficial. But it  won't be a result simply of their efforts; it will be the combination  of what we have already put in place.

NOAA is, as I said, situated in an area where--the Blue Economy,  which includes our Graduate School of Oceanography at the University of  Rhode Island, the Naval Undersea Warfare Center, small shipyards, and  one of the most important fishing ports on the east coast. They will  become an integral part of that. So they will be sustained and  supported at the same time they sustain and support our current  efforts.

As we face new and ever-growing challenges, including those driven by  climate change and extreme weather, NOAA's work is more vital than  ever.

The President and Mr. Musk's reckless threats to NOAA's workforce,  its budget, and its scientific research will make us less prepared and  cost more money and, indeed, lives.

Craig McLean, who served as NOAA's top scientist during the first  Trump administration, said of the threats posed by the President and  Elon Musk:

It's dire. . . . The way that this is being handled is with       ignorance and a sledgehammer rather than the appropriate       discretion that's necessary.

Protecting NOAA and its workforce is an investment in our future, an  investment in our ability to predict and prepare for natural disasters  and in the resilience of our planet.

I urge the President and my colleagues to protect NOAA and ensure it  can continue to carry out its mission and continue to provide valuable  services to the American people.