Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Internal Revenue Service Relating to ``Gross Proceeds Reporting By Brokers That Regularly Provide Services Effectuating Digital Asset Sales''


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to join my colleague Senator  Whitehouse, the ranking member on the Environment and Public Works  Committee and the foremost voice for sensible climate policies, someone  who for years has warned us of the approaching dangers of climate  change and today once again has demonstrated his great insights-- particularly with respect to the cost to homeowners--of climate change.  He is raising the alarm about President Trump's environmental policy  and the effect it will have on the health and well-being of Americans.  I want to thank him for his leadership on this important issue.

Earlier this month, EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin announced that his  Agency would move to repeal 31 environmental and health protections.  This Trump environmental plan will undo restrictions on air pollution  from powerplants, cars, and trucks. It would allow harmful discharges  into our water systems, relax restrictions on emissions of mercury and  other known neurotoxins, ease limits on soot and haze pollution, and  the list goes on and on and on.

These rollbacks appear to be a quid pro quo for President Trump's  fossil fuel donors, whom he reportedly asked to donate a billion  dollars to his campaign last year.

One of Trump's most concerning proposals is the repeal of the EPA's  longstanding scientific finding that greenhouse gases are pollutants.  After losing in the Supreme Court in 2006, the fossil fuel industry has  been out to overturn this so-called endangerment finding for nearly two  decades. Repealing it would degrade the EPA's authority to regulate  greenhouse gas emissions, meaning it could no longer act to curb  emissions from vehicle exhaust, factories, powerplants, and many, many  more locations. Relaxing these standards will result in more pollutants  in our air and in our water.

The fact is, these pollutants are not just numbers on a chart; they  are the reason millions of Americans are suffering from asthma, heart  disease, and other respiratory conditions. Several studies have shown  that air pollution can negatively impact maternal health and lead to  miscarriages and low birth weights. These health impacts will  particularly harm low-income communities, where the effects are  disproportionately severe.

Mr. Zeldin claims these actions will ``unleash American energy,'' but  really they will just unleash more pollution on the American people.  Mr. Zeldin claims that these actions will drive down costs for American  families, but the evidence shows otherwise. Indeed, EPA previously  found that for every $1 the country spends to reduce air pollution, it  is estimated to yield $30 in economic benefits in return.

These actions will worsen climate change and contribute to more  flooding and coastal erosion, which have cost homes and businesses in  my home State of Rhode Island millions of dollars in just the past few  years.

Mr. Zeldin claims that by rolling back these protections, he is  simply giving power back to the States, but we know that pollution does  not respect State lines.

We are all in this together to protect our air, water, and human  health. The Trump administration is taking us backwards and hurting  hard-working families in the process.

I firmly oppose the Trump EPA's misguided plan and will continue to  join Senator Whitehouse and my other colleagues in pushing back against  this administration's harmful agenda.

Once again, let me salute Senator Whitehouse for his leadership on  this critical--indeed, this existential--issue.