Venezuela


Mr. REED. Mr. President, for 4 months, my Democratic colleagues and I  have come to the floor to warn against President Trump's military  operations in South and Central America. We pointed out that his boat- strike campaign was strategically incoherent, legally questionable,  and, ultimately, not about narcotrafficking at all. We have argued that  the administration's shifting legal justifications, refusal to give  Congress straight answers, and, in particular, the failure of the  Department of Defense to provide information to Congress, which is  required by law--all of these things--together with a massive military  buildup, pointed toward something larger than narcotrafficking. Indeed,  we warned that these actions were always directed at the government and  economy of Venezuela.

That campaign has now culminated in a military raid on Caracas, the  capture of Nicolas Maduro and his wife, and President Trump's  extraordinary declaration that the United States will ``run'' Venezuela  and seize control of its oil reserves.

Let me be very clear about something, at the outset: Nicolas Maduro  is a brutal dictator who has destroyed Venezuela's economy, crushed  democratic opposition, and fostered widespread corruption. He will not  be missed. But this operation was not designed to restore peace in  Venezuela or protect America from the ravages of drugs. Indeed, this  operation is not about democracy. It is not about the suffering of the  Venezuelan people. It is not even about narcotrafficking, despite the  administration's killing more than 100 people in its strikes on alleged  drug boats. In the President's own words, this campaign is simply about  seizing Venezuela's oil and profiting from it.

The people of Venezuela have suffered extraordinary hardship under  the Maduro regime. They have voted in multiple elections for new  leadership and have been denied their choice through fraud and  repression. After everything they have endured, the people of Venezuela  deserve to choose what happens next in their country. They do not  deserve to have their future dictated by President Trump, Secretary  Rubio, or anyone else in Washington.

Yet that is precisely what this administration plans to do. The plan  presented by the White House is to simply force the remnants of the  Maduro regime to grant the United States exclusive access to Venezuelan  oil or face the consequences of a blockade. That is it. That is the  plan.

Not in the plan: positive change for the people of Venezuela. There  is no framework for elections or democratic transition, no serious  assessment of the rival political factions inside Venezuela--factions  that have been waiting for precisely this moment to seize power.

I have seen no contingency plan for what happens when China, Russia,  Iran, or Cuba--nations with deep economic interests in Venezuela-- decide to block or back proxy groups in a country we have just  destabilized, nor have I heard any proposal for the next steps for  countering narcotrafficking.

The administration's goals are aspirational at best, and aspirations  are not enough when the stakes involve war and the future of millions  of people.

One of the first lessons I learned as an Army officer is that hope is  not a plan. Over my career, both in uniform and in the Congress, I have  seen the United States hope that its military interventions abroad  would succeed. I have seen regime changes, nation-building efforts, and  elaborate reconstruction schemes launched with confident predictions of  success, only to have them collapse when encountered with the reality  on the ground.

And the reality is this: When we rely on the U.S. military as our  primary tool of foreign engagement, we generally set ourselves up for  failure. We have persistently misunderstood and misjudged the cultures,  histories, and politics of the nations in which we have intervened  because we assume military might is enough. We imagine outcomes that  align with our military and economic objectives but are surprised when  those outcomes fail. We consistently fail to plan for the ``day  after.''

Unless the Trump administration gets serious, Venezuela will be no  exception.

This isn't about our military capabilities. We have the most  formidable fighting force the world has ever seen, and I am proud and,  frankly, not surprised that all elements of our military worked  together to successfully execute such a dangerous and difficult mission  in Caracas. The skill, professionalism, and courage are beyond question  of these men and women.

But military capability is not the same as strategic wisdom. The  ability to achieve tactical objectives does not guarantee beneficial  long-term outcomes, and executing a successful raid does not constitute  a plan for governing a nation of 28 million people.

Congress exists to provide oversight and scrutiny of the executive  branch, not to cheer from the sidelines. I commend our servicemen for  their performance last weekend, but I am deeply concerned about the  Trump administration's lack of serious planning for the next phase.  That is why this War Powers Resolution is necessary.

The Constitution vests the power to authorize war in Congress, not  the President. President Trump has claimed this was just a law  enforcement mission. That is absurd. No matter how he describes it, the  President waged war on a foreign nation without authorization, without  notification to Congress, and without any explanation to the American  people about what this operation will cost or what success will look  like. This is a profound constitutional failure, and it must be  corrected.

I hope I am wrong about these dangers ahead. I hope this  administration is right, and the transition in Venezuela proceeds  smoothly. I hope that the Venezuelan people embrace this outcome and  see their lives improve quickly. I hope the violent factions in  Venezuela choose peace over conflict. I hope the economic recovery for  the people of Venezuela justifies this enormous gamble. But as I said  before, hope is not enough, and history suggests we should prepare for  a far more difficult reality.

The question before us is whether Congress will fulfill its  constitutional duty or whether we will abdicate our responsibility and  allow this President to commit American military resources,  credibility, and, potentially, American lives to an open-ended  entanglement without authorization or accountability.

I urge my colleagues to support this resolution.