Democratic Proposals


Ms. FRIEDMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Garamendi for  organizing this Special Order this evening.

I am Laura Friedman, and I represent the 30th Congressional District  in Los Angeles, a district that has really undergone a terrible tragedy  with fires, for which we are very much hoping for the kind of support  from the Federal Government that so many other regions have received  unconditionally after natural disasters.

Last night, I stood on this House floor, united with every single  House Democrat, to stand in opposition to the Republicans' slash-and- burn budget scheme that will take critical programs away from  hardworking Americans that so many of us rely on, particularly in these  difficult times.

Now, was this done by the Republicans out of a sense of fiscal  responsibility?

Well, I have got to say no. It is not fiscally responsible to take  money away from Americans just to provide a $4.5 trillion tax break to  the richest 1 percent of this country and to large corporations who  weren't even asking for a tax break.

Let's be clear: This slash-and-burn budget is an attack on families,  seniors, veterans, and children. It is a direct attack on Medicaid,  meaning that fewer families will have access to affordable healthcare  at a time when healthcare access is so out of reach for Americans.

It is an attack on SNAP food benefits, leaving millions struggling to  put food on the table.

It is an attack on Head Start, robbing children of the most critical  early education opportunities, opportunities that will lift young  people out of poverty.

It is even an attack on the tax credit and on many other programs  that help our young people afford a higher education. That will make it  harder for the next generation to afford college. It will also have the  effect of stifling innovation, weakening Americans' ability to lead by  staying on the cutting edge of technology.

Now, in California we very much value our public education system. We  have Silicon Valley, the entertainment industry, and huge biotech  industries. Those are all fueled by the education that our UC system  and our private colleges provide. However, because of this budget, so  many young people who today are able to achieve that education and  power our economy in California, which powers the United States'  economy, just leaves us with a brain drain that will keep us from being  competitive with other nations.

Why is this happening?

It is just to pad the pockets of the wealthiest Americans, the same  people who don't need another handout. Trump's tax proposals will give  the richest 1 percent an average tax break of more than $300,000. Think  about that, $300,000.

What do Californians and Americans across the Nation get in return?  What do ordinary people get?

They get higher costs. They get worse services as we lay off public  employees. Those are the same people who answer the phone if you need  to help a veteran get services or help yourself get Social Security or  need to access Medicaid. The people who answer those phones are being  laid off. That will make lives harder for our families.

In fact, on average, families making less than $157,000 a year are  going to see their taxes increase by more than $1,500. That is higher  taxes on more than 265 million Americans. Instead of making life more  affordable, this is going to make it harder for people to get by.

For all the talking that Republicans do about cutting the deficit,  with more than $4.5 trillion in tax breaks for the ultrawealthy, this  is an upside-down approach that will still manage to increase and blow  up the debt by almost $3 trillion. That is not responsible governing.  That is not fiscal responsibility. It is slashing critical programs,  raising taxes on the majority of Americans, and handing out checks to  the top 1 percent. It is a betrayal of the American people.

I am now, and I will always be, a big fat ``hell no'' on this slash- and-burn Republican budget. Democrats stand united against raising  costs on American families, and I will continue to fight for an economy  that puts hardworking families first and that will invest in the kind  of educational opportunities that will truly make our Nation great.

Ms. FRIEDMAN. Absolutely. I am a mom, and I have an 11-year-old. One  of the most important things to me is to make sure that my daughter has  access to the highest quality education possible so that she can  achieve as much as she is capable of.

That starts right at kindergarten and goes all the way up to wherever  she wants to go, whether that is through high school, into a trade  school or to higher education. All of us want to know that if our child  can get into a college that we can afford to send them there.

So many Americans worry, can I pay for my child's education? So many  people in my district and other districts worry whether or not their  child is getting a quality education at their public schools.

I was at a school this week that has Head Start, where a majority of  their children are taking advantage of Head Start because they are low  income. In fact, at the particular school in my district that I toured,  they also educate children with disabilities, children who are blind or  have autism. Head Start is what supports a lot of that.

The Department of Education is tasked with making sure that we have  an equitable distribution of resources around the country, and if a  child is facing any kind of discrimination in their school, if they are  not able to access Head Start, if they are not able to access programs  because of their disability, the Department of Education is there to  make sure that they get what they deserve, what their taxpaying parents  are paying for. Without that, there is no guarantee that this money  gets to these young children.

Ms. FRIEDMAN. That is right. I have spoken to a lot of our  universities that have seen either the programs that they use to  deliver scholarships to children who couldn't otherwise go to college  be frozen and certainly threatened by this budget.

In addition, one of the great benefits of our universities is the  research that they do. This is research that powers our economy, that  gives us the next generation of inventors, and gives us the inventions  which have led to the internet, which have led to a lot of what we do  with the space program, which leads to advancements in clean energy.  All of those are being piloted through our universities. They have seen  their funding frozen, absolutely frozen.

Even though a Federal judge told the Trump administration that that  was illegal and those payments have started again, they are unsure  whether that money is going to continue. Clearly, the administration's  goal is to end the funding for that kind of R&D that is done at every  university, which is part of our kids' education and part of the  production of the United States of America. These are the things that  we are proud of coming out of our national labs and coming out of our  universities.

The benefits are for education, but they are also to power our  economy through the inventions that the American mind has been able to  create.

Why would we stop that? Why would we stop the very engine of our  advancement in the world, the thing that makes us the number one Nation  on Earth? Why would we want to cut the funding off for that? It doesn't  make any sense.

People who are undergoing programs right now that have seen some  funding coming back can't even reach the NIH, who administers these  grants, because of a gag order from this administration. There are so  many threats through this budget and through this administration, to  college, to your kids' ability to access higher education, and to the  very institutions that make up our collegiate system in the United  States.

Ms. FRIEDMAN. Yes. Besides being a mom, I am a breast cancer  survivor. After I was diagnosed, I found out that one of the treatments  that has been a revolution in terms of saving the lives of women  suffering from breast cancer was developed, I believe, at UCLA.

So many of our medical advancements come through the R&D that is done  at our universities. That is funding that right now is frozen and  funding that is under direct threat.

For those of us who care about the health and well-being of our  families, it is not just about Medicaid, even though that is important.  It is also about the treatments of the future that have already shown  so much progress not only for the United States to be able to sell  treatments around the world, but to cure diseases like cancer, to treat  heart disease, to help with longevity.

Those come through our universities as well, through partnerships  that they have with private industry. We are talking a huge section of  our economy that not only drives us in terms of jobs and making life  more affordable, but literally keeps us alive. That is all right now on  the chopping block in the Republican budget.

Mr. Speaker, it is very--when you get down into the details here, the  research programs, some are stopped. Some will not be refunded and will  not go forward. It appears as though the proposal that the  administration or the policy that they are pursuing is to limit the  money that the university uses to build the facilities and to provide  the equipment.

I believe 15 percent--it is about a 50 percent cut from the current  funding. The result of that would seem to be, well, certainly that  isn't direct; but it is. It is the foundation upon which that research  is being used by multiple researchers. It is the hospitals and it is  the laboratories.

I would draw the attention of the House to beware of this proposal  that is actually being implemented now to reduce the total research  money that is available for the foundation upon which the individual  researchers carry out their research.

The bottom line of this is that America's progress really comes in  five different ways. This has been something I have been working on for  many years.

First, it is the best education system in the world, as the  gentlewoman put forward in her comments, it is absolutely fundamental.  If you get a good education, you have a chance. If our society has  well-educated children, then there will be advancements.

Secondly, research is tomorrow's economy. We have seen this through  the years. It has certainly been one of the critical elements of  California's success in building the fourth or fifth biggest economy in  the world.

Thirdly, infrastructure--infrastructure comes in many ways. It is the  facilities that the researchers use at the universities. It is the  roads, the streets, the sewer systems, and the like.

I suspect that in the Republican budget proposal there will be  reductions in critical research, particularly in the research but also  in the infrastructure. It is particularly in that portion of the  infrastructure that allows us to deal with the critical issue of  climate change which brings me to that issue and the infrastructure  needed to address that. That is electrical systems, grid systems, and  the like.

We also need to make sure that in this process we not only pay  attention to those elements but we also pay attention to the  international situation that is out there. We compete internationally.

The solution that the President is proposing is that we are going to  protect ourselves with tariffs. If we are interested in keeping the  cost to individuals down, then don't go to tariffs. There is a need for  balance here, and tariffs have a role. No doubt about it. The use of  tariffs being proposed by the President will raise costs and will not  enhance because the other elements that we need--a well-educated  society, infrastructure, and access to research--will not be available.

We have a complex situation out in front of us. I thank the  gentlewoman so very much for joining us today and for bringing to all  of us the issues that she is concerned with in her district and with  her family. I thank my colleague so much for joining us.

We are now near the end of this Special Order hour. I notice that my  Republican colleagues have hopefully been listening carefully and have  learned and would not continue to pursue policies that are detrimental  to the progress of our Nation. I would also hope that they would keep  in mind Franklin Delano Roosevelt's words: ``The test of our progress  is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much; it  is whether we provide enough for those who have too little.''

I would add to that, that we create a level playing field and that we  pursue policies that create that level playing field, that provide  access to education, and that provide the necessary support for  families who are in need. We can do better.