Congratulating the Independence Police Department


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697742/congratulating-the-independence-police-department


Mr. MILLER of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the  Independence Police Department for receiving the 2025 National Officer  Safety and Wellness award in comprehensive wellness. This is the top  award in the country, and Independence Police Department is the first  in Ohio ever to win it.

The department focuses on fitness, mental wellness, financial  wellness, and family programming to keep its officers supported and  operating at the highest levels.

Physical wellness is supported by onsite gym access, organized  challenges and workouts, and free wellness exams and cancer screenings.  Its mental health support includes confidential counseling, peer and  chaplain programs, and an annual screening with a licensed mental  health clinician. Additionally, between 2023 and 2024, information  gleaned from nutrition and financial wellness seminars contributed to a  50 percent reduction in sick time usage within the department,  resulting in $125,000 in savings for the city.

Mr. Speaker, the Independence Police Department's comprehensive  wellness program is truly unparalleled, and I congratulate them on this  more than well-received award.                  Celebrating Eileen Quine's 100th Birthday

Mr. MILLER of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize my constituent  Eileen Quine, who celebrated her 100th birthday on Halloween.

Eileen's children describe her as a loving wife to her husband, a  master sergeant in the Marine Corps, with whom she shared 74 years of  marriage before his passing.

She was heavily involved in the lives of her three children: Karen,  Ronald, and Loree, always providing a welcoming home where their  friends could gather.

She has five grandchildren, six great-grandchildren, and ten nieces  and nephews who all call her weekly and some even daily to keep in  touch. She is a social animal who loves being with people and is a  wonderful friend, aunt, and, most of all, mother.

Mr. Speaker, I wish Eileen a very happy 100th birthday.                       Honoring the Life of Bob Sekerak

Mr. MILLER of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of  Bob Sekerak, a proud Clevelander.

Born to John and Mary, and beloved husband to Linda, Bob's greatest  joy was his son, Brian.

Drafted into the Army during the Vietnam war, Bob served honorably as  a medic in Seattle.

After the war, he returned home to Hinckley, where he spent happy  days swimming in the lake and enjoying barbecues with his family and  friends. Bob built a distinguished career as a respiratory therapist at  Metro Health Systems in Cleveland, working alongside his brother David  until retirement. A gifted pianist, he brought joy to many with his  favorite songs.

In later years, Bob found peace on a small farm in Medina, raising  rescued horses and a spirited donkey, always accompanied by his loyal  German shepherd. His favorite horse, Duke, reflected Bob's own gentle  strength.

Today, we celebrate a life of service, music, and quiet devotion, a  life that touched all who knew him.

Recognizing Chiefs of Police Robert Butler and Edward Kinney

Mr. MILLER of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to recognize two  individuals: Independence, Ohio Chief of Police Robert Butler, and  Medina, Ohio Chief of Police Ed Kinney.

Earlier this year, Chief Butler was sworn in as president of the Ohio  Association of Chiefs of Police and Chief Kinney was sworn in as first  vice president of the Association.

The Ohio Association of Chiefs of Police was established almost 100  years ago to serve its members through a broad range of services,  including professional, educational, and informational services.

The goal is to foster improvements in police practices, training, and  education while increasing the public's understanding of the role  police play in keeping all of us safe.

The association made a great decision to select two great chiefs that  happened to be from my district for these leadership positions.

Chief Butler has been a police officer since 2008 and became the  Independence Chief of Police in 2021. Meanwhile, Chief Kinney has  served the city of Medina for over two decades, becoming chief of  police in 2017.

Mr. Speaker, I commend Chief Butler and Chief Kinney for their  leadership in both Ohio's Seventh District and the whole State of Ohio.  I thank them both so much for their service.