Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700495/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. MILLER of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to  this resolution.

Directing President Trump to withdraw combat operations in Iran is  not only foolish, but it is dangerous. Pulling back now will solidify  the regime's brutal grip on the great people of Iran and put American  troops in grave danger.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle are claiming we must  pass this resolution because President Trump acted without an imminent  threat to U.S. forces in the region. Are we serious? No imminent  threat?

Iran and its proxies have been soaking themselves in American blood  for nearly 50 years. Are we to believe that, one, their ballistic  missile program is not dangerous; two, their nuclear program is not  anything; or, three, their vast proxy network of terrorists all over  the world is not an imminent threat to U.S. forces?

Our veterans know the answer to that question. They, unlike most of  us, have been fighting Iran well before the start of Operation Epic  Fury. They have been under imminent threat for decades. Attack after  attack, Iran and its proxies have seldom passed up an opportunity to  kill Americans, and the other side of the aisle knows it.

The President is well within his Article II authorities to defend  U.S. forces from needless bloodshed. To do so, Iran's offensive  military capabilities must be destroyed.

This is not a war of choice. This is an intervention to prevent a  future full-scale war in the Middle East that we must avoid.

President Trump knows this and so do my colleagues on the other side.  The difference is that President Trump has the foresight to make this  difficult but prudent decision.

As we debate in this Chamber, our military is quickly dismantling the  Iranian threat. When this is all over soon, we will be much safer for  it.

God bless and protect our Armed Forces, and our prayers are with the  fallen and their families. We are able to stand here today because of  generations of their sacrifice. Semper Fidelis.