Innovative Mitigation Partnerships for Asphalt and Concrete Technologies Act


Mr. MILLER of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R.  1534, the Innovative Mitigation Partnerships for Asphalt and Concrete  Technologies Act, or more simply known as the IMPACT Act, which is a  lot easier to say.

I introduced this bill with my Science Committee colleague Mrs.  Foushee because we understand that the production of cement, concrete,  and asphalt play a fundamental role in supporting United States  infrastructure, national defense, and economic security.

The cement and concrete industry contributes over $130 billion to the  United States economy and employs over 577,000 people. In Ohio alone,  this industry has an economic contribution of $4.6 billion to the  State.

It is no secret that the processes behind these products are  extremely difficult to decarbonize and that American cement and  concrete manufacturers must compete in a market that increasingly  values lower carbon products. The leading companies and associations of  this industry have committed to achieving net-zero emissions by 2050  and have made impressive progress thus far, reducing their carbon  footprint by 21 percent since 2014.

However, more progress can be made. With projected demand for cement  expected to increase 12 percent by 2050, utilizing the best scientific  resources of the Federal Government will help manufacturers further  reduce emissions of the products essential to our economy and  civilization.

The IMPACT Act will support those resources while strengthening and  enhancing the competitiveness of American manufacturing through  advanced  technologies that can be exported around the globe.

We all want to see cement, concrete, and asphalt production continue  to rise and help grow our country. That is critical to our economic  well-being. We all want to see this growth go hand in hand with  environmental stewardship, leaving our air and water just as pristine  for the next generation.

The IMPACT Act builds on previous industrial decarbonization efforts  by focusing specifically on cement, concrete, and asphalt. It enables  industry and the Department of Energy to work collaboratively on  fundamental research that will enhance existing production methods and  unlock new, innovative techniques. This will ensure that the world- class tools and technologies at DOE are being used by the very  taxpayers who funded them.

It also enables DOE, in consultation with other Federal agencies, to  offer technical assistance to entities seeking to promote the  commercial application of low-emission cement, concrete, and asphalt.  This ensures that industry can continue their cutting-edge research  unencumbered, but if they do hit a roadblock, there are subject matter  experts available to assist them.

This bill is the perfect example of how the Federal Government can  advance tangible environmental goals for construction material  production without sacrificing material performance or, more  importantly, economic growth that benefits every single citizen  throughout our country.

I thank the gentlewoman from North Carolina (Mrs. Foushee) for  cosponsoring this bill and working in a bipartisan fashion to get it  here today. I urge all my colleagues to support this bill.