Recognizing September As National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695861/recognizing-september-as-national-prostate-cancer-awareness-month


Mr. MILLER of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize September  as National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month and the importance of  saving lives from Prostate Cancer through awareness, education, and  effective treatment for men's health in our Nation. Prostate Cancer is  one of the most common cancers among men. As such, efforts that  increase awareness of early detection, treatment, survival, and long- term health are vital.

As the second leading cause of cancer death in men, every 15 minutes  a man dies from Prostate Cancer. More than 35,000 patients are  projected to lose their lives to this disease in 2025 alone. However,  early detection through regular screenings can significantly improve  treatment outcomes and quality of life.

When detected in its early stages, Prostate Cancer is highly  treatable, and patients have a wider range of options due to state-of- the-art innovations. The relative 5-year survival rate for Prostate  Cancer diagnosed in its earliest stages is over 99 percent. Today,  there are more than 3.3 million prostate cancer survivors.

However, Prostate Cancer incidence is increasing in the U.S.--after a  period of decline, driven primarily by a rise in advanced-stage and  distant-stage diagnoses--posing serious threats to the health of men in  our Nation. The 5-year survival rate for advanced or metastatic  prostate cancer drops to 37 percent--though early detection and  treatment can prevent the cancer from spreading to other body organs,  significantly improving long-term survival rates.

We must also recognize the dedicated healthcare professionals, as  well as world-renowned expertise, seeking effective treatments of  Prostate Cancer and other forms of Cancer, both in my congressional  district in Northeast Ohio and throughout the Nation. Innovation in  medical technology leads to better outcomes and a higher value of  overall care. Broad advancements, including state-of-the-art non- invasive precision treatments, among others, have the capacity to  revolutionize patient care and improve health outcomes.

It is sobering that one in eight men is diagnosed in their lifetime.  Prostate Cancer impacts men from all walks of life, from urban centers  to rural communities across America. While particularly affecting  underserved populations, its reach touches even those in the highest  profiles of public life, even those in this body.

Despite advancements in early detection and treatment, Prostate  Cancer continues to exact a devastating toll on our nation, as a man is  diagnosed with Prostate Cancer every two minutes in America. Therefore,  the critical nature of saving lives from Prostate Cancer through  awareness, education, and support is paramount.

I applaud H. Res. 675, recognizing September as National Prostate  Cancer Awareness Month, for which I am a cosponsor, and thank my  colleagues for these efforts. More importantly, I commend those who  have been touched by this devastating disease, including Tim Hecker in  my home state of Ohio, as well as local cancer advocates, for their  tireless commitment. Our Nation must lead the way in ending the  devastating impacts of Prostate Cancer--with an urgent focus on  breaking barriers for long-term health and survival for men in the  United States.