-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698295/9999


Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President, I want to first thank my  colleague from Florida, Senator Moody. I am proud to work together with  her to protect Florida's shores, which is very, very, very important to  Floridians.

As Floridians, we know that our beaches and coastal waters are vital  to the State's economy, environment, tourism, and military community. I  have worked for years, both as Florida's Governor and U.S. Senator, to  keep oil drilling off our coast. We do not want oil drilling on our  coast.

In 2018, I was proud to work with President Trump, during his first  term, to extend the moratorium on oil drilling off Florida's coasts  through 2032, and I have fought to codify this action since I got to  the Senate.

Florida's shorelines are not only an iconic and pristine part of the  State's environment; they also generate jobs in the area and support  billions in tourism revenue.

Florida's beaches alone contribute more than $127 billion per year to  the State's economy, just in tourism spending. People come from all  over the world to enjoy our beaches. And 2.1 million jobs held by  Floridians are tourism-related jobs.

Our coasts are also a critical national security point for military  training with the Gulf Test Range. Anybody that has done testing, if  you have served along the Panhandle, you know how important the  military training is on the testing there for the Gulf Test Range. This  range is an essential part of the Department of War's military training  and is supported by several military communities along Florida's  Panhandle.

It is the largest multidomain military training complex in the  country, where our Armed Forces can conduct advanced military testing,  training, and evaluation of air and weapons systems. There is no place  in the world like being able to test and train off the coast of  Florida.

The administration is right. We need to unleash America's energy,  including American oil, but we can do that without sacrificing  America's most important military training ground or hurting Florida's  economy or shoreline.

I recently wrote a letter that was signed by the entire bipartisan  Florida delegation--it is led by Senator Moody and me--urging President  Trump to continue his commitment to keeping Florida's coast off the  table for oil drilling and uphold his moratorium.

Along with Senator Moody, I will always fight to keep oil drilling  off of Florida's coast to support our economy, our environment, and our  Nation's military readiness.

I look forward to continuing to work closely with the President,  Senator Moody, and all our colleagues on this important issue.

I yield back to my colleague from Florida, Senator Moody.