Expressing Support for the Designation of October As the ``National Day of Remembrance for Charlie Kirk''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695709/expressing-support-for-the-designation-of-october-as-the-national-day-of-remembrance-for-charlie-kirk


Mr. SCOTT of Florida.  Res. 403, which was submitted  earlier today.

Mr. SCOTT of Florida. I know of no further debate.

Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President, like most Americans, my wife Ann  and I are completely heartbroken by the tragic loss of our friend and  fellow patriot Charlie Kirk in a despicable, targeted assassination.

This is a devastating loss for his wife Erika and their two precious  kids and the millions, including myself, who felt the impact of  Charlie's work and were inspired by his devotion to God and his  beliefs.

Charlie was a good man, a devout husband, father, and friend. His  life was shaped by his faith and idea that in America, debate and  discussion are crucial to the betterment of our country. He believed in  God, the American dream, the value of family, and the principles of our  great Nation.

I talked to Charlie pretty much every week. I did his shows often. I  did his show 2 days before the assassination. We talked about that he  was going to be going to another college to visit. I have gone to  colleges to visit, and it is uplifting. But Charlie would go, and he  would take anybody's question and have a conversation with them. He  just was the most wonderful person to talk to, and so many people in  this country looked up to him.

Charlie dedicated his life to the idea that the power of our ideas  cannot only win the day but start a movement. And that is exactly what  he did. As the founder and executive director of the nonprofit Turning  Point USA, he and his team worked to build thousands of chapters across  the Nation dedicated to educating students about the principles of  freedom, free markets, and limited government.

Charlie inspired millions of young Americans to be involved in the  future of their country and make their voices heard. He traveled to  college campuses around the Nation to share ideas and talk about them.

Charlie was never afraid to have a conversation. He didn't care if  you agreed or disagreed with his ideas. He welcomed the opportunity to  respectfully and peacefully debate ideas in the court of public  opinion.

Unfortunately, Charlie was taken from us in a disgusting act of  political violence on September 10, 2025, but his legacy lives on.  Charlie will long be remembered for his love of God, his family and  this great Nation and the impact he had on each and every one of us.

We have the opportunity to carry on his memory by believing in the  power of ideas, discussion, and the value of our Nation. As we mourn  this massive loss, let us gather together in our communities and pray  for his family and our Nation. And let us honor Charlie by believing in  the power of our ideas to win the day and leave this Nation a better  place.

I am proud to have the support of more than 20 of my colleagues to  honor Charlie by dedicating his birthday--October 14, 2025--as  ``National Day of Remembrance for Charlie Kirk.''

I want to thank my Senate colleagues for uniting together to honor a  great American patriot, a leader and friend.

Charlie will be remembered for the profound impact he had on our  lives and our Nation. On October 14, we will gather together as a  nation and pay tribute to his great life.

Now I will yield the floor to my colleague from Tennessee.