Letter to Chad Wolf, Acting Secreatary of the Department of Homeland Security, and Robert Redfield, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - Sen. Rick Scott Requests Updates on DHS, CDC Action in Florida After New Cases of Chinese Coronavirus Confirmed in Central and South America


Dear Acting Secretary Wolf and Director Redfield:

I am extremely concerned about the outbreak of the Chinese Coronavirus, which is growing at an alarming rate in Europe, Asia, the Americas and the Middle East. The first reported cases of the Chinese Coronavirus in Brazil and Mexico are particularly concerning given the rate of travel between these countries and Florida.

Florida serves as a hub of commerce and international trade, and our state's proximity to Latin America and the Caribbean allows Florida's 15 seaports to play an important role in the nation's waterborne exports and imports. Florida is also a global tourist destination, welcoming more than 100 million visitors a year. With the new confirmed cases of Chinese Coronavirus in Brazil and Mexico, and as the threat around the world continues to grow, I ask that you please provide me with updates on the following: 

Is the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) considering extending the temporary travel restrictions to any Central or South American country or region? If so, which ones?Has DHS or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) introduced new travel screening protocols for any Florida airports or seaports, specifically Miami International Airport, Fort Lauderdale Airport and Orlando International Airport? If so, what are the new screening protocols for passengers coming from Central and South America?Are you planning to add any Florida airports to the list of airports authorized to receive flights from areas affected by the Chinese Coronavirus? If so, what would be the quarantine protocol?Have clear guidelines been shared with Florida airports and seaports on new procedures given the new health threat from Central and South America?Are DHS and the CDC planning to increase U.S. Customs and Border Protection and CDC screening personnel at Florida airports and seaports? If so, which ones?Has the CDC been working with authorities in Brazil and Mexico to mitigate travel-related spread?Thank you for your work to control the spread of this disease. I look forward to your response as we continue to work with you to be as transparent as possible as we keep Americans safe. 

Sincerely,