Letter to Chad F. Wolf, Acting Secretary of Homeland Security, Steve Dickson, Administrator of the FAA, Robert Redfield, Director of the CDC, and Sandra Park-O'Hara, Santa Rose County Health Dept., and Angela Smith, Administrator of the Lee County Health Dept. - Sen. Rick Scott Requests Additional Information About Chinese Coronavirus Deaths in Florida


To Whom It May Concern:

 

I am extremely concerned about the outbreak of the Chinese Coronavirus, with several cases already confirmed in Florida and two virus-related deaths in Lee and Santa Rosa counties within days. Our hearts break for the families of the individuals lost to this horrible sickness, and we must do everything we can to stop the spread of the Coronavirus and save lives. The lack of publicly released information surrounding these cases is alarming and unfair to millions of families across the nation who are worried about their well-being.

 

Now more than ever, we must be transparent and provide as much information as possible to Americans so they can keep themselves and their families safe. I am requesting that the following information be publicly released regarding the Chinese Coronavirus cases in Florida:

 

What were the original outbound and inbound flights including locations, dates, airport names, and flight numbers of the affected individuals from Lee and Santa Rosa counties?If they recently traveled to Florida from abroad or within the United States, do you have records that they were medically screened at a U.S. or international airport?If so, was that information or samples sent to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) or the Florida Department of Health and if so, when?Was this information provided to the local health department? What has been done to immediately contact the passengers that were on those flights? Were they given the opportunity to be tested?It has been reported that these individuals had underlying health conditions. Is this information accurate, and if so, what were they?When was the CDC notified of the two deaths in Florida?What is the current process for hospitals to notify county health departments of presumptive cases? 

Thank you for your work to control the spread of this disease. With American lives at risk, we must work together quickly with all information possible to stop the spread of this disease immediately. I look forward to your responses as we continue to work to keep Americans safe. 

 

Sincerely,