Motion to Discharge--S. Res. 195


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691405/motion-to-discharge-s-res-195


Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President, the nominees I will discuss  today were approved by the Armed Services Committee with bipartisan  support. Republicans and Democrats agreed they are qualified and ready  to serve. President Trump was elected in a landslide, and the American  people expect and deserve our support in getting his agenda  accomplished.

President Trump and his administration are working incredibly hard to  bring back the U.S. policy of peace through strength and to ensure our  military is a respected and lethal fighting force. This is not an easy  task after President Biden's weakness allowed our enemies free rein  while our military leadership was distracted with being woke.

President Trump needs his full team in place to deliver on his agenda  to restore our Nation's military to focus on the warfighter.

To that end, I ask that we move to consider the following nominees:  First, I will ask we consider Dale Marks to be an Assistant Secretary  of Defense.

Mr. Marks is a former fighter pilot and combat-wounded veteran. After  his distinguished military career, he continued service in a civilian  capacity, where he rose through the ranks of Senior Executive Service.  He is currently serving as Executive Director of the 96th Test Wing,  Air Force Materiel Command at Eglin Air Force Base in Florida.

The position he is nominated for is essential to ensure our military  installations remain strong, our energy policies support mission  success, and our environmental strategies enhance, not hinder,  operational readiness and support peace through strength.

I urge the Democrats to drop their misplaced stall tactics and allow  for his immediate confirmation.

109, Dale  Marks, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense; that the Senate vote on  the nomination without intervening action or debate; that the motion to  reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table; and that the  President be immediately notified of the Senate's action and the Senate  resume legislative session.

Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President, I am not sure I understand my  colleague's objections. These are well-qualified nominees. They enjoy  bipartisan support. There are several more nominees waiting. It is  obvious, my colleagues across the aisle will do everything they can to  undermine President Trump's agenda and delay these nominees.

Next, I would like to consider Keith Bass to be Assistant Secretary  of Defense. Mr. Bass is a retired U.S. Navy commander. He is also a  member of the American College of Healthcare Executives, the National  Rehabilitation Association, the American Counseling Association, and  the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors.

Prior to nomination, Mr. Bass served as the Medical Center Director  for the West Texas VA Health Care System. The role Mr. Bass has been  nominated to oversee is a Military Health System that has 9.6 million  beneficiaries entitled to care. The military health system is currently  undergoing many reforms to improve efficiency, increase readiness, and  deliver better care. I urge my colleagues to allow for his immediate  confirmation.

70, Keith  Bass, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense; that the Senate vote on  the nomination without intervening action or debate; that the motion to  reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table; and that the  President be immediately notified of the Senate's action and the Senate  resume legislative session.

Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President, the President deserves his  national security nominees today. Let me see if we will consider this  one: Brandon Williams to be Under Secretary for Nuclear Security,  Military Health System.

Mr. Williams is a nuclear submarine officer. During his service, he  made six strategic deterrence patrols, was a nuclear weapons safety  officer, nuclear weapons security officer, and nuclear weapons  radiological control officer. He is pretty competent.

This role is responsible for the maintenance of a safe, secure, and  reliable nuclear stockpile.

Confirmation is critical to President Trump's ``peace through  strength and strategic deterrence'' agenda. Hopefully, my colleague  will see the wisdom in allowing this confirmation--this individual who  is clearly qualified to be confirmed today.

107,  Brandon Williams, to be Under Secretary for Nuclear Security; that the  Senate vote on the nomination without intervening action or debate;  that the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the  table; and that the President be immediately notified of the Senate's  action and the Senate resume legislative session.

Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President, one final ask. I hope my  colleagues can agree that we have at least one critical nominee today  approved.

Let's consider Bradley Hansell to be Under Secretary of Defense for  Intelligence and Security.

Mr. Hansell is a former Green Beret, Senior Director on the National  Security Council staff, and has previously received bipartisan  support. He will be responsible to exercise the Secretary of Defense's  authority, direction, and control over the DIA, NGA, NSA, NRO, and the  Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency. His confirmation is  critical to the President's ``peace through strength'' agenda.

I, once again, urge my colleague to allow for the nominee's immediate  confirmation.

108,  Bradley Hansell, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and  Security; that the Senate vote on the nomination without intervening  action or debate; that the motion to reconsider be considered made and  laid upon the table; that the President be immediately notified of the  Senate's action; and that the Senate resume legislative session.

Mr. SCOTT of Florida. At some point, this has got to change. We have  Presidential elections every 4 years. Our President got elected.  President Trump got elected, whether people like it or not. He deserves  an opportunity to put his team together and act as the President and  put his agenda in place.

This idea that both parties sit here and delay nominees and the  ability to put teams together doesn't make any sense for the future of  this country. This is not a time that there is no risk in the world,  and so, at some point, we are going to all have to come together to  start accelerating this. We have so many nominees. Whether it is a  Republican or a Democrat President, we have got to allow these nominees  to get through and get confirmed in a much more expedited manner.  Otherwise,  none of our Presidents are ever going to get in a position that they  can ever put a team together during their 4-year term.

Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Let's remember what we just did today. This is  not the confirmation of the Secretary of Defense. These are the  confirmations of very competent people. No one can question the  competence of these four people. No one can. All right? These are  competent people who have served our country and who do a great job. So  what we are doing is we are saying: Because some people don't like our  Secretary of Defense, we are not going to allow the President to put a  team together of very competent people.

So what we are doing is, now we just have acting people whom none of  us get to vote on and none of us get to question until they come to  committee. None of this makes any sense. It is not helping us put  together a team and holding people accountable.