Secure U.S. Bases Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President, first, I want to thank the  Senator from Alaska for his ``Alaskans of the Week'' each week. I have  had the opportunity to preside a few times when he recognizes the  Alaskan of the Week, and the stories are unbelievable. The story last  week of what the young man from the great State of Florida did up in  Alaska was just remarkable. 

  So I say to the Senator, thank you for what you do. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President, I speak today in honor of the  three victims of the tragic terrorist attack that took place at Naval  Air Station Pensacola on December 6, 2019. 

  Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, known to friends and family as ``Mo,''  just 19 years old, from St. Petersburg, FL, was a great athlete who  loved to make others laugh. 

  Ensign Joshua Kaleb Watson of Enterprise, AL, a 23-year-old natural- born leader and selfless volunteer, who lifted others up, died a hero  after giving first responders information on the shooter's location  while he was mortally wounded. 

  Airman Apprentice Cameron Scott Walters of Richmond Hill, GA, was  just 21 years old, with a contagious smile, whose dream was to serve  his country. 

  Our sailors and law enforcement officials showed heroism and bravery  in the face of evil, as they ran toward the shooter that day, saving  lives, and our first responders came to the first aid of those in need. 

  Following this attack, I promised to do everything possible to  prevent a tragedy like this from happening again. I called for a hard  reset of the entire foreign national's training program and for all  Saudi nationals training in the United States to be sent home until the  U.S. Department of Defense completed a thorough review. 

  We now know that 21 of the foreign military students were withdrawn  from the program and returned to Saudi Arabia after an investigation  found that they were engaged in dangerous activities, including  accessing anti-American jihadists websites and child pornography. 

  Withdrawing these students was a positive step, but there are still  more than 850 military students from Saudi Arabia who remain in the  United States at 38 military installations in 17 States, and there are  thousands of additional foreign nationals from countries around the  world training at U.S. military basis across our great Nation. 

  I am not calling for an end to these programs. Our alliances around  the world, including our longstanding relationship with Saudi Arabia,  are invaluable in defending American national securities and our  interests abroad. These programs play an important role, but we cannot  put the lives of our military men and women at risk. 

  We need to make sure that our men and women in uniform are safe at  all times, especially when they are training right here in the United  States. 

  Today, I am proud to join with my colleague Senator Joni Ernst to  introduce the Secure U.S. Bases Act, to make sure these programs are  operated with American interests first and that our men and women in  uniform are protected. 

  The Secure U.S. Bases Act does three things. First, it creates a new  visa category for foreign military students training on U.S. bases,  with restrictions on their travel and actions while they are in our  country. Individuals who receive the new visa will be prohibited from  possessing, acquiring, or using firearms, except for uses specifically  required by their training program, and they will be under the  continual oversight of their commander. 

  Second, the bill changes the application process and vetting  requirements for foreign military students. 

  The application to train on U.S. bases will now require an official  endorsement letter from the chief of intelligence of their home  country, additional personal information, an in-person interview, and  an extensive background check that will include a review of social  media activity. The U.S. Director of National Intelligence will also be  responsible for the final decision on whether to admit an applicant  into this program. 

  Finally, the Secretary of Defense must develop a method for  classifying relative risks by country and consider the overall risk  profile of each country when making determinations of an applicant's  eligibility. If a program could be implemented in another country  instead of the United States, the Department should consider that when  appropriate. 

  This terrorist should have never been allowed into our country, let  alone on any American military base with easy access to military men  and women. The Secure U.S. Bases Act makes sure foreign military  students training at U.S. bases are thoroughly vetted and monitored and  that our troops are protected and never have to experience a tragedy  like this again. 

  I had the opportunity to serve in the U.S. Navy and can't imagine our  military men and women feeling unsafe on their post. It is a place  where they train and serve, where their families live--some on base and  some off--and where they deserve to feel safe and secure. 

  I hope all my colleagues join me in this effort and keep our U.S.  bases secure. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT