Sen. Rick Scott to Pandemic Experts: We Must do More to Protect Americans from Coronavirus


Ahead of tomorrow's U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs roundtable on global pandemics, Senator Rick Scott released a list of questions he plans to ask experts regarding the threat of the 2019 Novel Coronavirus. Since Communist China cannot be trusted to coordinate in a transparent and efficient manner when it comes to combatting the threat of the virus, every resource must be available to contain the disease and keep Americans healthy. Senator Scott continues to work with the administration to protect the health of Americans families.

 

We know several Americans, including from my state of Florida, are trapped on a cruise ship in Japan, where over a hundred individuals have reportedly been infected. In your view, is everything being done properly to contain the virus from spreading, while protecting those on board? Are other countries doing their part?I've seen reports that Coronavirus may live for up to 9 days on surfaces. I'm reaching out to the CDC to confirm is this is true. What do you make of these reports?I've called for increased screening and inspections on all products and produce coming into the U.S. from China. Can you talk about the current risk associated with Chinese imports, specifically agricultural and food products, like processed food, imported seafood, grains, and live animals? Until we know more, do we need to consider a ban on all products coming from China in order to protect Americans?Given that so much is still unknown about this virus and the fact that we can't trust Communist China, why wouldn't we use the same level of security screening as we're using for passengers for imports coming from China?I am calling on the WHO to do an independent analysis of the extent of the virus given China's lack of transparency. What do you think are the real numbers of deaths and individuals infected? Do you think China is withholding information and why?We must do more to protect Americans from Coronavirus. What steps should the U.S. be taking that we haven't yet to contain this virus? What additional resources are needed?