Sen. Rick Scott: Don't Let Your Guard Down, Prepare for Hurricane Season NOW


Today, Senator Rick Scott wrote a letter to the editors of Florida's papers urging families to stay vigilant and get prepared now for the 2020 Hurricane Season, beginning June 1, as our nation continues working to end the spread of the Coronavirus. Last week, Senators Rick Scott and Marco Rubio requested that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) issue guidance to address the CDC's Coronavirus guidelines and procedures to keep Floridians safe and healthy in the event of a storm. Read more HERE.

 

In the letter, Senator Rick Scott wrote, "As Floridians, we know better than anyone that preparedness saves lives. Complacency is the enemy. As we continue to do

everything we can to stop the spread of the Coronavirus so we can get back to our everyday lives -- we must also prepare for what lies ahead.

The 2020 hurricane season is quickly approaching, and preparing for a storm this year might look a little different. You're probably asking questions like: How can I evacuate if I'm socially distancing? What would a hurricane shelter look like if we're avoiding crowds? How do I build a disaster preparedness kit for my family if I can't go to the store?

Hurricane season begins June 1, and while we all hope that in two months the threat of Coronavirus is over, we must prepare for the worst and have a plan.

Federal, state and local officials are going to have to address how to keep families safe while adhering to CDC guidelines on the Coronavirus. Floridians are going to have to get creative in their preparedness efforts. And the time to start thinking about this is now.

To the extent that your family is financially able to -- consider purchasing supplies for your disaster supply kits online. That includes vital supplies, like food, water, flashlights, batteries and other necessities. Every family and business needs to make or revisit their emergency plans. You can find resources and information on creating a personalized emergency plan at www.ready.gov

As your Senator, I'll do everything I can at the federal level to protect Florida's families and businesses. I'm working with FEMA to issue guidance to states, local governments, tribes and territories regarding how to address hurricane preparedness in the wake of Coronavirus.

I know everyone is exhausted from the effects of the Coronavirus, but we cannot let our guards down. In case of a storm, always stay tuned to your local news reports and follow the direction of local law enforcement and emergency management officials. As I always say, you can rebuild your home, but you cannot rebuild your life.

We must keep doing everything we can to take care of each other and protect our families. Don't wait to take action. Start getting prepared TODAY."

Senator Scott is using every medium possible to get the message out about how Floridians can keep themselves and their families safe. Any outlet that is interested is welcome to run this letter.