Sen. Rick Scott Statement on Reforms Needed to Make Paycheck Protection Program Work


Today, Senator Rick Scott released the below statement ahead of a deal to provide more funding for the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP).

 

Senator Rick Scott said, "My focus has and will always be on helping small businesses and individuals that are struggling because of the Coronavirus. I am all for helping these groups and that will never change. I am also very supportive of additional funds toward this program because there are many small businesses that need it. But we cannot throw caution to the wind in the middle of a crisis. We still have to be smart about how we spend taxpayer dollars.

 

"I am concerned that many businesses with thousands of employees have found loopholes to qualify for these loans meant for small businesses. Unfortunately, when it comes to the PPP, millions of dollars are being wasted. Right now, companies that are not being harmed at all by the Coronavirus crisis have the ability to receive taxpayer-funded loans that can be forgiven. That's wrong, and it takes money out of the hands of those Americans who really need it. Congress must clarify that PPP loans will only be available to businesses that show a substantial reduction in revenue due to the Coronavirus. Second, I have heard from many constituents that they are unable to access the loans at their bank because of requirements individual banks are setting. These requirements were not in the law and are leading to many small businesses having a very hard time accessing these dollars. Congress must make it clear that banks should not and cannot set these requirements that actively withhold help from those in need.

 

"What I will not support are efforts by Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer to use this crisis to expand government and fund priorities that have nothing to do with the Coronavirus. We must focus our efforts on helping the individuals and small businesses that need it most -- and that's what I will continue to do."