Sen. Rick Scott Calls for Investigation of WHO's Role in Helping Communist China Cover Up Global Pandemic


Today, Senator Rick Scott released the below statement calling on Congress to hold a hearing and investigate the World Health Organization's (WHO) role in helping Communist China cover up information regarding the threat of the Coronavirus. In February, Senator Scott called on the WHO to do its own in-depth analysis on the extent of the Coronavirus -- which they haven't done. Senator Scott is gravely concerned about China's efforts to isolate Taiwan when it comes global health and the WHO's continued refusal to include Taiwan in its membership, meetings, and information, especially in the face of the Coronavirus. Senator Scott has also cosponsored legislation to increase the United States' support of Taiwan's efforts to join the WHO.

 

Senator Rick Scott said, "The mission of the WHO is to get public health information to the world so every country can make the best decisions to keep their citizens safe. When it comes to Coronavirus, the WHO failed. They need to be held accountable for their role in promoting misinformation and helping Communist China cover up a global pandemic. We know Communist China is lying about how many cases and deaths they have, what they knew and when they knew it -- and the WHO never bothered to investigate further. Their inaction cost lives. As soon as Congress is back in session, there should be a hearing, along with a full investigation, to review whether American taxpayers should continue to spend millions of dollars every year to fund an organization that willfully parroted propaganda from the Chinese Communist Party."

Examples of the WHO acting as pawn for Communist China include:

Chinese state-run media continually using World Health Organization official Bruce Aylward's comments for its propaganda.Praising China's Coronavirus response and transparency, even as Chinese officials noted the issues with their own response to the Coronavirus.Refusing to answer basic questions about Taiwan, who they've refused to allow into the organization.Willfully parroting propaganda from the Chinese Communist Party, spreading misinformation that puts families health at risk -- see more in the Tweet below.