Sen. Rick Scott: Families Should Take Every Precaution to Stay Safe and Stop the Coronavirus


Today, Senator Rick Scott wrote a letter to the editors of Florida's papers outlining steps that families can take to keep themselves safe and healthy, and help curb the spread of the Coronavirus in the U.S.

 

In the letter, Senator Rick Scott wrote, "The Coronavirus is a public health threat that is not going away anytime soon. Now is the time to get serious and take every precaution we can.

Always cover your cough, regularly wash your hands, and drastically limit your contact with others.

If you're sick, or even feel sick, don't travel. Airports and schools must start checking the temperature of everyone coming through; travelers with fevers took unnecessary risks and flew to Florida, spreading the Coronavirus.

Localities must ensure those that our first responders and healthcare workers, who interact with the public, have the personal protective gear they need to keep themselves and the American people safe.

Florida, with its large population, needs an abundance of tests and testing centers. After I introduced the Coronavirus Mobile Collection Site Act to expand access to mobile Coronavirus testing, President Trump agreed with my plan and is now developing mobile sites across the nation.

We know seniors are especially susceptible to the Coronavirus, but young people are also not immune. It can infect anyone and cause them to become seriously ill; even if it doesn't, young people can spread it to those with weaker immune systems.

Social distancing is the best way that every individual can limit the number of infections. Avoid restaurants, bars, and crowded events. With so many seniors in Florida, everyone has to avoid large groups and only leave their house when necessary.

We can survive this and come out on the other side, and we can curb the current outbreak, but we all must make serious adjustments to our everyday lives."

Senator Scott is using every medium possible to get the message out about how Floridians can keep themselves and their families safe. Any outlet that is interested is welcome to run this letter.