Sen. Rick Scott to Congress: Split Up Phase 3 Coronavirus Stimulus Package and Focus on Helping Individuals and Small Businesses


Today, as Congress begins consideration of the 'Phase 3' Coronavirus rescue plan, which would provide relief to Americans and big industries, Senator Scott released the following statement calling on Congressional leaders to break up the stimulus package and focus on getting relief to those Americans who need it the most.

 

Senator Rick Scott said, "We have to solve the spread of the Coronavirus. And until we do, we cannot get a true handle on the economic impact and what will be needed to energize our economy. All levels of government -- federal, state, and local -- need to be careful before they make major decisions impacting their budgets until we understand the true cost and effect of this virus. Right now, Congress needs to focus on the Americans that are hurt most by the Coronavirus -- our small businesses, hourly workers and individuals whose livelihoods depend on tips. I've heard from countless Floridians and small business owners about the devastating impact this virus is having on their lives.

I heard from Johnny, who owns a restaurant in Flagler Beach and employs over 75 people. His business has survived three hurricanes and he is concerned that Coronavirus will impact his business and employees' lives more than all three hurricanes combined.

I heard from Virginia, owner of a beloved chocolate factory in St. Augustine, who is concerned about how she will continue to contribute to the community, pay taxes and retain her nearly 50 wonderful employees.

I heard from Olga, who employs 18 people at a travel agency in Coral Cables. She's heartbroken, because she just had to lay off four of her loyal employees, and she has no idea if her business can afford the mandates in the legislation Congress just passed.

These are the people we should be helping. We shouldn't be bailing out large corporations that have enjoyed years of growth and prosperity. That's wrong and that's why I'm calling on leadership to split up these bills, think critically about each proposal, and help American families that are struggling FIRST."

 

Senator Scott is recommending the federal government take the follow steps to support Americans affected by the Coronavirus. Read more in his op-ed for Fox Business.

 

First, significantly increase federal assistance to state Unemployment Insurance programs, and change the corresponding regulations to allow states the ability to open the fund for workers to immediately access if they are out of work, temporarily out of work, or have reduced hours. Senator Scott believes this is the quickest, most effective, and most fiscally responsible way to get money to the people who need it most. 

Second, impose a 60-day moratorium on mortgages, rent, fees and utilities for both individuals making less than $75,000 a year and small businesses with less than 250 employees. Those payments would be postponed and paid out over the following 12 months.