Senators Rick Scott and Jacky Rosen Introduce Bipartisan, Bicameral No CORRUPTION Act


Today, Senators Rick Scott and Jacky Rosen introduced the No Congressionally-Obligated Recurring Revenue Used as Pensions to Incarcerated Officials Now (No CORRUPTION) Act, which would prevent former members of Congress convicted of crimes involving public corruption from receiving taxpayer-funded pension payments. This legislation has also been introduced in the House of Representatives, led by Representatives Ralph Norman and Brad Schneider.

Senator Rick Scott said, "It is unthinkable that a former member of Congress could be convicted of a crime involving public corruption and still benefit off the taxpayer dollars of hardworking families. I came to the U.S. Senate to fight for the best interests of Floridians, not career politicians, and I'm proud to sponsor common sense legislation to prevent criminals from getting taxpayer-funded retirement benefits."

Senator Jacky Rosen said, "As elected officials, we have a responsibility to act as good stewards of taxpayer dollars, and this includes preventing Members of Congress convicted of serious crimes while in office from receiving taxpayer-funded pensions. This bipartisan legislation would close a loophole allowing these politicians to collect pensions for years after being found guilty of committing a crime. I will continue working in Congress to stamp out corruption in politics and protecting the hard-earned money of our nation's taxpayers."

Representative Ralph Norman said, "I think most Americans would be outraged if they knew about the various perks that former Members of Congress receive. One of the worst has to do with pension-eligible Members who are convicted of a felony while in office. As the law currently stands, even a felony conviction wouldn't disqualify a former Member from receiving a pension for the rest of his or her life. This is yet another fitting example of 'The Swamp' that needs to be fixed, and I'm happy to introduce bipartisan, bicameral legislation to do just that. It's time Members of Congress start acting like everyday Americans, not elitist politicians sheltered by their own rules."

Representative Brad Schneider said, "Members of Congress hold a position of public trust and must be held to a high standard. It is outrageous that members facing a felony conviction can continue to collect a taxpayer-funded pension. I am proud to support this commonsense legislation to strengthen ethics rules on Congress."

BACKGROUND

Current law requires former Members of Congress to forfeit their pensions only after exhausting their appeals, which allows convicted former members to go on filing one appeal after another for years, while collecting their taxpayer-funded pensions. The bipartisan No CORRUPTION Act amends the law to close that loophole so that former Members of Congress lose their pensions immediately following a lawful conviction of a felony. If a former member's conviction is overturned on appeal, the pension will be restored, and he or she will be eligible to receive retroactive payments. This legislation is supported by the National Taxpayers Union.