Gulf of America Act


Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentleman, my  good friend from the great State of California (Mr. Huffman), for his  tremendous leadership and for pushing back against this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a strong ``no'' against this silly, small-minded,  and sycophantic piece of legislation. When the American people woke up  this morning, they could reasonably ask the question: What are their  elected Representatives on the floor of the House of Representatives  going to be debating?

In an environment where the Trump tariffs are costing them thousands  of dollars more per year, Republicans are crashing the economy in real  time, costs are being raised on hardworking American taxpayers, and  Republicans are driving us toward a painful recession, what might  Members of Congress under this temporary Republican majority be  debating on the floor today?

Would it be legislation about the economy? Would it be something  about healthcare? Would it be anything about Social Security? Perhaps  it is something on public safety. Maybe it is national security  matters. It could be anything to bring the American Dream to life for  hardworking American taxpayers. No, what Republicans have decided to  spend this entire legislative day doing is to debate a bill to rename  the Gulf of Mexico.

In some ways, I guess the American people can be thankful. This week,  what Republicans were going to try to do was visit upon the American  people the largest Medicaid cut in American history. Mr. Speaker,  because Republicans were on the run, they were forced to take that  hearing down. That battle is not over.

In the absence of their ability to actually jam up hardworking  American taxpayers, and instead of focusing on things that would make a  difference in the lives of the American people, we are here on the  House floor, more than 400 years after the fact, debating legislation  to rename the Gulf of Mexico.

It turns out there is a lot more foolishness than this particular  bill. Apparently, it is not enough simply to try to rename the Gulf of  Mexico. Republicans have introduced an act of Congress to express  support for the designation of the first-ever Gulf of America Day. That  ingenious piece of legislation was introduced by Representative Mark  Alford of Missouri.

At a time when Americans are struggling to live paycheck to paycheck,  and when we are grappling with the high cost of living, don't worry  because Republicans have a solution. Congressman Brandon Gill of Texas  has our back with a bill to require the $100 note to include a portrait  of Donald J. Trump. No, thank you.

Not to be outdone, Representative   Joe Wilson of South Carolina has  the Donald J. Trump $250 Bill Act. Really? That is a hard pass.

Flight travel has become more dangerous. We have an ongoing air  traffic control crisis this week at a major airport in the northeast.  It is central to a lot of the commerce and the functioning of the  economy, an economy that Republicans are breaking in real time.

What would be the Republican response to the situation in our skies?  Representative Addison McDowell of the great State of North Carolina  has a bill to designate Washington Dulles International Airport in  Virginia as the Donald J. Trump International Airport. Did Virginia  even vote for Donald Trump?

Families are confronting thousands of dollars more per year in higher  costs, thanks to Donald Trump's reckless tariffs. Instead of pushing  back the President, instead of Congress asserting our constitutional  authority as it relates to tariffs and trade in the best interest of  the American people, no, Republicans have a different approach.

Here is a gem from Representative Anna Paulina Luna from the great  State of Florida. She has introduced legislation to arrange for the  carving of the figure of President Donald J. Trump on Mount Rushmore.

Are we living in the times of King Nebuchadnezzar? What are we doing?  There are serious issues that the American people want us to confront.

From the very beginning of this Congress, Democrats have said: We  will work with anyone to lower the high cost of living, to secure the  border, to fix our broken immigration system, to protect communities,  to stand up for the healthcare, for the safety, for the well-being, and  for the national security of the American people.

Republicans have no agenda other than the toxic agenda connected to  their big, ugly bill that they are trying to jam down the throats of  the American people. When they have to run away from that and push it  back, this is what we are left with. We are left with renaming the Gulf  of Mexico, which 70 percent of the American people reject. That is  according to Fox News, that bastion of progressive politics.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge a ``no'' vote against this small-minded,  silly, and sycophantic bill. I can say without hesitation, reservation,  or need for clarification that America is not down with MTG.