Protect America's Workforce Act


Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I thank, of course, the distinguished  gentleman from the great State of California, Representative Garcia,  for his leadership, and, of course, I thank Representative Golden for  his leadership in pushing this legislation forward.

I rise today in strong support of the Protect America's Workforce  Act, legislation that will restore the collective bargaining rights of  more than a million hardworking Federal employees, patriotic public  servants who have been targeted viciously by the Trump administration  from the very beginning of his time in office unnecessarily and in ways  that undermine some of the core promises, Mr. Speaker, that Donald  Trump made to the American people last year.

Donald Trump and Republicans promised that they would focus on  lowering costs on day one. Costs have not gone down in the United  States of America. Costs have gone up. Inflation is on the way up.  Housing costs are out of control. Childcare costs are out of  control. Electricity bills are out of control. Grocery costs are out of  control. Healthcare costs are skyrocketing out of control because of  the Republican refusal to extend the Affordable Care Act tax credits.

Instead of Donald Trump and Republicans, Mr. Speaker, keeping their  core promise to the American people to make their life better, they  have been focusing on a variety of other things that relate simply to  jamming their extreme rightwing ideology down the throats of the  American people, including by targeting organized labor, hardworking  men and women, including those who are part of the Federal workforce.

What is it that Federal employees do each and every day to make sure  that they are providing services to the American people? The list is  too numerous to mention, but we know that hardworking Federal  employees, our public servants, each and every day are working hard to  make sure that hard-earned Social Security benefits are delivered to  the American people, that Medicare benefits are delivered to the  American people, that the food we eat is disease-free, that we can  enjoy our national parks all across the country, and that aviation  safety and the ability to get from your point of departure to your  point of destination, flying in airplanes in order to see your loved  ones, is safe.

Of course, our hardworking Federal employees are working hard to make  sure that veterans receive their earned benefits. Instead of being  targeted by Donald Trump and Republicans, these people should be  supported for the work that they do on behalf of the American people.

We also know that when it comes to improving the quality of life of  everyday Americans, there is a lot of repair work that must occur to  restore the American Dream that is disappearing from folks all across  this country.

The American people know that the Trump administration and Republican  policies have been a disaster.

In this great country, as Democrats, we believe that when you work  hard and play by the rules, you should be able to live an affordable  life, a comfortable life, and live the good life.

What exactly does that mean: good-paying job; good housing; good  healthcare; good education for your children; and at the end of the  day, a good retirement. That is the good life. That is the American  Dream.

For far too many people, it is out of reach, but we know that perhaps  no force has been more proactive in delivering access to that American  Dream than the men and women of organized labor, decade after decade  after decade.

Why would Donald Trump and Republicans focus, Mr. Speaker, on  targeting hardworking public employees, targeting unions, and targeting  the men and women of organized labor?

Is it because my Republican colleagues are too consumed with enacting  massive tax breaks for their billionaire donors, which is what the one  big, ugly bill was all about, but have zero interest in lifting up the  quality of life of hardworking American taxpayers, including, but not  limited to, the men and women of our Federal workforce?

It was my understanding, Mr. Speaker, that my Republican colleagues  believe in freedom. Well, collective bargaining, essentially, is the  freedom to negotiate the best possible work environment to allow these  public employees to continue to deliver services that are effective and  efficient for the American people.

Yet, instead of focusing on driving down the high cost of living in  America, which is out of control--yes, there is an affordability crisis  in the United States of America, notwithstanding the fact, Mr. Speaker,  that Donald Trump apparently believes it is a hoax. The American people  know it is not a hoax.

Instead of focusing on trying to find commonsense solutions to make  life better for the American people, Donald Trump and my Republican  colleagues continue to just jam their extreme ideology down the throats  of the American people while working overtime to benefit their  billionaire donors.

That is why I am thankful for this bipartisan effort to restore  collective bargaining rights for more than 1 million public servants  who are part of the Federal Government, and I urge a ``yes'' vote.

Do the right thing by the Federal workforce. Do the right thing by  the men and women of organized labor and do the right thing when it  comes to ensuring that everyone has a path to experiencing the American  Dream.