First Responder Network Authority Reauthorization Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701923/first-responder-network-authority-reauthorization-act-of-2026


Mr. DUNN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding  me the time.

Mr. Speaker, I am grateful to be here in support of this bipartisan,  commonsense bill to reauthorize the First Responder Network Authority.

I thank Chairman Guthrie and Chairman Hudson for their work  throughout this process, along with my colleague on the other side of  the aisle, my friend Representative Jennifer McClellan of Virginia, for  co-leading this legislation with me.

The First Responder Network Authority, known as FirstNet, was  established by Congress with a clear objective in mind: to build a  preemptive network for the first responders that they can rely on in  any emergency.

The brave men and women who risk their lives day in and out for our  communities deserve nothing less than a resilient and dependable  communication system.

FirstNet has delivered on this promise, and today, it is the backbone  of public safety communication in the United States.

The authority governing FirstNet is set to expire in February 2027.  Without proper action, we are putting the safety of our first  responders and our communities at risk.

This crucial legislation would extend that authority through  September 2037, giving FirstNet the long-term certainty it needs to  continue investing in our Nation's safety.

In the wake of some of the most destructive natural disasters in  recent memory, the importance of this network could not be more clear.

My home State of Florida understands all too well how devastating  these natural disasters can be. My district has endured literally  dozens of hurricanes and tropical storms in the last 10 years, most  notably Hurricane Michael in 2018.

In those moments when every second counts, when innocent lives are on  the line, the question of whether or not first responders can  communicate with one another should never be in doubt.

At this time, I would like to take a moment to recognize the brave  men and women who step forward when others step back.

I give a special thank-you to Walton County's very own Sheriff  Michael Adkinson for his leadership in underscoring the imperative  nature of FirstNet.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  support this bill.