Mourning the Loss of Walton County's Sheriff Deputy William ``will'' Paul Thomas May


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689979/mourning-the-loss-of-walton-countys-sheriff-deputy-william-will-paul-thomas-may


Mr. DUNN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with a heavy heart to  honor Deputy William ``Will'' Paul Thomas May, who made the ultimate  sacrifice defending his community in the line of duty. Deputy May was a  dedicated officer, family man, and lifelong Floridian who demonstrates  the best that our state has to offer. Deputy May's courageous actions  underscore the dangers that law enforcement faces every day while  protecting our communities. I believe I can speak on behalf of the  constituents of Florida's second congressional district in saying that  we are deeply moved by Deputy May's sacrifice in the name of our  safety. We collectively mourn the passing of this outstanding public  servant.

Deputy May was born on January 28, 1987, in Fort Walton Beach,  Florida, to William Alex May and Sandra Dee Hargrave Asher. Deputy May  went above and beyond during his 11-year career in law enforcement. He  served in both Walton County's field training program as an instructor  and in the breathalyzer program, eventually earning the Life Saving  Award Certificate. On top of his impressive law enforcement career, he  was a dedicated husband to his wife, Crystal, and an exemplary father  to his four children: Zane, Clarice, Layla, and Tracker. Outside of  work, Deputy May was known for being a pillar of the community, who  enjoyed playing cornhole and cheering on Alabama football with his  neighbors.

Deputy May was a model officer who never stopped defending his family  and the community he loved. I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring  Deputy William ``Will'' Paul Thomas May and offering prayers and  condolences to his family and friends. May his sacrifice serve as a  reminder that this body must always support our law enforcement and  ensure that they have all the support necessary to safely protect our  communities.