Aligning Sec Regulations for the World Bank's International Development Association Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693973/aligning-sec-regulations-for-the-world-banks-international-development-association-act


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 1764) to accord securities issued by the  International Development Association the same exemption from the  securities laws that applies to the securities of other multilateral  development banks in which the United States is a member, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1764

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Aligning SEC Regulations for       the World Bank's International Development Association Act''.       SEC. 2. EXEMPTION OF SECURITIES OF THE INTERNATIONAL                     DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION FROM THE SECURITIES                     LAWS.

(a) In General.--The International Development Association       Act (22 U.S.C. 284 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end       the following:       ``SEC. 33. EXEMPTION OF SECURITIES OF THE INTERNATIONAL                     DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION FROM THE SECURITIES                     LAWS.

``(a) Exemption From Securities Laws; Reports to Securities       and Exchange Commission.--Any securities issued by the       Association (including any guaranty by the Association,       whether or not limited in scope) and any securities       guaranteed by the Association as to both principal and       interest shall be deemed to be exempted securities within the       meaning of section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15       U.S.C. 77c(a)(2)) and section 3(a)(12) of the Securities       Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(12)). The Association       shall file with the Securities and Exchange Commission such       annual and other reports with regard to such securities as       the Commission shall determine to be appropriate in view of       the special character of the Association and its operations       and necessary in the public interest or for the protection of       investors.

``(b) Authority of Securities and Exchange Commission to       Suspend Exemption; Reports to Congress.--The Securities and       Exchange Commission, acting in consultation with the National       Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial       Problems, is authorized to suspend the provisions of       subsection (a) of this section at any time as to any or all       securities issued or guaranteed by the Association during the       period of such suspension. The Commission shall include in       its annual reports to the Congress such information as it       shall deem advisable with regard to the operations and effect       of this section.''.

(b) Effective Date.--

(1) In general.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall       take effect 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

(2) Exception.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the       amendment made by subsection (a) shall not take effect if,       before the effective date described under paragraph (1), the       Secretary of the Treasury reports to the Committee on       Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the       Senate that the International Development Association is       providing financial assistance to any country the government       of which the Secretary of State has determined, for purposes       of section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979,       section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, or       section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act, to be a government       that has repeatedly provided support for acts of       international terrorism.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1764, the Aligning SEC  Regulations for the World Bank's International Development Association  Act, the bill offered by the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Waters).

Mr. Speaker, this legislation classifies securities issued by the IDA  as exempted securities, subject to appropriate reporting requirements  as determined by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

This change would place the IDA on equal regulatory footing with the  other World Bank divisions such as the Inter-American Development Bank,  the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and  Development, and the African Development Bank.

Prior to 2018, the IDA did not issue debt in the securities markets.  Its funding came primarily from donor contributions and repayments on  past loans.

As the IDA evolves to meet the needs of the world's poorest nations,  it has entered the capital markets to expand its resources and its  impact.

It is only logical and fair that its securities receive the same  exempted status consistent with previous treatment of multilateral  development bank securities.

Supporting IDA's access to efficient financing would reflect the  United States' leadership in global development and our commitment to  the world's most vulnerable populations.

Ms. Waters' bill is bipartisan. It is practical. It is overdue. I  urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the CBO  estimate on this bill.    H.R. 1764, ALIGNING SEC REGULATIONS FOR THE WORLD BANK'S INTERNATIONAL    DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ACT, AS REPORTED BY THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON                   FINANCIAL SERVICES ON MARCH 21, 2025 ------------------------------------------------------------------------                                            By fiscal year, millions  of                                                      dollars--                                          -------------------------------                                             2025    2025-2030  2025-2035 ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Direct Spending (Outlays)...............        0          0          0 Revenues................................        0          0          0 Increase or Decrease (-) in the Deficit.        0          0          0 Spending Subject to Appropriation               *          *         **  (Outlays).............................. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ * = between zero and $500,000. ** = not estimated.

Increases net direct spending in any of the four       consecutive 10-year periods beginning in 2036? No.

Increases on-budget deficits in any of the four consecutive       10-year periods beginning in 2036? No.

Statutory pay-as-you-go procedures apply? No.

Mandate Effects:

Contains intergovernmental mandate? No.

Contains private-sector mandate? Yes, Under threshold.

H.R. 1764 would exempt the International Development       Association at the World Bank from the requirement to       register securities that it issues or guarantees with the       Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The exemption would       not take effect if the Department of the Treasury determines       that the association has provided financial assistance to any       country identified by the Department of State as supporting       terrorism. The SEC could require the association to file       additional reports and, in consultation with the National       Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial       Problems, suspend the exemption at any time.

Using information about the cost of similar provisions, CBO       estimates that it would cost the SEC less than $500,000 to       update rules and process any additional disclosures by the       Association. Moreover, because the SEC is authorized to       collect fees each year to offset its annual appropriation,       CBO expects that the net effect on discretionary spending       over the 2025-2030 period would be negligible, assuming       appropriation actions consistent with that authority.

If the SEC increases fees to offset the costs associated       with implementing the bill, H.R. 1764 would increase the cost       of an existing mandate on private entities required to pay       those assessments. CBO estimates that the incremental cost of       the mandate would be small and would fall well below the       annual threshold for private-sector mandates established in       the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act (UMRA) ($198 million in       2023, adjusted annually for inflation).

H.R. 1764 contains no intergovernmental mandates as defined       in UMRA.

The CBO staff contacts for this estimate are Aurora Swanson       (for federal costs) and Rachel Austin (for mandates). The       estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy Director       of Budget Analysis.                                                 Phillip L. Swagel,                             Director, Congressional Budget Office.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote on this very  practical bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.