Congratulating Robert Arrington


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699816/congratulating-robert-arrington


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate  President Robert Arrington on his recent selection to lead the Arkansas  Development Finance Authority.

President Arrington succeeds President Mark Conine, who served the  authority from May of 2021 until his departure during 2025. President  Arrington has worked at the authority since 2014 and was previously the  vice president of homeownership and public finance.

The ADFA was established by then-Governor Clinton in 1985 to promote  economic growth and community development across Arkansas.

President Arrington is a former municipal securities principal with  over 25 years of public finance experience and is a graduate of the  University of Arkansas at Fayetteville.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate President Arrington on his selection and  wish him many years of faithful service to the great State of Arkansas.                    Petit Jean State Park 100th Anniversary

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  recent celebration of the 100th anniversary of Petit Jean State Park, a  landmark of natural beauty and historical significance in central  Arkansas.

Established in 1923 and dedicated in 1925, Petit Jean was Arkansas'  first State park and helped inspire and initiate the entire Arkansas  State Park System. The Civilian Conservation Corps later built many of  the enduring features, including cabins, trails, and the historic  Mather Lodge. For a century, families have enjoyed its scenic  overlooks, hiking trails, Cedar Falls, and the landscape.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Petit Jean State Park on its centennial  and its enhancement of the beauty of the Natural State. I thank the  many State park rangers and related staff for all of their  contributions to conservation, recreation, and enjoyment in the Natural  State.   Commending National Guard Enlistment in the Second District of Arkansas

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  outstanding patriotism of Arkansas' Second Congressional District,  which was the highest-producing district for Arkansas National Guard  enlistments in fiscal year 2025.

Our district led the State in Army National Guard recruitment,  contributing 314 new soldiers, and accounted for 47 percent of all Air  National Guard recruits statewide. In total, the Second District  produced 351 enlistments in 2025, surpassing any other congressional  district in the State.

These young men and women have chosen a path of duty, sacrifice, and  leadership. Their decision to serve reflects on the strong values of  central Arkansas and the deep respect our communities all hold for our  Nation, its defense, and the men and women who wear the uniform.                          Honoring Dr. Linda Jackson

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Dr.  Linda Jackson.

Last year, Dr. Jackson was honored with the Outstanding Alumna of  2025 Award from the University of Arkansas Community College at  Morrilton.

This incredible woman overcame life's toughest challenges and  hardships, experiencing extreme poverty at a young age. She was forced  to drop out of school in the eighth grade to take care of her disabled  brother.

Despite this, Mr. Speaker, she earned her associate of science and  associate of arts degrees at the University of Arkansas Community  College at Morrilton in 2014 at age 33. She continued her education,  earning seven more degrees after leaving UACCM, balancing her time  between her studies and raising her 10 children. In 2025, she passed  the State board exam for the credential of family nurse practitioner.

Dr. Jackson's story is a story of hard work, perseverance,  determination, and triumph.                    Celebrating Doug Zollner's Retirement

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize my good  friend Doug Zollner, dedicated advocate for the Natural State.

After three decades of being a mentor, leader, and giant in the world  of conservation, Doug has decided to retire from the Nature Conservancy  offices in Arkansas.

Doug's efforts and expertise in conservation have enriched our State.  Doug's leadership helped drive more than $30 million in public funding  to Arkansas for forest management.

He also cofounded the Fire Learning Networks, a national  collaboration of fire practitioners helping 14 countries around the  world. Just last year, he visited Tanzania to share fire and forest  management strategies and tour Katavi National Park.

Congratulations to Doug for his dedication to conservation, to the  Nature Conservancy, and to forest management practices. I wish him the  very best in retirement.