Denouncing the Horrors of Socialism


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 879,  I call up the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 58) denouncing the  horrors of socialism, and ask for its immediate consideration in the  House.

The Clerk read the title of the concurrent resolution.

Mr. Speaker, a ``yes'' vote on this resolution should be a relatively  straightforward, easy decision.

It simply states that Congress denounces socialism in all its forms  and opposes the implementations of socialist policies in the United  States of America.

It is a statement that I would hope all of our elected leaders in the  United States up and down our system of government could support.

Socialism ignores the side of a man and woman that is the spirit. It  dulls the human capacity for self-initiative, entrepreneurship, and  risk-taking. For those who have concerns about the resolution, I just  invite them to read it.

It outlines the pain and hardship experienced by millions around the  world who have suffered under socialist regimes. This is something that  the sponsor of the resolution, Congresswoman Salazar of Florida, has  focused on combating for her entire career.

Congresswoman Salazar is the daughter of Cuban exiles and was born in  Miami's Little Havana. Representative Salazar has led the charge  against socialist policies.

This resolution today is just one example of her commitment to her  constituents and our entire Nation. The contrast between the successful  policies under market capitalism and the freedoms associated with,  particularly, our robust democracy here in America and socialism across  the world and in history could not be starker.

I cannot express this enough: This resolution is not just a messaging  bill or, as some from across the aisle have called it, a waste of time.  It is not that to the people and the families who have experienced the  horrors and atrocities associated with socialist regimes.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Salazar for her work on this.

Mr. Speaker, I always enjoy my good friend from California's long  lectures to this House on her views about current events. I am always  grateful for her point of view.

Mr. Speaker, I would share from my perspective that the shutdown was  borne fully and irresponsibly by the United States Senate, by just a  handful of Democratic Senators with their leader, Mr. Schumer, that  refused to keep the government open while we continue debates about  something we do every day here, which is, what are the ways and means  to fund the American Government.

This House body under Speaker   Mike Johnson with bipartisan vote, I  might add, had a clean continuing resolution to keep the government  open for those 42 days. Yet, 14 times, Senate Democrats denied funding  to air traffic controllers, denied funding to farm assistance, and  denied funding for all the Federal programs, inconveniencing States,  hurting families, and hurting Federal workers.

Further, perhaps, unlike some, I certainly gave up my pay for those  42 days by direction of this House. I was not going to be paid  personally as a Member of Congress while we see this kind of lack of  responsibility out of the Senate.

Today, what we are talking about here in the most vigorous democracy  in the land in our 250th year, we are talking about rejecting socialism  that punishes freedom, punishes individual action, and tears families  apart. That is what we are here to talk about. We are not here to  rattle down about current events.

Mr. Speaker, the gentlewoman from Florida, Congresswoman Salazar,  leads our Western Hemisphere Subcommittee in the House Foreign Affairs  Committee and what better person, Mr. Speaker, to have this  responsibility.

Born in Little Havana in Miami, daughter of Cuban exiles, let her  tell you how cushy life was under Castro's Communist socialist  dictatorship.

Salazar).

Mr. HILL of Arkansas.  She knows  the truth of postwar Korea and how challenging it was.  She compared the Korea of her childhood to the Korea of today:  Democracy, freedom, vigorous democracy, amazingly vigorous democracy in  Korea today. Mrs. Kim is now the chairwoman of our East Asia and  Pacific Subcommittee on Foreign Affairs. What a transition and what a  great voice to condemn socialism.

Mr. Speaker, regarding the policies that are perhaps being considered  in New York, the voices of the people of New York have been heard. They  have spoken.

We think about having government-controlled grocery stores, instead  of relying on entrepreneurial immigrant families or Korean families  with the beautiful bodegas and flower shops around the city. They are  now somehow doing an inadequate job. The mayor proposes that the  government step into those businesses or run those grocery stores, for  example.

Mr. Speaker, he proposes even more difficult rent controls that have  already driven down the number of units available in the city of New  York, which is already suffering from a huge housing shortage and a  huge price disadvantage for the thousands of people who want to work in  the city.

This is contrary to economic choice, and that is another reason why  we are here on this House floor. We are here to note that an open and  democratic market capitalist system offers choice. The freedom to  choose is of critical value. That is limited under socialism, in  addition to the atrocities.

One of my favorite economists, Nobel Prize Winner Friedrich Hayek,  authored books I read as a young man such as, ``The Road to Serfdom''  and ``Constitution of Liberty.'' This is a man who lived under  socialism. He lived through the Communist regimes of Stalin and Eastern  Europe and of Nazi Germany. He talked about the road to serfdom. Mr.  Speaker, we think of some of these policies potentially as the scenic  route to socialism.

He is someone who  understands market capitalism and a constitutional Republic like no  other Member.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas.  Malliotakis), who serves on the House  Ways and Means Committee and who is firmly opposed to socialism.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I recognize the gentleman from  Missouri (Mr. Alford), the chair of the Small Business Subcommittee on  Oversight, Investigations, and Regulations and a distinguished member  of the Appropriations Committee.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time  I have remaining.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas.  Salazar), my friend from south Florida  who is also a child of Cuban exiles from the Castro takeover of Cuba.

Mr. Speaker, in the short time we have remaining this morning on this  important resolution, let's cut to the chase.

America stands as a beacon of freedom. America stands as a place of  choice. America stands as a place of initiative and opportunity. What  the gentlewoman from Florida brings to the House today is a resolution  that says that we condemn the horrors of socialism not just the  atrocities associated with mass murder in Ukraine or Cuba or Venezuela  or imprisonment but the capture of the spirit that ends individual  freedom and ends individual opportunity.

Mr. Speaker, I will say that I have been shocked at some of the  debate today that we hear from a daughter of  Korea, two daughters from Cuba, who have seen firsthand the dangers,  the fear, the atrocities, the restraint, the constraint, the end of  freedom that they experienced and their families experienced  personally.

In my young life, I worked to bring freedom to Eastern Europe. I saw  East Germany's empty shelves, empty eyes, empty spirits, no choice, and  in West Germany, vibrancy. Yet, today, we would even have to debate  that socialism has some value to the human spirit across the land, it  is amazing to me.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote on this resolution whether you are  a Democrat, a Republican, old, young, no matter what your political  philosophy is, let's unite on this floor and reject the evils of  socialism.