Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700483/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H. Con.  Res. 38, Directing the President pursuant to section 5(c) of the War  Powers Resolution to remove United States Armed Forces from  unauthorized hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran.

The United States and the Islamic Republic of Iran have had an  adversarial relationship since the 1979 Iranian Revolution. In 1979,  Iranian theocratic revolutionaries removed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi,  who was a close U.S. ally. and the current Islamic Republic was  declared. The establishment of the Islamic Republic, also known as the  Iranian regime, in conjunction with the U.S. Embassy hostage crisis,  laid the groundwork for the United States to have no diplomatic  relations with Iran beginning in 1980.

Since 1979, the United States has used sanctions and diplomacy to  deter, constrain, and encourage the Iranian regime to change its  egregious behavior. That behavior includes supporting terrorism at home  and becoming the globe's largest state sponsor of terrorism, developing  a nuclear weapon program, proliferation activities, destabilizing the  region through its ballistic missile and drone development, and attacks  directly and indirectly killing Americans for over four decades. That  sanction posture is now over four decades old.

In 1979, the Carter Administration imposed sanctions on Iran in  response to the U.S. Embassy hostage crisis. In the 1980s and 1990s,  Congress expanded sanctions on Iran to deter and compel the Iranian  regime to stop supporting international terrorism and its pursuit of  advanced weapons. including chemical, biological, and nuclear. In 2002,  the United States and our allies learned about previously undisclosed  nuclear facilities in Iran. In response. the United States and our  allies imposed further sanctions on Iran to convince the Iranian regime  to limit its nuclear activities. The Iranian regime did not stop or  limit the activities, so in 2006 the United Nations Security Council  imposed multinational sanctions preventing trade with Iran. In 2009.  the Iranian regime violently cracked down on mass protests over its  2009 presidential election. In response, Congress targeted more  sanctions on Iran that aimed at Iran's oil exports and economic sector.  Congress determined that to lift those sanctions, the Iranian regime  must stop its support of international terrorism and end its  proliferation activities. That has never happened, as the Iranian  regime is the number one state sponsor of terrorism and has continued  to pursue nuclear and advanced weapons.

In 2015, the Obama Administration tried a new approach of appeasement  and entered the United States into the disastrous Joint Comprehensive  Plan of Action (JCOPA). This is also known as the ``2015 Iran nuclear  deal,'' which required Iran to curb its nuclear program, reduce uranium  enrichment by 98 percent, and dismantle most centrifuges. In exchange,  the United States, China, France, Germany, Russia, and the United  Kingdom agreed to provide significant relief from international  sanctions imposed on Iran. This deal was disastrous because Iran  continued to enrich uranium and pursue their nuclear weapons goals. In  addition to that disastrous policy, the Obama Administration  transferred $1.7 billion in cash to Iran in January 2016. On top of  that, the 2015 Iran nuclear deal allowed billions in new commerce to  flow into Iran. Again, remember that the Iranian regime is the number  one state sponsor of terrorism. That money benefited the Iranian  regime's dangerous behavior.

In 2018, President Trump pulled the United States out of the  disastrous 2015 Iran nuclear deal and announced that the United States  would reimpose sanctions on Iran. With no delay, Iran escalated its  regional military activities, which included directly attacking the  United States forces in the region.

The Biden Administration was unable to deter the Iranian regime. In  addition, the Biden Administration recklessly provided Iran with  sanctions relief that gave Iran access to approximately 816 billion in  previously frozen funds. Those shortsighted actions of the Biden  Administration sadly played a part in the build-up of the October 7th  attack on Israel by the Iranian regime-backed terrorist organization,  Hamas. In response, Congress passed new sanctions on any foreign  financial institution that engages in transactions with the $6 billion  in Iranian funds. In 2024, my bill, the Holding Iranian Leaders  Accountable Act, was signed into law to expose the Iranian regime's  financial corruption.

In 2025, back in the White House, the Trump Administration renewed a  ``Maximum Pressure'' campaign on the Iranian regime. The actions by  President Trump and his Administration recognize that nearly five  decades of sanctions imposed bilaterally and by the United Nations have  failed to stop Iran's destructive ambitions. The Trump Administration  recognizes that years of intensive but ultimately futile negotiations  over Iran's nuclear weapons program accomplished nothing and were  rightly rejected by bipartisan majorities in both the House and Senate  at the end of the Obama Administration.

Today, the House is considering a War Powers Resolution. This War  Powers Resolution does not account for the nearly five decades of  history. This resolution is not about whether we support the major  combat operation that is currently ongoing in Iran--it is about curbing  the power of the Executive Branch, specifically the President, to  protect the United States from the Iranian regime. Taking away the  authorities granted to the President under the War Powers Resolution in  the very midst of an ongoing major combat operation is reckless and  shortsighted.

I encourage my colleagues to oppose H. Con. Res. 38.