Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689849/disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-overdraft-lending-very-large-financial-institutions


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 294,  I call up the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 18) disapproving the rule  submitted by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection relating to  ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions,'' and ask for  its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this joint resolution of  disapproval.

Today, we can protect consumers and ensure continued access to  financial services by voting to nullify the Consumer Financial  Protection Bureau's disastrous rule on overdraft fees.

In a time burdened by the 40-year-high inflation, when many middle-  and low-income households are living paycheck to paycheck, ensuring  Americans have access to affordable credit has never been more  important.

Overdraft protection is an optional service that financial  institutions provide to help consumers avoid having purchases declined.  Instead of the transaction being denied, the bank or credit union  charges a flat fee to cover the check on behalf of that consumer. It  lets that purchase proceed. It lets that payment to a utility company  proceed. It lets that payment for an important rent or mortgage company  to proceed, thereby allowing American families to take care of  essential needs like that mortgage payment, rent payment, groceries, or  gas before their next paycheck arrives.

Over the last decade, competition has driven financial institutions  to lower their overdraft privilege fees to retain customers. Innovation  has made accidental overdrafts less likely as many financial  institutions now offer low balance alerts, automatic transfers from  savings, and other tools to help consumers avoid being in overdraft and  better manage their financial cash flow.

Competition and innovation, not government-mandated price caps,  remain the best way to ensure consumers have access to affordable  financial products and services.

Unfortunately, this CFPB rule undermines this very approach and  threatens to restrict access to credit and overdraft privileges, which  all of us should be concerned about.

The CFPB's rushed and haphazard approach to the rule is a clear  example of how not to regulate. The CFPB made this decision before  conducting meaningful research or considering the real-world  consequences of its actions.

The CFPB's rule imposes a government-mandated price cap on what  financial institutions may charge in the way of a fee for an overdraft  privilege.

Like all price caps, this would reduce the availability of these very  overdraft services, especially, Mr. Speaker, for consumers who have  lower credit scores or are considered high risk.

By doing so, it effectively limits access to credit and that  overdraft privilege for those who need it the most at the time they  need it the most.

The CFPB's failure to consider the cost associated with this  regulation, especially the real-world impact on consumers, their local  community's financial institution, and the broader financial system  only underscores the need to stop this price control before it is too  late.

The CFPB also creates a false narrative of choice by suggesting that  banks and credit unions can either offer an overdraft service at this  federally mandated price fixed cost of $5 or comply with extending that  as credit and, therefore, complying with the Truth in Lending Act. In  other words, actually underwriting a consumer loan instead of simply  offering the overdraft--simple, straightforward, fast, overdraft fee.

This redefinition of what products and services constitute credit  thus is problematic, especially since Congress has already defined  credit for regulatory purposes.

Even more troubling is the way the CFPB oversimplifies the costs of  providing overdraft protection.

The rule only considers the cost of operating a call center and  ignores the many other expenses involved such as ratifying and dealing  with consumer disputes, mailing and postage for overdraft notices,  third-party collection expenses, technology costs, and cost of  regulatory compliance.

The reality is that these additional costs make it increasingly  difficult for banks to continue offering overdraft protection. Many  will simply choose to stop providing the service altogether. Those who  will suffer the most from this are the very people the rule is designed  to protect.

Mr. Speaker, in 2023, a survey found that 92 percent of customers who  were aware their balance wouldn't cover a transaction preferred paying  the overdraft fee rather than having their transaction declined. Not  only is it inconvenient or potentially embarrassing in a particular  situation, but it is also fundamental to in-between paycheck cash flow.  They are making the decision to go into overdraft so they make that  mortgage payment on time, despite buying clothes for back to school and  trying to do Christmas shopping.

In my experience with my customers, over my many years of working  with families, I never found one who was not a worthy steward of how to  use these services.

Another survey found that 64 percent of customers think it is  reasonable for a bank to charge an overdraft fee, and 72 percent feel  these fees are justified, particularly when it helps them ensure timely  payment of a much larger important bill, like a mortgage or rent.

In my experience of helping families across rural Arkansas for many  years, as I said, managing their finances, they are pretty smart about  how to do that, Mr. Speaker.

The truth is if the consumers lose access to overdraft protection,  they will be forced to turn to alternative sources of credit that may  be more expensive and riskier, have less consumer protection and  documentation, and be less holistically handled than they would be at  their home community financial institution or credit union.

I encourage all of my colleagues to support this resolution to  restore common sense to our regulatory framework and ensure that  consumers continue to have access to the financial services on which  they rely.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, let me say that the gentlewoman  from California knows my respect for her and her leadership on our  committee, but there is no effort here to raise overdraft fees in this  resolution. It is quite the contrast. All we are saying is we don't  need the Federal Government having a price cap on a product that is a  very competitive product, with many, many banks not even charging for  overdraft protection.

There is nothing hidden, Mr. Speaker, about fees on overdrafts. The  Electronic Fund Transfer Act signed by this Congress made it clear  decades ago that consumers must opt in to overdraft protection. Let me  repeat that. Consumers select to do this. They shop for financial  institutions online, down the street, whatever. They pick their credit  union or bank to do business with. If they want overdraft protection to  make sure that they are actually being protected on an extra payment or  some bill they have between paychecks, they have it. It is completely  spelled out.

Regulation DD in the Truth in Savings Act requires financial  institutions to provide that information. Clearly, customers opt in to  it.

Mr. Speaker, I promise you, I had it all through my early career when  I couldn't make payments between paychecks. A young family, one income,  lots of children, a lot of expenses, you do it. It is a good, prudent  practice.

As a community banker for decades, I can promise you families were  smart about it. There is nothing hidden about it. It is fully present.  Consumers opt in to it, and the competition is intense to retain those  customers.

Mr. Rose was the Commissioner of Agriculture in  Tennessee before coming to Congress. He is a very active member of both  the House Financial Services Committee and the Agriculture Committee.  He has rural Tennesseans and their financial success at heart.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas.

Let me say that the gentlewoman makes a good point about financial  management when it comes to late fees and accelerated interest rates on  credit cards. That is why we are actually talking about overdraft  protection today, because time and time again people take advantage of  affordable, convenient, disclosed, not hidden overdraft protection so  that their family can avoid a late fee on a credit card, which she just  gave an excellent overview of her concerns about.

If we want to do that, then give people the financial tools that they  have in overdraft protection without micromanagement from the Federal  Government. Don't take my word for it or anyone on this side of the  aisle.

The Federal Reserve Bank of New York found that artificial price  caps, like the one being discussed, being proposed by the CFPB on  overdraft protection programs, reduced the supply, leading to fewer  bank accounts for low-income families, period, full stop. I hear all  the concern.

We are glad to have his voice in this debate.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas.  We are so delighted to have his expertise on our  committee. He has a securities regulatory background. He was the State  auditor. He serves on our committee and on the House Small Business  Committee.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas.  He is a leader in  every way and also in the House Foreign Affairs Committee.

Mr. Speaker, he has his two top advisers with him, Eleanor and Mary  Clay.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas.  He is a former Congressman returning to the House  Financial Services Committee.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I would like to inquire of my good  friend from California if she has any other speakers.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my friends on this side of the aisle who have  worked hard today, Mr. Speaker, to convince everybody in this body that  this is a serious overreach by the CFPB in a Federal price mandate.

Instead of letting consumers choose their financial institution and  choose which one has the lowest overdraft fees and the best consumer  accounts, instead we have the Federal Government trying to tell people  what the price can be. It is Federal price-fixing.

What the opposition has argued today is that these fees are hidden.  They are not. Consumers opt into this product, Mr. Speaker. They know  what the fee is because it is disclosed to them. It is required by  Federal law today to disclose it under regulation DD.

This is about access for overdraft protection. One of my colleagues  called it overdraft protection insurance so that they don't make a  mistake and miss a mortgage payment, a rent payment, or a utility  payment that causes higher costs, higher fees, and higher interest  rates.

Two-thirds of consumers support overdraft protection products. Two- thirds of consumers think a reasonable fee is appropriate. Competition  has brought down fees for years. In fact, many large banks don't even  charge for overdraft protection.

The assertion that consumers complain about this all the time, Mr.  Speaker, I am sorry, I don't find the evidence to that. Even the  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's own database shows that less  than 1 percent of consumer complaints over this past decade even  reference this kind of a product.

This is not a junk fee. This is an overdraft protection that helps  millions of families across the country manage their payments and their  bills between paychecks. It should be competitive and it should be  accessible. We should vote ``yes'' on this resolution so that we agree  with the Federal Reserve of New York when they say that to cap this fee  to do price intervention here is to deny credit and deny this product  to the hardest working families in America.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote, and I yield back the balance of  my time.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.