Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694859/energy-and-water-development-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair, I first say thanks to the  distinguished chair and thanks to Members on both sides of the aisle  for bringing this important bill to the floor, H.R. 4553, our Energy  and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act.

Mr. Chair, my amendment today includes funding to the operations and  management account under title I of this bill, which is the funding for  the Army Corps of Engineers.

Specifically, I would like to highlight my application that the  Little Rock Army Corps has submitted on behalf of a river in my  district, the Little Red River, for the Sustainable Rivers Program.

Mr. Chair, the Little Red River has become home to a sizable and  attractive wild brown trout population. It is a regional mecca for  trout fishing in the mid-South.

For example, the Little Red River is home to the former world record  40-pound brown trout. Over 25 miles of fly-fishing water and over 1,000  fish per square mile brings anglers of all sizes, types, and ages to  Arkansas.

Mr. Chair, because of Arkansas' many rivers, lakes, and other natural  beauties, recreational fishing that is done on the Little Red River now  contributes $1.2 billion and 10,000 jobs to the Arkansas economy.  However, despite this beloved place in Arkansas' heritage, this river's  existing tail water trout fishery has been struggling for years.

After careful conversations with the Arkansas Game and Fish  Commission, the Little Rock Army Corps of Engineers, and groups  representing recreational fishing, I want to voice my support for the  Little Red River's application to the Sustainable Rivers Program.

The Sustainable Rivers Program would allow the Little Rock Army Corps  to plan effectively for the environmental stewardship that correctly  assesses water trends and helps the Little Rock Corps decisionmakers  make good, low-risk decisions for the benefit of this trout fishery.

It also prevents the need for new and required equipment,  environmental reviews, such as those required under the National  Environmental Protection Act, and changes to the current water control  plan.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair, additionally, this program would  build upon the previous success that the Arkansas delegation achieved  in the last Congress for the White River Basin Comprehensive Study.

Mr. Chair, I thank the leadership of the committee, I thank the Rules  Committee, and Chair Foxx for adding this amendment under consideration  for the floor today and approved by the Rules Committee. I urge a  ``yes'' vote.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. I yield to the gentlewoman from Ohio.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Well, a 40-pound trout is not anything like the  deep freshwater fish of the Great Lakes, but if you had a 26-inch fish,  that is a huge brown trout. I was fortunate enough to be out in Wyoming  looking for rainbow trout, and if you found one that was 15 inches, you  would be flabbergasted. I am proud that Arkansas held the record for  the brown trout for about 25 years.

This Sustainable Rivers Program is an important program through the  Corps of Engineers for our freshwater fishery in Arkansas and across  the country, and I thank the gentlewoman for the consideration.