Fair Investment Opportunities for Professional Experts Act


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I certainly thank our  distinguished chair of the subcommittee, Mrs. Wagner of Missouri, for  her daily leadership of our agenda to make America more competitive by  having the most liquid, competitive capital markets in the world. These  bills certainly take a step in that direction to support that goal. I  thank my friend from California (Mr. Sherman) for his comments in  support of the bill.

The gentleman is right, Mr. Speaker. I think we have all learned in  our lives that intelligence and wealth aren't directly correlated. This  is another example of that, where people are held back from their  ability to use their expertise and their knowledge just because they  don't have a specific net worth. That is what H.R. 3394, the Fair  Investment Opportunities for Professional Experts Act seeks to clarify.

Many individuals, whether through work, education, or other  experience, have the knowledge to make an informed investment decision,  but they are excluded simply because of an income or net worth test.

Before I was in Congress, I helped investors and founders start new  companies and raise funds through regulation D private placements.

I witnessed firsthand on an annual basis routinely how the current  accredited investor definition impaired talented, knowledgeable  innovators from fully participating up front in their business  formation dream.

This bill, with my good friend from California, Representative  Vargas, would expand the definition of an ``accredited investor'' and  allow Americans who can demonstrate education, professional experience,  or other similar credentials the opportunity to invest in a private  offer.

It passed out of our Financial Services Committee 45-1, Mr. Speaker,  demonstrating clear, bipartisan support. I agree with my friend from  California. This bill is a step in the right direction, offering more  Americans a chance to participate in the American Dream, build capital,  help start a business, and use their God-given talent, skills, ability,  and professional expertise to help that company be successful.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote from all the Members on both sides  of the aisle.