Financial Services and General Government and National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699048/financial-services-and-general-government-and-national-security-department-of-state-and-related-programs-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Cole and  Chairman Joyce for their good work on our side of the aisle and the  committee at large for producing this constructive, good appropriations  bill.

I rise in support of the Financial Services and General Government  and National Security, Department of State and Related Programs  Appropriations Act.

This bill funds key government agencies that are focused on economic  stability, fiscal responsibility, and national security. As chair of  the House Financial Services Committee, I am proud that key provisions  included in this bill were championed by our committee.

My bill, H.R. 1474, the International Nuclear Energy Financing Act,  expands U.S. financing tools for civilian nuclear energy projects  abroad, helping U.S. companies compete globally while promoting safe  and reliable energy as an alternative energy source from opposing  nations.

It requires the Treasury to advocate for nuclear energy assistance at  the World Bank and other international financial institutions,  including the establishment of Nuclear Energy Assistance Trust Funds.

Also included in this funding package is Congresswoman Salazar's H.R.  6892. This is a critical piece of the bill that authorizes a capital  increase for the Inter-American Development Bank, IDB Invest, an arm of  the Bank devoted to private-sector growth in Latin America. Empowering  the IDB Invest helps expand opportunities for U.S. businesses and  strengthens their economic partnership and footprint in Latin America  and counters growing influence from our global competitors.

We cannot overlook also, Mr. Chairman, the importance of adequate  funding for the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is included  in this bill. Strong capital markets are essential to American economic  leadership, and ensuring that the SEC has the resources, clear rules,  and effective oversight to carry out its mission is essential.

Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairman for his leadership. I appreciate  the time today, and I urge all my colleagues to vote ``yes.''