Flatside Wilderness Additions Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691095/flatside-wilderness-additions-act


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend, Mr.  Westerman, and my colleagues in the House who serve on the Natural  Resources Committee for working with me on the Flatside Wilderness  Additions Act over the past 5 years.

I stand in strong support of H.R. 1612, which I think is a model for  how to go about considering recreation conservation lands in our  national forests.

The Ouachita Mountains and the surrounding forest sit in the  southwest corner of Arkansas. It is the oldest and largest national  forest in our southern region. It has origins in my district of central  Arkansas and stretches some 220 miles west into eastern Oklahoma  through my good friend, Mr. Westerman's district.

It encompasses nearly 10,000 acres of rugged terrain, and the most  treasured views in the Ouachita region are in Flatside Wilderness. For  those visitors that Congressman Westerman referenced, the area also  includes the challenging and very popular Ouachita National Recreation  Trail, which bisects Flatside Wilderness.

Back in 1984, under the leadership of former Arkansas Senator Dale  Bumpers and my predecessor, Congressman Ed Bethune, the Arkansas  Wilderness Act was passed and signed into law by President Reagan. This  legislation designated Flatside as one of the first Arkansas wilderness  areas to be added to the National Wilderness Preservation System. At  the time of its passage, the Flatside area was intended to be larger  than what was ultimately designated.

In 1984, the Forest Service and its Flatside advocates were not able  to craft a strategy where all the studied and preferred acres of the  forest could be included. As such, Mr. Speaker, when I joined Congress  in 2015, I set out to complete that original designed 1984 plan for  Flatside.

In 2019, with the help of Arkansas Senator John Boozman and Chairman  Westerman, we were able to add 640 acres to Flatside, which was signed  into law by President Trump.

That same year, Senator Boozman and I collaborated on an  appropriation measure that directed the Forest Service to complete a  study on which the surrounding lands that were eligible to be added to  Flatside would be carefully studied.

Mr. Speaker, it is the results of that 2019 legislatively directed  study that was published in 2021 that are the basis for the law  proposal before us today.

With the help of my colleagues, this bill will finish the work  started some four decades ago in which I have been personally dedicated  since joining this House.

With this final addition, the Flatside Wilderness area can continue  to serve central Arkansas as a place of economic, recreational, and  historic importance.

First, as Chairman Westerman noted, this is not creating a new  wilderness area but simply designating additional land. It has wide  support, as noted by my friend, including our local county and city  officials in the county where it is located: Governor Sarah Sanders,  Arkansas Parks & Tourism, the leadership of our Game and Fish  Commission, and many other local  leaders and outdoor recreation groups in our State.

Rest assured also, Mr. Speaker, the current forest management plan  for Flatside already includes prescribed burns, fire suppression  techniques, and reiterates the authority of management to protect the  area from fire, insects, and disease.

So, I thank my friend, Mr. Westerman, for working with me on this. I  think it should be supported by all the Members in the House. It is a  model, as we have talked about before, for how we bring local  officials, outdoor recreation, conservationists, and forest land  management people together to advance something that is sought by our  local leadership in the State.

So I thank Mr. Westerman, Speaker Johnson, Leader Scalise, and  Representative Emmer, as well as all the members of the House Natural  Resources Committee for working with me on this proposal.

As I conclude, Mr. Speaker, I have to say that for four decades this  has been an important place in my life. It reminds me of John Muir's  famous poem:       Climb the mountains and get their good tidings. Nature's             peace will flow into you as sunshine flows into trees.             The winds will blow their own freshness into you and             the storms their energy, while cares will drop off like             autumn leaves.

Mr. Speaker, I hope future generations of Arkansans and a lot of  Texas visitors will enjoy those glad tidings from Flatside.

I include in the Record an article titled: ``Opposites Attract: How a  Conservative Texan Helped a Liberal Arkansan Enact the Sweeping  Arkansas Wilderness Act of 1984.''   Opposites Attract: How a Conservative Texan Helped a Liberal Arkansan             Enact the Sweeping Arkansas Wilderness Act of 1984                    (By J. French Hill, April 25, 2009)   BEFORE THE ARKANSAS HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION SOUTHERN ARKANSAS UNIVERSITY                             MAGNOLIA, ARKANSAS

Twenty-Five years ago in 1984, a dedicated group of       conservationists constructed an exceptional coalition, known       as the Arkansas Conservation Coalition (ACC). They were       successful in their quest to set aside 91,000 extraordinary       acres of national forest as ``forever wild'' wilderness.       Their success to which I pay tribute today came on the       twentieth anniversary of the Wilderness Act of 1964. In 1964,       Congress authorized guiding principles that would carefully       select areas within existing federal lands and define them as       wilderness--areas would be off limits in perpetuity to roads,       timber harvesting, mining and oil/gas exploration and other       commercial activities--and, more importantly in today's       culture, all motorized vehicles: no ATV's or 4-wheelers. But,       man himself is welcomed as a visitor to camp, hike, climb,       hunt and fish, canoe, swim and kayak.

While there have been U.S. forest reserves dating to       President Harrison in the 1890's, it was President Teddy       Roosevelt that established the National Forest Service in       1905 and dedicated over 150 million acres for future       generations. Included among these extraordinary resources       were both the Arkansas National Forest in 1907 (later renamed       the Ouachita National Forest by President Coolidge in 1924)       and the Ozark National Forest in 1908.

In 1977, President Jimmy Carter requested that the Forest       Service undertake a review of all potential wilderness areas       across the country and make recommendations to Congress.       Their effort was referred to as the Second Roadless Area       Review and Evaluation, or RARE II. The Forest Service was       required to assess each potential area for wilderness       designation as to presence of rare plant or animals;       historic, recreational or sites of solitude; man's existing       impact in the area; and, the potential impact on economic       development or nearby private land ownership and use.

The ACC also sent out teams to assess sites in the Ozark       and Ouachita National Forests. Their detailed report offered       up eleven areas with approximately 138,195 acres for       consideration. The Forest Service plan ultimately proposed       only 45,701 acres and recommended that seven areas deserved       ``further planning'' while fourteen others deserved ``non-      wilderness'' uses. In April of 1979 President Carter endorsed       the Forest Service recommendations.

Politicians that supported the forest products industry,       including U.S. Representative Beryl Anthony (D-AR) from the       Fourth District of Arkansas, expressed support for the Forest       Service proposal. He offered legislation to enact its       recommendations and to appropriate funds for roads and timber       leasing in the disputed areas. He stated that the forest       industry would ``support wilderness,'' but only ``responsible       wilderness.'' Of further concern to wilderness proponents, a       ``twenty year window'' had been left open in the 1964 Act to       facilitate mineral leases or claims; and, as a result,       applications were pouring into federal land offers before the       window would shut in 1983.

To gain time, the ACC in 1983 persuaded Senator David Pryor       (D-AR) and U.S. Representative from First District, Bill       Alexander (D-AR) to request the Forest Service to delay any       development in the potential areas. ACC members, Bill       Coleman, Don Hamilton, and Tom McClure toured the state with       an informative slide presentation supporting the larger ACC       proposed list of areas. In February 1982, Arkansas Governor       Frank White (R-AR), an avid hiker and canoeist, issued a       Proclamation in favor of the ACC Plan and urged action by       Congress.

Governor White's favorable view of wilderness was echoed by       another strong conservative voice in the country. Then       Newsweek columnist, George F. Will, in an August 16, 1982,       column passionately argued for wilderness in firm       opposition to President Reagan's Interior Secretary James       Watt's position of no further wilderness set aside.

In fact, the Reagan Administration supported the Carter       Forest Service position on RARE II recommendations. The only       firm Arkansas delegation position was Beryl Anthony's limited       approach. Therefore, ACC members needed a break in order to       have a shot at a bill before ``twenty year'' leasing window       closed or some other action derailed their attempt for more       wilderness areas in Arkansas.

The ACC firmly believed that their break would come when       Arkansas' senior senator, and distinguished member of the       Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Dale Bumpers       (D-AR), would introduce a bill--as he had promised 18 months       previously in 1981. But, again, the public support for the       ACC approach came not from a Democrat, but from a Republican,       Second District U.S. Representative Ed Bethune of Searcy. In       April of 1983, Bethune, toured the areas and announced that       he would introduce legislation to designate Flatside in Perry       and Saline Counties as wilderness. Flatside (about 10,885       acres) was the only ACC designated area in the Second       District. He also told reporters that he would like to see       all eleven areas recommended by the ACC included in a final       bill.

Bethune's action prompted the Arkansas delegation's only       other Republican, U.S. Representative John Paul Hammerschmidt       (R-AR) of Harrison to take a position. He announced that he       was opposed to Bethune's and Anthony's efforts recalling that       he had told his constituents a ``number of years ago that we       probably had enough wilderness areas''. However, by the end       of 1983, Hammerschmidt and Alexander had sided with Anthony       and co-sponsored his Forest Service-backed bill. Arkansas       wilderness legislation was now deadlocked in the House and       Senators Bumpers and Pryor had yet to take any action.

The Arkansas Democrat reported that Anthony and Bethune       were applying pressure on Bumpers and Pryor and that Bumpers       and Pryor were waiting on a compromise in the House. But, in       the ``air war'' Bethune was gaining ground. He obtained       endorsements from pro-business groups such as The Little Rock       Chamber, Mack McLarty, then Chair and the Arkansas Industrial       Development Commission.

Then, a miracle of legislative courage happened. On the       last day of the 1983 session, Senators Bumpers and Pryor       introduced a wilderness bill, S. 2125, almost a duplicate of       Bethune's. They indicated that they would hold public       hearings in Arkansas despite the fact that two House       subcommittees had already held extensive hearings in May       1983. Regardless of the two year delay, proponents now had a       House bill and a Senate companion. The delay also resulted in       trying to legislate during the upcoming presidential election       year. Indeed, it was an uncertain environment for wilderness.

On Wednesday, February 15, 1984, on the campus of UALR,       Bumpers and Bethune sat side-by-side, allied and ready to       hear 130 scheduled witnesses--the most Senator Bumpers       remarked he had seen in his nine years in the Senate. Senator       Pryor would have joined them, but was attending the funeral       of his Mother. These hearings would be followed by a second       set of hearings in Washington in April 1984.

So, let's pick up the ``back story'' as to the role of a       conservative Texas Republican in this wilderness saga. On       February 7, 1984, the week before Little Rock hearings, I       sent a note to my boss, Senator John Tower (R-TX) about the       Bumpers and Pryor bill, S. 2125. At the time, I worked for       Senator Tower on the staff of the Senate Committee on       Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs.

Having grown up in Arkansas and spent many boyhood hours in       the Ozark and Ouachita National Forests, I had closely       followed the House logjam and was eager to help my life-long       friend, Don Hamilton, and the coalition spark unusual support       in the Senate.

In order to persuade Senator Tower to co-sponsor wilderness       legislation outside his home state, I need a solid fact case.       With help from Joe David Rice of the Arkansas Department of       Tourism, we discovered the fact that Texans were the number       one source of tourists in Arkansas.

The Senator was amused, but nonetheless agreed to co-      sponsor S. 2125. He announced his intent on February 20, 1984       in a statement inserted in the Congressional Record. He       described typical visitor to Arkansas as a ``43 year old       Texan traveling with his family.'' He concluded his       endorsement with this critical caveat: ``. . . while I am in       support of Texans enjoying their beautiful wilderness, I will       never concede which state has better football teams.''

Reaction to Tower's co-sponsorship was swift. First, it was       rare, if at all, for any out of state senator to co-sponsor       another state's bill. And, it was more shocking to some that       John Tower, conservative Republican, powerful chairman of       Senate Armed Services, would endorse an environmental bill:       Tower with a ``zero rating from the pro-conservation voters''       supported Bumpers with 77% rating from the same group. An       aide to Bumpers declared his reaction as ``delighted . . .       (but) it sure is strange.''

The Arkansas Gazette described the endorsement in an       editorial dated March 6, 1984, with the opening line:       ``Amazing yes, but true.'' The Gazette opinion argued that       Tower's co-sponsorship of S. 2125 ``evidences more support       for conservation in Arkansas than Anthony, Alexander and       Hammerschmidt.'' The Pine Bluff Commercial Appeal in an       editorial called ``Tower of Strength'' demonstrated powerful       support for the State's tourism resources by saying, ``Let's       not skimp when it comes to saving something so valuable--and       so invaluable.''

On March 8, 1984, Senator Bumpers wrote Don Hamilton       enclosing a copy of Senator Tower's statement of support       saying, ``I'm sure you had something to do with his       decision.'' Tower followed up his co-sponsorship by       submitting a statement for the record at the Bumpers hearings       in Washington on April 6, 1984. In his statement, Tower       quoted from conservationist and Republican President Theodore       Roosevelt. I had recently been at Theodore Roosevelt's home,       Sagamore Hill on Long Island, seen the quote and recommended       to Senator Tower for inclusion:       The civilized people of today look back with horror at their       medieval ancestors who wantonly destroyed great works of art,       or sat slothfully by while they were being destroyed. We have       passed that stage. We treasure pictures and sculptures. But       we are, as a whole, still in that low stale of civilization       where we do not understand that it is also vandalism wantonly       to destroy or to permit the destruction of what is beautiful       in nature, whether it be a cliff, a forest, or a species       mammal or bird.

It should be noted that in May 1984, Senator Tower also co-      sponsored with Senator Lloyd Bentsen (D-TX) a bill to block       clear cutting and development in 34,300 acres of East Texas.       Politically, Tower was up for re-election in 1984 and he       desired to broaden his legislative record beyond his       internationally recognized expertise in military and foreign       relations matters. Thus, the Arkansas wilderness bill and the       Texas anti-clear cut measure both fit neatly in his       legislative diversity plan. In a 1986 law school paper,       distinguished Little Rock attorney, Scott Trotter, postulated       that Tower was recruited as a co-sponsor ``in anticipation of       opposition from several oil companies.''

And, while several oil companies in fact opposed the       legislation, there was no such grand plan as considered by       Mr. Trotter. The lead component in this legislative pact was       simply the bond of friendship and belief in the cause. In the       end, opposition from last minute concerns related to paper,       oil and gas and air quality issues were all turned away and       the U.S. Senate passed S. 2125 on August 9, 1984. Following       House passage, President Reagan signed the bill into law on       October 19, 1984 (PL 98-508).

I'll conclude with this photo taken on May 7, 1984, of       Senator Tower sitting in his office in the Russell Senate       Office Building reviewing Bill Coleman and Susan Morrison's       beautifully illustrated volume, Arkansas Wilderness. I       dedicate these remarks to the memory of my friend and mentor,       John Tower. He was killed tragically in a plane crash with       his daughter Marian in April, 1991. He was 65 and she was 35.       Our country has had few public servants possessing his       patriotism, intellect and commitment to the Constitution.       And, it was just like him to disagree vigorously with Senator       Bumpers on arms control, but link arm-in-arm and work for the       common good of their constituents and preserve spaces of       solitude for generations to come.