Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693834/guiding-and-establishing-national-innovation-for-us-stablecoins-act


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 580,  I call up the bill (S. 1582) to provide for the regulation of payment  stablecoins, and for other purposes, and ask for its immediate  consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the Senate GENIUS Act, and I  thank my colleague and longtime friend, Senator Bill Hagerty of  Tennessee, for his leadership in ushering this bipartisan bill through  the United States Senate.

Around the world, payment systems are undergoing an evolution. New  technologies are modernizing legacy infrastructure and unlocking  innovative solutions to improve efficiency, reduce costs, and expand  access to financial services.

Members of the House Financial Services Committee have long  recognized the promise of payment stablecoins and have worked since  2022 to establish a legislative framework.

Last Congress, under the leadership of former Chairman Patrick  McHenry of North Carolina, the committee passed the Clarity for Payment  Stablecoins Act of 2023. This bill provided for bank and nonbank  pathways for issuers to obtain regulatory approval, preserve State- level oversight, and set standards for reserve composition, audits, and  sound risk management.

When the 119th Congress started in January, we picked up this effort.  In close coordination with the Senate Banking Committee and our base  legislation, our legislative work over the past 2 years has laid that  foundation for the progress made in both the House and the Senate.

Today, we have an opportunity to send stablecoin legislation to  President Trump's desk. This is a multi-Congress priority item, and it  ensures American competitiveness and strong guardrails for our  consumers. We should not, Mr. Speaker, squander that opportunity.

This priority has been agreed to by both President Biden, with his  executive order, and President Trump in his Executive Order 14178.

Mr. Speaker, through multiple versions of stablecoin legislation, the  House and Senate have shared ideas and crafted workable approaches. Our  joint efforts before us helped enhance the legislation on the floor  this morning.

I recognize the hard work of my friends in the Senate to get the core  fundamentals of what payment stablecoin legislation demands.

I also recognize the diligence and thoughtful work of my colleagues  here in the House, including the chairman of our Subcommittee on  Digital Assets, Financial Technology, and Artificial Intelligence,  Bryan Steil, who championed and worked through our committee through  markup in successfully designing, writing, and passing in committee the  STABLE Act.

I thank my House colleagues for their principled approach to key  policies that guided and distinguished our efforts particularly around  State regime oversight, the reserve composition, the anti-money  laundering, and territorial integrity issues around stablecoins, and,  finally, the corporate structure of issuers.

Furthermore, it is my firmly held belief that only by enacting  payment stablecoin legislation and, Mr. Speaker, I repeat, and  comprehensive market structure reform in this Congress, like we just  debated a few minutes ago, the  CLARITY Act, only by passing both will this Congress fully usher in the  era of digital finance and ensure that consumers are protected whenever  they engage with digital assets.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting this  bill and sending it forward to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue for President  Trump to sign into law.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas.  I would like to address a few of those points.

One, I am so delighted to hear that it sounds as if my friend, the  ranking member from California, in fact, will now vote for the CLARITY  Act this afternoon on the House floor since she highlights some of my  suggested changes to the GENIUS Act. I appreciate her remarks on that.

Here is the big picture, Mr. Speaker. These bills, the CLARITY and  GENIUS Acts, are about protecting American consumers, protecting  investments, bringing capital back to the United States, and making the  U.S. a fintech leader in payments and digital assets.

Consumers are protected. The rules are straightforward. All issuers  of a payment stablecoin are treated the same, with high standards and  high regulatory oversight. I want to make sure that those at home  following on C-SPAN get the record straight.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I really have to say that I  believe the GENIUS Act is an important component for preserving and  enhancing the United States dollar as the reserve currency around the  world.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I recognize the chair of our  Subcommittee on Digital Assets, Financial Technology, and Artificial  Intelligence, who crafted the STABLE Act, which is the base text that  led to this joint, good work between the House and Senate.

I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Steil).

Mr. Speaker, this bill, the GENIUS Act, and the bill we debated a few  minutes ago, the CLARITY Act, are all about consumer protection. There  are no rules federally across the board in the digital asset space at  all now. That is why we have seen consumers hurt by the lack of a  regulatory framework. I have to say, Mr. Speaker, in total contrast to  my friends on the other side of the aisle, that is what we are all here  for today.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate your continuing reminder to the Members in  the Chamber to refrain from engaging  in personalities. Yet it has routinely become a part of our morning, so  I have to inquire as to how long we are going to let this go on, Mr.  Speaker. I want to make sure all the Members in the Chamber adhere to  rule XVII.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, let me start by saying that we are here on the floor,  where we have heard a vigorous debate about dollar-backed payment  stablecoins. Our committee has worked under both Democratic leadership  with Ms. Waters and Republican leadership to research this, talk about  it, think about it, and have hearings about it for over 5 years now. We  come to the House floor today with a bill before us that, while not  perfect, is a good bill, as has been evidenced by our speakers on the  floor.

S. 1582, the GENIUS Act, is a simple, bipartisan bill that is long  overdue and is based on that bipartisan work in both Chambers. Wow, we  are actually legislating. We are seeing bills passed in both Chambers.  It is exciting for me to see the good work of my friend, Chairman Tim  Scott of the Banking Committee, in leading a policy-driven effort to  put America's financial leadership first. S. 1582, as written by Bill  Hagerty, does exactly that.

Mr. Speaker, 68 Senators voted for this bill in the United States  Senate. A cloture-proof margin is only 60, but here 68 Senators came  together, including 18 Democrats. They vigorously debated this bill,  worked on it, improved it, modified it, and sent it to us in the House.

Likewise, Chairman Steil here in the House worked with those Senators  on both sides of the aisle all along the way to take the ideas that we  had here in the House in our markup and our STABLE Act and improve the  GENIUS Act.

With this legislation today, on a bipartisan basis, we are  modernizing our financial infrastructure, streamlining transactions,  lowering costs, and expanding financial tools for everyday Americans.  This is about putting American innovation first. It is about creating a  future where innovation is met with clarity, not confusion; where  American ingenuity is empowered, not stifled, by an outdated, not-fit- for-purpose regulatory regime.

The GENIUS Act will help maintain U.S. global leadership in financial  technology, digital innovation, and the power of the reserve currency-- the United States dollar--while reinforcing important consumer  protections and critical regulatory oversight where it is needed most.

This is commonsense, forward-looking legislation that reminds me of  the earliest days of this House Chamber agreeing in 1996 not to tax or  regulate the internet, but to tax and regulate how people use the  internet. This is a keen example of that principles-based legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  support the GENIUS Act, and I yield back the balance of my time.