Increasing Investor Opportunities Act


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chairman, I thank Mrs. Wagner for her work  as our subcommittee chair of Capital Markets in this Congress. I thank  our vice chairman of the full committee that you will hear from  tonight, the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Huizenga) who for three  Congresses served as chair of Capital Markets or ranking member on this  subcommittee.

This work tonight represents over a decade of effort on a bipartisan  basis, both sides of the aisle, to advance economic growth for our  citizens, and for our businesses by advancing their ability--at a lower  cost, in a more effective way--of raising money from working out of  their garage and crowdsourcing their idea to bring their idea to life,  through angel investing all the way through to lowering the cost to be  a public company.

Mr. Chairman, exactly 1 year ago this week, when I aspired to serve  as chair of the House Financial Services Committee, I asked my  colleagues: Can you tell me how many companies are in the Wilshire 5000  Index? There was silence in the room.

Mr. Chairman, there was silence in the room because it is not 5,000  companies, it was 3,700. Why? It is because we don't have enough  qualified public companies in this great Nation--the largest economy in  the world--to have 5,000 public companies in the Wilshire 5000.

Tonight we do something about that. We make it easier to be a public  company in America. We make it easier if you have a great idea to  crowdsource that idea, raise money from friends and family, and we make  it easier if you are an individual investor to have other opportunities  in which to invest.

Before I served in this House, I conducted many private placements to  help people start their own business, and Reg D of the SEC is what you  do that under. Those are the rules of the SEC to privately raise money  to help somebody start a business.

In that effort, you have to be an accredited investor in order to  invest. What if you invented the technology that is doing the business,  but you did  not have a million-dollar net worth and a $250,000 income? Mr.  Chairman, you can't be an investor--it is your technology--unless you  are the CEO or a board member.

This bill corrects that. It says if you have an expertise in a  particular area, you can become an accredited investor.

Tonight, Mr. Chair, we believe in Steve Case's admonition to the  whole Nation, ``The Rise of the Rest.'' We want America to thrive no  matter what side of the tracks you grow up on or what your education  level is. We want hard work, savings, and investment rewarded.

Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Gottheimer, and Mr. Meeks have delivered that in the  INVEST Act, and I urge a ``yes'' vote.