Keaton Beasley Teaches Importance of Financial Literacy


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Keaton  Beasley of Simmons Bank.

Keaton is a graduate of Henderson State University, a member of the  Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity, and a banker in Little Rock.

Keaton exemplifies the ethos of a community banker, frequently  working with children, adults, and seniors to teach them the importance  of financial literacy. His efforts prove it is never too late or too  early to learn how to manage your finances.

As a former community banker, I admire his efforts to uplift his  community and help those around him build a stronger foundation in  finance.

I look forward to seeing Keaton's continued impact in central  Arkansas  and wish him the best of luck in his bright future in banking.            Honoring John Edward Hain, Jr., on His 100th Birthday

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor John Edward  Hain, Jr., who celebrated his 100th birthday on March 20.

A Little Rock native, John graduated from Catholic High School at age  in 1941 and is currently the school's oldest living alumnus.

He is a World War II veteran. John was drafted at 18 and served in  England, Belgium, Germany, France, and the Netherlands as an Army  corporal in the field artillery attachment of the 5th Army Division,  the 9th Army spearhead, the 5th Armored Division, and the 29th Division  in Operation Kaput.

John married his wife, Beverly, in 1947. They have 5 daughters, 17  grandchildren, and 19 great-grandchildren.

After his service to our Nation in World War II, he worked at the  Krebs Brothers Supply Company as a traveling salesman, and he retired  as president of Krebs after working there for 50 years.

I thank John for his long service to our community, and I  congratulate him on reaching this amazing milestone.                               PAWS for Justice

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of  Susan Bradshaw and Fawn Borden of PAWS for Justice.

PAWS for Justice is an Arkansas charity that provides courthouse  facility dogs to assist witnesses and victims as they go through  difficult court proceedings. For children who are recounting  heartbreaking terrible events, these dogs provide comfort and support  to make those difficult moments just a little bit better.

While these dogs can often cost courthouses around $50,000 each, PAWS  for Justice provides them free of charge.

As a proud owner of my great pup, Taft, I have an incredible  appreciation for PAWS for Justice's efforts and thank them for their  hard work in providing comfort for those who need it the most.                           Recognizing Lance Restum

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Lance  Restum, director of community relations for the Arkansas Travelers  baseball team.

Lance has been with the championship-winning Travelers since 2006 and  is the founder of the Arkansas Travelers Youth Foundation.

Since 2021, the foundation has been introducing kids across the  Natural State to America's pastime. They provide baseball clinics,  equipment, grants, and scholarships to get kids active and interested  in baseball.

Lance and the foundation's work serve as an excellent example for  those of us who want to make a difference in our communities.

I wish Lance and the Arkansas Travelers the best of luck in their new  season, and I look forward to my next game at Dickey-Stephens Park.