Marking 80th Anniversary of V-J Day


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam Speaker, today marks 80 years since the  Empire of Japan unconditionally surrendered to General Douglas  MacArthur and Allied forces aboard the USS Missouri.

On this anniversary of V-J Day, it is fitting that we pause to  remember not only the end of history's deadliest conflict but also the  peace secured by the courage and sacrifice of the Greatest Generation,  a legacy that still shapes our world today.

More than 16 million Americans served, including 195,000 from the  State of Arkansas.

We remain forever grateful to the Allied war effort leadership, to  the men and women who served down range in the Pacific, Europe, North  Africa, and beyond, and to those on the home front who taught our kids  and fueled the arsenal of democracy.

Our generation salutes the Greatest Generation for the defeat of  fascism  and the preservation of liberty and freedom.                           honoring floyd brantley

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam Speaker, one of those Pacific vets is my  friend Floyd Brantley of Conway, Arkansas, a proud American who  answered his country's call not once but three different times.

Floyd first enlisted in the Navy in 1943, serving as a hospital  corpsman with the 1st Marine Division in the Russell Islands and New  Guinea. After the war, he went on to Baylor University, joined the Air  Force ROTC, and later served as a transport officer in Busan, South  Korea, during the Korean conflict.

Most men would have considered that a full measure of service, but  two decades later, during the Vietnam era, Floyd once again put on the  uniform, this time in the Air National Guard, giving another 10 years  to his country. He retired as a colonel.

As Floyd approaches a century of life, I have never met a more  active, positive person. In all, Colonel Brantley devoted more than 23  years to the defense of our Nation. He is a shining example of service  above self, and I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring him today.                              honoring john mass

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam Speaker, on this 80th commemoration of V- J Day, I recognize the remarkable service of Mr. John Mass, a proud  veteran of World War II, the Korean conflict, and the Vietnam war.

Like so many of his generation, John answered the call to serve,  devoting over 26 years to the defense of our country. He began his  service in 1943 with the U.S. Army Air Corps and concluded with his  honorable retirement from the United States Air Force in 1969.

Over that distinguished career, Mr. Mass served in posts worldwide,  including the Philippines, Guam, Thailand, Greenland, Germany, and  bases across the United States, where he contributed to the safety and  effectiveness of airborne operations.

Now, at 97 years old, Mr. Mass' record of service stands as an  enduring testament to duty, sacrifice, and patriotism. I honor his  extraordinary contributions to his country.                              honoring mary fine

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam Speaker, on this anniversary of V-J Day,  I rise to recognize Mary Fine.

Mary Fine turned 100 years old this past March 12. I rise today to  honor not only this incredible milestone in her life but her service to  our country.

Ms. Fine was a member of the Women's Army Corps and served our  country during America's most difficult tests of the Second World War.

From 1942 to 1978, the Women's Army Corps offered opportunities for  women to serve in the armed and uniformed services. WACs, as its  members were called, served in a variety of roles, including as  mechanics, medical professionals, photographers, and clerks. As for  Mary, she served as a phone operator and translator.

Women like Mary were integral to our victory, as they worked  tirelessly to support men on the front line and ensure the American war  machine operated at peak efficiency.

Madam Speaker, I congratulate Ms. Fine on her birthday and thank her  for her service.

Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize the 20th Anniversary of the USS  Razorback SS 394 being docked on the banks of the Arkansas River in  North Little Rock.

During World War II, the Balao-class submarine completed five war  patrols in the Pacific, sinking multiple Japanese vessels, capturing  enemy prisoners, and rescuing downed American airmen, even being  present in the Tokyo Bay for the Japanese surrender.

By the time she was decommissioned in 1970 the Razorback had earned  five battle stars for its service during World War II, four stars for  Vietnam, and two awards of the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal.

In 2004 she was towed up the Arkansas River and opened to the public  on Memorial Day in 2005 to her permanent home in Arkansas's Second  District.

Since then, the USS Razorback has become a part of Arkansas history.  A place where schools from across the state come to learn about  history.

Please join me in celebrating the 20th Anniversary of this historic  Arkansas landmark.