National Senior Investor Initiative Act of 2025


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 1469) to create an interdivisional taskforce at the  Securities and Exchange Commission for senior investors, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1469

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``National Senior Investor       Initiative Act of 2025'' or the ``Senior Security Act of       2025''.       SEC. 2. SENIOR INVESTOR TASKFORCE.

Section 4 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.       78d) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``(l) Senior Investor Taskforce.--

``(1) Establishment.--There is established within the       Commission the Senior Investor Taskforce (in this subsection       referred to as the `Taskforce').

``(2) Director of the taskforce.--The head of the Taskforce       shall be the Director, who shall--

``(A) report directly to the Chairman; and

``(B) be appointed by the Chairman, in consultation with       the Commission, from among individuals--

``(i) currently employed by the Commission or from outside       of the Commission; and

``(ii) having experience in advocating for the interests of       senior investors.

``(3) Staffing.--The Chairman shall ensure that--

``(A) the Taskforce is staffed sufficiently to carry out       fully the requirements of this subsection; and

``(B) such staff shall include individuals from the       Division of Enforcement, Office of Compliance Inspections and       Examinations, and Office of Investor Education and Advocacy.

``(4) No compensation for members of taskforce.--All       members of the Taskforce appointed under paragraph (2) or (3)       shall serve without compensation in addition to that received       for their services as officers or employees of the United       States.

``(5) Minimizing duplication of efforts.--In organizing and       staffing the Taskforce, the Chairman shall take such actions       as may be necessary to minimize the duplication of efforts       within the divisions and offices described under paragraph       (3)(B) and any other divisions, offices, or taskforces of the       Commission.

``(6) Functions of the taskforce.--The Taskforce shall--

``(A) identify challenges that senior investors encounter,       including problems associated with financial exploitation and       cognitive decline;

``(B) identify areas in which senior investors would       benefit from changes in the regulations of the Commission or       the rules of self-regulatory organizations;

``(C) coordinate, as appropriate, with other offices within       the Commission, other taskforces that may be established       within the Commission, self-regulatory organizations, and the       Elder Justice Coordinating Council; and

``(D) consult, as appropriate, with State securities and       law enforcement authorities, State insurance regulators, and       other Federal agencies.

``(7) Report.--The Taskforce, in coordination, as       appropriate, with the Office of the Investor Advocate and       self-regulatory organizations, and in consultation, as       appropriate, with State securities and law enforcement       authorities, State insurance regulators, and Federal       agencies, shall issue a report every 2 years to the Committee       on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and the Special       Committee on Aging of the Senate and the Committee on       Financial Services of the House of Representatives, the first       of which shall not be issued until after the report described       in section 3 of the National Senior Investor Initiative Act       of 2025 has been issued and considered by the Taskforce,       containing--

``(A) appropriate statistical information and full and       substantive analysis;

``(B) a summary of recent trends and innovations that have       impacted the investment landscape for senior investors;

``(C) a summary of regulatory initiatives that have       concentrated on senior investors and industry practices       related to senior investors;

``(D) key observations, best practices, and areas needing       improvement, involving senior investors identified during       examinations, enforcement actions, and investor education       outreach;

``(E) a summary of the most serious issues encountered by       senior investors, including issues involving financial       products and services;

``(F) an analysis with regard to existing policies and       procedures of brokers, dealers, investment advisers, and       other market participants related to senior investors and       senior investor-related topics and whether these policies and       procedures need to be further developed or refined;

``(G) recommendations for such changes to the regulations,       guidance, and orders of the Commission and self-regulatory       organizations and such legislative actions as may be       appropriate to resolve problems encountered by senior       investors; and

``(H) any other information, as determined appropriate by       the Director of the Taskforce.

``(8) Request for reports.--The Taskforce shall make any       report issued under paragraph (7) available to a Member of       Congress who requests such a report.

``(9) Sunset.--The Taskforce shall terminate after the end       of the 10-year period beginning on the date of the enactment       of this subsection.

``(10) Senior investor defined.--In this subsection, the       term `senior investor' means an investor over the age of 65.

``(11) Use of existing funds.--The Commission shall use       existing funds to carry out this subsection.''.       SEC. 3. GAO STUDY.

(a) Study.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall submit to Congress and the Senior Investor       Taskforce the results of a study of financial exploitation of       senior citizens.

(b) Contents.--The study required under subsection (a)       shall include information with respect to--

(1) economic costs of the financial exploitation of senior       citizens--

(A) associated with losses by victims that were incurred as       a result of the financial exploitation of senior citizens;

(B) incurred by State and Federal agencies, law enforcement       and investigatory agencies, public benefit programs, public       health programs, and other public programs as a result of the       financial exploitation of senior citizens;

(C) incurred by the private sector as a result of the       financial exploitation of senior citizens; and

(D) any other relevant costs that--

(i) result from the financial exploitation of senior       citizens; and

(ii) the Comptroller General determines are necessary and       appropriate to include in order to provide Congress and the       public with a full and accurate understanding of the economic       costs resulting from the financial exploitation of senior       citizens in the United States;

(2) frequency of senior financial exploitation and       correlated or contributing factors--

(A) information about percentage of senior citizens       financially exploited each year; and

(B) information about factors contributing to increased       risk of exploitation, including such factors as race, social       isolation, income, net worth, religion, region, occupation,       education, home-ownership, illness, and loss of spouse; and

(3) policy responses and reporting of senior financial       exploitation--

(A) the degree to which financial exploitation of senior       citizens unreported to authorities;

(B) the reasons that financial exploitation may be       unreported to authorities;

(C) to the extent that suspected elder financial       exploitation is currently being reported--

(i) information regarding which Federal, State, and local       agencies are receiving reports, including adult protective       services, law enforcement, industry, regulators, and       professional licensing boards;

(ii) information regarding what information is being       collected by such agencies; and

(iii) information regarding the actions that are taken by       such agencies upon receipt of the report and any limits on       the agencies' ability to prevent exploitation, such as       jurisdictional limits, a lack of expertise, resource       challenges, or       limiting criteria with regard to the types of victims they       are permitted to serve;

(D) an analysis of gaps that may exist in empowering       Federal, State, and local agencies to prevent senior       exploitation or respond effectively to suspected senior       financial exploitation; and

(E) an analysis of the legal hurdles that prevent Federal,       State, and local agencies from effectively partnering with       each other and private professionals to effectively respond       to senior financial exploitation.

(c) Senior Citizen Defined.--In section, the term ``senior       citizen'' means an individual over the age of 65.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1469, the Senior Security Act.

According to the FBI, over 100,000 seniors fell victim to fraud and  exploitation just last year. Their total losses were over $3 billion.  Just last year, a senior citizen from my home State fell victim to an  investment scam and lost over $5 million of his life savings.

Mr. Gottheimer's good bill addresses this issue head-on by  establishing a dedicated senior investor task force within the  Securities and Exchange Commission. They will monitor trends and  threats and recommend policy changes aimed at protecting our seniors  from financial exploitation.

This bill has enjoyed broad bipartisan support in prior Congresses.  It helps ensure that our older investors are not left vulnerable in an  increasingly complex marketplace.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the CBO  estimate for this bill.        H.R. 1469, SENIOR SECURITY ACT OF 2025 AS REPORTED BY THE HOUSE              COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES ON JUNE 3, 2025 ------------------------------------------------------------------------                                            By fiscal year,  millions of                                                      dollars--                                          -------------------------------                                             2025    2025-2030  2025-2035 ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Direct Spending (Outlays)...............        0          0          0 Revenues................................        0          0          0 Increase or Decrease (-) in the Deficit.        0          0          0 Spending Subject to Appropriation               *          *         **  (Outlays).............................. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ * = between -$500,000 and $500,000. ** = not estimated.

Increases net direct spending in any of the four       consecutive 10-year periods beginning in 2036? No.

Increases on-budget deficits in any of the four consecutive       10-year periods beginning in 2036? No.

Statutory pay-as-you-go procedures apply? No.

Mandate Effects:

Contains intergovernmental mandate? No.

Contains private-sector mandate? Yes, Under Threshold.

H.R. 1469 would require the Securities and Exchange       Commission (SEC) to establish and administer a task force to       identify challenges faced by senior investors, coordinate       commission activities with respect to senior investors, and       consult with state securities and law enforcement authorities       and insurance regulators. The task force would be required to       report to the Congress every two years on its activities. The       bill also would direct the Government Accountability Office       (GAO) to report to the Congress and the task force on the       financial exploitation of senior citizens.

Using information from the SEC, CBO estimates that       implementing H.R. 1469 would cost $8 million over the 2025-      2030 period. CBO expects that the SEC would need five       employees, at an average annual cost of $330,000 for each       employee, to administer the task force and report to the       Congress. Because the SEC is authorized to collect fees each       year to offset its annual appropriation, CBO expects that the       net effect on discretionary spending over the 2025-2030       period would be negligible, assuming appropriation actions       consistent with that authority. CBO estimates that the GAO       report would cost less than $500,000; any related spending       would be subject to the availability of appropriated funds.

If the SEC increased fees to offset the costs for       rulemaking as required by the bill, H.R. 1469 would increase       the cost of an existing mandate as defined in the Unfunded       Mandates Reform Act (UMRA) on private entities required to       pay those fees. CBO estimates that the incremental cost of       the mandate would be small and would fall well below the       annual threshold for private-sector mandates established in       UMRA ($206 million in 2025, adjusted annually for inflation).

The bill would not impose any intergovernmental mandates.

The CBO staff contacts for this estimate are Aurora Swanson       (for federal costs) and Lucy Mallet (for mandates). The       estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy Director       of Budget Analysis.                                                 Phillip L. Swagel,                             Director, Congressional Budget Office.

I thank my friend from New Jersey for this excellent bill. I know  that Congress has consensus on it, and I hope that in this Congress it  becomes law. I have spent a good part of my career both in commercial  banking, investment management, and investment brokerage, and all  through that time, the protection of our seniors was top of mind by  leaders in all those enterprises. Yet, we still have this terrible  problem across our country.

I think having this point person at the SEC will make it more  responsive, more effective, do better training, and take better  planning actions to protect our seniors.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from New Jersey and Mrs. Wagner for  their leadership, I urge a ``yes'' vote, and I yield back the balance  of my time.