Ofac Licensure for Investigators Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693944/ofac-licensure-for-investigators-act


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 1450) to require the Office of Foreign Assets  Control to develop a program under which private-sector firms may  receive a license to conduct nominal financial transactions in  furtherance of the firms' investigations, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1450

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``OFAC Licensure for       Investigators Act''.       SEC. 2. SENDING AND RECEIVING OF NOMINAL AMOUNTS.

(a) In General.--The Director of the Office of Foreign       Assets Control shall, not later than 1 year after the date of       the enactment of this section, establish a pilot program       under which a private sector firm may receive a license to       conduct nominal financial transactions in furtherance of the       firm's investigations.

(b) Coordination.--When establishing and carrying out the       pilot program required under subsection (a), the Director of       the Office of Foreign Assets Control shall coordinate with       the Director of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network for       the purposes of supporting activities of the Financial Crimes       Enforcement Network Exchange, as described in section 310(d)       of title 31 of the United States Code.

(c) Reporting on Activities.--Each private sector firm that       receives a license described under subsection (a) shall       submit a detailed monthly report to the Director of the       Office of Foreign Assets Control on the activities of the       firm conducted under such license.

(d) Report to Congress.--

(1) In general.--On the date that is 1 year after the date       on which the pilot program is established under this section,       and annually thereafter until the end of the 1-year period       beginning on the date the pilot program is terminated, the       Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control shall submit       a report to the Committees on Financial Services and Foreign       Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committees on       Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and Foreign Relations of       the Senate containing--

(A) the number of licenses requested under the pilot       program;

(B) the number of licenses granted under the pilot program;       and

(C) a broad discussion of the utility of the pilot program.

(2) Classified briefing.--After submission of each report       required under paragraph (1), the Director of the Office of       Foreign Assets Control shall provide the Committees on       Financial Services and Foreign Affairs of the House of       Representatives and the Committees on Banking, Housing, and       Urban Affairs and Foreign Relations of the Senate with a       classified briefing containing--

(A) additional detail on the applicants for a license under       the pilot program;

(B) identification of the firms granted a license;

(C) information on the operation of the pilot program,       including how long each license lasted and the personnel       needed to manage the pilot program;

(D) information gleaned by the Office of Foreign Assets       Control from running the pilot program;

(E) the utility of that information;

(F) any obstacles to the operation or utility of the pilot       program; and

(G) any recommendations for improving or extending the       pilot program.

(e) Termination.--The pilot program established by the       Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control under       subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is 5 years       after the date on which the Director of the Office of Foreign       Assets Control establishes such program.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1450, the OFAC  Licensure for Investigators Act.

When it comes to combating illicit finance, effective public-private  partnerships are critical. Tracking and disrupting sophisticated crime  networks requires cooperation between our government and private-sector  experts.

These partnerships play an integral role in our ability to safeguard  the U.S. financial system and our national security.

Mrs. Beatty's commonsense bill authorizes private-sector firms,  operating under an OFAC license, to conduct nominal transactions with  sanctioned entities, allowing them to more effectively trace funds and  uncover illicit networks during financial crime investigations.

The gentlewoman and I agree that while the private sector can provide  a helping hand in tracking down bad actors, it is ultimately the  government's responsibility to provide clear legal guidance and  guardrails to support their efforts.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I include the Congressional Budget  Office estimate for this bill in the Record.     H.R. 1450, OFAC LICENSURE FOR INVESTIGATORS ACT, AS REPORTED BY THE          HOUSE COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES ON MARCH 27, 2025 ------------------------------------------------------------------------                                            By fiscal year, millions  of                                                      dollars--                                          -------------------------------                                             2025    2025-2030  2025-2035 ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Direct Spending (Outlays)...............        0          0          0 Revenues................................        0          0          0 Increase or Decrease (-) in the Deficit.        0          0          0 Spending Subject to Appropriation               0          4          5  (Outlays).............................. ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Increases net direct spending in any of the four       consecutive 10-year periods beginning in 2036? No.

Increases on-budget deficits in any of the four consecutive       10-year periods beginning in 2036? No.

Statutory pay-as-you-go procedures apply? No.

Mandate Effects:

Contains intergovernmental mandate? No.

Contains private-sector mandate? No.

H.R. 1450 would require the Office of Foreign Assets       Control (OFAC) to establish a pilot program under which it       could license private firms to conduct small financial       transactions with sanctioned entities in order to collect       data and intelligence on those entities. Those transactions       might otherwise be prohibited because some parties to the       transactions are subject to sanctions. The bill would require       OFAC to report to the Congress on its implementation of that       program. The authority to issue licenses and the reporting       requirement would expire five years after OFAC begins issuing       those licenses.

Based on information from OFAC, CBO expects the office       would need five employees to implement and administer the       pilot program starting in fiscal year 2026. CBO estimates the       compensation and operating expenses for those employees and       the cost of the reporting requirements would amount to $5       million over the 2025-2035 period. Such spending would be       subject to the availability of appropriated funds.

The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Emma Uebelhor.       The estimate was reviewed by Christina Hawley Anthony, Deputy       Director of Budget Analysis.                                                 Phillip L. Swagel,                             Director, Congressional Budget Office.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote, and I yield  back the balance of my time.