Pressure Regulatory Organizations to End Chinese Threats to Taiwan Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699846/pressure-regulatory-organizations-to-end-chinese-threats-to-taiwan-act


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 1531) to direct certain financial regulators to  exclude representatives of the People's Republic of China from certain  banking organizations upon notice of certain threats or danger, and for  other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1531

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Pressure Regulatory       Organizations To End Chinese Threats to Taiwan Act'' or the       ``PROTECT Taiwan Act''.       SEC. 2. STATEMENT OF POLICY REGARDING THE EXCLUSION OF                     REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF                     CHINA FROM CERTAIN BANKING ORGANIZATIONS UPON                     NOTICE OF CERTAIN THREATS OR DANGER.

(a) In General.--If the President, pursuant to section 3(c)       of the Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3302(c)), informs the       Congress of any threat to the security or the social or       economic system of the people on Taiwan and any danger to the       interests of the United States arising therefrom resulting       from actions of the People's Republic of China, it is the       policy of the United States to seek to exclude       representatives of the People's Republic of China, to the       maximum extent practicable, from participation in meetings,       proceedings, and other activities of the following       organizations:

(1) The Group of Twenty.

(2) The Bank for International Settlements.

(3) The Financial Stability Board.

(4) The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.

(5) The International Association of Insurance Supervisors.

(6) The International Organization of Securities       Commissions.

(b) Policy Advancement.--The Secretary of the Treasury, the       Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the       Securities and Exchange Commission shall take all necessary       steps to advance the policy set forth in subsection (a).

(c) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of       subsection (a) with respect to an       organization upon submission of a report to the Committee on       Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the       Senate--

(1) that such waiver is in the national interest of the       United States; and

(2) that contains an explanation of the reasons therefor.

(d) Sunset.--This Act and the requirements of this Act       shall have no force or effect on the date that is the earlier       of--

(1) 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act; or

(2) 30 days after the date on which the President notifies       Congress that the termination of this Act is in the national       interest of the United States.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of Mr. Lucas' bill, the PROTECT  Taiwan Act.

Mr. Speaker, China has shown no sign of slowing their aggression  toward Taiwan. The Chinese Communist Party, or CCP, continues to  threaten the people of Taiwan's independence by repeatedly holding  military drills, increasing economic coercion, and ramping up political  pressure.

Let me state clearly, Mr. Speaker, and with no equivocation, the  Chinese Communist Party's obligation under the 1979 Taiwan Relations  Act, which sets out quite clearly that China cannot use military force  or coercion, boycotts or embargoes to compel Taiwan to capitulate to  the Communists and become One China.

The PROTECT Taiwan Act will exclude Chinese representatives from  international organizations like the G20 and the Financial Stability  Board if the President of the United States notifies Congress declaring  any threat to Taiwan.

H.R. 1531 ensures there will be significant financial and diplomatic  consequences for China to invade Taiwan. Full stop.

The U.S. must send a clear message that China's aggression toward  Taiwan will not and is not tolerated, and the PROTECT Taiwan Act does  just that.

I thank the gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. Lucas) for his work in  standing up for our keen allies in the Indo-Pacific, not just Taiwan  but all of our allies in northeast Asia. This is a key step in  deterrence to the Communists in Beijing from invading Taiwan, and I  urge all of my colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I noted in my remarks that the only way that Taiwan and  the People's Republic of China can become one is through mutual  consent, not through coercion, not through embargoes, not through  invasion, and not through military attack. Congressman Lucas' bill is a  commonsense measure to unify American policy of economic deterrence,  military preparation, peace through strength, but also diplomacy and  economic deterrence.

Mr. Lucas' bill is an excellent step in that regard. I urge all  Members to support it on both sides of the aisle, and I yield back the  balance of my time.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.