President Washington's Farewell Address


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700272/president-washingtons-farewell-address


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to rise today with my  colleagues to lead the House of Representatives in reading President  George Washington's farewell address.

Having just celebrated the 294th birthday of our indispensable first  President, this is a fitting tribute as we celebrate the 250th year of  our Nation's creation.

The farewell address is a remarkable document. Published in the  American Daily Advertiser on September 19, 1796, it was never delivered  in person, but it was widely read and remains one of the most important  documents in American history.

President Washington completed his two terms as our indispensable  first President. He was first in war, first in peace, and first in the  hearts of his countrymen.

Every step of the way, he viewed his actions through the lens of the  precedent it would set for the Presidency and for future Presidents:  his dress, his decorum, his relationship with Congress, his decisions  about his Cabinet, and his approach to executive decisionmaking.

In this address, you will see clearly that he ended his extraordinary  public career on a high note.

The practice of reading the farewell address began in a joint session  of Congress on February 22, 1862, during the darkest days of the Civil  War.

The Senate revived the ceremonial reading in 1888, and each year  since 1896, the Senate has observed George Washington's birthday in  February by selecting a Senator, alternating parties, to read the  7,641-word statement in their legislative session. This year,  fittingly, in this year of America250, our semiquincentennial, it was  Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia.

The House revived the ceremonial reading in 1889 and continued  intermittently until 1933, after which it became an annual fixture in  until 1979.

Today, Mr. Speaker, my colleagues and I are delighted to return this  tradition to the House floor accompanied by our handsome portrait of  our first President by John Vanderlyn that has hung here in the House  Chamber since the 1830s.

Mr. Washington's Farewell Address:

``Friends and Fellow-Citizens:

``The period for a new election of a citizen to administer the  executive government of the United States being  not far distant, and the time actually arrived when your thoughts must  be employed in designating the person who is to be clothed with that  important trust, it appears to me proper, especially as it may conduce  to a more distinct expression of the public voice, that I should now  apprise you of the resolution I have formed, to decline being  considered among the number of those out of whom a choice is to be  made.

``I beg you, at the same time, to do me the justice to be assured  that this resolution has not been taken without a strict regard to all  the considerations appertaining to the relation which binds a dutiful  citizen to his country--and that, in withdrawing the tender of service  which silence in my situation might imply, I am influenced by no  diminution of zeal for your future interest, no deficiency of grateful  respect for your past kindness; but am supported by a full conviction  that the step is compatible with both.

``The acceptance of, and continuance hitherto in, the office to which  your suffrages have twice called me, have been a uniform sacrifice of  inclination to the opinion of duty and to a deference for what appeared  to be your desire. I constantly hoped that it would have been much  earlier in my power, consistently with motives which I was not at  liberty to disregard, to return to that retirement from which I had  been reluctantly drawn. The strength of my inclination to do this,  previous to the last election, had even led to the preparation of an  address to declare it to you; but mature reflection on the then  perplexed and critical posture of our affairs with foreign nations, and  the unanimous advice of persons entitled to my confidence, impelled me  to abandon the idea.

``I rejoice that the state of your concerns, external as well as  internal, no longer renders the pursuit of inclination incompatible  with the sentiment of duty or propriety, and am persuaded whatever  partiality may be retained for my services, that in the present  circumstances of our country, you will not disapprove my determination  to retire.

``The impressions with which I first undertook the arduous trust were  explained on the proper occasion. In the discharge of this trust, I  will only say that I have, with good intentions, contributed towards  the organization and administration of the government, the best  exertions of which a very fallible judgment was capable. Not  unconscious in the outset of the inferiority of my qualifications,  experience in my own eyes, perhaps still more in the eyes of others,  has strengthened the motives to diffidence of myself; and every day the  increasing weight of years admonishes me more and more that the shade  of retirement is as necessary to me as it will be welcome. Satisfied  that if any circumstances have given peculiar value to my services,  they were temporary, I have the consolation to believe, that while  choice and prudence invite me to quit the political scene, patriotism  does not forbid it.''

Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the distinguished gentleman from Utah  (Mr. Kennedy) to continue our reading.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Utah  for his participation.

He is the distinguished former Lieutenant  Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. ``This spirit, unfortunately, is inseparable  from our nature, having its root in the strongest passions of the human  mind. . . . [B]ut, in those of the popular form, it is seen in its  greatest rankness and is truly their worst enemy.

``The alternate domination of one faction over another, sharpened by  the spirit of revenge natural to party dissension, which in different  ages and countries has perpetrated the most horrid enormities, is  itself a frightful despotism. But this leads at length to a more formal  and permanent despotism. The disorders and miseries which result  gradually incline the minds of men to seek security and repose in the  absolute power of an individual; and sooner or later the chief of some  prevailing faction, more able or more fortunate than his competitors,  turns this disposition to the purposes of his own elevation on the  ruins of public liberty.

``Without looking forward to an extremity of this kind (which  nevertheless ought not to be entirely out of sight) the common and  continual mischiefs of the spirit of party are sufficient to make it  the interest and the duty of a wise people to discourage and restrain  it.

``It serves always to distract the public councils and enfeeble the  public administration. It agitates the community with ill-founded  jealousies and false alarms, kindles the animosity of one part against  another, foments occasionally riot and insurrection. It opens the door  to foreign influence and corruption, which find a facilitated access to  the government itself through the channels of party passions. Thus the  policy and the will of one country are subjected to the policy and will  of another.

``There is an opinion that the parties in free countries are useful  checks upon the administration of the government and serve to keep  alive the spirit of liberty. This within certain limits is probably  true--and in governments of a monarchical cast patriotism may look with  indulgence, if not with favor, upon the spirit of party. But in those  of the popular character, in governments purely elective, it is a  spirit not to be encouraged. From their natural tendency, it is certain  there will always be enough of that spirit for every salutary purpose.  And there being constant danger of excess, the effort ought to be, by  force of public opinion, to mitigate and assuage it. A fire not to be  quenched, it demands a uniform vigilance to prevent its bursting into  flame, lest instead of warming it should consume.

``It is important, likewise, that the habits of thinking in a free  country should inspire caution in those entrusted with its  administration, to confine themselves within their respective  constitutional spheres, avoiding in the exercise of the powers of one  department to encroach upon another. The spirit of encroachment tends  to consolidate the powers of all the departments in one and thus to  create, whatever the form of government, a real despotism. A just  estimate of that love of power and proneness to abuse it which  predominates in the human heart is sufficient to satisfy us of the  truth of this position. The necessity of reciprocal checks in the  exercise of political power, by dividing and distributing it into  different depositories and constituting each the guardian of the public  weal against invasions by the others, has been evinced by experiments  ancient and modern, some of them in our country and under our own eyes.  To preserve them must be as necessary as to institute them. If in the  opinion of the people the distribution or modification of the  constitutional powers be in any particular wrong, let it be corrected  by an amendment in the way which the Constitution designates. But let  there be no change by usurpation; for though this, in one instance, may  be the instrument of good, it is the customary weapon by which free  governments are destroyed. The precedent must always greatly  overbalance in permanent evil any partial or transient benefit which  the use can at any time yield.

``Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political  prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports. In vain  would that man claim the tribute of patriotism who should labor to  subvert these great pillars of human happiness, these firmest props of  the duties of men and citizens. The mere politician, equally with the  pious man, ought to respect and to cherish them. A volume could not  trace all their connections with private and public felicity. Let it  simply be asked where is the security for property, for reputation, for  life, if the sense of religious obligation desert the oaths, which are  the instruments of investigation in courts of justice? And let us with  caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without  religion.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. ``In relation to the still subsisting war in  Europe, my proclamation of the 22d of April 1793 is the index to my  plan. Sanctioned by your approving voice and by that of your  representatives in both houses of Congress, the spirit of that measure  has continually governed me, uninfluenced by any attempts to deter or  divert me from it.

``After deliberate examination with the aid of the best lights I  could obtain, I was well satisfied that our country, under all the  circumstances of the case, had a right to take--and was bound in duty  and interest, to take--a neutral position. Having taken it, I  determined, as far as I should depend upon me, to maintain it with  moderation, perseverance, and firmness.

``The considerations which respect the right to hold this conduct it  is not necessary on this occasion to detail. I will only observe that,  according to my understanding of the matter, that right, so far from  being denied by any of the belligerent powers, has been virtually  admitted by all.

``The duty of holding a neutral conduct may be inferred, without  anything more, from the obligation which justice and humanity impose on  every nation, in cases in which it is free to act, to maintain  inviolate the relations of peace and amity towards other nations.

``The inducements of interest for observing that conduct will best be  referred to your own reflections and experience. With me, a predominant  motive has been to endeavor to gain time to our country to settle and  mature its yet recent institutions and to progress without interruption  to that degree of strength and consistency which is necessary to give  it, humanly speaking, the command of its own fortunes.

``Though in reviewing the incidents of my administration I am  unconscious of intentional error. I am nevertheless too sensible of my  own defects not to think it probable that I may have committed many  errors. Whatever they may be, I fervently beseech the Almighty to avert  or mitigate the evils to which they may tend. I shall also carry with  me the hope that my country will never cease to view them with  indulgence and that, after forty-five years of my life dedicated to its  service with an upright zeal, the faults of incompetent abilities will  be consigned to oblivion, as myself must soon be to the mansions of  rest.

``Relying on its kindness in this as in other things, and actuated by  that fervent love towards it which is so natural to a man who views in  it the native soil of himself and his progenitors for several  generations, I anticipate with pleasing expectation that retreat in  which I promise myself to realize without alloy the sweet enjoyment of  partaking, in the midst of my fellow citizens, the benign influence of  good laws under a free government--the ever favorite object of my  heart, and the happy reward, as I trust, of our mutual cares, labors,  and dangers.''

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues,  Mike Kennedy of Utah,  Don Beyer  of Virginia, and Ben Cline of Virginia, for joining me in this renewal  of tradition in this, our semiquincentennial year, of reading George  Washington's Farewell Address.

Indeed, as that Member of the very first Congress from Virginia,  American Revolutionary War hero Light-Horse Harry Lee, said at George  Washington's eulogy, he was, in fact, ``First in war, first in peace,  and first in the hearts of his countrymen.''

I give my thanks also to Speaker Johnson and the Republican vice  chairman, Blake Moore, for allowing us to use this time on the House  floor.

I encourage all of our citizens to participate in America's 250th  birthday in this year of 2026 as we celebrate on July Fourth the  signing and publication of our Declaration of Independence from July  Fourth, 1776.