Recognizing Lorie Tudor on Her Retirement


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688705/recognizing-lorie-tudor-on-her-retirement


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam Speaker, I rise to wish Lorie Tudor, the  former director of the Arkansas Department of Transportation, a very  healthy and happy retirement.

Lorie was with the Department of Transportation for over four decades  and served as the director for the last 5 years.

She began her career at the department as a clerk-typist back in  1982. After taking time away to earn an engineering degree from the  University of Memphis, she returned to the department as a civil  engineer in 1998.

In 2014, she was promoted to deputy director and chief operating  officer, and she became the agency's first female director in early  2020.

Lorie guided the department through the challenges of COVID-19,  played a pivotal role in the Connecting Arkansas Program, which  included over 30 State highway construction projects and helped  modernize the Natural State's transportation infrastructure.

She has left a lasting mark on the department and our State, and she  has proven to be a tireless and effective leader.

I thank Lorie for her lifetime of dedication and her terrific  perseverance to accomplish her personal goals and those of the  department.                           Recognizing Austin Booth

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize Austin  Booth, an exceptional Arkansan who recently completed his service as  the director of our Arkansas Game and Fish Commission.

A native of Scott, Arkansas, the outdoors and a passion for public  service were integral to Austin's upbringing.

After witnessing the 9/11 attacks from his classroom at Catholic High  School in Little Rock, Austin was determined to serve his country,  ultimately becoming a Marine Corps officer and deploying to  Afghanistan.

After his tour in Afghanistan, Austin came to Washington, D.C., where  he would go on to work as an advocate for the corps on Capitol Hill  and, later, a judge advocate.

He returned to Arkansas to serve in the Arkansas Department of  Veterans Affairs and then as a director of the Arkansas Game and Fish  Commission. Under his leadership, the commission launched its strategic  5-year plan and Austin was instrumental in conservation projects that  will benefit hunters, anglers, and conservationists for generations to  come.

I thank Austin for his leadership, for our friendship, and for his  unwavering commitment to Arkansas' natural treasures, and wish him all  the best in his future endeavors.           Recognizing Bart Likes, Owner of Ol' Bart Southern Eats

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize Bart  Likes, the owner of Ol' Bart Southern Eats.

What started as a job at a hunting lodge has become a successful  multilocation restaurant and catering business that serves customers  across our State. Yet, Bart's contributions to his community are not  confined to his successful business.

Since the tragic passing of his mother, he has been serving others in  our State, including sponsoring local sports teams, feeding healthcare  workers, and providing free meals to victims of domestic abuse.

Bart's story should remind us all that life has twists and turns but  following your passions will never steer you wrong. It should also  remind us that there is no greater obligation in life than to help  those in need.

Madam Speaker, I applaud Bart for his success and thank him for his  dedication to helping others.                            Celebrating John Gill

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to celebrate a  truly remarkable gift to higher education in Arkansas and honor the  legacy of John Gill, whose name will now grace the newly renamed prelaw  program at Hendrix College in Conway.

Thanks to a generous $250,000 donation from George and Sallie Gill in  honor of their brother and brother-in-law, this endowed program will  help prepare Hendrix students for a legal career.

As a former president of the Arkansas Bar Association and member of  the  American College of Trial Lawyers, John Gill has left an indelible mark  on our State's legal landscape over his six-decade career.

From serving as a delegate to the 1969 Arkansas Constitutional  Convention and shaping the Arkansas Supreme Court's Rules of Civil  Procedure, John's legacy is one of integrity and mentorship.

Through this endowment, Hendrix will continue to enhance its already  impressive prelaw program, which boasts an 87 percent law school  acceptance rate.

Madam Speaker, I commend Hendrix College and the Gill family for  their commitment to advancing legal education in Arkansas, and I look  forward to seeing those students thrive in law school and beyond.