Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695158/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam Chair, I rise in support of my amendment  No. 147 to H.R. 3838.

My amendment to the NDAA supports the C-130H (and planned C-130J) Air  National Guard Formal Training Unit in my district.

C-130J aircraft are critical to the Arkansas National Guard.

The planned C-130J Formal Training Unit (FTU) for the Air National  Guard is the 189th Airlift Wing of the Arkansas National Guard.

The unit will be responsible for training all future Air National  Guard C-130J pilots and loadmasters.

My amendment requires the Secretary of the Air Force, in consultation  with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, to submit a report to  Congress on the C-130J FTU.

The 189th Airlift Wing is working to acquire more C-130Js as the Air  National Guard reconfigures to C-130Js.

The C-130J incorporates state-of-the-art technology, which reduces  staffing requirements, lowers operating costs, and provides life-cycle  savings over earlier C-130 models.

I urge you to support my amendment.

Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam Chair, I rise in support of my amendment  No. 148 to H.R. 3838.

My amendment supports the accreditation of the National Guard  Marksmanship Training Center (NGMTC) located at Robinson Maneuver  Training Center, Arkansas.

The NGMTC is the only unit in the United States that is dedicated to  the National Guard's marksmanship school and competition programs.

It offers world-class instruction in the proper use of various small  weapons systems in the Small Arms Weapons Expert and Squad Designated  Marksmanship programs.

The Arkansas National Guard is actively working to gain U.S. Army  Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) accreditation for the NGMTC.

My amendment requires the Secretary of the Army to do the following:

Designate the NGMTC as a TRADOC institution.

Make the Small Arms Weapons Expert and Squad Designated Marksmanship  programs National Guard-centric courses.

Award the Master Marksmanship Training skill identifier to National  Guardsmen who complete both programs.

Integrate both programs into the Army Program Objective Memorandum  and consider establishing a modified Table of Organization and  Equipment requirement associated with the Master Marksmanship Training  skill identifier.

Keeps the NGMTC within the Arkansas National Guard.

This amendment is extremely important to central Arkansas and the  Arkansas National Guard.

I urge you to support my amendment.