DC Criminal Reforms to Immediately Make Everyone Safe Act


Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in disbelief over the fact  that in our own Nation's Capital, prosecutors are allowed to prosecute  criminals as old as 25 years old as minors.

While President Trump has restored law and order to the District, I  am not surprised that D.C.'s local government continues to protect the  criminals and ignore victims. The D.C. CRIMES Act puts an end to this  madness and ensures safety and security across D.C.

At 18 years old, you are given adult responsibilities, like being  able to vote or sign up for the military. At 18 years, you become  responsible for your  choices and your decisions and should be treated as such. At 21 years  old, you are able to legally consume alcohol. At 25 years old, you can  become a Member of Congress.

This is why the D.C. CRIMES Act is essential to ensuring the long- term safety and security of our Nation's Capital so that violent  offenders are not just handed any more get-out-of-jail-free cards. The  bill also orders judges to stop sentencing youth offenders below the  minimum sentencing guidelines.

It is time to bring back justice in America. It is time for fair  punishment for the people who interfere with people's daily lives,  specifically those with prior convictions. The revolving door of  justice ends today. I cannot thank Representative Donalds enough for  his vital work on this legislation.

It is time to push back against soft-on-crime judges and DAs. We are  a nation of laws, Mr. Speaker, and Washington, D.C., should be a model  for justice across our great Nation.

In no way, shape, form, or fashion should we be charging adults as  minors and allowing them to return to commit similar or more violent  crimes. The citizens, tourists, businesspeople, and every other member  of this city deserve safety and security. I urge my colleagues to  support this bill, which will ensure just that.

We will restore D.C. to become the shining city on the hill that our  Founders envisioned it to be. I again thank my dear friend Congressman  Donalds. I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bill.