No Tax Dollars for Terrorists Act


Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 260) to require a strategy to oppose financial or material  support by foreign countries and nongovernmental organizations to the  Taliban, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 260

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``No Tax Dollars for       Terrorists Act''.       SEC. 2. STRATEGY TO OPPOSE FOREIGN ASSISTANCE BY FOREIGN                     COUNTRIES AND NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS TO                     THE TALIBAN.

(a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United       States--

(1) to oppose the provision of foreign assistance by       foreign countries and nongovernmental organizations to the       Taliban, particularly those countries and organizations that       receive United States-provided foreign assistance; and

(2) to review United States-provided foreign assistance to       such foreign countries and nongovernmental organizations that       have provided foreign assistance to the Taliban.

(b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to       the appropriate congressional committees a report       identifying, to the extent possible--

(1) foreign countries and nongovernmental organizations       that have provided foreign assistance to the Taliban,       including--

(A) the amount of United States-provided foreign assistance       each country or organization receives, if any;

(B) the amount of foreign assistance each country or       organization has provided to the Taliban; and

(C) a description of how the Taliban has utilized such       foreign assistance; and

(2) efforts the United States has taken since August 2021       to oppose foreign countries and nongovernmental organizations       from providing foreign assistance to the Taliban,       particularly those foreign countries and organizations that       receive United States-provided foreign assistance.

(c) Strategy and Reports.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall       develop and implement a strategy to discourage foreign       countries and nongovernmental organizations from providing       foreign assistance to the Taliban. The strategy shall include       efforts to support Afghan women and girls who are suffering       under Taliban edicts, in a way that does not support the       Taliban, and efforts to relocate eligible, fully vetted, at-      risk Afghans and Afghan allies located inside and outside of       Afghanistan to the United States or third countries.

(2) Reports.--

(A) Initial report.--Not later than the date on which the       strategy required by paragraph (1) is completed, the       Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate       congressional committees a report detailing the strategy and       a plan for its implementation.

(B) Subsequent reports.--Not later than 180 days after the       date on which the strategy required by paragraph (1) is       completed, and every 180 days thereafter for 5 years, the       Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate       congressional committees a report on the implementation of       the strategy, including the impact of the strategy in       discouraging foreign countries and nongovernmental       organizations from providing financial or material support to       the Taliban.

(C) Additional report.--

(i) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall       submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report       on the decision to terminate the bounty on Sirajuddin Haqqani       and other key members of the Haqqani Network under the       Rewards for Justice program.

(ii) Matters to be included.--The report required by this       subparagraph shall include the following:

(I) The status of the bounty on Sirajuddin Haqqani, Abdul       Aziz Haqqani, and Yahya Haqqani under the Rewards for Justice       program and the rationale for any changes made since       September 1, 2021.

(II) An identification of members of the Haqqani Network       who are Specially Designated Global Terrorists and the status       of the designation of the Haqqani Network as a foreign       terrorist organization.

(III) A description of any United States Government       engagements with Sirajuddin Haqqani, Abdul Aziz Haqqani,       Yahya       Haqqani, or the Haqqani Network since September 1, 2021.

(IV) Whether new information has emerged relating to the       involvement of the Haqqani Network in terrorist attacks       targeting the United States Military or United States       civilians.

(iii) Form.--The report required by this subparagraph shall       be submitted in unclassified form but may include a       classified annex.       SEC. 3. REPORT ON DIRECT CASH ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS IN                     AFGHANISTAN.

(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall       submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report       on United States Government-funded direct cash assistance       programs in Afghanistan during the period beginning on August       1, 2021, and ending on the date that is 30 days after the       date of enactment of this Act.

(b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by       subsection (a) shall, with respect to such direct cash       assistance programs, include--

(1) a general description of the types of implementing       partners and recipients;

(2) a description of method of payments;

(3) a description of how and where currency exchanges       occur;

(4) a description of how hawalas are used and the oversight       mechanism in place regarding use of hawalas to transfer       funds; and

(5) a description of how oversight is conducted, including       information on how the Department of State prevents the       Taliban from accessing cash assistance under such programs.

(c) Hawala Defined.--In this section, the term ``hawala' ''       means a system of transferring money through a network of       money lending brokers.       SEC. 4. REPORT ON STATUS OF AFGHAN FUND.

(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter for       5 years, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the       Secretary of the Treasury, shall submit to the appropriate       congressional committees a report on the status of the Afghan       Fund.

(b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by       subsection (a) shall, to the extent possible, include--

(1) a list of Taliban members working at Da Afghanistan       Bank or serving on the Bank's board; and

(2) a description of--

(A) the Taliban's influence over Da Afghanistan Bank;

(B) the Afghan Fund's board of trustees, including how the       Fund's trustees were vetted and selected, and what United       States agencies were involved in the vetting and selection       process;

(C) the conditions necessary for funds in the Afghan Fund       to be released to Da Afghanistan Bank;

(D) how the Afghan Fund's board of trustees will decide on       the type and appropriateness of the Fund's activities,       including what kind of information will inform the board's       decisions and how the board will collect and verify this       information; and

(E) a description of what controls have been put into place       to ensure funds are not diverted to or misused by the Taliban       or other actors when the Fund begins making disbursements.       SEC. 5. APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES DEFINED.

In this Act, the term ``appropriate congressional       committees' '' means--

(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on       Appropriations of the House of Representatives; and

(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on       Appropriations of the Senate.

Mr. Speaker, my bill, H.R. 260, focuses on three main issues: one,  keeping financial and material support out of the hands of the Taliban;  two, reporting on cash assistance programs; and three, reporting on the  Afghan Fund and the Afghan central bank.

Since December 2021, the United States has sent over $5 billion in  cash to Kabul. This money has been taxed and stolen by the Taliban, yet  we continue to send it.

Mr. Speaker, that needs to end.

The State Department needs to ensure that any aid does not go to  terrorists in Afghanistan. We need to have a clearer understanding of  the influence the Taliban has on not just international aid but the  Afghan banking system, as well.

When this bill was originally introduced at the end of 2023, it did  not mention nongovernmental organizations in Afghanistan. However, our  understanding of the reality on the ground has changed.

During a hearing last year, former Secretary of State Blinken  admitted that over $10 million had been paid to the Taliban. Contacts  within Taliban resistance forces have provided me with a different  narrative. According to them, nearly all of the cash aid sent to  Afghanistan ends up in the hands of the Taliban.

Mr. Speaker, they will hate us for free. We do not need to give them  hard-earned American tax dollars. It is time we know what is going on  and implement a strategy to make sure this aid goes to those who need  it.

I also thank my colleagues on the other side of the aisle for working  with us closely on this important piece of legislation and coming up  with a bill that works for both parties. My Democratic friends agree  that it is time to stop funding terrorist organizations in Afghanistan  and across the Middle East.

I thank my dear friend Shawn Ryan from middle Tennessee, former Navy  SEAL, who brought this to my attention.

I also thank my good friend ``Legend.'' He goes by that name because  he has a hit out on his life because he has taken a tough stand. He is  an Afghan that fought for America, and he is my friend.

Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the kind words that Representative Jackson  said about me. He is probably one of my closest friends across the  aisle. I don't agree with him on anything, but he is my friend and I  dig that.

Mr. Speaker, we must send a very strong message that the United  States will no longer tolerate sending U.S. tax dollars to terrorist  organizations in Afghanistan and across the Middle East.

I urge my colleagues to support this measure, and I yield back the  balance of my time.