-9999


Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I rise today to urge my colleagues to  reject the Biden administration's unlawful attempt to stifle Alaska's  congressionally mandated oil and gas leasing program in the Coastal  Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, ANWR. I urge my  colleagues to support the Alaska congressional delegation's joint  resolution of disapproval, H.J. Res. 131 and S.J. Res. 91, to reject  unlawful regulatory overreach.

The implementation of the Biden administration's 2024 Coastal Plain  Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision, ROD, locked away nearly  75 percent of the Coastal Plain, also known as the 1002 Area, including  lands that are projected to have substantial resources beneath them,  from responsible oil and gas leasing--completely undermining the  explicit and express will of Congress and ignoring the needs and input  of local residents. Passing this joint resolution will disapprove this  Record of Decision and prevent this circumvention of Federal law from  happening again.

Alaska has a strong record of responsible resource development. The  footprint of drilling pads on the North Slope has declined by 80  percent since the 1970s, while new and safer technology has expanded  the reach of underground drilling by a significant margin. The result  is that less land is being used to develop resources than ever before,  as many modern sites cover just a few acres and are miles apart. These  technological advancements have played a significant role in reducing  impact to surrounding ecosystems. For example, the Central Arctic  Caribou herd, which ranges throughout Prudhoe Bay, has seen its  population grow for sustained periods alongside responsible development  on the North Slope.

The prospect of oil and gas development within ANWR has a long  history that dates back to before Alaska joined the Union as a State in  1959. In 1943, the Federal Government withdrew all the lands on the  North Slope by Public Land Order, PLO 82, to prevent certain types of  development. In 1960, the Department of the Interior, DOI, issued PLO  2214, setting aside 8.9 million acres to establish the Arctic National  Wildlife Range for the purpose of preserving unique wildlife,  wilderness, and recreation values, withdrawing the lands from ``all  forms of appropriation . . . including mining but not the mineral  leasing laws.'' PLO 2214 intentionally left open the possibility of the  development of certain resources, including oil and gas.

Under the landmark 1980 Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation  Act, ANILCA, the Range was expanded to its present size of 19.3 million  acres--an area nearly as large as South Carolina--and renamed the  Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Section 1002 of ANILCA directed the  Department of the Interior to study the oil and gas potential of the  1.57-million-acre Coastal Plain, a designated area of ANWR that held  great promise of oil and gas resources. However, section 1003  prohibited oil and gas production or leasing in ANWR unless authorized  by an Act of Congress.

Over the following years, DOI completed assessments of the area's oil  and gas potential and recommended that Congress lease the Coastal Plain  area. The Coastal Plain showed remarkable prospects for oil  development. The U.S. Geological Survey concluded in 1998 that the  Coastal Plain held at least 4.3 billion barrels of technically  recoverable oil, reporting: ``Technically recoverable oil within the  ANWR 1002 area (excluding State and Native areas) is estimated to be  between 4.3 and 11.8 billion barrels (95- and 5-percent probability  range), with a mean value of 7.7 billion barrels.'' In 2005, the U.S.  Geological Survey estimated that over 3 billion barrels were  technically and economically recoverable in the Coastal Plain. Based on  estimates such as these, DOI projected in 2024 that ANWR drilling would  generate around $29 billion in revenue for the Federal Government  through 2050.

Despite numerous efforts by Congress and the leadership of Alaska's  congressional delegation to realize this potential, it was not until  the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, TCJA, that the  groundwork for authorizing drilling in ANWR was laid. Within this  budget reconciliation bill, Congress directed the creation of the  Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program for the express purpose of  generating revenue and offsetting the tax cuts included in the Act.

That was why, when Congress passed the TCJA, it included very clear  and specific terms to make the lease sales successful and the  exploration and development program economically feasible. Section  20001 of the 2017 Tax Cut and Jobs Act, TCJA, expressly mandates that  the Department of the Interior, DOI, shall issue a competitive oil and  gas program for the leasing, development, production, and  transportation of oil and gas in and from the Coastal Plain. It amended  ANILCA to add this purpose for ANWR, set specific royalty rates for  leases, and directed that 50 percent of receipts for the oil and gas  program and operations on Federal land be deposited in the U.S.  Treasury with the State of Alaska receiving the remainder. The bill  further directed at least two Coastal Plain lease sales within 10 years  of enactment, the first by December 2021 and the second by December  2024, offering the areas with the highest hydrocarbon potential, with  lease offerings of not fewer than 400,000 acres.

Congress left little discretion to DOI. DOI's role was only to  establish and administer a competitive program and incorporate TCJA  requirements to instill success and economic feasibility, including  granting any easements or rights-of-way across the Coastal Plain for  exploration, development, production, and transportation in the Coastal  Plain that were necessary to carry out the terms of section 20001.

To implement Congress' directive, DOI conducted a National  Environmental Policy Act process and issued a Final Coastal Plain Oil  and Gas Leasing Program Environmental Impact Statement, Final EIS, in  September 2019 that closely followed congressional intent. In 2020, the  Bureau of Land Management, BLM, under the first Trump administration,  issued its ``Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of  Decision,'' based on Alternative B from the 2019 Final EIS that made  all of the approximately 1.6 million acres of the program area  available for oil and gas leasing. In January of 2021, a competitive  lease sale was held and multiple bids were received by prospective  developers as intended under the TCJA, raising millions of dollars for  the United States. Congress had set out terms and conditions of the  program, to give it a sound opportunity to succeed, and DOI followed  its statutory directive.

However, following the election of President Biden, DOI reversed  direction in 2021. On June 1, 2021, DOI issued a Secretarial Order  temporarily halting all activities in the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas  Leasing Program. In August 2023, DOI issued a new Draft Supplemental  Environmental Impact Statement for the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas  Leasing Program and selected a much more restrictive plan for  development, Alternative D. The new alternative's restrictive terms  were contrary to the lease sale requirements set out in the TCJA and  Congress' intent that DOI establish a competitive program designed for  success and economic feasibility. In a Secretarial Order issued in  September 2023, DOI imposed a blanket moratorium on development and  canceled the lawfully purchased oil and gas leases in the Coastal  Plain, an action the Alaska District Court subsequently found to be  unlawful.

Then, in November 2024, BLM issued a Final Supplemental Environmental  Impact Statement, Final SEIS, that moved even further away from the  TCJA. DOI selected a new preferred Alternative D2, which was so  draconian that it was effectively a ``No Development'' plan and made  nearly 1.2 million acres unavailable for leasing or exploration. On  December 9, 2024, DOI issued its 2024 ROD selecting Alternative D2's  terms and conditions for the oil and gas program. The December 2024  ROD's terms were so limiting that they would make leasing, exploration,  and development on the Coastal Plain economically infeasible. Much of  the Alternative D2 highest hydrocarbon potential area would essentially  be off limits, as it would be subject to No Surface Occupancy or  Controlled Surface Use stipulations. DOI offered only 995 acres of  Surface Disturbance Area, less than half of the maximum 2,000 Surface  Acres of Federal Land for Production and Support Facilities that the  TCJA allowed. Alternative D2 contained so many limitations, restrictive  stipulations, and Required Operating Procedures that it made leasing  and development economically infeasible. As a result of this blatant  attempt to undermine and disregard Congress' direction for a  competitive oil and gas leasing program within the Coastal Plain, the  DOI received zero bids and never truly held a competitive oil and gas  lease sale. As I said at the time, January 20, 2025, and the  inauguration of President Trump could not come soon enough.

Permit terms can undermine the program's economic feasibility in  indirect ways, such as limiting the location of future drill pads and  other infrastructure. As an example, one stipulation prevented use of  areas near the shore, which would usually be used as a critical staging  area for loading and unloading barges. The stipulation preventing use  of that area requires staging to be pushed further inland, which in  turn requires construction of ice or gravel roads to reach the barges-- a higher economic, logistic, and environmental impact. Other  stipulations are redundant with existing State requirements. These are  just some of the many examples of 2024 ROD terms that make the program  economically infeasible. These terms and conditions in the 2024 ROD are  part of why the Senate should pass this joint resolution to prohibit  similar restrictions in the future.

The clear intent of Congress in the TCJA was that the Coastal Plain  would produce billions of barrels of oil and trillions of cubic feet of  natural gas which Alaska and the Nation need for energy security and  revenue. Not only is it impossible for a competitive oil and gas  leasing program to be administered through piecemeal offerings of land  tracts which exclude areas known to have proven potential for  significant hydrocarbon reserves, but in doing so, the 2024 ROD ignored  explicit instructions put forth by Congress in the TCJA. Congress  clearly stated the Secretary ``shall establish and administer a  competitive oil and gas program for the leasing, development,  production, and transportation of oil and gas in and from the Coastal  Plain,'' that the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Program ``shall'' be  supported by lease offerings of ``not fewer'' than 400,000 acres, and  the 400,000 acres ``shall'' consist of ``those areas that have the  highest potential for the discovery of hydrocarbons.'' The Biden DOI's  sabotage of the program went directly against the policy and purposes  of the TCJA.

When an agency fails to follow mandates from Congress, Congress has  the tool of the Congressional Review Act, CRA, to correct those  actions. DOI must follow the statutory mandates from Congress and allow  meaningful and reasonable economic development of the Coastal Plain. No  other law or detailed terms and conditions imposed by DOI can destroy  the clear statutory direction given by Congress in the 2017 Tax Cut and  Jobs Act. If the Biden administration's onerous terms and conditions  were allowed to stand, there would not be any ``program for the  leasing, development, production, and transportation of oil and gas''  from any of the most prospective leases in the Coastal Plain.

In its selection of Alternative D2, the Biden administration claimed  to be listening to the concerns of indigenous voices when this could  not be further from the truth. In practice, the Biden administration  deliberately ignored the only communities who live near and within the  boundaries of ANWR and was instead beholden to radical environmental  interests which, in contrast to local communities, supported a  moratorium on ANWR development and led to the creation of the 2024 ROD.  Fortunately, elections have consequences, and on January 20, his first  day in office of his second term, President Trump signed Executive  Order 14153, ``Unleashing Alaska's Extraordinary Resource Potential,''  which called for the rescission of Biden's illegal cancellation of the  ANWR leases and the 2024 SEIS, review of the 2024 ROD, and a  reinstatement of the 2020 Final EIS and 2020 ROD issued during the  first Trump administration.

This past summer, Secretary of the Interior and Chairman of the  National Energy Dominance Council Doug Burgum flew to Alaska and held a  townhall on the North Slope with regional leaders and listened to their  concerns, showing respect for the Alaska Native people who live there.  During the townhall, the Secretary heard the testimony of Charles  Lampe, a resident of Kaktovik--the only community located fully within  ANWR--and the President of Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation, KIC. KIC is a  village corporation established by the 1971 Alaska Native Claims  Settlement Act. KIC owns approximately 92,000 acres of surface lands,  but is completely enveloped within ANWR and hampered from developing  these acres to their fullest potential. Mr. Lampe shared the continuous  efforts undertaken by KIC in order to open ANWR to oil and gas  operations. He highlighted the fact that pursuing oil and gas endeavors  in ANWR is essential to realizing self-determination within Kaktovik.  In testimony on Coastal Plain oil and gas development delivered to the  House Committee on Natural Resources in 2023, Mr. Lampe objected to  radical environmental interests that support turning the community and  its surrounding land into a giant national park, claiming such an  action ``literally guarantees us a fate with no economy, no jobs,  reduced subsistence, and no hope for the future of our people.'' In  front of those gathered, Secretary Burgum committed to rectifying this  injustice.

Because of the opportunities provided by oil and gas operations, this  industry has provided thousands of good-paying jobs to Alaskans, become  the primary driver of my State's economy, and transformed many of our  rural communities. Oil and gas revenues fund education, essential  infrastructure, and community services across the State, making  responsible resource development truly a matter of life or death for  Alaskans. In 1954, the Interior Department, with the help of the  University of Pittsburgh, conducted a study of the health of Alaska  Natives. Many of our communities in rural Alaska all had some of the  lowest levels of life expectancy in the entire world. Between 1980 and  2014, the average lifespan increased by 13 years across the region,  largely due to oil and gas revenue providing the opportunity to install  what we consider to be basic and essential community infrastructure. To  say these operations have had a positive impact on the local  communities is a gross understatement, an ideal that is reflected in  the testimony of Mr. Lampe.

This Congress has already taken decisive steps to reassert its  authority over the Coastal Plain. In the ``Working Families Tax Cut  Act,'' P.L. 119-21,  Congress mandated lease sales to be offered under the same terms and  conditions set forth in the August 2020 ROD for the FEIS of the  original Coastal Plain leasing program. In October, Secretary of the  Interior Doug Burgum made good on his commitments to the people of  Kaktovik and issued a new Coastal Plain Leasing Program based on the  2020 ROD. Passage of this joint resolution would durably protect  against another rogue administration promulgating a substantially  similar anti-development leasing program for the Coastal Plain as  contained in the 2024 ROD. It will prevent actions that aim to inhibit  the self-determination of the people of Kaktovik and other North Slope  communities by attempting to turn Alaska into one giant national park  while denying access to the abundance of readily available natural  resources needed to advance energy security, economic opportunity, and  community development.

Congress' direction that DOI establish and administer a competitive  lease program was nondiscretionary and much more limited than the  action DOI took in the 2024 ROD. To the extent DOI, or any other  Agency, imposes permit terms or operational requirements that impede  the economic feasibility of the program, they undermine the primary  purpose of the TCJA: to establish a competitive program that will  actually generate the billion dollars in revenue anticipated. The Act  specifically states that DOI must grant easements or rights-of-way  across the Coastal Plain that are necessary for exploration,  development, production, and transportation in the Coastal Plain to  carry out the terms of section 20001, and DOI's permit operating  procedure terms must be consistent with Congress' intent in the same  way to be consistent with law. Those permit and operational terms can  be identified, revised, and readopted to conform to the TCJA intent.

I urge my colleagues to reject this blatant contravention of  congressional directives and unlawful regulatory overreach, reinforce  American energy dominance, and listen to Alaska Native voices by  supporting the Alaska congressional delegation and voting for this  joint resolution of disapproval and rescinding this Record of Decision.

Res. 131--Joint Resolution Providing for Congressional Disapproval

of the Rule Submitted by the Bureau of Land Management Relating to  ``Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision''--(Rep.                               Begich, R-Ak)

The Administration strongly supports passage of H.J. Res.       131, which would disapprove a Record of Decision issued by       the Bureau of Land Management during the previous       Administration. The 2024 Biden-era Coastal Plain Oil and Gas       Leasing Program Record of Decision imposed burdensome and       unnecessary restrictions on oil and gas leasing in the       Coastal Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, an area       set aside by Congress for potential oil and gas production,       by reducing the acreage available for responsible development       and imposing broad restrictions that undermine the Nation's       energy security and economic interests.

The Record of Decision, against the wishes of those who       actually live on the North Slope, effectively nullified       statutory directives from Congress to establish and       administer a competitive leasing program for the Coastal       Plain by placing more than 1 million acres off limits and       layering on operational constraints that make leasing       commercially impracticable. This disastrous Record of       Decision stifled the energy needs of our nation in       unnecessary red tape, destroyed confidence in Federal leasing       programs, and wreaked investment certainty across the energy       sector.

President Trump is committed to unleashing American energy       dominance and Alaska's extraordinary resource potential.       Unlike the short-sighted and completely failed America-Last       energy policies of the Biden Administration, President Trump       prioritizes energy independence, global energy dominance       against our adversaries, and high-paying job creation that       supports Alaska's communities. The Trump Administration is       committed to driving down energy costs, and putting       hardworking Americans and their paychecks first.

If H.J. Res. 131 were presented to the President in its       current form, his advisors would recommend that he sign it       into law.                                   ____                                     Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation,                                                   December 3, 2025.      Hon. Lisa Murkowski,      U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Dan Sullivan,      U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Nicholas Begich III,      House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Senators Murkowski, Sullivan and Representative       Begich: On behalf of the Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation (KIC)       and our shareholders, I am writing to express our strong       support for S.J. Res. 91, the resolution disapproving the       Bureau of Land Management's (BLM) 2024 Coastal Plain Oil and       Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision under the       Congressional Review Act.

KIC is the village corporation for Kaktovik, established       under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of 1971 (ANCSA)       to manage surface estate, support economic self-      determination, and protect the long-term interests of our       Inupiat shareholders. Kaktovik is the only community located       within the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), and KIC       holds significant ANCSA lands within the Coastal Plain lands       that Congress specifically conveyed to our people so that       local Inupiat, not distant federal agencies, would have a       central voice in decisions about our homeland.

For decades, KIC has participated constructively in every       federal process affecting the 1002 Area. We have consistently       supported responsible, science-based resource development       because we live here, we understand this place better than       anyone, and our community depends both on a healthy       environment and a stable local economy.                  Support for S.J. Res. 91 and H.J. Res. 131

S.J. Res. 91, introduced by Senator Murkowski and co-      sponsored by Senator Sullivan, and its companion measure in       the House, H.J. Res. 131, introduced by Representative       Begich, are identical resolutions providing for congressional       disapproval of BLM's 2024 Coastal Plain ROD (hereinafter       referred to as the 2024 ROD) and subsequent Government       Accountability Office (GAO) conclusion that such record of       decision is a rule.

These resolutions are necessary because the Biden       administration's 2024 ROD undermines responsible resource       development required by law, disregards ANCSA, the Alaska       National Interest Lands Conservation Act of 1980 (ANILCA),       and ignores the voices of the only people who live on the       Coastal Plain.      Background: The History of Federal Direction on the Coastal Plain

The Coastal Plain has long been recognized by Congress as       an area with substantial energy potential and is an area       where development was explicitly authorized for mineral       leasing under P.L. 115-97 (Tax Cuts and Jobs Act).           Why the 2024 ROD is Harmful to Kaktovik and ANCSA Rights

2024 ROD:

Ignores the statutory mandate for area-wide       leasing.

Disregards congressional limits on habitat       closures and surface disturbance.

Undermines ANCSA village lands specifically       conveyed to KIC for local benefit.

Removes opportunities that Congress intended to       support Inrupiat economic self-determination.

Threatens the revenue streams, jobs. and       infrastructure our community relies on.

Discounts Kaktovik's longstanding record of       supporting environmentally responsible development.

Kaktovik--the only community in the entire Refuge--bears       the full weight of the impacts. Yet our voice was minimized       while outside interests were elevated over the rights and       concerns of the people who live here and are the most       impacted by these decisions. The process in the development       of the 2024 ROD, disregarded our local indigenous knowledge,       our rights to consultation and the Secretary for the       Department of the Interior's own orders for meaningful       consultation.

The 2020 Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program (2020       program) included robust protections for wildlife and       sensitive habitats and was supported by the elected       leadership from the North Slope and Kaktovik. The development       of the 2020 program followed a transparent process that       incorporated meaningful consultation with our community,       recognizing the connection between economic self-      determination, our community and our culture.

Restoring the 2020 program ROD and overturning the 2024 ROD       as a rule is consistent with the FY 2025 reconciliation bill,       which requires four lease sales over the next decade.       Secretary Burgum has already reinstated the 2020 program ROD,       and both the Senate and House measures ensure future       administrations cannot disregard federal law or sideline our       people and communities.                      Bottom Line: The 2024 ROD Must Be Nullified

The 2024 ROD's restrictive approach is unlawful,       unworkable, and deeply harmful to our people whose lands and       livelihoods are directly affected.

S.J. Res. 91 and H.J. Res 131:

Upholds federal law

Defends Congress's authority

Restores the 2020 program

Strengthens U.S. energy security

Respects Inupiat voices, including Kaktovik

Protects ANCSA rights and village corporation       lands

Ensures a fair and functional leasing program       going forward

KIC appreciates your leadership in standing with our       community and ensuring that the laws governing our homeland       are followed. We urge swift passage of S.J. Res. 91 and H.J.       Res 131.

Thank you for your continued support of Kaktovik and the       Inupiat people of the North Slope.            Sincerely,                                                     Charles Lampe,      President, Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation.                                   ____

Congressional Review Act: Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program

The 1,563,500-million-acre Coastal Plain of the Arctic       National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) is a frontier basin that       holds strong potential for oil and gas development. The U.S.       Geological Survey estimates it may contain between 4.25 and       11.8 billion barrels of technically recoverable oil.

The hallmark legislation from President Trump's first term,       the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, directed the Secretary of the       Interior, through the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), to       establish and administer a competitive oil and gas program       for the Coastal Plain. On Jan. 6, 2021, the BLM conducted its       fIrst lease sale in the Coastal Plain of ANWR, pursuant to       the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program August 2020       Record of Decision (ROD). Then, in 2021, Biden's Department       of the Interior ignored congressional intent and suspended       all activities related to implementing the Coastal Plain Oil       and Gas Leasing Program pending completion of a comprehensive       analysis under the National Environmental Policy Act.

Then, on December 8, 2024, on Biden's way out of office       after losing the election, his administration issued a new       Record of Decision that made only 400,000 acres available for       a second lease sale, effectively closing off 74.4 percent of       the Coastal Plain to oil and gas development.

The BLM is currently implementing Executive Order 14153 and       Secretary's Order 3422 to unleash the resource potential of       the Coastal Plain by reinstating the 2020 ROD and resuming       and expanding leasing on the Coastal Plain, in accordance       with the law. The BLM is also implementing the One Big       Beautiful Bill Act which requires four lease sales in the       Coastal Plain over the next seven years.

The table below summarizes and compares key aspects of the       Biden 2024 ROD and the 2020 ROD for the Coastal Plain Oil and       Gas Leasing Program. The 2020 ROD would govern the program if       the Biden 2024 ROD is disapproved.  ------------------------------------------------------------------------          2024 Biden ROD:               2020 ROD:       CRA Implications: ------------------------------------------------------------------------ 400,000 acres open for oil and    1,563,500 acres     Open 1,163,500  gas leasing.                      open for oil and    additional acres                                    gas leasing.        for oil and gas                                                        leasing 231,700 acre as access to         358,100 acre as     Open 126,400  directional drilling to access    access to           additional acres  oil and gas resources.            directional         to directional                                    drilling to         drilling                                    access oil and                                    gas resources. 84,300 acres requiring            No acres requiring  Revert 84,300  controlled surface use.           controlled          acres to leasing                                    surface use.        without                                                        controlled                                                        surface use                                                        restrictions 1,532,400 riparian or wetland     1,508,800 riparian  Reduce 23,600  acres.                            or wetland acres.   acres identified                                                        as riparian areas                                                        and wetlands ------------------------------------------------------------------------