Alaska's Right to Ivory Sales and Tradition Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696086/alaskas-right-to-ivory-sales-and-tradition-act


Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I am down on the Senate floor here to  try to pass two really important pieces of legislation for a great part  of Alaska, and this is the Alaska Native community in my State. These  are incredible, patriotic Americans. By the way, Alaska Natives serve  at higher rates in the military than any other ethnic group in the  country. They are great Americans. They add so much to our State. They  are the first peoples of Alaska, and so in my State, it is almost about  20 percent of the population. So it is a population I care deeply  about.

We work closely with them on so many different issues across so many  different areas, and so I like to legislate in the areas that matter to  them. And we are going to do that. You know, lately--and I am going to  try to stay positive here; I have given speeches on the Senate floor  about this before--some of my Democratic colleagues on the other side  of the aisle have taken it out on the Alaska Native people in  legislation, really kind of bad stuff. I am not going to be negative,  but there has been this trend of anti-Alaska Native bias on the other  side of the aisle. It has been very disappointing. To be honest, it has  been puzzling.

But I am hoping today, these two bills that we are going to move  forward that go to the heart of Alaska Native culture in one and Alaska  Native patriotism in the other are going to be UC'd. I know my  Republican colleagues have already passed on these.

So the first piece of legislation I want to bring up is what we call  the Alaska's Right To Ivory Sales and Tradition. The acronym on that is  the ARTIST Act.

Now, let me give you a little bit of background on this. For  thousands of years Alaska Natives have responsibly harvested whales,  walrus, other marine animals from our northern seas. These animals are  eaten, shared, honored, and no part of the animal goes to waste.

They still do this tradition in my State. They have the right to do  it under law. The bones, the ivory, the baleen, even all of those  pieces are used for beautiful art. If you have had a chance to visit my  office, you have seen the beautiful art that adorns the walls of my  Senate office. Carvings made from whale baleen, walrus tusks, crafted  by Alaska Native artists.

This is some of the most beautiful art in America. It is deeply  ingrained in Alaska's culture, the ability to make this art. It also  provides important economic opportunity for our artists in many of  these remote villages, artists who rely on the ability to sell these  works to Alaskans and the hundreds of thousands of people who come to  my great State to visit who want to take home a piece of Alaska Native  heritage. So it is a win-win-win for everybody, but it is an economic  driver of a lot of small villages in my State.

And by the way, carving, harvesting walrus ivory is completely legal  under Federal law, Federal regulations, Federal law. There is no  question about that. However, there has been some, I guess, well- intentioned laws from some States that in an attempt to ban African  elephant ivory, which we all want to do that--that is not allowed in  America, by the way--States have gone too far and cast this huge net  and said you can't buy any ivory products anywhere, including Alaska  Native products from Alaska walrus harvesting.

This really has hurt my State. People coming up from States that have  banned all ivory say: I can't take that home. I can't buy it. Sorry.

So this is a simple, simple bill. You know, if a visitor wants to  come buy some ivory earrings in Alaska by one of our great Alaska  Native artists and then bring them home to a State that has a ban on  ivory, which is not sensible--again, walrus ivory, not African elephant  ivory--we want to be able to say at the Federal level that we should be  able to do this.

So that is what my ARTIST Act does. It prohibits States from banning  the importation, sale, or possession of Alaskan Native handicrafts made  with walrus ivory. Environmental groups support it. By the way, the  Biden administration supported this. It is straightforward bipartisan  legislation that recently was passed unanimously by the Commerce  Committee.

So this is about as bipartisan as it gets. And what I want to do is  to cut through the confusion that there now exists with certain States  and a lot of tourists in my great State, to affirm the right of the  Alaska Native people to continue these centuries-old practices of  sustainable, respectful ivory carving, entirely within Federal law, and  to be able to make sure that is clarified across the country.

178, that is S. 254; further, that the  committee-reported substitute amendment be considered and agreed to,  the bill, as amended, be considered read a third time and passed, and  that the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the  table.

Mr. SULLIVAN. Yes, I agree to the modification.

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I want to let people know back home that  means that that bill, the ARTIST bill that we have been trying to get  moved for a long time, just passed the U.S. Senate. So I want to thank  my colleague from California, my friend from California who has worked  with me, by the way, on one of the other bills that just passed. I was  a cosponsor with Senator Padilla on that, so this is good Senate  cooperation on these issues.

So that is an important issue for Alaskan Native heritage, culture,  artists, and now it has passed the Senate. So, again, I want to thank  Senator Padilla.