Authorizing Representation By the Senate Legal Counsel in the Case of Desmond Bellard V. Ronald Wyden, U.S. Senator


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690106/authorizing-representation-by-the-senate-legal-counsel-in-the-case-of-desmond-bellard-v-ronald-wyden-us-senator


Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I certainly hope my Democratic  colleagues can let us move forward on this, or we are going to stay all  night until we get the President's Chairman of the Joint Chiefs  confirmed.

Now, look, I know there was some concern about removing General  Brown, CQ Brown. I actually really like General CQ Brown. I thought he  did a good job. I publicly stated a number of times that he served his  country very well.

But here is the deal: The President of the United States is entitled  to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs that he wants. You look at history,  senior military commanders on the Democrat's side, on the Republican's  side--if the President doesn't feel comfortable with them, he has the  right to remove them and move on. That is just our history. That has  happened with Democrats.

George W. Bush wasn't comfortable with Gen. Peter Pace. He is a  marine.  I happen to respect him a lot. He said: Hey, I am not comfortable. I am  moving to another Chairman.

President Obama fired two very senior, four-star generals inside of 2  years. One was General McChrystal, one of the most seasoned warriors,  you know, in a generation of warfighters, and he removed him.

So President Trump clearly had the authority to remove General Brown.  He has now put forward General Caine, who, by the way--everybody on the  Armed Services Committee thought he did a great job. He is going to get  a really big vote here. So why are we delaying it? I don't know. It  doesn't make any sense to me.

The President deserves his senior military adviser. That is what the  Chairman of the Joint Chiefs is--his senior military adviser. The  President needs to feel comfortable with that person. That person is  actually out of the chain of command. We have seen throughout history  that when the President doesn't feel comfortable, he can remove one  general and bring in another one. That is what has happened here.

We should confirm General Caine immediately. I think he is going to  do a really, really good job. As a matter of fact, I have interviewed,  sat down with, served under hundreds of flag officers. General Caine is  one of the most impressive I have ever met. So we need to get on with  it.

You know, there are these press stories about why President Trump  removed General Brown. I think it is just because he wanted to have a  general whom he trusts and feels comfortable with, and that is exactly  his right as the Commander in Chief.

So we should move on. General Caine is going to get a very, I think,  significant bipartisan vote. He should. And if the minority leader  wants to object, we will just grind it out all night and get it done.

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I yield to my good friend from  Mississippi.

Mr. SULLIVAN. My good friend from Mississippi, the chairman of the  Armed Services Committee, by the way--a Senator who knows probably more  about the military than anyone else here--has it exactly right.

General Caine has this breadth of experience, not just as a fighter  pilot with thousands of hours, combat hours, in flight but has worked  very closely with our intel services and has very significant combat  experience in Iraq and Syria.

Very interestingly--and the chairman of the Armed Services Committee  knows this--he has private sector experience. You would say: Why does  that matter? It actually matters a lot because of our military and the  need to integrate our very powerful private sector.

So he brings a wealth of experience that, to be honest--in my 10  years in this position as a U.S. Senator on the Armed Services  Committee and my 30 years in the Marine Corps, I have never seen a  general that brings it all together. So I think he is going to be  outstanding and exceptional.

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I would yield to the distinguished  minority leader. Maybe having him watch this distinguished debate  between me and the chairman of the Armed Services Committee has  convinced him to bow to the inevitable, and that is the confirmation of  the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs.

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, maybe the minority leader will explain  why he is objecting given that we just laid out very cogent, strong  reasons that we need to move forward on confirming the Chairman of the  Joint Chiefs of Staff right now. It is a very dangerous world. Why  would we wait? I am curious on what the minority leader says.

Mr. SULLIVAN. This Senator yields the floor to answer that inquiry  that I asked about.

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I just want the American people who are  watching this that care about our national security--the chairman of  the Armed Services Committee just had a colloquy here on the floor  talking about why we needed to move the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of  Staff to get confirmed in the Senate here. And I and the chairman of  the Armed Services Committee, respectfully, asked the question of the  minority leader, Democratic minority leader, why are you blocking this?  And you may have seen he just walked off the floor.

He didn't answer. I don't know if he has an answer. If he has an  answer, it sure would be good to hear what the answer is because we  need President Trump's Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff confirmed.  And I bet he gets strong bipartisan support, in terms of his  confirmation, because he is very qualified. And yet, without any  explanation, the minority leader of the U.S. Senate just said, ``I  object,'' and he walked off the floor.

I hope the press reports on that. Holy cow. That is kind of big news.  And if we have to be here all night, jamming down on them to get the  Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff confirmed because our country  needs it during a very dangerous time, a general who is immensely  qualified, then that is what we are going to do.

But it sure would be easier to just agree with us, start moving on  the vote, and get this highly qualified general confirmed as President  Trump's Chairman of the Joint Chiefs.

But what you just witnessed, for anyone watching, the American people  watching, was a nondebate. My good friend from Mississippi and I were  describing why we need to move this forward. The minority leader of the  U.S.   But he didn't want to do it. He just walked off the floor. So that is  what we just witnessed. It is a little bit unusual, particularly when  it comes to a confirmation that is so important. There are very few  confirmations that the U.S. Senate does that are more important than  confirming the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. And I guess the  Democrats are going to block it for now, and we will go all night to  make sure President Trump has his principal senior military adviser,  which he needs during these dangerous times.

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, it is Thursday here in the U.S. Senate,  and it is time for a great tradition--I think one of the greatest  traditions in the history of the U.S. Senate. It is called ``The  Alaskan of the Week'' speech, which I try to give most Thursdays. It  has been a while. For the pages, this is the highlight of the week.  Even our friends in the media like this speech because it usually  signals the end of the work week, but not right now. You saw the  minority leader's objection without any explanation on why on  confirming the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, so we might be here for a  lot longer.

So I wanted to highlight what is going on in Alaska, as I usually do  during my ``Alaskan of the Week'' speech and just give a snapshot of  what is happening back home.

It is still pretty cold, still have a fair amount of snow. Anchorage  just got a bunch of snow that lasted a couple of days. The 53rd  Iditarod just concluded in Nome with a stunning first-time win by  Alaskan Jessie Holmes and his 10-dog sled team.

The Iron Dog Race, that is a snow machine race, longest, toughest  snow machine race in the world, was won by--that is done in kind of  tandem--Robby Schachle and Bradley George, their second victory of the  Iron Dog snow machine race.

Things are starting to thaw, as I mentioned. It is beginning of the  summer tourism season, right around the corner. The first cruise ship  will dock in Southeast Alaska in less than 2 weeks, and thousands of  tourists from all over the world will come to our great State.

Anyone watching in the Gallery, we would love to have you. Come to  Alaska.

For many of these tourists, this is going to be the trip of a  lifetime. For Alaskans, this is where we live every day. And our  Alaskan of the Week does something that is very unusual: He is beloved  by Alaskans and tourists--not an easy task--and this person is my  friend Jay Ramras.

Like many Alaskans, Jay is a jack-of-all-trades. He owns restaurants  and beautiful hotels. He has had a successful political career. He is a  prolific philanthropist. He loves history. And more importantly, he  loves Alaska and especially his great hometown of Fairbanks--by the  way, my wife's hometown.

Now, I love to talk about our Alaskan of the Week. There are so many.  We have talked about hundreds over the course of many years here on the  Senate floor.

Jay was born in Fairbanks in 1964. His father Dan moved to Fairbanks  from Brooklyn, NY, in 1948. And as Jay says: There has been a Ramras in  Interior Alaska going on 80 years.

And Jay's entrepreneurial resume, which is legendary in Alaska, began  in 1986 at the tender age of 22 years old when he started a chicken  wing restaurant, expanding his business footprint to other eateries  across Fairbanks and, eventually, purchasing the iconic Fairbanks  landmark called Pike's Landing.

For anyone going to Fairbanks, you have got to stay at Pike's  Landing.

It was this purchase that led Jay to uncovering some really  incredible chapters of Alaskan history--as I said, Jay is a real  history buff--and he credits this to his bachelor of arts degree in  American history, but it all started with Pike's.

So let's talk about Pike's. Pike's Landing was established after  World War II when Lloyd Pike claimed land along the Chena River--the  Chena River runs right through Fairbanks--under the Homestead Act.

In 1959--by the way, the same year Alaska became the 49th State--Pike  opened the original Pike's Landing. Throughout the years, Pike's  Landing cemented itself as a landmark in the Fairbanks community.

When Jay purchased Pike's Landing in 2000, he found himself wondering  about the history of the property and the man who established the  landmark location of Pike's. The original owner had sort of disappeared  from history. So Jay asked around, collecting oral histories from  Fairbanks old-timers who had seen the growth of Pike's Landing over the  decades.

Jay found that Pike's Landing had long faced congestion at the boat  launch due to its prime location right there, as I said, on the Chena  River. That was a problem Lloyd Pike solved by building a public launch  to clear up some of the demand in terms of getting boats on the river.

The original boat launch was washed away when the Chena River  flooded--huge flood by the way--in 1968. But decades later, Jay found  himself building another boat launch, unknowingly, right at the same  spot. As he said: If I hadn't already been born, I would have believed  in reincarnation. I would have thought I had been reincarnated as Lloyd  Pike because he put his boat launch right where Lloyd Pike lived. Since  then, Jay has been working with Fairbanks North Star Borough Historic  Preservation Commission to put Pike's Landing on the National Register  of Historic Places. I have no doubt that is going to happen. ``It was  so important to me that we rescue Lloyd Pike from obscurity,'' Jay  said.

But this wasn't the only historical figure that Jay has connected  himself  and the community of Fairbanks to. As Jay was in the process of  building an aviation-themed extension of his hotel, he felt it needed a  real airplane mounted in front to honor the lodge's proximity to the  Fairbanks International Airport. While searching, he stumbled on a  refurbished Cessna 140 on Craigslist. After purchasing this plane, Jay  discovered it had been owned by none other than Noel Wien.

The Presiding Officer is a pilot. Maybe he knows who Noel Wien is.  For those who don't, Noel Wien is considered the father of Alaska  aviation--the first pilot to successfully fly from Anchorage to  Fairbanks in 1924. Wien went on to found Wien Airlines, a commercial  airline that operated in Alaska for nearly 60 years.

As the Presiding Officer knows, these were some intrepid pilots. That  was 100 years ago he did that first flight--open-air cockpit, really  cold.

Jay's interest in history, once again, piqued, and he dug into that  period and discovered some great photographs of Noel Wien, Wien  Airlines, and had a great celebration last year in July of 2024,  celebrating the 100th anniversary of that historic flight in Alaska.  Really, that was a historic flight for America. My wife Julie and I  were there. Senator Murkowski was there. Our Governor was there. By the  way, the Wien family was there, including Leslie Wien Hajdukovich, my  former regional director. It was a great classic Jay Ramras event.  Hundreds of people came out to celebrate a huge moment in Alaska  history, Alaska aviation history--I would say, American aviation  history.

In addition to preserving this incredible chapter in Fairbanks'  history, Jay has invested in Fairbanks' future. Let me tell you about a  few of his other endeavors. Each summer, Jay hosts the Yukon 800 boat  race, the longest, toughest, roughest speedboat race in the world. It  starts at Pike's, up to the Chena, gets out on the mighty Yukon--huge  race.

Just as I mentioned, he just recently hosted the fourth Iditarod  start at Pike's. Normally, the Iditarod starts down in Anchorage. That  is the toughest, longest, greatest race in the world, the Iditarod. It  occasionally starts in Fairbanks, but it did this year at Pike's. And  as I mentioned, he regularly sponsors the Iron Dog snow machine race  that, yes, is the toughest, longest, roughest snow machine race in the  world.

Jay also had a successful political career, serving three terms in  the Alaska House of Representatives. And he is a great philanthropist  in Fairbanks--a key player in Fairbanks Food Bank and doing so many  other things in terms of philanthropy.

On top of all this, Jay says his greatest legacy, he believes, will  be something he recently did--which I think is just fantastic--the  creation of a new synagogue in Fairbanks, the northernmost Chabad in  the United States.

It began with a call from Rabbi Greenberg in Anchorage. He is a great  friend of mine, one of the leaders of our Jewish community throughout  the State. He asked Jay if he could host a young orthodox rabbi and his  wife for a short visit. Of course, Jay, a very generous man, agreed.  ``I think it would be around a two-week summer stay.'' Then they came  again for a second visit, this time in January when it is 45 below zero  in Fairbanks. It gets really cold in Fairbanks. And they still  returned.

The young couple, Rabbi Heshy Wolf and his wife Chani have now chosen  to make Fairbanks their permanent home.

Jay, generous as ever, purchased a small church with his own money.  The previous congregation at the church had outgrown the place. They  refurbished it, transforming it into the Fairbanks Jewish Center. The  original congregation stayed on rent-free until they found a new home,  a new church. Just a few weeks ago, five rabbis gathered in Fairbanks  for the first time in over 120 years and hosted this new synagogue, the  northernmost synagogue, I believe, in America, in Fairbanks.

Jay, thank you. What a life of accomplishment. What a legacy, not  just for Fairbanks, but for all of Alaska. For every different  community--sports community, Jewish community, historical community-- you have done it all. And now, Jay, you have been awarded one of the  most prestigious awards anyone can achieve in their life, Alaskan of  the Week.                                    China

Mr. President, I wanted to come to the floor to discuss a recent op- ed in the New York Times just a few days ago. It kind of made a stir. A  lot of people thought it was a really good op-ed. I didn't.

I wanted to come to the floor and talk about this op-ed because it is  making the rounds. It is by the columnist Thomas Freidman, and it is on  national security, economic security, and trade issues relating to  China.

Now, I normally enjoy, respect--don't always agree with--the  seriousness of Mr. Freidman's writings. He has written a lot of books,  a lot of columns, especially on the Middle East, where he has a lot of  insights, no doubt about it.

But when I read this latest column called ``I Just Saw the Future. It  Was Not in America,'' I couldn't believe how shockingly naive Mr.  Freidman was in writing this. So I just wrote a response. I just  started writing after reading this thing. My goodness, this is very  naive. Then I submitted that to the New York Times. They said: Hey,  sorry, it is too long.

Maybe they didn't like it. Maybe they didn't think it was that good.  I said: I can just read it on the Senate floor because I think this is  a big debate, our relationship with China, how we view it, how he views  it, how others view it, how President Trump views it, and it needs to  be debated.

That is what I want to do the next couple of minutes, talk about the  Freidman piece and, in my view, why it is so naive and misses so many  things and, particularly, gives Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist  Party a giant pass in terms of their history and what they have done to  the international trading system.

First, the Freidman article kind of condescendingly mocks, to be  honest, a lot of us. He quotes some Senators, U.S. Senators, and says,  you know, these Senators ``need to get out more'' when it comes to  China. That is a quote in the article.

Well, in my career, I have actually gotten out to China a lot, I mean  in terms of working on the Chinese issues. I served on the National  Supreme Court Council Staff under Condoleezza Rice and served as her  Assistant Secretary of State in charge of economics, trade, energy, and  finance. Again, under Secretary Rice, I was the Commissioner in charge  of natural resources and energy in Alaska. I went to China then.

In all these positions, I met with Chinese leaders, traveled to China  a fair amount. And, of course, China national security issues really  bookended my entire 30-year Marine Corps career. My first deployment in  the Marines was to the Taiwan Strait during what is now referred to as  the ``Third Taiwan Strait Crisis,'' in 1995 and 1996. My last billet in  the Marine Corps was chief of staff to the Marine Forces Pacific  Commander at Indo-Pacific PACOM. It was all about China and Taiwan. As  a Senator, I continued to focus on these issues, traveling to Asia  frequently.

The lessons I learned when it comes to China are very different from  those in the Thomas Freidman piece. As someone who has actually gotten  out a fair amount to China, as Mr. Friedman tells us Senators we need  to do, let's go into some of these lessons. For a smart guy, they sure  were kind of naive to me.

First, Thomas Freidman talks about the need for an agreement between  the United States and China. But the big worry is that President Trump  would not ``stick by'' any agreement with China. That is what he says.

Now, he says this without even hinting at one of the Chinese  Communist leadership's most consistent, salient, and frustrating  traits, and this is it. They, the Chinese Communist leadership, almost  never abides by their agreements with the United States--and I mean  never. Big agreements, small agreements, it doesn't matter. They never  abide by their agreements. I have seen this throughout my career.

In 2003, I was actually in this meeting right there. That is  President George W. Bush and the Vice Premier of China, Madame Wu Yi in  the Oval Office. I was a young staffer right there next to the  President. And President Bush pressed her, Madame Wu Yi, on this theft  of intellectual property that China does. He pressed her hard.  ``Madam Wu Yi, you have to stop stealing our IPR.'' That senior Chinese  official, 2003, looked at the President of the United States and  solemnly and sincerely said: Mr. President, we will stop this. You have  my word.

Well, we all know what happened. For decades, they lied about that.  The last report USTR did on China's theft of intellectual property  rights from the United States was $600 billion a year. Madam Wu Yi lied  to President Bush in the Oval Office, no doubt about that.

I was also part of Secretary Rice's senior leadership at the State  Department, taking part in the twice-yearly Cabinet-level meetings  launched by President Bush and China's President Hu Jintao, called the  Strategic Economic Dialogue. SED, it was called. That is more Bush- China. They never kept any of their SED commitments ever. I saw this.

This is what I refer to as ``promise fatigue''--promise fatigue. The  United States makes an agreement with China, and they never keep it-- never keep it. You know who has made an art form out of promise fatigue  and not keeping their promise? This guy, Xi Jinping. You remember this  in the Rose Garden with President Obama--in the Rose Garden 2015.  President Xi Jinping looked at Barack Obama, looked at the American  people and said: We are not going to do any more cyber theft, and we  are not going to militarize the islands of the South China Sea. That is  what Xi Jinping told President Obama.

Guess what. That was a huge lie. They were already doing it.

Remember these? President Trump and then President Biden--Xi Jinping  made commitments to both President Trump and President Biden: We are  going to stop the importation of fentanyl into Mexico and the United  States. Xi Jinping said that to President Trump and to President Biden.  Guess what. He never kept that agreement--ever.

Of course, during the Trump administration--in the first term--the  phase one China deal was signed with all this fanfare in the East Room  of the White House--I was actually there when that happened--and they  never kept any of those commitments.

So no matter what, when it comes to China, they just don't keep their  word. They don't keep their word. And yet Tom Friedman's article  focuses on President Trump's reliability?

As Joe Biden would say, ``Come on, man.''

These are the guys who cheat and aren't reliable at all, and we all  know it.

Second, Friedman highlights what he sees as a great opportunity with  China as it relates to our economic relations. Yet he never mentions  the overriding goal of this guy, Xi Jinping. What is that overriding  goal? He never mentions it once. That is to make sure the Chinese  Communist Party stays in power and expands its power base at home and  abroad through any means necessary, including coercion and violence.  This is the goal that we all know drives his decision making.

Like many in the Senate, I frequently attend classified briefings on  China. We just had the INDOPACOM Commander testify today, Admiral  Paparo, who, by the way, is doing a great job. Make no mistake--it is  in all the Intel briefings--this guy, Xi Jinping, is preparing for war  in the Taiwan Strait. Look at him there; he is in his fatigues. His  aggressive efforts might extend beyond that.

What am I talking about?

The Chinese military just completed another massive military exercise  to not only blockade Taiwan but to stop any reinforcements from coming  into Taiwan. Then they conducted offensive military exercises off the  shores of our allies the Philippines and Australia. Their navy went all  the way around Australia just a couple of weeks ago.

Friedman naively references Chinese Communist Party talking points:  ``healthy interdependencies'' and ``win-win.'' These guys always use  that ``win-win'' and ``We will rise together.'' Yet he ignores the  military menace of the CCP abroad and its genocidal tendencies at home.

But, hey, that is OK.

Mr. Friedman says: Hey, there are a lot of smart people in China who  can help us with AI.

Sorry. I am a little more worried about that.

Then he notes:

[Beijing] does not want a trade war.

No, in fact, they are actually preparing for a real war, and that is  a fact for anyone who knows about China.

Finally, the entire thrust of Friedman's piece builds on and  reinforces one of the biggest strategic blunders that the United States  has made with regard to China and our China strategy, over the past  four decades, and that is outsourcing much of our national security to  corporate America.

Friedman argues that we should concentrate on letting both of our  private sectors, in China and the United States, work together, and if  we do that, ``Americans, working in partnership with benevolent Chinese  capital and technology, will prosper just like the Chinese benefited  from American capital and technology in the last four decades.''

And Tom Friedman has the nerve to call President Trump's thinking  ``magical.''

Well, this is really magical from Tom Friedman. First off, the  Chinese communist system doesn't really have a private sector. Again,  anyone who gets out to China knows this. Everybody in China,  ultimately, works for the CCP, for Xi Jinping, for the Chinese  Communist Party.

Just as importantly, as we have so painfully learned over the past  four decades, the U.S. private sector, especially Wall Street and some  of the big corporate CEOs, are very poor guardians of America's  national security and economic interests when it comes to China. The  U.S. Government finally, during President Trump's first term, started  to say: Whoa. Wait. Stop. We can't outsource our national security to  corporate America. We, the U.S. Government, need to safeguard our own  interests, and that is what we are trying to do.

I will say--and we just saw it a couple of years ago--the annual  American CEO confab in Beijing with Xi Jinping, in the People's Hall,  which, in my view, has become a national embarrassment, with Xi  triumphantly leading the sycophantic-looking American CEOs behind him,  does nothing to dispel the concern that this remains a strategic  weakness in our national security relative to China.

As we speak, CCP--the Chinese Communist Party--propaganda is flooding  the world to fan the flames of a narrative that Friedman seems to  embrace, and it is this: Their narrative is that President Trump has  broken the World War II liberal international trading system.

This charge is ridiculous, and it gives a pass to the real culprit.  The Chinese Communist Party broke the system a long time ago, and that  has been their intention all along.

In 2005, then-Deputy Secretary of State and future World Bank  president Bob Zoellick delivered his well-received speech, called the  ``Responsible Stakeholder'' speech. It noted that, more than any other  country, China has benefited from the international economic order set  up by the United States after World War II, and it was now time for  China to safeguard and embrace and become a responsible stakeholder in  this system to help it endure.

I was in meetings with senior Chinese officials, not long after this  speech, and they deceivingly used the term ``responsible stakeholder''  much to the American policymakers' delight. But the CCP leaders clearly  had other plans: to unleash policies that continued their rampant  intellectual property theft of American businesses; to never keep their  promises and commitments that they make to Americans; forcing U.S.  companies to hand over proprietary technology in order to gain access  to China's market; aggressively subsidizing important industries, like  steel, where they flooded global markets and destroyed the American  heartland; blocking U.S. exports from having fair and reciprocal access  to China's market; and unleashing economic coercion on our allies, like  Australia, Korea, and Japan, when they dared to question CCP orthodoxy.

The Trump administration's policies are a course correction to all of  this. But make no mistake, it was the Chinese Communist Party and its  policies that took a wrecking ball to the international trading system.  Yet, like so many other aspects of Friedman's piece, he gives the CCP  and Xi a pass on this most consequential point.

U.S. Senators on both sides of the aisle, including those who don't  even get out much, according to Mr. Friedman, have recognized this  truth. It would be good progress if an insightful observer of the  international system, like Thomas Friedman is, would do so as well.