Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, we just finished here, on the Senate  floor, some very, very important work for the people we represent and  have the privilege to serve. It is what we are calling phase 3 of our  very important response to this unprecedented pandemic that is hitting  our country, the health of our country, and the economic health of our  Nation. 

  So we acted. A number of us worked, over the past week, around the  clock to put this legislation together, and I think it was a strong  showing of bipartisan support. 

  I was on the floor a couple of days ago saying that what we needed to  do were four key things: Put cash directly in the hands of hurting  families in Alaska and throughout the country; deliver rapid relief to  small businesses that are being crushed by this pandemic and having to  lay off workers; stabilize key sectors of the economy to avoid more  layoffs that are now quickly coming over the horizon and have started  happening; and send a surge of new resources to medical professionals  who are on the frontlines. We did that. We did that relatively quickly.  It could have been faster, but those were our goals, and that is what  we achieved here. 

  But here is a fact. This was legislation that was very important. It  wasn't perfect, and there is probably a lot of mistakes here. We are  going to need to correct them quickly. There are probably Americans who  weren't covered in some way, shape, or form by this legislation, who  need help, and we are going to need to cover them quickly. There are  likely new challenges in this pandemic that seems to be changing every  day--new challenges with regard to this crisis that we are going to  need to address. 

  The final thing is, when we look at what we just did here, this was  focused  on the immediate crisis--business interruptions and the health crisis,  but what we need to be looking at is when we get through this crisis-- and we will, more resilient and stronger than ever. 

  As I mentioned in my remarks the other day, some Washington Post  reporters a couple of days ago questioned the mettle and resiliency of  Americans. Maybe we are not as tough and strong as we used to be to get  through these crises. They just need to go to Alaska and recognize how  wrong they are in that or see some of the marines that I had the  privilege of serving with for the last 26 years. They would recognize  quickly that they are wrong. Of course, we have the mettle and tenacity  to do this. 

  We need to be working on phase 4. Phase 4 is going to be the policies  that we implement here in the Congress to turbocharge this economy, so  when we are out of this crisis, we can come back fully, more strongly  in a way that our economy was just 2 months ago. 

  There is a lot of work that I think we could be doing, and that we  are likely going to have to be doing. A number of us are going to begin  working on that phase 4 approach to this pandemic to turbocharge this  economy once we get out of it. I am glad to start working on that with  my colleagues here in the Senate. 

  So, as I said, there is a lot of work to do, but the Senate is  getting ready for a recess for almost a month. That is what we are  getting ready to do. The country is facing one of the biggest crises in  our history, and the Senate is leaving town for a month. I happen to  think this is a mistake. I think it sends the wrong signal to the  people we serve. I think our duty station should be here, to be ready  on a moment's notice to help the citizens that we have the privilege of  serving, because if there is one thing about this crisis that we have  already seen is that new challenges pop up every day, every minute,  every hour, and, yet, we are going to go on recess for almost a month. 

  I don't understand this. I don't agree with it, and I certainly hope  if and when our country needs us, if we see some big mistakes in this  legislation, if we recognize whole groups of Americans don't get the  relief they need and the Congress needs to act, that we are not going  to just say: Well, we are on recess for 30 days. Sorry. We will get to  you when we come back at the end of April. 

  I think that would be a real mistake because, as we are seeing in  this crisis, there are a lot of answers that just can't wait until the  end of April. There are a lot of challenges that we need to be  addressing daily, and there are going to be more, and, yet, we will not  be here to address them. 

  So, at a minimum, I hope that when our country needs us in the next  month--and it is likely going to need us--that my colleagues will be  ready, on a moment's notice, wherever they are, to come back to this  body and get to work to help the people we serve. I think it is very  likely that that is going to happen in the next week or two or three,  and I hope my colleagues stand ready to do that and not use the excuse  that we will see at the end of April to address your problems, America.  That is not what we need to be doing in the midst of this very, very  serious unprecedented crisis where our citizens need our help. 

  We had a good start tonight--a very good start--but there is going to  be a lot more, and I hope this body is ready to act quickly. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT