Due Process Protections Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I will speak now about the Due Process  Protections Act, which was sponsored by myself and Senator Durbin from  Illinois and which passed the U.S. Senate last night unanimously. I  thank my colleagues for their support for this simple but important  bill. 

  In fact, the Due Process Protections Act is so simple that it really  probably shouldn't be necessary, but believe me, it is necessary.  Unfortunately, it is necessary. I was pleased that this body passed it  last night. 

  Let me explain. The due process clause of the U.S. Constitution, as  interpreted by the U.S. Supreme Court in the landmark decision, Brady  v. Maryland, requires that prosecutors turn over all material evidence  favorable to the defense. That is what a fair trial is about. If the  prosecutor has exculpatory evidence, as we call it, you need to make  sure the defense has it. This is such a bedrock element of our criminal  justice system and constitutional due process that the name of this  kind of evidence is simply now called ``Brady evidence'' after the case  Brady v. Maryland.  

  Now, the vast majority of Federal prosecutors--and, by the way, FBI  agents--who work in our criminal justice system are patriots. Many are  veterans, and they work day in and day out to keep us safe and abide by  their constitutional duties and obligations. They do turn Brady  evidence over to the defense, as they are required to do by the  Constitution. 

  The sad fact is, some prosecutors don't do this. Some choose instead  to win at all costs by taking shortcuts--not justice, but shortcuts.  And when I say shortcuts, I am talking about violating a defendant's  constitutional rights. The prevalence of these violations is not easy  to quantify--these Brady violations, as we call them. 

  One study--and I am not vouching for the accuracy, and this was a  study called the National Registry of Exonerations--stated that from  1989 to 2017, prosecutors concealed exculpatory evidence at trial in  half of all murder exonerations. If that statistic is even remotely  true, it is outrageous and needs to stop.  

  Such potential Brady violations have, once again, been in the news  with the prosecution of former National Security Advisor Michael  Flynn--GEN Michael Flynn. There are all kinds of articles now out  there. I recently wrote the head of the FBI on this very issue about  the potential Brady violations by Federal prosecutors that appear to  have taken place in this prosecution. What that has done in my State is  that it has opened old wounds--old wounds--and difficult memories. 

  My colleagues here--every single one of them--remember the late,  great Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska. As a matter of fact, his portrait  is right off of the Senate floor, an incredible new portrait that we  just put there recently. He was charged by Federal prosecutors with  making false statements and was convicted prior to his reelection,  which he lost because of the conviction by prosecutors. 

  Not long after the conviction, it started to become apparent that  there was prosecutorial misconduct in that very high-profile case, so  the trial judge in that case appointed a special prosecutor to  investigate this. There was a report that came out in 2012 by the  Justice Department, by the special prosecutor, that was highly critical  of the prosecutors' and the FBI's conduct. In particular, they withheld  all kinds of Brady evidence. 

  Just 6 months after Senator Stevens' conviction, it was revealed that  Federal prosecutors had concealed numerous pieces of evidence that very  likely could have resulted in his acquittal. Among the more egregious  examples--and there were many--rather than call a witness whose  testimony would have supported Senator Stevens, the government flew the  witness home to Alaska. That is pretty pathetic. 

  The prosecution also concealed that its star witness, who was  testifying against Senator Stevens, had an illegal sexual relationship  with an underage woman whom he had asked to lie about the relationship.  And to this day--to this very day--there are still questions about  whether the Federal Government offered that star witness, in exchange  for his testimony, leniency on not prosecuting him for violating the  Mann Act. There are still questions to this day. 

  The special prosecutor that the district judge appointed to  investigate the prosecutorial misconduct in the Stevens case found that  the Justice Department lawyers had committed ``deliberate and  `systematic' ethical violations by withholding critical evidence  pointing to Senator Stevens' innocence.'' That is the Justice  Department special prosecutor determining just how corrupt the Justice  Department was in prosecuting and convicting Ted Stevens. 

  Yet the special prosecutor, who investigated all of this also, found  that the district court judge was powerless to act against the  wrongdoers--the corrupt prosecutors--because the district court had not  issued a direct, written court order at the beginning of the trial,  requiring the prosecutors to abide by their ethical and constitutional  obligations as laid out in Brady v. Maryland. 

  It is a bit remarkable because every law student knows you learn  Brady v. Maryland the first year of law school. But somehow these  prosecutors across the street over at the Justice Department forgot  about it, and they were going to be punished. But the system of justice  said that you couldn't punish them because they didn't know because the  judge didn't tell them. 

  Again, I am not sure we even need a law to deal with this, but, as I  said, unfortunately, we do. 

  As you can imagine, it was maddening to the people of Alaska that  those who violated Senator Stevens' constitutional rights--and, by the  way, forever changed the political landscape, not just in Alaska but in  America; don't get me going about what happened there--these  prosecutors couldn't even be held accountable and were not held  accountable because they weren't instructed by the district court about  the Brady evidence requirements that they learned in law school in  their first year. 

  So in response to the Stevens case and due to growing concerns about  the unfortunate frequency of Brady evidence violations by prosecutors,  a number of Federal district judges began issuing specific local rules  or standing orders that explicitly remind prosecutors of what they  learned their first year of law school, which is that you have to turn  over Brady evidence. 

  But the Federal Judicial Conference's Advisory Committee on the Rules  of Criminal Procedure--so, essentially, the judges who advise on the  rules--has consistently declined to require all Federal courts to do  the same. So right now, all Federal courts don't have to issue  instructions on Brady evidence. 

  Well, today, Congress is beginning to change all of this. My bill,  which passed last night unanimously--the Due Process Protections Act-- codifies this practice and requires it of every Federal judge  nationwide by amending rule 5 of the Federal Rules of Criminal  Procedure to require that a judge ``issue an oral or written order to  prosecution and defense counsel that confirms the disclosure obligation  of the prosecutor under Brady v. Maryland . . . and its progeny''--that  is quoting from my bill--at the beginning of every criminal case.  

  Our bill allows each judicial district flexibility to promulgate  their own model rule, but they have to do it. Congress is telling them  they have to do it, so they will do it. 

  Having this standing order in place will explicitly remind the  prosecution of their obligations--making it a priority to protect the  due process of all Americans, including defendants--and it will provide  for quicker recourse upon discovering any Brady violations that occur. 

  We obviously can't undo what happened to the late, great Senator  Stevens, nor can we undo all the harm it caused to my State, my  constituents, and, really, the people across America who have also been  victims of these kinds of violations because it undermines trust in our  system of justice. But going forward, we can work to stem the corrosive  effects to our democracy when prosecutors don't abide by their  constitutional obligations. We can work to ensure our system of  justice--the foundation of American democracy--is stronger and fairer  for all, and that is what the Due Process Protections Act will do. 

  I want to thank chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Lindsey Graham,  for helping to facilitate this bill's passage; my colleague Senator  Durbin, who was my original cosponsor of this bill; and the other  cosponsors: Senators Lee from Utah, Booker from New Jersey, Cornyn from  Texas, Whitehouse from Rhode Island, and Paul from Kentucky. I say to  the Presiding Officer, you know those Senators. That is about as broad  a political array in terms of the political spectrum in America and the  U.S. Senate--Democrats and Republicans who believe in this issue, and  that is why I think it is so important. 

  Our system of justice will be fairer once that bill passes the House  and is signed into law by the President. I just want to thank my  colleagues--all of my colleagues--who voted for this necessary and  important and simple piece of legislation that, unfortunately, we need  in America today. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT