Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I am sure all of my colleagues are going  to want to listen to this speech. I am on the floor with my colleagues  Senator Whitehouse and Senator Menendez to talk about some very  important legislation for our country, legislation that passed the  Senate last week. It is the Save Our Seas 2.0 legislation. 

  I begin by thanking Senator Whitehouse and Senator Menendez for their  leadership on this bill. 

  We are going to talk a little bit about the importance of it, why it  matters to Alaska, to New Jersey, to Rhode Island, and to the whole  country. This is a significant piece of legislation. It is, really, the  most comprehensive piece of legislation to pass the Congress--to pass  the Senate--that has dealt with ocean debris and ocean pollution--ever.  That sounds like a pretty hyperbolic phrase, but it is true. We checked  with the CRS. There has been nothing more comprehensive than this piece  of legislation that tackles an issue we all care about--clean oceans. 

  As a matter of fact, on Thursday night, 100 Senators passed this  after there having been a lot of work on the Committee on Commerce,  Science, and Transportation, on the Committee on Environment and Public  Works, and on the Committee on Foreign Relations. After about a year of  work on this, we finally got it passed. A number of Senators--Democrats  and Republicans--were cosponsors. I really want to thank the two  Senators who are on the floor right now. In particular, Senator  Whitehouse has been a real leader on these issues that deal with  oceans. This is an environmental issue that we can solve. Republicans  and Democrats in the Congress, the Trump administration in the White  House, and environmental and industry groups are all pulling on the  same oar, and we had a good start last Thursday on what this does. 

  I want to turn it over to my colleague from Rhode Island because, in  many ways, he has been the real leader, the driver, and is the founder  of the Oceans Caucus. Bit by bit, legislation by legislation, he and I  cosponsored the first Save Our Seas Act in the last Congress. To much  fanfare in the Oval Office, the President signed it, and now you are  starting to see people work on this. There is a whole section in the  USMCA on cleaning up our oceans. We have gone from Save Our Seas 1.0,  which has already passed into law, to Save Our Seas 2.0. I think it is  exciting, and I think the American people don't always hear about the  bipartisan work that is actually getting done on big issues that matter  to our Nation. There is a lot. 

  Cleaning up our oceans is one that matters to everybody and,  certainly, to my State, with its having more coastline than the rest of  the lower 48 combined. You don't even have to live in a coastal State  to care about this issue. Some of our cosponsors on this bill--on both  sides of the aisle--are from States that don't even have any coastline.  That is how important it is. 

  I want to turn it over to Senator Whitehouse. I thank him for his and  Senator Menendez' leadership. We will talk a little bit about what is  in it and what we are going to do next. This is a good day for the  environment in America. It is a good day for the oceans not just in our  country, not just in Alaska, not just in Rhode Island but in the world.  As a nation, if we are leading on this, which this legislation does,  then we are going to be able to help clean up our oceans all over the  world. We had a  good start here on Thursday night in the U.S. Senate when we passed  this bill legislatively unanimously. 

  Again, to my colleague from Rhode Island, the floor is his. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I want to thank Senator Menendez and  Senator Whitehouse again for their leadership on this. 

  We have all seen the pictures and the news stories. The issue,  though, is a severe one. The World Economic Forum has estimated that if  we don't do anything about this big crisis of ocean debris, but  particularly the issue of plastics in the ocean, there are estimates  that by 2050 there will be more plastics by weight in the world's ocean  than there are fish. We can't let that happen. 

  So what we have done is we have put together this bill. As already  mentioned, there were three different committees. There is an element  on the domestic innovation side that creates a Marine Debris  Foundation. That is a congressionally chartered private organization. 

  Think of groups that matter to Americans. There are dozens of these  kinds of foundations, but they are important. They send a signal that  the Congress of the United States cares about these things. Think about  the Red Cross, the American Legion, and the National Parks Foundation.  These are all congressionally chartered organizations. The new Marine  Debris Foundation will be one of them. 

  The American Government is focused on this. It is an opportunity for  the private sector, and we have seen some industries step up. There is  a group called the Alliance to End Plastic Waste that has pledged $1.5  billion to start addressing this problem. That is not small change. It  is going to need that kind of money. Perhaps some of that can go into  this foundation. 

  There is an innovation prize. A lot of focus in our bill is on  innovation so that we can solve some of the big challenges in  chemistry--a plastic bottle that could fully biodegrade. We don't have  that yet, but these are some of the things that the bill looks at  doing. 

  Of course, Senator Menendez talked about the very substantial foreign  relations component because so much of the plastic waste in the oceans  comes from countries in Asia and Africa and 10 rivers, estimating  almost 80 to 90 percent of all of the plastic waste in all of the  oceans. So, again, it is solvable because it is definable. 

  Then, the third component is improving domestic infrastructure to  prevent marine debris through new grants and foreign studies for waste  management mitigation. So this covers a lot of different areas-- innovation, our domestic side, the international side. 

  We have momentum. We had a great group of bipartisan Senators-- Democrats and Republicans from all over the country and from all  political persuasions--showing that momentum. We have the Trump  administration fully behind this. In many ways, some of their Federal  agencies weighed in significantly to help us design this legislation,  and now we need to get it over to the House and move it in the House  soon and get it to the President's desk. 

  So this is a good day for the oceans and a good day for bipartisan  success in the U.S. Senate on an issue that people care about. People  really care about making sure that we have clean oceans and we are  making progress. 

  So I just want to leave it at that, and I will ask my colleague from  Rhode Island, who has been the real leader on this issue, to wrap it  up. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I look forward to another White House  signing of this with all of our colleagues. I am sure that the  administration is interested in it. You and I had a very eventful one  over at the White House a couple years ago. 

  So, again, the momentum is there. We are just going to keep building  on it. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT