Justice in Policing Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, there is no doubt that there is a lot of  anger in our country right now. We have seen that anger being given  voice all throughout our communities and small towns and big cities. We  have seen it in our households, among our families, our children, our  friends. 

  The killing of George Floyd has shocked us all. The video of a police  officer so nonchalantly kneeling on George's neck as he begged to be  released and three other officers standing by as if nothing was  happening, as if it weren't a human being's life being taken--this  shocked us. 

  By now, we all know how George Floyd called out, calling out for his  mother, who had passed years ago, a mother who loved him, whom he must  have seen coming to him in his final moments. ``I can't breathe,'' he  said--the last words of a man on a street in Minneapolis that have  rocked the Nation. They are three simple words that mean so much and  have so much resonance throughout our history; words that, at their  very heart, have helped to define the moral issue of our country, and  that is slavery and the struggle--the long struggle for civil rights. 

  The freedom to breathe and your life as your own are what were taken  from men and women and their children when they were ripped from their  countries and brought, in slavery, into this Nation. That is what was  taken away from Native Americans and Alaska Natives when they were  forced off their lands. 

  The freedom to take the full breath of life is what is taken away  from people when they are denied a quality education or housing in safe  neighborhoods; when they are denied jobs or promotions when they get  those jobs; when they are viewed, because of the color of their skin,  as less deserving or as less able. 

  I applaud those who have peacefully taken to the streets throughout  our communities to protest against racism, and I also applaud the brave  police officers and National Guardsmen all across the country who are  protecting those who need protecting and reaching out to constructively  engage peaceful protesters. The vast, vast majority of these law  enforcement officers are honorable and risk their lives daily for their  fellow citizens, and we need to remember that. 

  We are witnessing something that I believe is an important moment,  one that has potential to move our country in a direction toward a more  perfect Union. This moment has promise. 

  Senators are discussing with each other what kind of legislative  action should be taken. For example, we had a very good discussion on  these issues just yesterday led by my friend and colleague Senator Tim  Scott of South Carolina. State and community leaders are also having  these discussions. 

  Of course, we are a big country, and what might seem to be a good  idea in one place wouldn't be a good idea in some other place. For  example, one of the enormous challenges in the great State of Alaska  that I have been focused on for years is not enough law enforcement,  particularly in our rural and Native communities, dozens of which don't  have any law enforcement officers at all. So this is a huge problem in  Alaska that can create horrible situations, particularly when it comes  to violent crimes like sexual assault and domestic violence. 

  So I am not a proponent of defunding the police, but something else  that is happening in America right now at this moment are discussions-- not just in the halls of government but around dinner tables, among  families and parents and their kids and their friend groups--on what  can or should be done at the individual level, the individual American  level. This is certainly happening, for example, in my family. 

  It is entitled ``This Moment Cries Out for Us to Confront Race in  America.'' Condoleezza Rice was the daughter of the segregated South,  raised in Birmingham, AL, during the height of the struggle for civil  rights, with sit-ins, riots, and even bombings happening in her city. 

  When she was 8 years old, the Ku Klux Klan bombed a local church in  Birmingham, killing four school-aged girls. One of those girls, Denise  McNair, was a friend of Condi's. They used to play dolls together. 

  Over five decades later, through hard work, grace, dignity, and  supreme intelligence, she rose to become one of the most powerful  people in the world as Secretary of State of the United States, and I  had the honor of a lifetime to work for her for 5 years. 

  She recounts some of her journey in this op-ed, which I encourage all  of my colleagues and all Americans to read. She reminds us:  

       Our country has a birth defect: Africans and Europeans came       to this country together--but one group was in chains. In       time, the very Constitution that counted slaves as three-      fifths of a man became a powerful tool in affording the       descendants of slaves their basic rights. That work has been       long and difficult, but it has made a difference. We are       better than we were.  

  She notes one harsh indicator of progress. In Jim Crow Alabama, in  her youth, she says:  

       [N]o one batted an eye if the police killed a black man.       There wouldn't have been even a footnote in the local press.  

  Yet now we are seeing hundreds of thousands across America take to  the streets peacefully to protest such injustice. 

  In her piece from last week, she emphasizes that finger-pointing at  this moment will not help the cause:  

       And if we are to make progress, let us vow to check the       language of recrimination at the door.  

  Very wise words. We all need to focus on emphasizing unity and  empathy at this moment--all of us. Senators, Governors, the President,  the media--all of us have this responsibility, and it is what the vast  majority of our fellow Americans want. It is what they want and what  they want us to do and to see and hear from us. 

  Perhaps most importantly, Condoleezza Rice, in her op-ed, emphasizes  something seemingly so obvious but not spoken much: individual action  and responsibility. She ends her piece with this challenge that I put  up here on the posterboard. It is a really important challenge for  every American:  

       So I ask my fellow Americans: What will each of you do? My       personal passion is educational opportunity, because it is a       partial shield against prejudice. It is not a perfect shield,       I know, but it gives people a fighting chance. In my       conversations, I want to discuss why the learning gap for       black kids is so stubborn and what can be done about it. What       is your question about the impact of race on the lives of       Americans? And what will you do to find answers?  

  Those words in her op-ed--the challenge--really struck me, and I have  thought long and hard all week about them since reading those words in  the Washington Post. 

  Of course, as a Senator, I, with many of you, my colleagues, am  taking part in discussions which I hope will lead to collective action  by our Federal Government to address some of the challenges our Nation  certainly continues to have regarding race. But Condoleezza Rice's  question and challenge is about personal passion and action, and it is  a question for every American to consider. 

  I have an amazing Alaska Native wife from whom I have learned much  about the serious issue of racism in my State against indigenous  Alaskans and among the first peoples in our great Nation, but I have  never experienced the kind of racism that many across our country have. 

  I am a colonel in the Marines, an institution I am very proud to be a  part of, an institution that--like the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Coast  Guard--at its very heart, it isn't supposed to matter what the color of  your skin is, what religion you practice, or what part of the  socioeconomic ladder you come from. The fundamental ethos of the Marine  Corps and our military is supposed to be this: It doesn't matter what  race you are. You are just a U.S. marine. 

  Now, of course, the Marines and the rest of the military don't always  meet this ideal, but they strive for it, even in ways that might seem  puzzling to those who haven't served. 

  There is the story of the tough Marine Corps drill instructor  shouting at his raw recruits on day one of boot camp:  

       There is no racial bigotry here. In my eyes, every one of       you are equally worthless. My orders are to weed out all non-      hackers who cannot serve my beloved Marine Corps. Do you       maggots understand that?  

  That is the drill instructor. Again, it is the ideal--equality in the  U.S. military--but it is not always met. 

  I remember how the first rifle platoon I commanded as a young second  lieutenant was literally about one-third White, one-third Black, and  one-third Hispanic. My platoon sergeant was an African-American marine  named Willis Towns. He was outstanding in every way, Sergeant Towns. I  learned so much from him about leadership. 

  His dream in life was to be the first African-American sergeant major  of the entire Marine Corps. He never reached that goal. A few weeks  after I attended a Martin Luther King, Jr., ceremony with him in which  he received an award for his leadership in the community, he was killed  in a training accident. That was the worst day of my life. Just a few  years later, the Marine Corps named another outstanding African  American to be Sergeant Major of the entire Marine Corps. I remember  thinking when the announcement came out: Congratulations, Willis. You  did it. You did it.  

  I believe that the military--desegregated in 1948, nearly 20 years  before the passage of civil rights legislation by this body--is one of  the most important civil rights organizations in America. I am  passionate about our U.S. military, but it can improve in terms of  race. There are questions that need to be asked about the record of our  military on these important issues. 

  Yesterday was an important day in the Senate with the unanimous vote  to confirm Gen. Charles Q. Brown, Jr., to be Chief of Staff of the U.S.  Air Force. For a whole host of reasons, I was probably more involved in  his confirmation than any other Senator. I had the opportunity to come  to the floor yesterday to speak strongly in support of his Senate  confirmation. 

  I have had many discussions with General Brown over the past year,  but what surprised me was that I learned recently that yesterday's vote  was actually a historic vote for America. His confirmation, 98 to 0,  was so historic because General C. Q. Brown was just confirmed  yesterday by this body as our first African-American service chief in  the history of the United States of America. 

  Let me explain a little bit more about that. The Joint Chiefs of  Staff consists of the service chiefs, the top four-star generals of the  Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine, and Coast Guard, as well as the Chairman  of the Joint Chiefs, with the notable exception of GEN Colin Powell,  who was Chairman of the Joint Chiefs in the early 1990s. General C. Q.  Brown, whom we confirmed yesterday, will be the first African-American  service chief ever for any military service. Of course, this is good  news in terms of racial progress for America, but it also begs an  important question: Why did it take so long for this to happen,  especially in one of America's institutions with probably one of the  best, longest records on positive civil rights in our Nation? 

  Some of the answers are surely hinted at in General Brown's very  moving video address that he gave last week when he talked about what  was on his mind in the wake of the horrible  George Floyd death. I would recommend that everybody take a look at  that. In the Air Force, he says he was often the only African American  in his squadron, and as a senior general officer, the only African  American in the entire room. What is he thinking about during these  challenging times? ``I'm thinking about wearing the same flight suit  with the same wings on my chest as my peers and then being questioned  by another military member, are you a pilot?'' 

  What else is he thinking? 

  ``I'm thinking about my mentors and how rarely I had a mentor who  looked like me.'' 

  ``I'm thinking about the pressure I felt to perform error-free,  especially for supervisors I perceived had expected less of me as an  African American.'' 

  He continues saying he was thinking about the conversations he was  having with his sons and the immense responsibility that comes from his  historic nomination. He was thinking about how with this confirmation,  he could make things better in the Air Force and America. 

  Here is how I am going to take up Condoleezza Rice's challenge, as  she put forth for each individual American. I am going to ask  questions--as she prods us to do in this piece--on why, until  yesterday, no African-American four-star had ever been confirmed to be  a service chief in the U.S. military in the history of our country. 

  We are introducing an amendment to this year's NDAA to get data on  minorities and senior enlisted and officer billets in the military-- African Americans, Alaska Natives, Native Americans, Hispanic Americans  and others. We know these are very patriotic segments of our  population. For example, Alaska Natives and American Indians serve at  higher rates in the military than any other ethnic group in the  country--what I refer to as special patriotism. 

  Is this patriotic service reflected at the highest leadership ranks  of our military? If not, then, why not? 

  I suspect that a lot of our military leaders who have risen to the  general officers ranks--like General Brown or other outstanding  African-American generals whom I have gotten to know or have the  privilege of serving with, like Army GEN Vincent Brooks, former CENTCOM  Commander GEN Lloyd Austin, and Marine Corps Lt. Gen. Ron Bailey--will  have insightful views on these important matters. 

  Our military is something I am very passionate about, not only  because it protects and defends our Nation, but because for decades, it  has provided Americans of all colors and creeds with the opportunity to  rise up individually and as a collective force for good in our society  and to enable members of the military to achieve their full potential  and have a promising future after their service is completed. 

  If there is some kind of obstacle for minority advancement that  stifles opportunities at the highest ranks of our military, then we  need to know why and we need to work on addressing it together. As a  matter of fact, I just came from a full day of marking up the NDAA with  Democratic and Republican Senators, and we will be trying to look at  this issue, which we had a great discussion on in our markup today. We  need our military--like we need the rest of the country--to be a place  where everyone who joins can breathe freely.        She is a professor at Stanford University's Graduate School       of Business and a senior fellow on public policy at the       Hoover Institution, where she will become director on Sept.       1. 

       Words cannot dull the pain of George Floyd's family. Like       many black families before them, they find themselves in the       spotlight for reasons that every parent, sibling and spouse       dreads. While his death has catalyzed a symbolic call to       action, he was not a symbol to his loved ones--he was a       father, brother and son. I can only pray that they find the       ``peace that passes understanding.'' 

       In the wake of Floyd's death, Americans and people around       the world are experiencing shock, grief, outrage--a set of       emotions that too often are repeated. If the past is a guide,       these feelings will fade and we will return to our lives. 

       But something tells me--not this time. Floyd's horrific       death should be enough to finally move us to positive action. 

       Perhaps this is like the moment in 1955 when Rosa Parks       refused to move to the back of the bus. Or perhaps this is       like that fateful Sunday in September 1963, quite personal to       me, when a bomb in a Birmingham church killed four girls from       my neighborhood and shook our nation to its core. Some six       decades later, perhaps all of us--regardless of skin color--      are, to quote Mississippi sharecropper and civil rights       activist Fannie Lou Hamer, ``sick and tired of being sick and       tired.'' 

       Our country has often moved forward and been made better       through peaceful protests. But our cities must stop burning.       Innocent people, including many minority and immigrant       business owners, are watching their livelihoods go up in       smoke. There is no excuse for looting and criminality, and       offenders must be stopped. But a call for calm is not enough,       either. This time, we must remain vigilant and maintain our       determination to make a difference. 

       Beyond justice for Floyd, systemic change is necessary to       make our institutions more just. Yet all the structural       reforms in the world are insufficient to remove the shadow       hanging over every incident of this kind. To be black is to       be forced to overcome implicit and explicit reactions to the       color of your skin. It might be dismissiveness or       underestimation or presumption of how you think. In some       circumstances, it might be fear. We encounter these responses       even among decent people who sincerely do not want to react       that way. The good news is that these emotions can be       overcome--and often are--with the respect that builds when       people know one another as human beings--as friends,       neighbors, co-workers and teammates. 

       Still, we simply must acknowledge that society is not       color-blind and probably never will be. Progress comes when       people treat one another with respect, as if we were color-      blind. Unless and until we are honest that race is still an       anchor around our country's neck, that shadow will never be       lifted. Our country has a birth defect: Africans and       Europeans came to this country together--but one group was in       chains. In time, the very Constitution that counted slaves as       three-fifths of a man became a powerful tool in affording the       descendants of slaves their basic rights. That work has been       long and difficult, but it has made a difference. We are       better than we were. 

       I grew up in segregated Jim Crow Alabama, where no one       batted an eye if the police killed a black man. There       wouldn't have been even a footnote in the local press. So it       is a source of pride for me that so many have taken to the       streets--peacefully--to say that they care: that they, too,       are sick and tired of being sick and tired. Yet protests will       take our country only so far. The road to healing must begin       with respectful but honest and deep conversations, not       judgments, about who we were, who we are and who we want to       become. Let us talk with, not at, each other--in our homes,       schools, workplaces and places of worship. And if we are to       make progress, let us vow to check the language of       recrimination at the door. As united Americans, we can then       turn our fears into faith, hope, compassion and action. And       then we can accept and carry out our shared responsibility to       build ``a more perfect union.'' 

       Yet, any call to action will be empty if it does not move       us to individual responsibility. We all have a role to play       in moving our country forward, in ensuring that our democracy       delivers not just for those who have but also for those who       seek and for those in need. 

       So I ask my fellow Americans: What will each of you do? My       personal passion is educational opportunity, because it is a       partial shield against prejudice. It is not a perfect shield,       I know, but it gives people a fighting chance. In my       conversations, I want to discuss why the learning gap for       black kids is so stubborn and what can be done about it. What       is your question about the impact of race on the lives of       Americans? And what will you do to find answers?  BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT