Letter to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of the Dept. of Agriculture - Alaska Delegation Urges Fast-Tracked Approval for Virtual SRS RAC Meetings


Dear Secretary Perdue:

We write to request that you provide greater flexibility in allowing Resource AdvisoryCommittees (RACs) to meet telephonically or virtually on an expedited timeline. We have heardfrom a number of Alaskans who serve on RACs who are awaiting permission from the ForestService to proceed with virtual meetings during the COVID-19 pandemic.

As you know, RACs are federal advisory committees authorized under the Secure Rural Schoolsand Community Self-Determination Act (SRS) to evaluate and recommend how the ForestService should spend Title II funding in the national forests they represent. Local communitymembers and other stakeholders are appointed to these RACs by the Secretary of Agriculture and normally meet several times each year.

Most RAC funding is used to improve natural resource and recreation infrastructure, which willbe extremely important as Alaskans rally to salvage and restore our summer tourism andrecreation economy during the coronavirus pandemic. We understand the Ketchikan BoroughRAC alone has nearly $1 million worth of projects that are on hold while they await ForestService permission to meet. These projects include replacing old oil stoves in recreation cabinswith wood burning stoves and restoring boating docks that have not been repaired in 15 years.

Unfortunately, social distancing guidelines have made it impossible for RACs to meet in person.Delays in RAC meetings are compounded by existing Forest Service guidance that requiresRACs to publish a public meeting notice 45 days in advance of a meeting. Given that Alaska hasa short summer window in which to plan, approve, and execute RAC projects, it is essential thatthe U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Forest Service move to facilitate RAC meetingswithout further delay.

Thank you for your attention to this request. We look forward to your timely reply.

Sincerely