Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Extension of Deadlines in Standards of Performance for New, Reconstructed, and Modified Sources and Emissions Guidelines for Existing Sources: Oil and Natural Gas Sector Climate


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696959/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-extension-of-deadlines-in-standards-of-performance-for-new-reconstructed-and-modified-sources-and-emissions-guidelines-for-existing-sources-oil-and-natural-gas-sector-climate


Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I am coming down to the Senate floor for  the second time in about a month to try to pass a really important bill  for some really heroic constituents of mine, Alaskan Native Vietnam  veterans, and I am going to explain this bill a little bit.

Hopefully, the Senate is going to work well, because when I tried to  pass this a month ago, Senator Padilla said: Hey, I am going to object,  but if you work with us on some bills that you can move in a pairing,  then we will pass this.

So I have done that, and I will talk about that. I am actually going  to try to pass two bills.

I see that the senior Senator from New Mexico is on the floor, which  doesn't bode well for the passage of this bill, which is disappointing,  and I am going to get to why it is disappointing. It is remarkable that  this bill would be blocked, again, by Democrats. But let me give you a  little bit about the background.

So Alaska Native people in my State serve at higher rates in the  military than any other ethnic group in the country--what I refer to as  special patriotism. You go into Alaska Native villages, you ask how  many veterans are there, and almost everybody raises their hand. It is  remarkable. It is patriotic. It is incredible. If the rest of the  country were like Alaska Native people in terms of service to our  military, we would have a better America.

They underwent an incredible injustice because so many Alaska Natives  went to Vietnam to serve in the war when a lot of Americans--let's face  it--were avoiding service in Vietnam. So these great men and women went  to serve their country in Vietnam. When they got drafted, they would  say: Hey, it is my time. My dad fought in World War II. My uncle fought  in Korea. I am just going.

So they all went. And what happened--every Alaska Native had the  ability to get, under a 1906 law, a Native allotment. You could go and  say: Hey, I grew up in this area. I hunted and fished here. I want to  get 160 acres for an allotment.

The Federal Government would say: Here, you get that allotment.

That was in the law.

When these guys were over serving in Vietnam, Congress changed that  law. It is complicated, but they passed what was called the Alaska  Native Claims Settlement Act--a very important bill--and it  extinguished the ability for Alaska Natives to get their Native  allotment.

Well, guess what. A lot of these guys and a few women were overseas  serving their country in Vietnam. They didn't know. There was no  internet, no cellphones, right? So they got home. They weren't treated  well because they were Vietnam vets. Let's face that. They weren't  treated well because there is still a lot of discrimination with regard  to Native people, indigenous people. And then they were told: Oh, by  the way, that Native allotment that you wanted? Sorry. When you were  fighting for your country, we passed a law saying you can't get it  anymore.

Well, look, I thought that was a huge injustice, so I worked on a  bill during President Trump's first term to say: Now, wait a minute, if  you were overseas serving your country, and you missed your ability to  apply for a Native allotment, you should get your ability to do that.

That law passed. I was in the Oval Office when the President of the  United States signed it. He said: This is an injustice. I am going to  fix this for the Alaska Native Vietnam vets.

I mean, what is more bipartisan than that? Why would you come down to  the Senate floor and block this bill?

So anyway, when Secretary Haaland, Secretary of the Interior--when  she went through her confirmation process, I talked to her about a  number of things. She was a Congresswoman at the time. I said: The No.  1 issue I care about more than anything--more than oil and gas, more  than resource development--the No. 1 issue I care about that you need  to commit to me, Congresswoman Deb Haaland, is to rapidly implement  this bill, OK? These are Vietnam vets. A lot of them are dying, OK?  Make this a priority.

I met with her twice, and she committed to me twice to do that. Guess  what. Secretary Haaland did not keep her commitment at all. As a matter  of fact, one of the first things she did when she got into office, the  Secretary of the Interior under Joe Biden, she delayed implementation  of this bill for 2 years, just put a moratorium on it.

I was like, whoa, you certainly lied to me there, Madam Secretary.  OK. Two years. She just did nothing.

Overall, the program is a 5-year program. She shamefully did 40  allotments in 4 years. Forty Alaska Native Vietnam vets got this. There  are 2,000--over 2,000 who are eligible. They just didn't do it because  they didn't want people to get land--even Alaska Native Vietnam  veterans.

So anyway, this bill has a 5-year window. It expires in December. All  I am trying to do is extend it for 5 more years. That is it. This is a  one-sentence bill. It changes the words ``5 years'' to ``10 years.''

Guess what. Last year in December, I came down to the Senate floor,  and I passed this unanimously. It passed. So the Senate passed it last  year. The House has already passed it. If this bill passes tonight, it  is going to go to the President, and he is going to sign it.

Why would anyone block this?

So I tried to do this a month ago, and Senator Padilla was on the  floor, and he said: Hey, I am going to block it because we kind of  don't think it is fair if we just get one Republican bill over the goal  line.

So he and I talked on the floor and said: Let us work with you, Dan,  because we know this is important to you. We know this is important to  your heroic constituents. Let us work with you. If you pair this with a  Democrat bill that is important, we will work to pass it.

So Senator Padilla objected when I tried to pass it last time.  Democrats even suggested to me what bill to pair it with. It is called  H.R. 1034 or S. 909. It is the La Paz County Solar Energy and Job  Creation Act. It is a pretty good bill. It is a land exchange. This is  Senator Gallego's bill.

So the Democrats told me: If you can pair your bill for Vietnam vets  with the Gallego bill, H.R. 1034, then that is fair because we are  moving a Democrat bill and we are moving a Republican bill. They are  paired together. By the way, they are both ready to go to be signed by  the President. That would be fair.

So my team worked really hard to clear all the Republican holds on  the Senator Gallego bill. We worked on it for the last 3 or 4 weeks.  There were a number of holds, and I went to my Republican colleagues:  Hey, guys, can you lift the hold, right? This is a pretty good bill  from Senator Gallego. It is important to him in Arizona, and this is  really important to me.

I explained the Alaska Native Vietnam vet bill. So we lifted the  holds. Republicans cleared the hotline.

So that is what has happened.

Now, I guess, unless he is here to talk about how he supports my  bill--so 2 hours ago, we thought this was going to clear. Gallego's  bill. Sullivan's bill. Good for Arizona, Democrats. Good for Alaska  Native Vietnam vets. We get a call an hour ago saying: Nope, the Dems  are going to move the goalpost, and they are going to object.

Why? I am really looking forward to hearing from my good friend from  New Mexico on why they are going to object, but I am pretty sure I know  why. He is going to tell me: Hey, we want to move more bills.

Well, wait. You guys just told me 2 weeks ago: Pair the Gallego bill  with the Alaska Native Vietnam vet bill, and we will pass it.

Normally, the Senate works on trust, right? So I did that. But I  guess now the Democrats are going to move the goalpost, and they want  to leverage--leverage--Alaska Native Vietnam vets, heroes, to get more  stuff. I don't know. I want to hear from Senator Heinrich.

You know, the Dems are starting to get really good--it is a pattern-- at leveraging really good Americans--air traffic controllers for the  last 40 days--to get other stuff. Now it looks like they are going to  leverage Alaska Native Vietnam vets who got hosed by their own  government. All they want is to get their allotment that they missed  the opportunity to get when they were serving their country in Vietnam.  Like, how hard is that?

So, again, we have two good bills right now. One is a Dem bill, and  one is a Republican bill. If we pass the H.R. bill, they are going to  go right to the President's desk.

Now, the other objection I heard from my Democratic colleagues is  that, well, they don't want to pass House bills. So I am like, all  right. Well, if you don't want to pass House bills, let's pass the  Sullivan Senate  version of this and the Gallego Senate version.

Again, I am down here on the floor trying to help Senator Gallego, a  Democrat from Arizona. He is a marine. I like marines. He has a good  bill here. It seems like it is going to help his constituents. So I am  ready to go.

All right. If you guys want to object to the House bill, I get that.  We are objecting--some of our Senators are objecting to House bills  even though those go right to the President's desk. We will move  forward on the Senate bill. Now, that means it will have to go back  over to the House, so it won't get signed by the President right away.  So I am ready to do that too.

I just want to help the people I represent, and these are very  special people. If any of you or Senator Heinrich met some of these  Alaska Native Vietnam vets, you would cry when you hear their stories.  So heroic. And all I am trying to do is help them. And we got this  done.

By the way, the program expires in December. The program that I got  done with President Trump's signature on it expires in a month.  Secretary Haaland slow-walked it. I got it passed last year to extend  it, and now my Democrat colleagues are going to slow-walk it. It is  going to expire next month.

I came here a month ago. They told me: All right, Dan. We know it is  important to you. Go pair it.

They said: Go pair Gallego's bill with this, and we will sign off on  it.

I got all the Republicans to sign off on my bill and Gallego's, and  just an hour ago: Nope. We are going to leverage these Vietnam vets  against you, Dan Sullivan, to get more.

Now, look, the Senator from New Mexico is probably going to say: Hey,  I want to move more bills.

All right. I will help you move more bills. You just saw I worked  Gallego's bill. But these two bills are ready to go to the President's  desk--a Democrat bill which is a pretty good bill for Arizona and a  Republican bill which is a really good bill for my constituents, heroic  constituents.

So I am going to try, and maybe Senator Heinrich is going to get up  and say: Gosh darn it, Dan Sullivan. This is a great bill, and I just  want to come here and speak out on behalf of it.

You know, a lot of the Democrats talk about indigenous people, people  of color, how much they care about minority communities. When it comes  to my State, these guys target Alaska Natives. I have seen it my whole  career. I mean, geez, the minority leader--the guy goes after Alaska  Natives like they are some kind of criminals. It is outrageous.

This is a bill for indigenous people of America, and all the  Democrats: Oh, we care about--no, you don't. If you did--maybe Senator  Heinrich tonight is going to talk about how much he cares about  indigenous people in Alaska. I have seen him talk about it before. If  he does, then he should prove it right now.

410, the Alaska Native Vietnam Era Veterans  Land Allotment Extension Act of 2025, and H.R. 1043, the La Paz County  Solar Energy and Job Creation Act.

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I am disappointed in this. Now, I was  trying to pass the H.R. bills from the House because those bills have  already passed--the Gallego bill, the Sullivan bill, the lands transfer  bill for Arizona, the Alaska Native Vietnam vets bill for my brave  Alaska Native veterans. I was informed--and you heard it from the  Senator from New Mexico--that maybe they don't want to pass House  bills. He kind of said that. He did mention that he is objecting  because he doesn't want to favor one party over the other. That  argument is irrelevant because I am passing a Democrat bill and a  Republican bill. So this is even stephen when it comes to the parties.

I am very surprised that he is objecting on behalf of Senator Padilla  because, when Senator Padilla objected to my bill a month ago, he  literally said: Hey, Dan, work with us. Pair it with the Democrat bill.  Then Senator Padilla's team even suggested which Democrat bill to pair  it with, which was the Gallego bill, which I am trying to pass right  now.

So, as to what my colleague from New Mexico just said, none of it  makes sense unless people are going back on their word, which is a  little bit frustrating because the Senate operates on trust here. Maybe  it is because my colleague doesn't like a House bill.

So what I am going to try and do now--again, for Senator Gallego, a  Democrat from Arizona, and for me, a Republican from Alaska--is try and  pass by unanimous consent the Senate version of these bills. What I  did--because I told the other side that I would do it--is I told  Senator Gallego and Senator Padilla that I will clear Senator Gallego's  bill; that I will clear it on the Republican side. It took a lot of  work, but we got that done. So let's see if we can pass the Senate  version of these bills.

909; the La Paz County Solar  Energy and Job Creation Act; and my bill, S. 785, the Alaska Native  Vietnam Era Veterans Land Allotment Extension Act.

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I am just going to end by saying I am  very disappointed. I tried to do this a month ago. This bill of mine is  really for some great heroes in America, and the program is going to  expire in a month. This bill passed unanimously in December. My  colleague from New Mexico came down and talked in process terms about  why he is objecting. It is a little hard to understand, but I actually  think there is probably something else going on here as I have been  around this place long enough.

This is a chart that I have called the last frontier lockup. It lists  the 70 Executive orders and Executive actions all throughout the State  of Alaska to lock up my State--70 Executive orders and Executive  actions issued by the Biden administration to shut down Alaska, to stop  getting access to Federal lands in Alaska, to stop any kind of resource  development in Alaska--and 1 of those 70 was to delay and stop the  Alaska Native Vietnam Era Veterans Land Allotment Extension Act  that Secretary Haaland committed me to implement.

This is what my Democrat colleagues do. This is what they do to  Alaska. They have groups--far-left groups--that tell them, when they  get in power, to shut down Alaska.

But wait a minute. We have bills that help Alaska Native indigenous  people.

They are like: Hey, we don't care about them. Shut down Alaska. Shut  down indigenous people's opportunities.

I saw, for 4 years with the Biden administration, this whole area of  the National Petroleum Reserve of Alaska, which is meant for oil and  gas development--that they shut down the whole thing, OK? Guess who  wanted that to be open. All the indigenous leaders of the North Slope:  the Tribe, the Alaska Native Corporations, the Borough Leadership. They  came down here eight times to DC--eight times--to try to meet with the  Secretary of the Interior, saying: Don't lock up my lands. Don't lock  up my lands. She never met with them. She never met with them.

My colleague from New Mexico has been the leader in locking up  Alaska. I mean, I have come down to the floor and raised a little bit  of heck on all of the actions he has taken to lock up my State.

So, look, the Democrats really don't want anyone, including heroic  Alaska Native Vietnam vets, to have access to land even though that is  the law. It is really, really ironic that they always say they want to  help indigenous people, but in my State, their actions are very  different, and this is a great example of what they are doing.

You know, it is really ironic, too, that during the 4 years of the  Biden administration, when this was going on, it was ``drill, baby,  drill'' in New Mexico. New Mexico, with the Secretary of the Interior's  help, increased oil production from 1 million barrels to 2 million  barrels a day on Federal lands. Yet the Senator from New Mexico and the  Secretary of the Interior and Joe Biden said: We are going to shut this  place down.

Now they are saying: We are going to make sure the Native Vietnam  vets--they have had a real injustice. We fixed it under law. Then it  was delayed by the Biden administration's Secretary of the Interior.

All I am trying to do is get a two-word change so this program can  continue. These guys are dying every day, these great heroes. I came to  the floor a month ago and tried to get it done.

The Democrat Senator said: Do this, Dan.

I did it.

Do this, Dan.

I did it.

Pair it with the Democrat bill.

I did it. It was ready to go.

Then, an hour ago, they said: Nope. We are going to block it again.

It is an outrage--it is an outrage--and it is not because of process.  It is because they want to keep my State shut down. I see it every time  here, and it is wrong. It is wrong.

I will keep working. If you guys want to pass more bills, I will keep  trying, but I am starting to lose a little trust. A month ago, I was on  the floor, and you guys told me what to do to move this. I did it and  none of you kept your word and that is not how this place operates.