Recognizing the 250th Anniversary of the United States Marine Corps


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696624/recognizing-the-250th-anniversary-of-the-united-states-marine-corps


Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I want to thank my colleague Senator  Blumenthal and the Presiding Officer for his great service. We do know  the Marine Corps is part of the Department of the Navy, so we are all  related here. I won't say what I used to say to my father, who was a  Navy officer, in response to that, but it is an honor to be on the  Senate floor here with Senator Blumenthal, my colleague and fellow  marine.

You know, there is a lot of frustration going on here in the Senate.  We are trying to get this government reopened and pay our workers and  people are suffering, but I do think it is also important to switch  gears and come down here, in a bipartisan fashion, to agree to S. Res.  124, by Senator Blumenthal and me, on commemorating the 250th  anniversary of the U.S. Marine Corps, a truly remarkable milestone by  one of America's most remarkable institutions. That happens tomorrow,  on November 10--our birthday, the Marine Corps' birthday.

Now, we marines--Mr. President, you know this--take our November 10  birthday very seriously. No matter where marines are anywhere in the  world, deployed, they always take time to celebrate the birthday of our  beloved Corps on November 10. Everybody in the Marine Corps wishes each  other happy birthday.

We also are kind of proud of the fact that we are the only military  service that was founded in a bar. Yes, that is true. Tun Tavern in  Philadelphia, PA, is where the Marine Corps was founded.

At our celebrations, we do a lot. They are great celebrations. If you  haven't been to one, anyone watching, I encourage you to go to a Marine  Corps birthday ball. You will have the time of your life. You will come  away filled with a sense of patriotism and pride whether you served in  the military in the Marine Corps or not. You will love it.

At these birthday celebrations, we, of course, as Senator Blumenthal  mentioned, remember our fallen. We recommit ourselves to keeping the  marines the world's finest fighting force, which it is and has been for  decades. We take time to recognize not just the marines present but, in  particular, the oldest and youngest marines present.

We have a very solemn cake-cutting ceremony. In fact, after the  birthday cake is cut with a Mameluke sword, the guest of honor presents  the first piece of cake to the oldest marine present, and then he hands  that piece of cake off, after he takes a bite, to the youngest marine  present, signifying the passing of heritage and culture and tradition  from one generation to the other.

Last night, there were two special Marine Corps balls that I cared a  lot about. One--the one I really care about--was in Anchorage, AK,  hosted by Delta Company, 4th Law Enforcement Battalion. I was very  honored and set to be there as a guest of honor last night. This is the  Alaska Marine Corps ball. We have such a great time. I have been going  to that ball for years with my wife, my daughters, friends, fellow  marines. Alas, given the work we are doing here in the Senate to reopen  the government, I was not able to attend--a huge disappointment for me.  I really, really wanted to be in Alaska with my fellow marines and my  family.

There was also another Marine Corps ball last night. It was actually  in DC here, the Commandant's ball. At the last minute, I thought, hey,  if I can't be in Anchorage, I am going to at least celebrate the 250th  with the Commandant, some top generals, top enlisted marines, a couple  of my Senate colleagues--Senator Ernst and Senator Daines. Vice  President JD Vance was a guest of honor. By the way, he is the first  marine Vice President ever, so he got a lot of shouts and recognition  last night.

But the marine who stole the show last night was the oldest marine,  Cpl Nils Mockler--99 years old; born in 1926; Iwo Jima combat marine,  D1; looking as strong as he did when he was an 18-year-old corporal  storming the beaches of Iwo Jima. Last night, he was there. The place  went nuts when he was recognized--a 5-minute standing ovation for this  great American hero. What a moment.

Finally, at every Marine Corps birthday ball throughout the world for  the last hundred years, this message that I am going to read right now  is read. It is the message delivered to the marines on the birthday of  the Marine Corps by the Commandant of the Marine Corps.

The 13th Commandant of the Marine Corps, Gen. John Lejeune, in 1921  issued this message, and ever since then, since 1921, every single  Marine Corps birthday celebration for over a hundred years has had this  proclamation read. It was read last night in Anchorage; it was read  last night in DC; and for the Marine Corps balls today and tomorrow on  November 10, it will be read there. Here is what it says--remember,  this is from 1921, but it kind of gives you a sense of how we feel  about our illustrious Corps. It is a message from the Commandant of the  Marine Corps, republished in the U.S. Marine Corps Manual, edition  1921:

On November 10, 1775, a Corps of Marines was created by a       resolution of the Continental Congress. Since that date many       thousand men have borne the name Marine. In memory of them it       is fitting that we who are marines should commemorate the       birthday of our corps by calling to mind the glories of its       long and illustrious history.

The record of our corps is one which will bear comparison       with that of the most famous military organizations in the       world's history. During 90 of the 146 years of its existence       the Marine Corps has been in action against the Nation's       foes. From the Battle of Trenton to the Argonne, marines have       won foremost honors in war, and in the long eras of       tranquility at home generation after generation of marines       have grown gray in war in both hemispheres, and in every       corner of the seven seas that our country and its citizens       might enjoy peace and security.

In every battle and skirmish since the birth of our corps       marines have acquitted themselves with the greatest       distinction, winning new honors on each occasion until the       term marine has come to signify all that is highest in       military efficiency and soldierly virtue.

This high name of distinction and soldierly repute we who       are Marines today have received from those who preceded us in       the corps. With it we also received from them the eternal       spirit which has animated our corps from generation to       generation and has been the distinguishing mark of the       marines in every age. So long as that spirit continues to       flourish marines will be found equal to every emergency in       the future as they have been in the past, and the men of our       Nation will regard us as worthy successors to the long line       of illustrious men who have served as ``Soldiers of the Sea''       since the founding of the corps.

Mr. President, you have heard that before. That is the message of the  Marine Corps birthday from the Commandant of the Marine Corps, John  Lejeune, issued in 1921. Every marine hears this every year, and it is  still incredibly relevant.

I want to thank Senator Blumenthal again for leading this effort on  the 250th birthday resolution that we are going to pass here in the  Senate in commemoration of the Marine Corps' founding.

We have a long tradition of being the service that is most ready when  our Nation is least ready.

Again, to all the marines out there, ``Semper Fi,'' happy birthday,  and here is to 250 more years for our Corps.