Recognizing the 60th Anniversary of the University of Georgia School of Social Work


Mr. WARNOCK. Madam President, today, I pay tribute to the University  of Georgia School of Social Work for its 60th anniversary and to Deans  Charles A. Stewart (1964-1995), Bonnie Yegidis (1995-2003), Maurice  Daniels (2005-2016), Anna Scheyett (2016-2021), and its current dean,  Philip Hong (2022-present).

For six decades, the School of Social Work has advanced the  University of Georgia's teaching, research, and service mission. It has  conferred more than 9,000 degrees in social work and nonprofit  management and leadership while strengthening the University of  Georgia's academic excellence by preparing culturally responsive  practitioners and scholars to be leaders in addressing social problems  and promoting social justice, locally and globally, through teaching,  research, and service.

Throughout its history, the University of Georgia School of Social  Work has positively impacted the State of Georgia, our Nation, and our  world. It established a Center for Social Justice, Human, and Civil  Rights; an Institute for Nonprofit Organizations; and a Center on Human  Trafficking Research and Outreach, each of which has worked to address  practices and policies which affect equal access to resources,  international human and civil rights, and the well-being of all  populations. It was the first school in Georgia to offer bachelor's,  doctorate, and part-time master's degrees in social work; first to  offer a master's degree in nonprofit management and leadership; and  first to offer dual degrees in social work and law, and social work and  public health.

Today, the University of Georgia School of Social Work continues its  60-year legacy of building a better world for all by seeking socially  innovative solutions to create meaningful change. Its faculty are  actively involved in issues such as child safety and family well-being,  civil rights and social justice, community health and well-being,  culturally informed practice, health and behavioral health prevention  and intervention, human trafficking and human rights, social economic  policy and development, trauma and violence prevention, and many more.  Its students contribute countless internship hours to institutions  across Georgia. And alumni of its Athens and Gwinnett campuses, as well  as its online program, are engaged in meaningful careers in service to  the well-being of our society.

On the 60th anniversary of the University of Georgia School of Social  Work, I would like to congratulate and thank its faculty, staff, and  students--both past and present--for the contributions and impact that  it has come to represent in the State of Georgia, nationally, and  globally.