Providing for Consideration of S. Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law- Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I call  up House Resolution 1057 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 1057

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the bill (S. 1383) to       establish the Veterans Advisory Committee on Equal Access,       and for other purposes. All points of order against       consideration of the bill are waived. An amendment in the       nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules       Committee Print 119-19, modified by the amendment printed in       the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this       resolution, shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as       amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill,       as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on House       Administration or their respective designees; and (2) one       motion to commit.

Sec. 2. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2189) to       modernize Federal firearms laws to account for advancements       in technology and less-than-lethal weapons, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a       substitute recommended by the Committee on the Judiciary now       printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a       substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print       119-18 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended,       shall be considered as read. All points of order against       provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as       amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided among and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or       their respective designees and the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 3. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 261) to amend       the National Marine Sanctuaries Act to prohibit requiring an       authorization for the installation, continued presence,       operation, maintenance, repair, or recovery of undersea fiber       optic cables in a national marine sanctuary if such       activities have previously been authorized by a Federal or       State agency. All points of order against consideration of       the bill are waived. The       amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the       Committee on Natural Resources now printed in the bill shall       be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be       considered as read. All points of order against provisions in       the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall       be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Natural Resources or their       respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 4. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3617) to amend       the Department of Energy Organization Act to secure the       supply of critical energy resources, including critical       minerals and other materials, and for other purposes. All       points of order against consideration of the bill are waived.       The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by       the Committee on Energy and Commerce now printed in the bill       shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall       be considered as read. All points of order against provisions       in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question       shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and       on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their       respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 5.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Last night, the Rules Committee met and produced a rule providing for  consideration of four pieces of legislation. The rule provides for  consideration of S. 1383, the SAVE America Act, under a closed rule  with 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and  ranking minority member of the Committee on House Administration or  their respective designees and provides for one motion to commit.

The rule also provides for consideration of H.R. 2189, the Law- Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act, under a closed rule with 1  hour of debate equally divided among and controlled by the chair and  ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary and the  Committee on Ways and Means or their respective designees and provides  for one motion to recommit.

The rule also provides for consideration of H.R. 261, the Undersea  Cable Protection Act of 2025, under a closed rule with 1 hour of debate  equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member  of the Committee on Natural Resources or their respective designees and  provides for one motion to recommit.

The rule also provides for consideration of H.R. 3617, the Securing  America's Critical Mineral Supply Act, under a closed rule with 1 hour  of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking  minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their  respective designees and provides for one motion to recommit.

Further, the rule provides same-day authority through Friday,  February 13, for a rule providing for consideration of a continuing  resolution related to the Department of Homeland Security funding.

Mr. Speaker, as the House of Representatives works to deliver on the  critical issues our Nation faces, we urge our colleagues today to  prioritize the passage of S. 1383, the Safeguard American Voter  Eligibility Act, or the SAVE America Act, which builds upon the SAVE  Act introduced in previous Congresses that requires States to obtain  proof of citizenship for Federal elections, ensuring only U.S. citizens  are voting in those elections. In addition, the SAVE America Act  requires individuals to present a valid photo identification before  voting.

Our Founders set forth our electoral processes 250 years ago based  upon the simple and ultimate principle that only Americans should vote.  However, in this age of progressive, suicidal empathy, basic concepts  such as voter ID and proof of citizenship have been attacked as  suppression.

Let's consider the facts.

Fact one: Under the previous administration, the Biden-Harris- Mayorkas administration, some 10 million or more illegal aliens poured  into communities across our country, adding to an existing foreign-born  population, which totals upward of over 50 million people or close to  16 percent.

Fact two: While only U.S. citizens are legally eligible to vote in  Federal elections, Federal law actually interferes with and prevents  States from using Federal data to check their voter rolls to ensure  that only citizens are voting, such that we end up in the upside-down  situation where a State like Arizona has two different sets of systems,  one for State and local and one for Federal.

Fact three: This is a recipe for fraud and a recipe for having people  vote who shouldn't be voting. It undermines people's confidence in our  electoral system. When combined with the fact that several  jurisdictions offer driver's licenses and other benefits to illegal  aliens and other foreign nationals, it provides opportunity for  noncitizens to register to vote.

Fact four: Polling data is overwhelmingly in support of the SAVE  America Act and its principles, that only American citizens should  vote, and that we should use voter identification when we go to vote.  Polling indicates that over 70 percent of Democrats across this  country, over 90 percent of Republicans, and well over 70 percent of  virtually every ethnicity and ethnic group in the country--Black  Americans, Hispanic Americans, White Americans, men, women, rural,  urban--overwhelmingly support voter identification and ensuring that  only citizens vote.

Fact five: We passed the SAVE Act in the previous, preceding  Congress. We passed the SAVE Act in this Congress focusing on  citizenship. We now bring the SAVE America Act forward that adds voter  identification, which is, again, overwhelmingly popular.

The SAVE Act passed on a bipartisan basis. Democrats joined with us  in the previous Congress. Democrats joined with us in this Congress. In  both instances, the House of Representatives affirmed that only U.S.  citizens should vote in Federal elections.

Let's add voter ID to it. Let's pass the SAVE America Act. Let's send  it over to the Senate and let the Senate move this legislation to the  President's desk.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, that was a whole lot of words to say my  Democratic colleagues don't want only citizens to vote and don't like  voter ID.

Mr. Speaker, I am about to yield 2 minutes to my friend from Arizona,  but I will just note that, as one of the lead sponsors of the  legislation to deal with prohibiting Members of Congress from engaging  in the act of trading in stocks, we are working on a bipartisan basis.  We have legislation we are going to move. There will be a time to do  that, and this is a complete substitute. In other words, this is fake.

It is a bunch of drama because my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle do not want voter identification to be used to vote, and they do  not want to guarantee that only citizens vote. It is that simple.

Mr. Speaker, we will deal with stock trading. I am one of the lead  sponsors of that legislation. We will get it done but not as a  substitute for what 80 percent of American people want, which is to  guarantee only citizens vote and that they show up with a voter  identification.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud that this administration is relieving the  devastating costs on the American people by creating economic growth  and undoing a lot of the damage of the previous administration. We are  seeing that on a daily basis.

Mr. Speaker, the gentleman is simply incorrect with respect to the  amount of evidence that has mounted over people who are voting and  should not be. The record is replete. In one example, ICE arrested  criminal illegal alien Ian Andre Roberts, who was serving as the Des  Moines, Iowa, school district superintendent at the time of his arrest.  After his arrest, it was found that Roberts was a registered voter in  Maryland despite his illegal immigration status and long criminal  record. It was a criminal record filled with narcotics trafficking,  driving vehicles he shouldn't have been driving, unauthorized  possession of a firearm, and other crimes.

Yet we act like this isn't occurring. I have dozens of other examples  right here of arrests that have been occurring this year.

Mr. Speaker, I note that a couple of things that are important for  the American people to see is that this administration has driven  unemployment down to historic lows. Economic growth is now back up to  close to 4 percent, we believe, in the fourth quarter, and we get those  numbers at the end of February.

We are seeing, importantly, a massive surge in employment among  American citizens. That is among native-born American citizens. The  fact is that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle don't care  about that. They don't want to ensure that we are protecting American  citizens. They don't want to have voter identification, and they don't  want to ensure that only citizens vote in American elections.

That is what this is about. It is pretty simple.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mrs. BIGGS of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  Texas (Mr. Roy), my friend and colleague, for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the rule. The American  people deserve elections that they can trust, and this rule moves us  just one step closer to restoring that trust.

It is simple. Only American citizens should be voting in American  elections. I can't believe we are even having to say that.

Right now, our system has real gaps, and the longer we ignore them,  the more confidence we lose. Some of the left would rather keep those  loopholes wide open than ensure the integrity of our elections.

We have already seen what happens when Washington refuses to act. We  have seen the chaos at the border. We cannot let that chaos spill over  into the ballot box. The SAVE America Act helps prevent that.

This bill delivers on one of President Trump's top priorities, and  that is to secure our elections and to make sure only citizens vote.  That is not controversial. That is the standard voters are demanding.

Let's do what is right. Let's pass this rule and move the bill  forward.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I would note that when the gentleman from  Massachusetts tries to dismiss the supposed trivial or anecdotal or  cherry-picked cases, there are so many that it would take me more time  than I have to read through them all of prosecutions for voter fraud  and individual instances of voter fraud.

We have one here of Angelica Maria Francesco in Alabama in 2024, an  illegal alien charged by Federal authorities with nine criminal counts  in connection with her fraudulent assumption of the identity of a U.S.  citizen, including voter fraud.

We have Alford Nelson, as known as Alford Samuels, in Florida in  2024. Alford Nelson was known as Alford Samuels, among several other  aliases. He was charged by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement in  Broward County with two felony counts of voting as an unqualified  elector. Nelson, illegal alien, unlawfully voted by mail.

I can keep on going on and on and keep going down the list. It is  real. The only thing that we are putting forward is a common sense  proposal to ensure that only citizens vote in American elections and  that we provide voter ID at the polls.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Alabama, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  made a number of claims about this legislation. With respect to the  gentleman's question, I would tell you that what we are talking about  with respect to voter identification is simply a presentation of voter  identification.

Thirty-six States already have voter identification requirements. To  the extent that we are able to get this passed, as I hope we will and  signed into law in the next month or two, we will have the ability that  States can immediately be able to implement voter identification,  present true voter ID. That is it, present it.

With respect to the other claims, claims about the implications for  married women, the fact is that the SAVE America Act does not, as is  alleged, disenfranchise voters but, rather, it provides a very specific  process for anyone who changes his or her name to register to vote,  including by signing an affidavit.

We believe the original form of the SAVE Act would have provided  ample ability for States to have taken care of it, but we went ahead  and added an additional provision to ensure that the affidavit process  was there for the small fraction of the population it might have  impacted. We wanted to ensure there was no chance of issues.

Questions were raised about our uniformed personnel, our men and  women who serve this country overseas. We believe our previous version  would have made it fine for them to be able to do what they needed to  do to register to vote and vote, but we made a clarification to ensure  that UOCAVA governs what happens with our men and women in uniform. We  have made every attempt to work to ensure that this bill is doing  exactly what it is intended to do, which is ensure that only citizens  vote and that we present voter ID at the polls.

I would just like to offer, as I have done already, a number of  examples, numerous other examples, of individuals committing fraud.

Laura Janeth Garza in Texas, a Mexican citizen, pled guilty to two  felony charges of voter impersonation and ineligible voting. Garza  stole the identity of her cousin, a U.S. citizen.

Another example is that of Mario Obdulio Orellana in Texas, a 57- year-old El Salvadoran national, who was indicted by the Department of  Justice on Federal immigration and voter fraud violations.

Now, I could go down and give more and more examples. The fact is,  yes, these are good examples in which we have been able to intervene  and stop this voter fraud and identify the individuals and prosecute  those individuals.

However, we know that there is significant additional fraud going on  that we are not capturing and that we are not catching. There is a very  simple and basic premise of those who have been in a prosecutorial  function, which is that you only catch so many people. In this case, we  have been going after some individuals, but we can certainly prevent  any further abuse of our voter elections. Making sure that we have  integrity in those elections is to make sure we have voter  identification and ensure that only citizens are voting.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close if the gentleman from  Massachusetts is prepared to close.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time I have  remaining.

Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from Massachusetts said that we are just  doing this legislation because we are afraid of losing this election.

The fact of the matter is we are not. We want to ensure that we win  this election by getting the votes of American citizens and not  noncitizens. It is pretty simple.

I would note that the gentleman dismisses as trivial, or as the  process working, the examples that we have given in the Record of the  countless times where individuals have engaged in voter fraud and they  have been caught and prosecuted. I would also like to point out that  they were caught after they voted. That is the problem.

The core issue here is a very simple one. We all agree Americans  overwhelmingly believe by polls and by all indication that only  American citizens should vote in American elections. We currently have  a problem. We even have problems where noncitizens sometimes don't know  they are doing something wrong.

We should be very clear: When you register to vote, you are a  citizen. When you show up to vote, you present voter identification.  That is all that we do.

Mr. Speaker, in a few minutes, I will offer an amendment to the rule.  The amendment will make a technical correction to the manager's  amendment to reflect the intent.