Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendment to H.R. Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Minnesota for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, here we are on September 19, House Republicans passed  legislation which would have funded government through November 20.  Here we are on November 12, and we are basically where we would have  been had we just passed the bill that we passed in September.

What did we get for all of that? What happened over all these days?  Well, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle were searching for a  reason for voters to support them next November. They were searching  for a cause.

We know this because there were intervening elections and a lot of  rhetoric but no results. We are here right now, with Democrats having  joined Republican Senators to send a bill over here to fund government  through the end of January with three appropriations bills, which we  worked through regular order, to keep spending relatively flat. It  advances the priorities the American people sent us here to advance, to  back up the President who is securing the border, which he was sent to  Washington to do; to restore military to focusing on defending this  Nation rather than advancing woke priorities, which the American people  sent him here to do; for us to continue to work, to grow, and to build  this economy after 4 years of being wrecked with reckless spending but  also abhorrent policies. The American people are now saying: What on  Earth were Democrats doing?

My Democrat colleagues' response is healthcare. That is the only  default position they have is the default to healthcare. The fact is,  it is because they broke the system so badly that they are now coming  and asking us to have the Treasury print money to then give out in  order to enrich insurance companies with massive subsidies. That is the  actual fact.

The American people understand this and they recognize that they  don't want insurance companies to be enriched, but they want to be able  to go get the doctor of their choice. The American people understand  this and so do we.

We are here to open the government, and we are here to stand up for  doctors and patients instead of insurance companies and big regulators.  I support this legislation. I know my Republican colleagues do. The  question really is: Will Democrats support this legislation, or will  they wish to perpetuate the shutting down of government to enrich  insurance companies?