Providing for Consideration of H.R. Rescissions Act of 2025


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairwoman, my friend from North  Carolina, for yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, I support this rule, and I rise in support of the rule.

For the American people watching back home, we are here because, on  June 3, the House of Representatives received a rescissions request  from the White House to eliminate $9 billion in unobligated spending.  Let's just say there is much more to go. This is step one.

Under the Impoundment Control Act, once a request is received,  Congress has  45 days to act. The House is now acting. These rescissions are, in  part, due to what DOGE was able to uncover and bring forward in terms  of wasteful government spending.

Just look at what we have been funding with taxpayer dollars: $6  million for net-zero cities in Mexico; $5.1 million for programs to  strengthen the resilience of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender,  intersex, and queer--good grief--global movements; $1.5 million to  advance diversity, equity, and inclusion in Serbia's workplaces; $2  million for Moroccan pottery classes; $2 million for sex changes and  LGBT activism in Guatemala; $33,000 for being LGBTI--I can't even keep  up with this stuff; $6 million to fund tourism in Egypt; $32,000 for  transgender comic books in Peru; and $1 million to help disabled people  in Tajikistan become climate leaders.

Is that what Democrats think their taxpayer dollars should go toward?  I can promise the minority that the people I represent think that this  is absolute garbage.

How on Earth can my Democratic friends possibly defend that? My  friends on the other side of the aisle would like you to believe,  seriously, that if you don't use your taxpayer dollars to fund this  absurd list of projects and thousands of others that I didn't even  list, somehow people will die and our global standing in the world will  crumble.

Let's just reject this now. The White House is right to send up this  rescissions package. This should be just step one. There should be  numerous other steps.

We should rescind billions upon billions of dollars of wasteful  spending that is destroying our country through inflation and  increasing the size and scope of government, undermining the safety and  security of the American people.

How about the $160 million we can save by not giving more money to  UNRWA, the organization whose own employees participated in Hamas'  slaughter of Israeli citizens on October 7, which we now know to be  verifiably and completely true?

Why would we continue to shovel money to an organization that is  funding terrorism against our allies and against our American citizens?  Yet, that is precisely what my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle would wish us to continue to do.

Mr. Speaker, let's address the One Big Beautiful Bill Act issue. My  friends on the other side of the aisle are raising the prospect of $3  trillion of additional deficits. I have been very open in my belief  that this bill should be better, that we should cut more spending and  be more mindful of reducing the size of government to get deficits down  much further than we are seeing in this bill.

To be very clear--and we had this debate in the Committee on Rules-- what my friends on the other side of the aisle are forgetting and not  putting forward here in this debate, when they say $3 trillion of  additional deficits, is what you believe the growth rate will be if you  adopt policies that will actually increase economic growth. That is  putting more money into the pockets of the American people and  deregulating so that businesses can create wealth.

We assumed 2.6 percent economic growth. That is higher than the CBO's  expectation of 1.8 but lower than the historic growth of 3.2 percent.

We hit the sweet spot. We believe that if you get that growth, you  will have deficit neutrality on this bill so that you will end up  creating wealth, creating jobs, putting more money into people's  pockets, and trying to deliver on the spending cuts, reversal and  termination of the green new scam, and the application of Medicaid work  requirements to make sure that people aren't getting benefits when they  should be working.

Mr. Speaker, I believe it is a good bill.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I believe it is a good bill, and I will say it  again: I think the bill can get better. I think the Senate should  improve it. I think that we should find more savings, but to say to the  American people that it is creating deficits, ignoring economic growth,  is just simply not true.