Combating Online Predators Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698861/combating-online-predators-act


Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 6719) to prohibit threats to a minor, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 6719

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Combating Online Predators       Act'' or the ``COP Act''.       SEC. 2. PROHIBITING THREATS TO A MINOR.

(a) Material Involving the Sexual Exploitation of Minors.--      Section 2252A of title 18, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (a)--

(A) in paragraph (6), by striking ``illegal; or'' and       inserting ``illegal;'';

(B) in paragraph (7), by striking the period at the end and       inserting ``; or''; and

(C) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following:

``(8) knowingly distributes, offers, sends, or provides, in       or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, a threat to       distribute--

``(A) a visual depiction of a minor engaging in sexually       explicit conduct, or

``(B) a visual depiction of a person the defendant believes       is a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct,      with the intent that the minor, or the person the defendant       believes is a minor, create or transmit a visual depiction of       any minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct,''; and

(2) in subsection (b), by striking ``or (6)'' and inserting       ``(6), or (8)''.

(b) Material Constituting or Containing Child       Pornography.--Section 2252 of title 18, United States Code,       is amended--

(1) in subsection (a)--

(A) in paragraph (3)(B)(ii), by striking ``or'' at the end;

(B) in paragraph (4)(B)(ii), by inserting ``or'' after the       semicolon; and

(C) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:

``(5) knowingly distributes, offers, sends, or provides, in       or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, a threat to       distribute--

``(A) a visual depiction of a minor engaging in sexually       explicit conduct, or

``(B) a visual depiction of a person the defendant believes       is a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct,      with the intent that the minor, or the person the defendant       believes is a minor, create or transmit a visual depiction of       sexually explicit conduct,'';

(2) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting ``or (5)'' after       ``paragraph (4)''; and

(3) in subsection (c), in the matter preceding paragraph       (1), by inserting ``or (5)'' after ``paragraph (4)''.

Ms. LEE of Florida.  6719.

Mr. Speaker, as we recognize January as National Human Trafficking  Prevention Month, I am proud of all the work the House Judiciary  Committee has done and continues to do to protect children and our most  vulnerable populations.

In the 118th Congress, the Subcommittee on Crime and Federal  Government Surveillance held two hearings focused on human trafficking,  child protection, and the identification of victims. Through those  important hearings, my legislation, the REPORT Act, which strengthened  requirements for online service providers to report crimes involving  child sex abuse material to the National Center for Missing and  Exploited Children, was signed into law. I applaud Chairman Biggs for  beginning the 119th Congress with our first subcommittee hearing once  again focused on protecting victims of online exploitation.

Our work is far from over, which is why I look forward to passing the  Combating Online Predators Act today.

Mr. Speaker, the rise of sextortion against our Nation's children is  troubling. Sextortion is a form of exploitation that occurs when  someone threatens to distribute another person's private, sensitive  material unless that person complies with a demand for additional  sexual content, sexual favors, or money.

Incidents of sextortion have increased dramatically in recent years.  Cases reported in the United States increased from 13,842 in the first  half of 2024 to 23,593 in the same period in 2025. This rapid growth is  disturbing, and it is unacceptable.

Children are especially vulnerable to falling victim to sextortion,  with boys aged 14 to 17 most often being targeted. Tragically, this  exploitation has led some young people to take their own lives in an  attempt to prevent their images from being shared with friends or  family.

Through this horrendous conduct, we have lost beautiful young lives,  including Gavin Guffey from South Carolina, Bryce Tate from West  Virginia, and many other children. I have also met with parents,  including a mother from my home State of Florida, who shared the  heartbreaking story of her son who fell victim to sextortion and later  took his life.

Each of these precious lives was taken too soon, and today, we honor  and remember them. Yet, under current law, law enforcement is not fully  equipped with the tools necessary to prosecute those who push children  into these acts. Sextortion falls outside of the CSAM statute, forcing  Federal prosecutors to rely on a patchwork of charging theories that do  not fully reflect the gravity of these crimes. The absence of a  specific Federal statute prohibiting sextortion leads to inconsistent  and inadequate sentencing that can fail to capture the seriousness of  this offense.

A legislative fix is, therefore, necessary to ensure Federal  prosecutors can charge this conduct directly and fight sextortion  effectively.

Congress has a duty to protect children from online exploitation and  ensure predators are held fully accountable. The Combating Online  Predators Act does exactly that by amending the United States Criminal  Code to criminalize intentional threats to distribute child sex abuse  material.

No child should ever encounter these threats online, and no child  should ever feel that the only way out is to end their own life.  Predators must be stopped, and today, Congress continues its work. By  passing the Combating Online Predators Act, we strengthen our laws,  close a dangerous gap, and send a clear message to predators everywhere  that this conduct will not be tolerated.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, the internet is  increasingly becoming a hostile place for children. The practice of  sextortion is becoming far too common. As many as one in five teenagers  report experiencing sextortion.

That is why I rise in support of the Combating Online Predators Act,  which takes decisive action against the practice of sextortion.

This bill updates current child sexual abuse material laws to ensure  that sextortion is included so that no minor can be threatened with the  release of explicit content that depicts them.

As bad actors use the internet to harm kids, Congress must ensure our  laws are updated to protect them. Those who seek to threaten our youth  through sextortion must be held accountable, and this bill ensures they  will.

Mr. Speaker, I am so grateful to my colleague, Representative Lee,  for leading this effort to protect children from this harmful practice.  I am pleased with the widespread and bipartisan support for it, and I  urge my colleagues to support the Combating Online Predators Act.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues for their thoughtful debate and  for their support on this important issue. This legislation addresses a  clear and dangerous gap in Federal law that predators have exploited to  harm children online.

By explicitly criminalizing threats to distribute child sex abuse  material, Congress ensures these heinous acts are prosecuted with the  seriousness that they deserve. This legislation reflects the bipartisan  recognition that protecting children from exploitation is a shared  responsibility.

Mr. Speaker, it provides law enforcement with the clarity,  consistency, and tools necessary to hold offenders accountable and  prevent future harm.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my colleagues to pass  H.R. 6719, the Combating Online Predators Act, and I yield back the  balance of my time.