Holocaust Expropriated Art Recovery Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700745/holocaust-expropriated-art-recovery-act-of-2025


Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (S. 1884) to clarify the Holocaust Expropriated Art Recovery  Act of 2016, to appropriately limit the application of defenses based  on the passage of time and other non-merits defenses to claims under  that Act.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  S. 1884

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Holocaust Expropriated Art       Recovery Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. HOLOCAUST EXPROPRIATED ART RECOVERY ACT OF 2016                     IMPROVEMENTS.

(a) In General.--The Holocaust Expropriated Art Recovery       Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 1621 note) is amended--

(1) in section 2--

(A) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (10);

(B) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following:

``(8) The intent of this Act is to permit claims to recover       Nazi-looted art to be brought, notwithstanding the passage of       time since World War II. Some courts have frustrated the       intent of this Act by dismissing recovery lawsuits in       reliance on defenses based on the passage of time, such as       laches (for example, Zuckerman v Metropolitan Museum of Art,       928 F.3d 186 (2d Cir. 2019)) or adverse possession,       acquisitive prescription, or usucapion (for example, Cassirer       v. Thyssen-Bornemisza Foundation, 89 F.4th 1226 (9th Cir.       2024)) or on other non-merits discretionary defenses, such as       the act of state doctrine (for example, Von Saher v Norton       Simon Museum of Art at Pasadena, 897 F.3d 1141 (9th Cir.       2018)), forum non conveniens, international comity, or       prudential exhaustion. In order to effectuate the purpose of       the Act to permit claims to recover Nazi-looted art to be       resolved on the merits, these defenses must be precluded.

``(9) This Act also is intended to allow claims in       accordance with the procedures under this Act for the       recovery of artwork or other property lost during the covered       period because, or as a result, of Nazi persecution,       including by a covered government (as defined in section       1605(h)(3)(B) of title 28, United States Code) or an agent or       associate of a covered government, regardless of the       nationality or citizenship of the alleged victim,       notwithstanding the `domestic takings' rule under Federal       Republic of Germany v. Philipp, 592 U.S. 169 (2021).''; and

(C) in paragraph (10), as so redesignated, by striking       ``will yield just and fair resolutions in a more efficient       and predictable manner'' and inserting ``may, in some       circumstances, yield just and fair resolutions as well'';

(2) in section 3(2), by inserting ``and other non-merits       defenses'' after ``statutes of limitation'';

(3) in section 5--

(A) by striking subsection (g);

(B) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections       (h) and (i), respectively;

(C) by redesignating subsections (b), (c), and (d) as       subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively;

(D) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:

``(b) Relation to Foreign State Immunities.--      Notwithstanding any other law or prior judicial decision, any       civil claim or cause of action covered by subsection (a)       shall be deemed to be an action in which rights in violation       of international law are in issue for purposes of section       1605(a)(3) of title 28, United States Code, without regard to       the nationality or citizenship of the alleged victim.'';

(E) in subsection (d), as so redesignated, in the matter       preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``subsection (e)'' and       inserting ``subsection (h)'';

(F) in subsection (e), as so redesignated--

(i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking       ``Subsection (a)'' and inserting ``Subsections (a), (b), (f),       and (g)''; and

(ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``during the period''       and all that follows and inserting ``on or after the date of       enactment of this Act.''; and

(G) by inserting after subsection (e), as so redesignated,       the following:

``(f) Defenses Based on Passage of Time and Other Non-      Merits Defenses.--With respect to any claim that is otherwise       timely under this Act--

``(1) all defenses or substantive doctrines based on the       passage of time, including laches, adverse possession,       acquisitive prescription, and usucapion, may not be applied       with respect to the claim; and

``(2) all non-merits discretionary bases for dismissal,       including the act of state doctrine, international comity,       forum non conveniens, prudential exhaustion, and similar       doctrines unrelated to the merits, may not be applied with       respect to the claim.

``(g) Nationwide Service of Process.--For a civil action       brought under subsection (a) in any State or Federal court,       process may be served in the judicial district where the case       is brought or any other judicial district of the United       States where the defendant may be found, resides, has an       agent, or transacts business.''; and

(4) by adding at the end the following:       ``SEC. 6. SEVERABILITY.

``If any provision of this Act, or the application of a       provision of this Act to any person or circumstance, is held       invalid, the remainder of this Act, and the application of       such provision to other persons and circumstances, shall not       be affected thereby.''.

(b) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsection (a)       shall apply with respect to any civil claim or cause of       action that is--

(1) pending in any court on the date of enactment of this       Act, including any civil claim or cause of action that is       pending on appeal or for which the time to file an appeal has       not expired; or

(2) filed on or after the date of enactment of this Act.

Ms. LEE of Florida.  1884.

Mr. Speaker, I am grateful for the opportunity to bring this  legislation before the House today. I thank my bipartisan colleagues in  both Chambers who have worked to advance this important effort.

In the House, I thank Ranking Member Jamie Raskin and Representatives  Scott Fitzgerald, Jerry Nadler, and Maggie Goodlander.

In the Senate, I thank Senators John Cornyn, Ted Cruz, Richard  Blumenthal, and Chuck Schumer.

The Nazi regime committed unimaginable atrocities during the  Holocaust, murdering millions of Jews and destroying families,  communities, and livelihoods.

The regime also carried out a systematic campaign of cultural theft.  Hundreds of thousands of works of art and cultural objects were  confiscated or misappropriated from Jewish families and other  persecuted groups across Europe. These were not simply possessions.  They were pieces of family history, identity, and legacy.

After World War II, the United States and our Allies attempted to  return stolen artwork to their rightful owners, yet many pieces were  never reunited with the families from whom they were taken.

In the decades since, these works have surfaced in museums,  galleries, and private collections around the world.

In 1998, the United States convened the Washington Conference on  Nazi-Confiscated Art with more than 40 nations. The conference produced  the  Washington Principles, which called on governments and institutions to  take steps to achieve just and fair solutions for families seeking  return of their stolen property. Congress took an important step toward  that goal in 2016 when it enacted the Holocaust Expropriated Art  Recovery Act.

That law was designed to ensure that Holocaust survivors and their  heirs would have a fair opportunity to pursue claims in court and that  those claims would be decided on their merits, not dismissed because  too much time had passed.

Unfortunately, courts have sometimes applied technical defenses in  ways that undermine Congress' intent. This means that families who lost  everything during the Holocaust can still be denied their day in court  because of procedural barriers. This bill fixes that problem.

This bill removes the upcoming expiration date in the original law  and clarifies that these cases should be decided on the facts, not  dismissed on technicalities.

As someone who previously served as a judge in Florida and now serves  on the Judiciary Committee, I believe deeply that Congress must speak  clearly and provide judges with standards and guidance to apply in  their courtrooms.

Justice should not depend on procedural loopholes or arbitrary  decisions when families are seeking the return of property that was  stolen during one of history's greatest crimes. Behind every claim is a  family story.

Even today, descendants of Holocaust victims are still searching for  works of art that once hung in their grandparents' homes. In some  cases, families spent a generation preserving photographs, letters, and  fragments of evidence in hopes of one day recovering a painting or a  sculpture that represents their family's past.

For many of these families, these cases are not about the monetary  value of the artwork. They are about restoring a piece of history that  was taken from them.

The Nazi regime stole not only lives but legacies. They stole  hundreds of thousands of artwork pieces in what has been termed the  greatest displacement of art in human history. The Nazis looted over  600,000 works of art and artifacts. To this day, more than 100,000 of  these works are not yet recovered. More than 100,000 works of art and  artifacts are still missing.

This legislation helps to ensure that survivors and their heirs have  the opportunity to reclaim those legacies and that their claims are  heard fairly in American courts.

I thank the many organizations that are supporting this effort,  including Art Ashes, the American Jewish Committee, the Anti-Defamation  League, Jewish Women International, the Florida Holocaust Museum, and  many others who continue working to preserve memory and pursue justice.  Despite the passage of time since the horrors of the Holocaust, it is  never too late to do the right thing.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill and ensure  that families seeking the return of their stolen heritage are given the  justice that they deserve.

Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is just for Holocaust survivors  and their heirs to continue to have their claims relating to art stolen  from them  by the Nazis heard in court. These claims should be decided on the  merits, not dismissed due to technical defenses. The Holocaust  Expropriated Art Recovery Act of 2025 will ensure just that.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.