Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the  Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act, or the SAVE Act.

The SAVE Act is an important step forward that will ensure elections  are more secure and accurate across the United States.

The vast majority of Americans agree that only U.S. citizens should  have the right to vote in our elections. Just last month, President  Trump took a strong stance reaffirming his commitment to the integrity  of our elections. The President's executive order will help equip  election officials with better data and more resources to administer  elections.

Today, Congress has the opportunity to build on this momentum and  ensure that these protections are part of our laws, that every State  can follow these  practices, and that voters across the Nation can feel confident in the  integrity and security of their elections.

Congress must commit to supporting election officials and voters by  making voting accessible and secure.

While States are the primary authority on how elections are conducted  on election day, it is our role here in Congress to ensure that we  support them, provide resources to them, and promote uniformity and  best practices across the country.

One way that we will be able to help provide those resources to  States is by passing the SAVE Act. The SAVE Act will help protect our  elections and ensure that only American citizens are casting ballots in  American elections.

The bill will support State and local election officials by providing  them with data and tools to help verify the accuracy and completeness  of their voter rolls.

As Florida's former secretary of state and chief election official, I  got to work with State and local elections workers across the country  and saw their commitment to ensuring strong elections.

Now, as the chair of the House Administration Subcommittee on  Elections, I am proud to work alongside Chairman Steil to advance  policies that lead to stronger elections across our country.

These tools will help the States ensure their rolls are accurate and  help prevent any unintended errors.

We know that some States have continued to discover noncitizens on  their voter rolls, and there is evidence that some of them have voted  in recent elections. We must take steps to ensure this doesn't  continue.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, I would like to address the claim that the SAVE  Act will somehow negatively affect married women or others who might  have changed their name because their legal documentation or  identification may reflect two different names. This legislation  clearly contemplates exactly this situation and, indeed, directly  addresses it. Page 14, line 19 directs the States to create a process  for addressing this exact issue.

Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, ever since the 19th Amendment passed  over 100 years ago, married women have been registering to vote and  successfully voting. Indeed, I am among them.

This bill will accommodate women who change their name and have not  yet updated their documentation to reflect a name change because the  SAVE Act explicitly directs States to establish a process for them to  register to vote, irrespective of those discrepancies.

Like other areas of the law, citizens will be able to use  combinations of existing identification documents in order to register  to vote. I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation.