Designation of Haiti for Temporary Protected Status


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701864/designation-of-haiti-for-temporary-protected-status


Mr. TIFFANY. Mr. Speaker, isn't it interesting that we are here  debating TPS for Haiti today? It is interesting because the t in TPS  stands for ``temporary.'' It has never been intended as a rolling,  multigenerational amnesty program. Yet, that is exactly what it has  become: an amnesty program.

In fact, during the 4 years of the Biden-Harris administration, this  tool was used to extend de facto amnesty to more than 1 million aliens  who entered this country without a visa. If this bill is passed, which  was originally declared by President Obama in 2010, it will be extended  yet again, this time through the end of the decade.

That is 20 years. That does not sound temporary.

Yet, it isn't just Haiti. Every Democrat administration has abused  TPS. There are currently 1.5 million aliens from a dozen countries  present in the United States under TPS designations, some of which  began decades ago.

Somalia's TPS was first extended during the administration of George  H.W. Bush in 1991, back when Paula Abdul and Bryan Adams topped the  Billboard Top 40 charts. It remains in place yet today, thanks to an  activist judge.

President Clinton gave TPS to Hondurans in 1999, when Microsoft had  just replaced General Electric as America's most valuable company and  gas was 92 cents a gallon. That designation lasted more than a quarter  century and was only terminated last year after a lengthy court battle.

President Clinton's successor, George W. Bush, granted TPS to  nationals of El Salvador in 2001, a full year before the BlackBerry  smartphone would hit store shelves. That designation also continues,  despite the fact that El Salvador's tourism ministry openly promotes  posh, all-inclusive, luxury resorts and boasts one of the lowest  homicide rates in our hemisphere. This is absurd.

Mr. TIFFANY. Mr. Speaker, TPS was never intended to be the Hotel  California that allows illegal aliens to enter any time but they may  never leave. It is time to put the t back in TPS and close this  permanent administrative amnesty loophole.

I ask for a ``no'' vote on this bill.