Great Lakes Mass Marking Program Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693992/great-lakes-mass-marking-program-act-of-2025


Mr. TIFFANY. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1917) to establish the Great Lakes Mass Marking Program, and  for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1917

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Great Lakes Mass Marking       Program Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

Congress finds that--

(1) the Great Lakes have experienced rapid changes in       recent years due to--

(A) the introduction of multiple aquatic invasive species;

(B) alterations in the food web; and

(C) decreases in the abundance of prey species;

(2) due to rapid biological change in the Great Lakes, the       Great Lakes need a collaborative, science-based program to       assist in making management actions regarding fish stocking       rates, the rehabilitation of important fish species, and       habitat restoration;

(3) the States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota,       Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, and Wisconsin and Indian Tribes       in those States, working through the Council of Lake       Committees of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission, have       identified that mass marking is--

(A) a precise tool to keep hatchery-produced fish in       balance with wild fish; and

(B) essential to achieving fishery management and research       objectives through producing a better understanding of--

(i) the quantity of hatchery produced fish compared to wild       fish in the Great Lakes;

(ii) the effectiveness of hatchery operations; and

(iii) the effectiveness of fishery management actions;

(4) the mass marking program of the United States Fish and       Wildlife Service in the Great Lakes--

(A) was initiated in 2010 on a limited scale;

(B) annually tags approximately 9,000,000 to 11,000,000 of       the hatchery-produced fish stocked in the Great Lakes;

(C) is a basinwide cooperative effort among the United       States Fish and Wildlife Service, Indian Tribes, and State       management agencies; and

(D) produces data used by State and Tribal fish management       agencies to make management decisions regarding Great Lakes       fisheries;

(5) annually, Federal, State, and Tribal agencies stock       approximately 21,000,000 hatchery-produced fish in the Great       Lakes to support--

(A) native species recovery; and

(B) recreational and commercial fishing;

(6) mass marking of hatchery-produced fish, using automated       technology, is an efficient method of implementing a       collaborative, science-based fishery program; and

(7) the Great Lakes are an important and valued resource       that--

(A) supports a robust regional economy valued at more than       $7,000,000,000; and

(B) provides stability to the economy of the United States.       SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of       the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.

(2) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the Great Lakes       Mass Marking Program established by section 4(a).       SEC. 4. GREAT LAKES MASS MARKING PROGRAM.

(a) In General.--To assist in determining the effectiveness       of hatchery operations and fisheries management actions and       to support Great Lakes fisheries, there is established within       the United States Fish and Wildlife Service a program for the       mass marking of hatchery-produced fish in the Great Lakes       basin, to be known as the ``Great Lakes Mass Marking       Program''.

(b) Authorized Actions.--In carrying out the Program, the       Director may--

(1) purchase capital and expendable equipment, fish tags,       and other items necessary to support and carry out tagging       and tag recovery operations, including data processing and       data dissemination relating to those operations; and

(2) hire additional personnel, as necessary.

(c) Required Collaboration.--In carrying out the Program,       the Director shall collaborate with applicable Federal,       State, and Tribal fish management agencies, the Council of       Lake Committees of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission, and       signatories to the Joint Strategic Plan for Management of       Great Lakes Fisheries.

(d) Availability of Data.--The Director shall make the data       collected under the Program available to applicable Federal,       State, and Tribal fish management agencies--

(1) to increase the understanding of the outcomes of       management action;

(2) to assist in meeting the restoration objectives of the       Great Lakes, including the fish community objectives and fish       management plans described in the Joint Strategic Plan for       Management of Great Lakes Fisheries;

(3) to assist in balancing predators and prey;

(4) to support and improve the economic status of Tribal,       recreational, and commercial fisheries; and

(5) to assist in evaluating the effectiveness of habitat       restoration efforts in the Great Lakes.       SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the       Program $2,700,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through       2030.

Mr. TIFFANY.  1917, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1917, the Great Lakes Mass  Marking Program Act of 2025, sponsored by my colleague from Michigan  (Mrs. Dingell).

According to the Great Lakes Fishery Commission, the Tribal,  commercial, and recreational fisheries in the five Great Lakes are home  to 177 species of fish, including 139 native species.

These Tribal, commercial, and recreational fisheries have an annual  economic value exceeding $7 billion and support over 75,000 jobs.

One of the greatest challenges facing the Great Lakes is the threat  of invasive species, such as the sea lamprey and Asian carp. To counter  these invasive species, Tribal, Federal, and State agencies introduce  hatchery-raised fish to encourage the recovery of native species. For  example, in 2024, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's 10 hatcheries  that support the Great Lakes region introduced more than 4.7 million  hatchery fish into the five Great Lakes.

To gather data on the success of hatchery fish, wildlife managers tag  large numbers of these fish through a practice known as mass marking.  This practice enables them to easily distinguish between hatchery fish  and wild fish populations.

In addition to tagging hatchery fish, this program also plays a vital  role in aiding cooperative fisheries management decisions with States  and Tribes by producing data on the health of the fishery.

The Great Lakes Mass Marking Program Act was administratively  established in 2010 and continues to receive appropriations despite  never being authorized by Congress. H.R. 1917 would provide formal  congressional authorization for this existing program, thereby  increasing the opportunity for congressional oversight over the  program. Importantly, by providing a statutory authorization, it would  better enable the Committee on Natural Resources to make substantive  changes to how the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service administers the  program, should changes be necessary.

Mr. Speaker, I support this legislation, and I reserve the balance of  my time.

Mr. TIFFANY. Mr. Speaker, the Great Lakes are both an ecological and  economic engine for our Nation. It is our duty as Members of Congress  to safeguard them for future generations, and H.R. 1917 is a step  forward in that process.

I thank Representatives Dingell, Walberg, and Huizenga for their  efforts on this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, once again, I urge my colleagues to support the bill,  and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. TIFFANY. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.