Wabeno Economic Development Act


Mr. TIFFANY. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3937) to provide for the conveyance of certain Federal land  in Chequamegon-Nicolet National Forest, and for other purposes, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3937

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Wabeno Economic Development       Act''.       SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM LAND IN                     THE CHEQUAMEGON-NICOLET NATIONAL FOREST TO                     TONY'S WABENO REDI-MIX, LLC.

(a) Conveyance Required.--If, during the 180-day period       beginning on the date of Federal approval of the appraisal       under subsection (d), Tony's Wabeno Redi-Mix, LLC submits to       the Secretary an offer to acquire the property described in       subsection (b) for market value, as determined by such       appraisal, the Secretary shall, not later than 180 days after       receiving such offer, convey to Tony's Wabeno Redi-Mix, LLC       all right, title, and interest of the United States,       including mineral rights, in and to the property described in       subsection (b).

(b) Description of Property.--

(1) In general.--The property referred to in subsection (a)       is the parcel of real property, including all land and       improvements, generally depicted as ``Federal Parcel to be       Conveyed'' on the Map, consisting of approximately 14 acres       of National Forest System land located in the Chequamegon-      Nicolet National Forest in Wisconsin.

(2) Map.--

(A) Minor errors.--The Secretary may correct minor errors       in the Map.

(B) Availability.--A copy of the Map shall be on file and       available for public inspection in the appropriate office of       the Forest Service.

(3) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the       National Forest System land to be conveyed under subsection       (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the       Secretary.

(c) Terms and Conditions of the Conveyance.--

(1) Requirements.--The conveyance under subsection (a)       shall be--

(A) subject to valid existing rights;

(B) made by quitclaim deed; and

(C) subject to such other terms and conditions as the       Secretary considers to be appropriate to protect the       interests of the United States.

(2) Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance under       subsection (a), Tony's Wabeno Redi-Mix, LLC shall pay to the       Secretary--

(A) an amount equal to the market value of the land to be       conveyed under subsection (a), as determined by the appraisal       under subsection (d); and

(B) all costs associated with the conveyance, including the       cost of--

(i) a survey, if necessary, under subsection (b)(3);

(ii) conducting the appraisal under subsection (d); and

(iii) any environmental analysis or resource survey       required under Federal law.

(d) Appraisal.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 300 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete an       appraisal to determine the market value of the land to be       conveyed under subsection (a).

(2) Standards.--The appraisal under paragraph (1) shall be       conducted in accordance with--

(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land       Acquisitions; and

(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal       Practice.

(e) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled       ``Conveyance of Federal Parcel Chequamegon-Nicolet National       Forest'' and dated September 27, 2023.

(2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest       Service.       SEC. 3. COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF FEDERAL PERMITTING PROCESSES                     FOR STONE, SAND, AND GRAVEL DEVELOPMENT ON                     FEDERAL LANDS.

(a) Review.--The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation       with the heads of other relevant Federal agencies, industry       stakeholders, and State permitting authorities, shall conduct       a comprehensive review of the Federal permitting processes       for the development of stone, sand, and gravel on Federal       lands.

(b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, in       consultation with the entities referred to in subsection (a),       shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the       House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and       Natural Resources of the Senate, and make publicly available       on the website of the Department of the Interior a report       that includes--

(1) a detailed description of the current Federal       permitting process for stone, sand, and gravel development,       including average timelines from initial application to final       approval;

(2) an analysis identifying potential inefficiencies and       duplicative steps in such permitting process and the impact       of such inefficiencies and duplicative steps on project       timelines;

(3) the Secretary's recommendations for legislative or       administrative actions to streamline such permitting process;       and

(4) a summary of the economic impacts associated with       current permitting timelines under such permitting process,       specifically focusing on the stone, sand, and gravel sectors.

Mr. TIFFANY.  3937, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, the Wabeno Economic  Development Act. This bill will expedite the conveyance of 14 acres  from the Forest Service to Tony's Wabeno Redi-Mix, LLC, for fair market  value.

Tony's is a small ready-mix company that has supplied the surrounding  community with concrete for more than 25 years. The company's concrete  has been used to build homes, fire and rescue buildings, shops,  offices, and even barns for local farmers.

Tony's first began working with the Forest Service on a land exchange  proposal more than 8 years ago. However, the agency made it clear the  project was not a priority and lacked the resources to complete it.

Wabeno is located in Forest County, where roughly 50 percent of the  land is federally owned and only about 10 percent of the land is fully  taxable, so there is limited private land available for small business  expansion.

We often talk up here about how important infrastructure is. Here is  a small business that helps infrastructure projects throughout northern  Wisconsin. This is a prime example of a business that helps build  America. Without this parcel, Tony's Redi-Mix will run out of the  necessary aggregates it needs to produce concrete in about the next 2  years.

This bill will keep this important business in operation and, with  it, the 17 hardworking people it currently employs.

Wabeno is a small town with a population of just over 1,100 people.  Mr. Speaker, 17 jobs may not seem like a big deal to people from the  big cities, but I can assure my colleagues the jobs and economic  benefits provided by this small business are critically important to  this rural community.

This important conveyance will provide much-needed economic growth  and jobs for people in Wabeno and Forest County. It has strong local  support, and I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' to make sure Tony's  Wabeno Redi-Mix stays in business for years to come.

House of Representatives,                                        Committee on Agriculture,                                      Washington, DC, July 17, 2025.      Hon. Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: This letter confirms our mutual       understanding regarding H.R. 3937, the ``Wabeno Economic       Development Act.'' Thank you for collaborating with the       Committee on Agriculture on the matters within our       jurisdiction.

The Committee on Agriculture will forego any further       consideration of this bill. However, by foregoing       consideration at this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction       over any subject matter contained in this or similar       legislation. The Committee on Agriculture also reserves the       right to seek appointment of an appropriate number of       conferees, should it become necessary, and ask that you       support such a request.

We would appreciate a response to this letter confirming       this understanding with respect to H.R. 3937 and request a       copy of our letters on this matter be published in the       Congressional Record during Floor consideration.            Sincerely,                                             Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                  Committee on Natural Resources,                                      Washington, DC, July 17, 2025.      Hon. Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,      Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: I write regarding our mutual       understanding of H.R. 3937, the Wabeno Economic Development       Act, which was ordered report by the Committee on Natural       Resources.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Agriculture and       appreciate your willingness to forgo further consideration of       the bill. I acknowledge that the Committee on Agriculture       will not formally consider H.R. 3937 and agree that the       inaction of your Committee with respect to the bill does not       waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained       therein.

I am pleased to support your request to name members of the       Committee on Agriculture to any conference committee to       consider such provisions. I will ensure that our exchange of       letters is included in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration of the bill. I appreciate your cooperation       regarding this legislation.            Sincerely,                                                   Bruce Westerman,                                                          Chairman.

Mr. TIFFANY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Michigan (Mrs.  Dingell) for her support in regard to this for the last two sessions of  the Natural Resources Committee and getting this to the floor and for  her help in accomplishing this.

Mr. Speaker, this is a straightforward bill that supports rural jobs,  strengthens local economies, and improves how we manage our Federal  lands.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3937 today. Again, I hope the  Senate moves quickly to advance this important piece of legislation.

Mr. TIFFANY. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.