Amendment No. 1 Offered By Mr. Massie


Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of my amendment to strip out  the earmarks within the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education  division from the underlying legislation.

This includes over 900 earmarks totaling nearly $1.4 billion in  spending of money we don't have.

Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.  Harris).

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr. Chair, I thank Representative  Norman for his amendment.

Mr. Chair, my constituents do not send their hard-earned tax dollars  to Washington so that they can be funneled to abortion providers or  hospitals that mutilate children, yet that is exactly what many of  these earmarks do.

A vote for this amendment will remove $3 million for Seattle  Children's Hospital, which proudly offers transgender care to children.  It would strip $1 million to Lurie Children's Hospital in Chicago,  which also provides transgender treatment to minors.

It would remove over $2 million to Kittitas Valley Healthcare in  Washington State, a facility that performs chemical and surgical  abortions even after 20 weeks.

I realize some argue these dollars are not directly paying for  abortions or gender surgeries, but when we give taxpayer handouts like  these, we free up resources for these exact practices.

I do not know how any Republican can support keeping these special  handouts in this bill. While I wish my original amendment was  considered to target the most egregious earmarks, I still urge a  ``yes'' vote.

Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Chair, I agree with Ms. DeLauro. If the communities  want these, that is fine. They ought to pay for them. I don't know  whether my colleague realizes it or not, but we are $39 trillion in  debt and counting. Let me just give my friend examples of some of the  things she may have not thought about.

We have $1,599,000 for Eastern Maine Healthcare Systems. It operates  a pediatric gender clinic that provides sex-rejecting hormones for  gender-diverse and transgender children.

We have $4,008,000 for ChristianaCare Health Services. It provides  late-term abortions through 23 weeks.

The Stroger Hospital in Illinois performs abortions through 13 weeks.

The Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago provides  transgender treatments.

Temple University Hospital in Pennsylvania provides transgender care  for adults.

Any of the communities that want this should put their money up to  pay for it. The taxpayers cannot afford it.

Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 15 seconds to the  gentleman from Georgia.

Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Chair, may I inquire how as to much time is  remaining.

Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Chair, this is a prime example of government gone  wild and government programs that are using our money that I think the  majority of Americans would reject. If now is not the time, I don't  know when is. It will be too late when the investors stop buying our  bonds and everything comes to a dead halt in America. We can't let that  happen.

Mr. Chair, these earmarks are against every conservative value that  is known. The intent of these is wrong. The expenditure of these is  wrong. Now is the time we face it and put a stop to these. This is just  the first step in a long stairway to get this country back on a firm  financial footing.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.