Recognizing David Mcmahon


Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an exceptional  public servant, David McMahon, whose career reflects unwavering  leadership, unwavering patriotism, and a true commitment to the  security of America.

Dave has spent much of his life and service to the State of South  Carolina. He grew up in Charleston and today oversees the TSA  operations at the Charleston International Airport along with five  other airports all across South Carolina. He has served as a Federal  security director since January of 2020, managing operations and  directing security efforts all across our great State.

Dave's record of service is both extensive, and it is remarkable. He  has served as an honorary commander with the U.S. Coast Guard Base  Charleston through the Joint Base Charleston Program and has made  equally significant contributions to national security policy through  service and working on various groups.

Dave has had a distinguished record of service. Prior to his time  with the Coast Guard, Dave served as the deputy Federal security  director for Minnesota at the Minneapolis-Saint Paul International  Airport. He also played a pivotal role as a primary field leader for  Super Bowl LII.

From assistant Federal security director roles to active director  positions, Dave has consistently delivered strong leadership and  results wherever he was placed. Notably, in the early days of TSA, Dave  helped federalize six airports while serving as a crisis management  coordinator.

His lengthy service record goes on. Prior to joining the TSA, Dave  served more than 4 years as a deputy sheriff with the Dane County  Sheriff's Office in Wisconsin. He also served our country for 12 years  in the United States Army, a tenure which included a combat tour in  Saudi Arabia and Iraq with the 101st Airborne Division.

His military roles included criminal investigator, patrol supervisor,  SWAT/sniper team lead, SWAT/police sniper instructor, and military  police officer basic instructor. Dave also taught criminal justice for  Central Texas College while stationed in Okinawa, Japan.

Dave's life is one truly defined by his service. His commitment to  our community, to our great State, and to our Nation has been  unlimited. Above all, Dave's family has always been his greatest source  of strength. Dave has been married to his wife, Jeanette, for over 39  years, and together they have raised two sons who continue their  father's proud tradition of service as members of the United States Air  Force.

Apart from his public service, Dave enjoys being with family and  spending time outdoors. Dave McMahon is truly a man of strong  character. At every moment, he has continually shown up with integrity,  with professionalism, and with a commitment to making his community  safer. He represents the very best of public service.

On behalf of the people of South Carolina, I am proud to acknowledge  Dave McMahon for his decades of service, his steadfast leadership, and  the example he sets for all of those who follow in his path. As a  father, as a soldier, as a public servant and steadfast South  Carolinian, his story is a reminder of the impact one individual can  have when they devote their life to the security and well-being of  others.

On behalf of our great State of South Carolina's Fifth Congressional  District, I thank Dave McMahon and wish him Godspeed in his well- deserved retirement years.