Recognizing Jeff Wilson


Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a truly great  South Carolinian, Mr. Jeff Wilson. He is an outstanding public servant  and beacon of our farming community. As head of Cotton Hills Farm in  Lowrys, South Carolina, he recently was named the South Carolina Farmer  of the Year for 2025 by the Sunbelt Ag Expo. This distinct honor is for  his decades of dedicated service to farming, conservation, and  community.

For over 40 years, Jeff Wilson has exemplified the very best of what  it means to be a South Carolina farmer. He is hardworking, he is  innovative, and he is deeply committed to preserving the land and the  legacy of his family.

Cotton Hills Farm has been in the Wilson family since 1882. That is  over 143 years ago. Originally starting with only 100 acres gifted to  Jeff by his great-grandmother, it now spans over 1,000 acres producing  a diverse array of crops.

Jeff's story is one of dedication not only to the land but to the  family. After serving our Nation in the Air Force during the Vietnam  war, Jeff returned home to carry on the farm. He followed in the  footsteps of his father, who took over the farm at the age of 13. Now,  four generations later, Jeff farms alongside his sons, Jeb and Pete.

Jeff has truly been an innovator in the agriculture industry. He has  upheld sustainable farming practices long before they were commonplace  and adopted no-till methods, cover cropping, and efficient underground  irrigation to conserve water and to protect the soil. His commitment to  conservation has earned him statewide and national recognition,  including leadership roles on the soil and water conservation state  board and the Southeast Region Hall of Fame award for the National  Association of Conservation Districts.

Jeff also works outside the family farm. He and his family operate  three retail markets and a GAP-certified packing facility. These bring  the fresh, local produce directly to the consumers.

Throughout his life, Jeff has been deeply involved in serving his  community. He has served 50 years with the Ruritan Club, 30 years with  the Young Farmer and Agribusiness Association, and he is on the Clemson  Extension Advisory Committee. He was also awarded County  Conservationist of the Year.

Jeff's commitment to education through programs like the annual Farm  & Tractor Day and the South Carolina Ag + Art Tour reflect his desire  to share the values of agriculture with future generations.

Above all, Jeff Wilson's character stands as a shining example of  integrity and of gratitude. His faith in our Almighty God and his  humility are shown in everything he does, always reminding us of how  important it is to give back to our community and to our country.

I can personally attest to the genuine and forward-thinking spirit  that Jeff brings to every opportunity. His leadership strengthens South  Carolina agriculture, ensures the future of family farming, and honors  the heritage that makes our State proud.

On behalf of the people of South Carolina, I thank Mr. Jeff Wilson  for his extraordinary contributions to our State, to our city, to our  county, and to our country. I pray this work continues to inspire young  people to lead by his strong values.

We just had the tragic passing of a great American, Charlie Kirk, who  extolled the values of faith, family, and freedom. Jeff Wilson extolls  the values that Mr. Kirk extolled for 31 years of his life.

Godspeed.