CNN "Erin Burnett Outfront" - Transcript:  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) Discusses What She Thinks About Lev Parnas' Public Testimony About President Trump


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

BURNETT: All right. Alex, thank you very much. And OUTFRONT tonight, Democratic Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan who is Chair of the Democratic Policy and Communications Committee. And I appreciate your time, Senator.

SEN. DEBBIE STABENOW (D-MI): Absolutely.

BURNETT: Of course, Lev Parnas is being charged with violating the law, could go to jail for that. But presumably things he says on other topics, if untrue could be used against him when it comes to things like sentencing. Do you trust the new information that we're hearing from Lev Parnas that everything was about getting the announcement of this investigation into Joe Biden and that he was doing this at the behest of Rudy Giuliani and the President of the United States.

STABENOW: Well, Erin, it's good to be with you. And I think first of all, the most important thing is that this is not the first time we've heard this. The House had witnesses come forward. People have testified. A case has been made.

And in fact, what he's saying in plain language that - I don't know him, certainly, but he's certainly someone that we should listen to in terms of verifying the other people that have come forward. I also want to mention that the President surrounded by people that have been indicted or imprisoned.

And in fact today, the General Accounting Office also said he broke the law when he did what he has done, which is withhold ...

BURNETT: Withhold the aid, yes.

STABENOW: ... withhold the aid without congressional approval. So the President of the United States according to an unbiased governmental accounting source has now said that he broke the law as well.

BURNETT: And we're getting much more on that in a moment. I do want to ask you though, Senator, the President said again today that he does not know Lev Parnas, he doesn't know anything about the letter that Parnas delivered to President Zelensky from Giuliani. The letter where Giuliani said he had a very specific task and he wanted to meet just a couple of days. He only needed 30 minutes of time and he was doing all of that with the 'knowledge and consent' of the President of the United States.

That is what the allegation is. That's what the letter from Giuliani says. Here's what President Trump said about Parnas today.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: I don't know Parnas. I don't know anything about the letter.

(END VIDEO CLIP) BURNETT: Do you think this trial will prove that President Trump is a

liar?

STABENOW: Well, first let me say that this whole process is a very sobering one. I take it very seriously, but what you just showed really is laughable in the sense that we have seen over and over again, proof that what the President has said is not accurate.

[19:10:06]

And so in my mind, I mean, it's our responsibility to listen to all of the evidence, hear witnesses, by the way, witnesses and documents, that is the big question right now. And if the President wants to put forward his own case, this is his opportunity to do that.

So it's going to be at this point, I think, important and all of us are going to have to decide when we're voting on witnesses versus documents, do we want to hear the truth or do we want to hide the truth. And I think that's the big question.

BURNETT: And it is a huge question and you and your colleagues took a very important oath today.

STABENOW: We did.

BURNETT: And the oath was to 'do impartial justice' sworn in by the Chief Justice of this nation.

STABENOW: Right.

BURNETT: But like to be honest let me just show you here, Senator, what some of your colleagues on both sides of the aisle, senators, have said.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I wasn't in any doubt (inaudible) ...

SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): I'm not trying to pretend to be a fair juror here.

SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This impeachment proceeding is definitely about Donald Trump who pretty clearly has broken the law.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BURNETT: Is everyone really impartial?

STABENOW: Well, here's what I know and I know that colleagues in my side of the aisle were all talking afterwards today after we raised our hand and then had to sign a book regarding our pledging to be impartial in signing the oath. It's a very somber time and I think that we take it very seriously.

I know that my Democratic colleagues take this very seriously, but I also know that the General Accounting Office said today, clearly, unequivocally, the President broke the law, so that's also clear.

BURNETT: All right. Well, I appreciate your time, Senator Stabenow.

STABENOW: Sure.

BURNETT: Thank you. Good to talk to you.

STABENOW: You too.

BURNETT: And next, the government watchdog group, you just heard Senator Stabenow referenced this, says Trump broke the law when he withheld military aid, which would shatter what has been his defense.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT