CNN "CNN Newsroom" - Transcript: Interview With Sen. Debbie Stabenow


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

SCIUTTO: Welcome back. The coronavirus crisis, overtaking Capitol Hill today. Right now, lawmakers debating the best way for the government to attempt to stop the virus from spreading. This, as the White House prepares stimulus package options for the economy.

With me now, Democratic Senator Debbie Stabenow of the state of Michigan. Senator, thanks so much for taking the time this morning.

SEN. DEBBIE STABENOW (D-MI): Well, thanks, Jim. It's great to be with you.

SCIUTTO: Let me begin with really a basic question. As you heard, the president on Friday said anyone who wants a test can get a test. The experience of people in this country belies that claim, we just had someone on who had to go -- STABENOW: Right.

SCIUTTO: -- three times to the E.R. and was concerned about her own health, her children's health. I'm curious when that changes. I know that a lot of people are watching at home who might be concerned, what do they do?

STABENOW: Well, Jim, this is really concerning. And listening to your previous guest, I was really quite horrified at what she's had to go through.

[10:50:07]

We have passed a supplemental that is going to make tests more available, and are doing everything we can to get support to hospitals and doctors and public health units.

I will tell you, though, that you know, this started three months ago in China, and it was our administration, the White House, who chose not to work with other countries to develop and embrace the test that was ultimately agreed to by the World Health Organization. Every other country went along with this particular test, started doing what needed to be done. And our president was basically just ignoring it and hoping it was going to go away.

And even in the midst of this, while it was expanding overseas, he was cutting the Center for Disease Control, the Infectious Disease Unit, the public health infrastructure and has not filled, for two years, a key position in the White House on global health security.

So I say that to only say, we're behind the curve here at this point --

SCIUTTO: Yes.

STABENOW: -- you know, the president can't talk his way out of it, he can't bully his way out of it. We have to work together with states and communities and health care professionals. So that's what we're doing. And we had a bipartisan response last week --

SCIUTTO: OK.

STABENOW: -- we're going to have to do something else. But the something else is not about a big tax stimulus for folks that are -- who were in some way engaged the first time around, with the president's big tax cut. It's about making sure that somebody who has to stay home has paid sick leave --

SCIUTTO: Right.

STABENOW: -- that if a child has to come home, if a school has to close, that there's a way to support that child being home while parents work.

And I lead --

SCIUTTO: It's a big --

STABENOW: -- efforts not only on health care, but on food and through the Agriculture and Nutrition Committee, we have children -- millions of children across the country who only eat a health meal during the school day --

SCIUTTO: If they go to school, yes. It's a big concern.

I want to ask you because the president on Friday, I mean, he said openly in public he wanted to keep people on that ship offshore so that the number of cases onshore did not go up. Are you concerned that the administration is deliberately standing in the way of a comprehensive accounting of the number of people who have this disease?

And do you have confidence that his advisor -- we know his advisors know you've got to test, Dr. Fauci among them --

STABENOW: Right.

SCIUTTO: -- are his advisors, are Republicans willing to stand up to the president on this?

STABENOW: You know, Jim, I would never have even thought this would be happening under any president, Democrat or Republican. But this president really is focused on himself, how this reflects on him, his re-election. You know, he's concerned about the stock market, not about folks trying to buy food in the supermarket. I mean, that's where we're focused on. And it just -- it comes up over and over again in just shocking ways.

And so we have to push back. This is a public health emergency. We don't want to overreact, but we have to be responsible. It's not about scaring people, it's about looking at what's happening, listening to medical professionals, number one, the medical professionals.

Getting the test to folks so they can get peace of mind. Hopefully we'll find that in fact, we are not seeing more and more cases, but we don't know --

SCIUTTO: Yes.

STABENOW: -- and what's happened in other countries, the more they test, the numbers go up. But then if they're aggressive, like what we've seen in South Korea, then we see the number of --

SCIUTTO: They get them down.

STABENOW: -- cases going down.

SCIUTTO: Yes, yes. That's why you test.

STABENOW: And so -- that's why you test.

SCIUTTO: Yes.

STABENOW: And so that's what I'm concerned about.

SCIUTTO: Let me ask you -- because of course, there is a primary today in your state of Michigan --

STABENOW: Yes.

SCIUTTO: -- you are not endorsing. Let me ask you this just simply, do you think Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders are equally capable of challenging President Trump in November?

STABENOW: Well, I think people in Michigan will do the right thing today. We have a very competitive primary. I'm confident folks are taking a look at who's been with them throughout the years in Michigan. And it's important to me that when we get done, we are able to come back together and unify.

Because Michigan is a test case of what happened in '16, when that --

SCIUTTO: Yes.

STABENOW: -- really didn't happen. There were 51,000 people that voted for Jill Stein in the general election, and President Trump won by 10,000 votes. People thought that it was OK, kind of a freebie. There's no freebies, there's no efforts at staying home and not voting.

So my message is very much in the general about what's at stake for the people in Michigan, and well as across the country.

SCIUTTO: Senator Debbie Stabenow, thanks so much. We appreciate you joining this morning.

STABENOW: You're welcome.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT