Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, I first want to give a thank-you to  everybody who is working right now and all the folks who are required  to be here with the Senate in session. I wish we were focused on those  things right now that are directly related to making sure everybody is  going to be able to continue to be safe and to focus on what we need to  do to safely reopen the economy rather than what we are voting on this  week. I want to thank all of you for being here. 

  I also want to send condolences and thoughts to everyone who has lost  a loved one in this crisis. We are approaching, this weekend, 100,000  Americans. If that doesn't give us a sense of urgency right now to  effectively address this health pandemic and to get this right and to  work together, I don't know what does. 

  I rise today with a real sense of urgency. I think it is important to  understand how we got here so we know what we need to do going forward. 

  On January 20, the first case of COVID-19 was reported in the United  States, the same day as the first case in South Korea. Our White House  didn't act. They were, unfortunately, more worried about the stock  market than people in the supermarket. 

  In South Korea, they did act. Within 8 weeks, they were testing 40  times more people per 1 million of their citizens than we were. By  April 14, they had 10,000 cases, and we had over 600,000 cases because  there was no sense of urgency to do what needed to be done to take this  seriously. Now we know that we are well beyond that. 

  Unfortunately, on the American side, in the weeks and months that  came after January 20, the White House slow-walked declaring a national  emergency. They failed to quickly implement widespread testing that was  being done all around the world and in every other country, and they  dropped the ball on getting the essential medical equipment and  supplies doctors and nurses still need to treat people and keep them  safe. Their reckless delay made us the world leader--the world leader-- in the number of COVID-19 cases and deaths. When you think about it, we  are a little over 4 percent of the world's population; yet we have  about 30 percent of the deaths because of a lack of urgency and the  inaction from the very beginning to be able to get our country's arms  around this deadly virus and what was happening.  

  Now 4 months have passed, and as I mentioned, more than 90,000 to  100,000 Americans have passed away from COVID-19. Think about that.  When we look at over 90,000 lives, that is as if a whole city in  Michigan just disappeared from the map; yet the White House and the  Republican leader and our friends across the aisle continue to show a  lack of urgency about this crisis. 

  On March 14, the House of Representatives passed the Families First  Coronavirus Response Act. It had a whole range of things that were  incredibly important in it: COVID testing so that you could get free  testing if you needed it, increased Medicaid funding for States,  extended unemployment help for more workers. It established 14 days of  paid sick leave for people who lost their paychecks because they had to  stay home due to the virus, and the bill provided nutritional food for  moms and babies and families. Yet the Senate leader felt no urgency to  pass it right then. The House passed the bill on a Friday night, in the  middle of the night. All we had to do was to stay until Saturday and  get it done, but there was no sense of urgency for the nurses and the  doctors and the unemployed workers and the small business owners and  the hungry families. They had to wait. They had to wait until the next  week, for the Senate leader to go home for the weekend. The leader  returned to Washington, but his sense of urgency still wasn't there. 

  So, while the White House didn't act and the Republican leader didn't  act, I will tell you who did act: The Governors acted. Democratic and  Republican Governors stood up, and they leaned in to protect their  citizens. I am so grateful for what our Governor and her great team  have done in Michigan and for all of our mayors and local communities  that leaned in, for their taking whatever resources were available and  putting them right out there to make sure people's lives were being  saved--the No. 1 priority. They have been stepping up and taking the  action needed to save lives over and over and over again in this  crisis.  

  Frankly, that is what the White House said should happen. Remember  the words of President Trump's when he tweeted:  

       Governors must be able to step up and get the job done. We       will be with you all the way.  

  Unfortunately, when he said ``all the way,'' he actually meant to  find your own way, which puts us where we are right now, today, in  trying to help them get resources for critical State and local  services. 

  The vacuum of Federal leadership has real-life consequences. I  released a report today that shows the price American families will pay  if the White House and congressional Republicans refuse to support  State and local services. Our Democratic Policy and Communications  group, which is supported by all of the Democratic Senators, is saying  we have to act. There are real consequences. Families and communities  will pay the price if we do not act and step up and have their backs. 

  Through no fault of their own, our States and local communities are  facing critical budget shortfalls--up to $650 billion over 3 years-- that far exceed what States lost after the great recession. Without  urgent Federal assistance, these cuts will affect our safety, our  children's educations, and our quality of life. Yet the Republican  leader said he has not yet ``felt the urgency of acting immediately.''  Maybe States should go bankrupt, he said. 

  I can tell the White House and the Republican leader who feels the  sense of urgency. He is the healthcare worker who has been laid off and  doesn't know when he will get paid and what he is going to do to take  care of his family. He is feeling a sense of urgency. He is the student  whose school might have to be cut back, and they are the teachers who  are going to be laid off through the severe budget cuts. They feel a  sense of urgency. The woman who can't continue treatment for opioid  addiction because of cutbacks at her local community behavioral health  center feels a sense of urgency right now. It is the community that is  cutting back on its police and fire departments and the 9-1-1 call  centers in order to save money because the President said that he would  be with them all the way but who now is saying ``No way. You are on  your own'' that feels a sense of urgency. She is the mom who is waiting  in line for hours in her car at the local food bank to try to get some  food for her children for today, not next month. It is not ``Hey, we  have 2 or 3 months.'' She wants them to eat today and tomorrow and the  next day. She feels a sense of urgency. 

  Americans across the country are feeling a sense of urgency, and it  is urgent that we act to meet this moment so that they understand, in  this horrendous moment and through no fault of their own--the health  crisis and the economic crisis and so on--that someone really does have  their backs. We need to help our State and local governments continue  paying vital workers who educate our children and keep us safe and  provide all of the essential services. We need to extend unemployment  benefits so that people who are out of work will be able to pay the  rent and feed their children. We need to approve access to healthy  foods for families in need right now. We need to create a heroes fund  to ensure that essential workers who have taken the most risk to keep  our country running, to keep us safe, and to save lives during this  pandemic receive the additional hazard pay, the compensation, that they  deserve. 

  They need to know they are essential and not expendable. Just saying  thank you is good, but it is not enough when you are worried about  paying your own mortgage while you go to work to save somebody else's  life or put food on your own table for your family. Our country can do  better for them. That is what the House bill did. That is what the  Senate needs to do 

  We need to invest in our State and local health departments so that  we can continue to fight the virus and keep our communities safe. That  should really be a no-brainer right now, the fact that we need to  support our health departments that are on the frontlines of tracking  what is happening and get the critical information so the right  decisions can be made to keep us safe and the right decisions can be  made so as to safely reopen our economy, which we all want and know  needs to happen. 

  Actions have consequences. I am here to say that inaction also has  consequences. Inaction has consequences. We are losing lives; we are  losing time; and every part of the economy is being affected. It is  time to act. It is time for this Senate to act, not on more judges over  and over and over again, but on the things that the American people  need to have happen, that the people of Michigan need to have happen so  they can be healthy and survive the virus and also be able to survive  economically for their families, for their businesses, for their farms. 

  Mitch McConnell may not feel a sense of urgency, but I do on behalf  of the people of Michigan. It is time for the Senate to act. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT