Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I rise today to speak during a sad and  perilous moment in our Nation's history. 

  Our Nation was founded on important, basic principles that ``all  men'' and women ``are created equal'' and ``that they are endowed by  their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are  Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.'' 

  With rights, of course, always come responsibilities. America is a  nation of laws, and no person, not even the President of the United  States, is above these laws. No person, not even the President of the  United States, is above these laws. That has been true since our Nation  was founded, and it is still true today. 

  Unfortunately, President Donald Trump has abused his power and acted  as if he is above the law. He did this by holding up critical military  aid to pressure a new foreign leader to investigate a political rival  for his own political benefit. Then he did everything he could to try  and cover it up after he got caught. 

  As U.S. Senators, it is our constitutional duty to fairly and  thoughtfully consider Articles of Impeachment, listen to the evidence,  and make a decision that honors our Nation's values and our fundamental  belief that no one is above the law. 

  That is exactly what I did, and it is why I will vote to convict  President Trump and remove him from office. 

  The facts show the President did everything he could to cover up the  truth, put our elections under even greater risk of foreign  interference, and damaged the constitutional checks and balances  essential to our democracy. 

  Let's be clear. We are here because of one person. We are here  because of one person--President Donald J. Trump. The President was  provided multiple opportunities to prove his innocence, as he should  be. The House made countless requests for documents during the  impeachment inquiry. The White House ignored them. 

  The House issued 42 subpoenas. The White House refused to comply and  even went so far as to threaten and intimidate those people who chose  to appear. 

  Yet, even with this unprecedented level of obstruction, the House  made a strong case for impeachment. 

  Once impeachment moved to the Senate, the President again had  numerous opportunities to defend himself. The American people and the  people of Michigan strongly supported having additional documents and  relevant witnesses--firsthand witnesses who could speak to the Articles  of Impeachment. That is what a trial is supposed to be about. 

  Yet the Senate did not hear from people who clearly have key,  relevant  information, including the former National Security Advisor, John  Bolton, who is willing to testify, and, in fact, it is just a matter of  time when we will hear publicly, all of us, what he would have said to  the Senate; Acting White House Chief of Staff and Director of the  Office of Management and Budget Mick Mulvaney; OMB Associate Director  of National Security Programs Michael Duffy; and White House National  Security Aid Robert Blair. 

  Common sense--common sense--says that if President Trump's top staff  have evidence of his innocence, he would have insisted that we hear  from them, as we should. They would have rushed into this Chamber. 

  Unfortunately, the exact opposite happened, lending strong support  for the evidence presented by the House of Representatives. 

  Instead, the President's defense team argued that abuse of power is  not a crime and, therefore, not an impeachable offense, and it became  clear that they believe, as the President himself has said on many  occasions, that he has power to do anything he wants under article II  of the Constitution. 

  They also argued that if the President thinks his reelection is in  the public interest, and if he does anything to benefit his reelection,  including getting help from a foreign country, then that too is in the  public interest and not an abuse of power. 

  Common sense would tell us otherwise. 

  Keep in mind that these are far from mainstream legal arguments, even  in conservative legal circles. 

  These arguments have been made up to protect President Trump and  cover up his wrongdoing. These arguments are nothing short of  appalling, and I am alarmed at what they suggest President Trump could  do next week, next month, in November, or what any President in the  future could do. 

  Is it now OK for the President of the United States to ask a foreign  leader to investigate a Member of Congress or any citizen if it helps  him get reelected and, thus, in his mind, benefits the country? Is it  now OK for the President of the United States to tell a Governor that  they are not getting any critical disaster relief until they endorse  him in the next election? Is it now OK for the President of the United  States to ask foreign leaders to give campaign contributions or other  political help in exchange for official visits? 

  I don't think any of this is OK. The people of Michigan don't think  any of this is OK, and I intend to do everything I can to ensure that  it doesn't become our new normal. 

  The Founders were smart. They had lived under a King, and they had no  intention of doing so ever again. I have to wonder why so many of my  Republican colleagues seem so, so eager to give it a try. This is the  United States of America. In our country, no President is above the  law, and it is illegal for a candidate or any elected official to  receive political help from a foreign government. Americans must decide  American elections. This is fundamental to our democracy and worth  continuing to fight for, which I intend to do. 

  Having said that, I am also deeply concerned about the divisions in  our country, in our families, in our communities. It is critical that  we find ways to listen to each other, respect differences, and find  common ground so that we can address the important issues affecting our  families and our country. These are indeed serious and perilous times.  It is up to all of us to stand up for what we believe is right and to  work to strengthen our democracy by coming together as Americans, by  finding ways to work together to solve problems. Our children and our  grandchildren are counting on us. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT