Letter to the Hon. Eugene Scalia - Levin, Moolenaar Lead Bipartisan Michigan Delegation Letter Requesting Quick Approval of Worker Disaster Recovery Grant Application


Dear Secretary Scalia,We write to urge the Department of Labor (the Department) to quickly approve theMichigan Department of Labor and Economic Opportunity's (LEO) Disaster Recovery NationalDislocated Worker Grant (NDWG) application, which was submitted on May 5, 2020. Therequested $10,000,000 will be used to support the reopening of Michigan's economy and tomitigate the anticipated workforce disruptions related to the ongoing pandemic, serving a total of500 participants through Michigan's workforce system.As is detailed in the application, approximately 70 percent of the requested funding willbe used to employ temporary workers to assist with contact tracing, sanitizing, test-sitefacilitating, and other jobs directly tied to the COVID-19 relief and recovery effort. Alltemporary workers will receive additional employment services and, potentially, training toenable them to transition into full-time employment when the crisis ends.These jobs are not onlycritical to employing Michiganders, but also in helping mitigate the pandemic and getting theeconomy fully functioning again.Recognizing the fact that not all temporarily laid off workers will return to their previousemployment once the COVID-19 pandemic concludes, and given the expected contraction andevolution in the state's economy, a portion of the requested funding will be used to support thosewith no job to go back to once the economy begins reopening. Funding will provide essentialreemployment services such as assessment, career counseling, training, and supportive servicesto enable Michiganders to return to full-time employment in growth industries.The final component of the funding request will directly impact the delivery of servicesthrough the Michigan workforce system. This crisis has uncovered several areas whereinupgraded technology could greatly enhance the system's ability to better serve participants goingforward, particularly when there are large numbers of individuals seeking services. Technologyupgrades to meet new demands include supporting virtual service delivery models, electronicregistrations, website upgrades, virtual talent tours, and equipment necessary to accommodatevirtual learning. As of May 6, 2020, the Department has awarded NDWGs totaling more than $171million to 36 states and territories. Michiganders, too, would benefit tremendously from thisfunding. To that end, we request that the Department expeditiously process and approveMichigan's application and help put Michiganders back to work as quickly as possible.Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to your response and standready to assist the Department in providing this support to Michiganders without delay.