Memorial Day


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I rise today to pay special tribute to  the Michigan heroes who have given their lives for their country while  serving in our military. This is an especially fitting time to do so as  we commemorate the 75th anniversary this year of the end of World War  II. 

  The people of Michigan have always stood up whenever our Nation has  needed us. That was certainly the case during World War II. Perhaps no  State was as crucial to our Nation's victory in the fight against  tyranny as was Michigan. 

  More than half a million Michigan men and women proudly served in  uniform in the Pacific Theater, the Atlantic Theater, and anywhere and  everywhere we were called. Back home, the people of our State were hard  at work producing the bombers, tanks, trucks, helmets, and guns needed  to win the war. We were the Arsenal of Democracy, and both at home and  abroad, victory depended on us, the people of Michigan. 

  We won that fight; yet the costs were staggeringly high. Sadly, more  than 10,000 Michiganders never made it home. These were our beloved  children and parents, siblings and cousins, friends and neighbors. We  were so incredibly proud of their willingness to give everything--even  their lives--to defend freedom; yet that pride could never fully fill  the aching loss our families and communities endured. Those losses are  still felt 75 years later. 

  Now, once again, Michigan is mourning. Far too many of our beloved  children and parents, siblings and cousins, friends and neighbors have  been lost to an invisible enemy that can't be seen or heard; yet just  as we did in World War II--just as Michigan has always done--we are  standing up, and we are fighting back, together. 

  Our plants once produced bombers and tanks; today, they are producing  ventilators and respirators, gowns and testing supplies. People are  stepping up to serve across our State: tending the sick in our  hospitals and clinics, delivering food to neighbors in need, even  sewing masks to keep one another safe. 

  Seventy-five years after World War II, a lot of things have changed,  but one thing hasn't: The people of Michigan are still willing to step  up and serve whenever and wherever we are needed, and we are needed  today. 

  On Memorial Day and every day, let us remember all servicemembers we  have lost, thank those who are still with us, and surround our military  families with love and support. Our military members and veterans have  provided us the very best examples to follow. Let's honor their service  and sacrifice with our actions.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT