MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I wanted to share some thoughts, and I  appreciate this discussion, obviously. 

  As you know, Senator Roberts and I have basically coauthored the last  two farm bills, and we all care deeply about rural America. I grew up  in rural America. We have to get things done that are going to help  small towns in rural America. The distinguished Senator from North  Dakota and I have been talking about what we need to be doing in a  number of ways. 

  I just wanted to indicate that, when we talk about the needs that  have been addressed through the market facilitation with payments and  so on, I think we have a joint interest in making sure  all of agriculture that has been hurt will be benefited by this. 

  I understand the concerns about livestock. About half the cash  receipts of the country are what we broadly call specialty crops. I can  tell you that as the No. 1 producer of tart cherries in the country-- maybe the world--we have been hit so very hard by unfair practices with  Turkey that we could lose the industry. 

  We have received no help so far from the CCC. If we are going to move  forward, I have supported and will continue to support doing things we  need to do for farmers, but we have to recognize all of the needs. I am  certainly willing to work with you on that because that has to happen. 

  I would finally say this. On the one end, we have our farmers. On the  other end, we have all of us who eat. We have a lot of folks in between  who think the food comes from the grocery store--a lot of kids. One of  the reasons I support having school gardens is for children to  understand that there actually is a lot of hard work involved and food  comes from our farmers. 

  Part of all of this, when we look at this large package, is that I  know there is concern about not leaving farmers out, but we can't leave  out people who are at this point struggling to eat, as well. 

  We have done a SNAP increase in every other crisis. In every other  crisis, we had a temporary increase in SNAP funds. We desperately need  to do that as well. We know that one of the best economic stimuli is to  provide people with food assistance, who immediately have to spend that  at the grocery store. Our grocery store owners, large and small, are  challenged and are going to be challenged. This all goes right back to  the farmers. 

  I thank you for yielding some time. I want to say that there are many  of us on both sides of the aisle who certainly care deeply about  agriculture. We had the largest vote, Mr. Chairman, and 87 of 100  Senators voted for the last farm bill. I think every Democrat did. We  want to make sure we are supporting our farmers. 

  We want to make sure that families are lifted up who are struggling.  I am getting calls from churches and food banks and those who are  desperately concerned about families right now. We can't leave our  families behind either. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT