Peters, Stabenow Announce Over $27 Million in Funding for Ann Arbor and Port Huron Transit Services


U.S. Senators Gary Peters (MI) and Debbie Stabenow (MI) today announced that Ann Arbor and Port Huron will receive $27,250,000 in funding from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA). This funding is a result of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act that was signed into law on March 27, 2020. The funds will be used to operate transit services during the COVID-19 pandemic.

"The Coronavirus pandemic has upended everyone's daily lives. Public transit is vital towards ensuring frontline workers can get to their jobs and Michiganders can still buy essentials, including groceries and medicine," said Senator Peters, a member of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. "I applaud this funding, which will support transportation in Washtenaw and St. Clair counties and is especially critical during this unprecedented crisis. I'm going to continue working to ensure that Michigan not only has the resources needed to get through this pandemic, but also that frontline workers receive the compensation they've earned for working despite the risks and have the personal protection equipment to protect themselves."

"The leadership and workers of the Ann Arbor Area Transportation Authority and Blue Water Area Transportation Commission work hard to make sure that people can get to their jobs, doctor appointments, and grocery stores," said Senator Stabenow. "This funding will make sure that they're able to continue to provide these vital services for essential workers during this pandemic."

Ann Arbor Area Transportation Authority will receive $20,700,000 in funding to operate buses to neighborhoods in the Ann Arbor and Ypsilanti area during the COVID-19 pandemic. Blue Water Area Transportation Commission will receive $6,550,000 in funding to operate transit during this pandemic and to renovate existing structures at their facility.

More information on the Federal Transit Administration's COVID-19 response can be found at https://www.transit.dot.gov/coronavirus.