Stabenow, Peters Announce Legislation to Make Older Children and Adult Dependents Eligible for COVID-19 Relief Payments


U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced legislation that would make dependents 17 and older count toward what a family gets in direct payments from the bipartisan coronavirus relief package.

 

Under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, an economic stimulus payment of $1,200 per adult and $500 per child will go to most taxpayers with incomes below $75,000 for single taxpayers and $150,000 for married taxpayers. The payments will phase out in value for a person making over $75,000.  Unfortunately, no additional money is provided for dependents older than 16, and these dependents aren't eligible to claim the payment for themselves on their own returns either. 

 

"Last week, Congress came together and passed funding for workers, families, health care providers and small businesses during this coronavirus crisis. Most Michigan residents will be receiving direct payments, but the law left behind 17- and 18-year-olds, college students, and other dependent adults. This is unfair to these people as well as their parents and caregivers. This new bill will make sure taxpayers receive the $500 payment for all their dependents," said Senator Stabenow.

 

"Michiganders are going through incredible hardships during this pandemic. We need to work to ensure that families -- including those with dependents -- have more relief and support available to them," said Senator Peters. "I'm pleased to cosponsor this bill, which will ensure adults that have dependents they care for -- including 17 and 18 year-olds, college students and those who are disabled -- receive the much-needed support to help them get through this crisis."

 

The All Dependents Count Act would expand the definition of a dependent that is qualified for the $500 increase to include dependent children over 16 and other adult dependents. The payment is structured as a tax refund and administered by the Internal Revenue Service.