Tweet - "As we wrap up #BlackHistoryMonth, I'd like to highlight some of the extraordinary men and women of Michigan who have led the fight for civil rights and equality."


"As we wrap up #BlackHistoryMonth, I'd like to highlight some of the extraordinary men and women of Michigan who have led the fight for civil rights and equality.

The Queen of Soul, Aretha Franklin, was a GRAMMY Award winner and recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom who impacted generations of Americans. A singer and civil rights activist from Detroit, Franklin's legacy extends beyond music. She is so loved and missed.

Erma Henderson was the first black woman elected to the Detroit City Council in 1972. She fought for equality in the workplace and the judicial system.

Henderson led the effort to pass comprehensive state legislation to end the discriminatory practice of redlining in lending.

Otis M. Smith was a trailblazer in the legal community. As the first African-American appointed to the Michigan Supreme Court, Smith was a public servant who was very active in civic organizations.

Lem Tucker was the first black student body president at Central Michigan University. Tucker went on to be one of NBC's first black TV reporters in 1965 and won two Emmy Awards later in his career for his reporting of black America and hunger in the U.S.

The first black school teacher in Flint, Lois Holt was committed to the civil rights movement. She and her husband mortgaged their home in 1957 to transport Flint residents to demonstrate in Alabama following Rosa Parks' arrest, giving a voice to those in her community.

Clifton Wharton Jr. was a trailblazer for African-Americans in education. He was named @michiganstateu's first black President in 1970, making him the first black president of a major U.S. research university.

A brilliant inventor, Elijah McCoy held over 50 U.S. patents. His incredible work has inspired generations of inventors, so much that the Midwest Regional U.S. Patent and Trademark office in Detroit is named after him!

Former federal judge Damon Keith was a champion for civil rights and equality. A lifelong Detroit resident and one of the most prominent black federal judges, Keith was beloved across Michigan and America.

All of these individuals have left a lasting legacy in the fight for equality and social justice, and inspire us to remember history and continue their important work today."

@SenStabenow