Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690533/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-global-tariffs


Mr. SCHMITT. Mr. President, I rise today to engage in this great  debate that is raging across our country. Turn on the TV, read the  newspapers, or open your phone, and you will be overwhelmed by the  back-and-forths over tariffs, trade deficits, prices, and markets.

We hear the talking heads say that America simply can't afford  President Trump's insistence on more favorable trade policies. We hear  much less about whether America can afford to continue down the road we  have traveled these past 30 years.

That is not a question that people in this city are asking. For many,  it is not a question that appears to have occurred to them at all. The  debates right now are about the future and how President Trump's  policies will shape it. That is good. These are important debates that  we should have. But, today, I rise because I want to speak about the  past.

I am speaking as an American but, in particular, as a proud  Missourian, a boy from Bridgeton. My folks--they weren't wealthy. My  grandfather was an infantryman in World War II and returned from the  war with an eighth grade education and some money he won playing craps  on the Queen Elizabeth on his way home. All of his children worked in  his butcher shop growing up. Later, I remember seeing my dad work 7  days a week on the midnight shift to put food on the table and a roof  over our heads. He worked hard and lived honestly. And, just one  generation later, look where we are.

What a remarkable story about my life--I suppose it is a remarkable  story--but the truth is, it is just how unremarkable it really is in  this country. That was the everyday magic of America--a country where  lives like ours were not just possible but common. It was who we were.

America built the modern world. Our country was forged by pilgrims,  pioneers, settlers, and explorers--men whose dreams were too big for  the low horizons of the Old World. Our ancestors settled a new  continent, tamed a frontier, raised up a great civilization from the  wilderness, and planted our flag on the Moon. It was American genius  that connected the world, first  through the great steam engine, spanning this continent from coast to  coast, then through the miracle of flight. We gave humanity the  telephone, the internet, the skyscraper, modern technology,  electricity, and the industrial assembly lines that built modern  civilization. Even the things we didn't invent, we perfected.  Everything that mattered happened here.

But, over the last few decades, the people in power squandered that  inheritance. They sent our children and our wealth overseas to defend  the borders of distant nations while throwing open our own borders to a  tidal wave of mass migration here at home. They shipped the good- paying, middle-class American jobs that once were the backbone of our  economy to places like Mexico and China, transforming once prosperous  towns and cities into hollow shells of their former selves, often  defined by addiction and death. All the while, in the forgotten corners  of this land, the men and women who built this country have suffered in  silence. They watch in quiet despair as their towns crumble into  disrepair, their way of life disappears, and the country they love  slips away from them.

The political ideal of a republic is self-reliance. As our Founding  Fathers understood, the art of self-government is about people's  ability to rely on themselves. There was always trade, of course--this  is a natural and good privilege of productive surplus economies--but in  a republic, there was also trade between sovereign, self-sufficient  communities. The citizen of the classical republic had no need for  cheap trinkets, fashion, and sweatshops halfway across the globe. He  and his neighbors were the ones building their homes, growing their own  food, and when necessary, taking up arms to provide for their own  defense. People who depend on others for essential things cannot rule  themselves, and if they cannot rule themselves, they cannot keep a  republic.

Yes, times have changed. The economy of today is altogether different  than the economy our ancestors knew, but that is no excuse for standing  by as our home becomes a dumping ground for cheap Chinese goods. Are we  really still a sovereign people today? Our independence and our  sovereignty are not commodities to be sold on the global market. We  can't and won't make everything here, but we must recover the will and  the ability to make the vital necessities of our national life. Our  country now depends on foreign imports for most of those necessities.

By a nearly 2-to-1 ratio, more Americans now work in government than  in manufacturing. Nearly half of our cars, more than 60 percent of our  machine tools, 80 percent of our pharmaceuticals, and nearly 90 percent  of the semiconductor chips we need for everything from phones to  fighter jets are foreign made. That is why the crisis that confronts us  today is not merely economic. It is about communism and slave labor  versus freedom. It is about who will win the 21st century. The stakes  are high. It is about the survival of our civilization. It is about the  kind of Nation and people we are and will be: one that creates and  builds or one that simply consumes.

In this city, we tend to speak of big, sweeping abstractions--jobs,  wages, deficits, growth. We talk as if these things are numbers and  graphs. We forget that every job lost to China and every factory moved  to Mexico belongs to a real, flesh-and-blood American, with a life and  a family and a home. Each and every data point is a fellow citizen, a  neighbor, a son or daughter of this great Republic. Since NAFTA,  90,000--90,000--factories in our country have closed. Think about that  and what it means to those families. For the people who benefited, this  was just an abstract externality. For the workers, the heartland  Americans, it was everything. I know these people. These are my  people--these are our people--and for too long, they have walked alone.  There is no memorial for their sacrifice, no national outpouring of  grief for their loss, no powerful interest group to represent them in  the halls of power.

Let me tell you what 30 years of so-called free and fair trade has  meant for the folks where I am from.

In the 1990s, our political class embraced a new line of thinking:  that America could become more prosperous by opening all trade barriers  regardless of how other countries treated us. The result was swift and  devastating. By 2004, according to some estimates, Missouri had lost  well over 31,000 jobs to foreign trade. By 2010, our trade deficit with  Mexico had cost us 12,600 Missouri jobs. By 2013, we had shipped 44,200  Missouri jobs off to China. By 2018, Missouri had lost more than 90,000  jobs in manufacturing alone--over 25 percent of our industrial base.

Until a few decades ago, southeast Missouri was a national hub for  garment and shoe manufacturing. In the 1970s, southeast Missouri was  home to as many as 90--90--shoe plants. The last shoe factory from that  era closed for good in 2005. It had begun as a five-story, 92,000-foot  international shoe plant in Cape Girardeau, nicknamed ``the Pride of  Southeast Missouri.'' At one point, it employed 1,200 workers, but  cheaper imports from low-wage countries began to flood the market, and  by 1990, the old factory was razed and replaced with a one-story plant  of, roughly, 300 to 500 workers. By 2001, that had dwindled down to  just 50.

Here is what one former employee told a local paper after the plant  closed for good:

Now I am working at the Lutheran Home, driving a van, and       making a third of the amount of money I made before. My wife       also has to work, and, together, we are making two-thirds of       what I made alone at the shoe plant. It is very upsetting.       You get mad, and then you get hurt, and you think about all       the jobs leaving the country and all the people losing their       jobs.

Tri-Con Industries, which makes car seat parts, shuttered its factory  in Cape Girardeau, too, and moved its production to Mexico. That was  another 200 jobs gone.

There are patriotic shoe companies that still want to build in  America. Belleville Boots took over a factory in Carthage, MO, in 2020.  There are businesses that still love America, and they want to build on  the generations of skilled craftsman in places like southeast Missouri,  but for decades, our political class has rigged the rules to punish  rather than help companies that put America first. This pattern repeats  again and again and in every industry.

Up until the end of the 20th century, Missouri still had a major  electronics assembly operation. Zenith Electronics--the last major  American TV maker--had a large assembly plant in Springfield, MO. It  had been in operation since just after World War II, and at one point,  it employed 3,300 Missourians; but those jobs, too, had started moving  to Mexico in the late 1990s. In October of 1991, Zenith shut down its  plant and shipped its operation down to Mexico, taking out 1,500  Missouri jobs in one blow. In Springfield, the average worker made  between 5 and 10 bucks an hour. Down in Mexico, it was just 83 cents.

The high priests of the global economy tell us that this is merely  creative destruction and that other, better industries will arise to  take their place of the ones that were lost. It is true that some of  the workers in Springfield went on to find new jobs, but they were  often much worse than the ones that they had before. Five years after  Zenith shut down, laid-off workers saw an average pay cut of more than  10 percent. More than half of them had held multiple jobs since being  laid off, two-thirds of them with worse benefits. Even the workers who  enrolled in job retraining programs fared no better than the ones who  didn't.

``Those people had worked there for 20 or 25 years,'' one laid-off  worker recalled. ``They were at the top end of the pay scales, and  there weren't any more TV repairman jobs out there.''

Toastmaster is a household name. Well, they were headquartered in  Missouri, and they made their stuff in Missouri, too, with factories in  small towns all across our State; but as we welcomed China into the  world economy, Toastmaster began to feel the squeeze of cheap Asian  imports. By 2001, every Toastmaster plant in our State was gone,  shipping hundreds of jobs from rural mid-Missouri to China. The last  one to go, in the town of Macon--near where I went to school--had been  in operation since the 1950s. All that remained was a toxic waste  cleanup site for the 5,500 people in the town it left behind. Although  Toastmaster continued production in certain areas of the United States,  Missouri wasn't so fortunate.

Boonville, a town where my grandmother went to high school, was  another place that lost a Toastmaster factory. In 2011, the town of  about 8,000 people lost its modular home manufacturing factory to the  housing crisis too. In 2012, its bread factory filed for bankruptcy. In  2013, Nordyne, which manufactured air and heating products, announced  it would be moving production from Boonville to--guess where--Mexico,  taking out another 250 jobs.

``From a moral standpoint, it was kicking somebody while they were  already down,'' the head of the local chamber of commerce said as he  talked to a local newspaper.

This is not the distant past, folks. This is the reality that  millions and millions of our fellow Americans in Missouri and across  the country live this very day.

Haldex, a brake manufacturer, packed up and left for Mexico in 2020,  eliminating the last 154 jobs left at the facility in the suburbs of  Kansas City. Layoffs began 2 weeks before Christmas. They will save  millions of dollars a year paying Mexican workers a fraction of what  they paid back home.

I will tell you one more story from the Bootheel in Missouri.

For decades, the Noranda Aluminum smelter there was a lifeline  employer for the folks in New Madrid, Marston, and surrounding  communities. These were good, decent, hard-working, salt-of-the-Earth  folks. I visited with them. The smelter was the engine for their way of  life, but in 2016, Noranda filed for bankruptcy and shut down. Why?  Because China's cheap, state-subsidized aluminum had flooded the  market, causing global aluminum prices to plunge. In New Madrid--a town  of less than 3,000 people--about 1,000 people had gone to find new  jobs, usually at much lower pay. The county government went in the red.  Local police and ambulance budgets were cut. The local school district  lost a $3.1 million tax payment, which forced their own layoffs and saw  a 10-percent drop in enrollment as families left the area.

People lost homes, the mayor of New Madrid said. People got divorced.  An American town, filled with American families, left for dead by their  own country. What did we do to our own people?

This is not to say that Missourians don't want fair exchange, one  where they can trade and grow with the rest of the world, but the  ``free trade'' that transpired was not free trade at all.

The double-edged tragedy of the system is that not all these  companies wanted to leave. Some--perhaps many--wanted desperately to  stay. These people were their neighbors, their friends, their family.

But over the past three decades, we punished the companies that were  loyal to America while rewarding the ones that weren't. The businesses  that were eager to offshore got big bonuses at the American workers'  expense. The businesses that wanted to stay here found themselves  struggling to stay alive in conditions where they couldn't compete.

Now, some might argue that Americans don't want to make shoes  anymore, but we did a generation ago. The American workers of that age  knew that there was something meaningful in creating and producing.

Today, we have been taken by the idea that our social status is not  what we build or create but what we can afford to buy or consume. It is  going to take generations to reverse this thinking. The post-war order  has given birth to a shallow morality of materialism that measures  values strictly in terms of consumption. This is a poisonous new idea,  utterly alien to the traditional American way of life.

Our trade policy, like our foreign policy, failed to adapt to the new  reality of the world after the fall of the Berlin Wall. The  consequences were nothing short of devastating.

At the dawn of the 1990s, as America looked forward to the new  millennium, the architects of globalism beamed about the promise of the  open society--a world without barriers or borders where all nations and  cultures and economies would meld into one global economic zone.

Thirty years on, what do we have to show for it? At home, our  factories and the towns that once sustained them lie in ruin, razed by  the ruthless logic of the new global economy and cost-efficiency. The  Americans who once worked there were replaced by foreign labor  overseas. The Americans who once held on were now being replaced by  foreign labor here at home. Their children will graduate into a  workforce where nearly 1 in 10 workers doesn't even speak their own  language.

The twin horsemen of globalism--unprotected trade and unprotected  borders--have been a catastrophe for our civilization. But, in many  ways, I don't blame the illegal immigrant who wants to come here in  search of work, but we do have a country of laws, and there are  consequences. I don't blame the factory laborer in Vietnam who takes  the job that once belonged to an American. Do you know who I blame? The  people in power who allowed them to do it.

I blame the corporate bosses, the special interests, and, yes, the  politicians who sold our country out for a seat at the table of the  globalist banquet.

I blame the ideologues of the status quo, the international elites,  the so-called citizens of the world who see our country as a global  economic zone, a giant shopping mall with an airport attached.

I blame the people in cities like this one, who seem to have  forgotten the men and women in towns like Boonville and New Madrid or  their brothers and sisters, because ``American'' is not just a box you  check on a tax form but a sacred responsibility that binds us to one  another, an unbroken chain between our past and our future.

I do not know what the future holds, but I do know what the past has  meant. I know that something has to change and that President Trump is  the first politician in a generation to even care enough to try.

The 77 million ``deplorables'' who cast their lot with Donald Trump  last November were the forgotten Americans--the blue-collar patriots,  the conservatives of the heart, miners, mechanics, tradesmen, and  farmers; men and women who worked with their hands, grew our food,  built our homes, and drilled our fuel, whose labor powered our country,  whose taxes sustained our government, and whose children served and  sacrificed in our wars. They stand with this President because he stood  with them when no one else would.