-9999


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I thank Senator Ricketts for those very  clear remarks that demonstrate exactly why this needs to be done.

I myself for a long time have hoped to see our European partners wake  up to the extreme threat that we all face from a nuclear Iran. Today,  we are 10 years on from President Obama's failed nuclear deal with  Iran. Over the last 10 years, Iran has enjoyed unwarranted sanctions  relief, and time is short before the opportunity expires to snap back  sanctions, as has been described by my colleague from Nebraska.

This resolution would make it clear that the U.S. Senate understands  the threats we face from a nuclear Iran and urges our UK, French, and  German partners to immediately trigger snapback sanctions pursuant to  U.N. Security Council Resolution 2231. We cannot afford to wait until  the end of August. Initiating the snapback process would be right and a  long-overdue move and would deny Iran the resources it uses for its  terror agenda.

The 2015 deal flooded Iran with cash while allowing it low-level  enrichment, a clock to simply wait out, no limitations on ballistic  missiles, and nothing to rein in terror proxies. Years down the line,  the sanctions relief Iran received from this deal directly funded  Iran's terror proxies and led to Hamas's October 7 attack on Israel.

Iran's ejection of the International Atomic Energy Agency from its  facilities marked the latest in a long chain of violations of Iran's  nuclear commitments. These actions confirmed what we have known all  along: The Iran nuclear program is not civilian, as they claim; it is  the pursuit of a bomb to destroy Israel and threaten U.S. national  security interests in the region.

The international community must not tolerate this activity any  longer. The decision to initiate the snapback process is only the  beginning. The U.N. Security Council must fully process and formally  reinstate U.N. sanctions without delay. Furthermore, once sanctions are  back in place, we must commit to their enforcement. Chinese purchases  of Iranian oil and illicit oil smuggling through third countries have  long violated existing U.N. sanctions. Once U.N. sanctions return, all  member countries will have a duty to crack down on this illegal  activity.

President Trump has once again instituted a maximum-pressure policy  to bring Iran to the negotiating table. I hope our European friends  will also take the next step to counter Iran's threat to regional and  global security for good. This resolution will communicate with our  European friends that it is the intent of this body to do so.

With that, I yield back to Senator Ricketts.