Arms Sales Notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Speaker: Pursuant to the reporting requirements of       Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,       we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 26-03, concerning       the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to       the Government of Australia for defense articles and services       estimated to cost $3.16 billion.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                                   ____                                                    Defense Security                                              Cooperation Agency,                                                     Washington, DC.      Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 26-03,       concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Australia for defense       articles and services estimated to cost $3.16 billion.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                                          ____                                                   Defense Security                                              Cooperation Agency,                                                     Washington, DC.      Hon. Brian Mast,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 26-03,       concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Australia for defense       articles and services estimated to cost $3.16 billion.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 26-03       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Australia.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment * $2.61 billion.

Other $.55 billion.

Total $3.16 billion.

Funding Source: National Funds.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

Up to four hundred fifty (450) AIM-260 Joint Advanced       Tactical Missiles (JATM).

Up to five (5) AIM-260 JATM Integration Test Vehicles       (ITV).

Up to thirty (30) AIM-260 JATM Guided Test Vehicles (GTV).

Non-Major Defense Equipment:

The following non-MDE items will also be included:       ammunition containers; shoe jettison assemblies; KGV-135A       embedded communications security devices; spare parts,       consumables, and accessories; repair and return support;       component parts and spare equipment; training aids, devices,       and spare parts; weapon system support and test equipment;       classified and unclassified software delivery and support;       classified and unclassified publications and technical       documentation; personnel training and training equipment;       transportation support; site surveys; warranties; U.S.       Government and contractor engineering, technical, and       logistics support services; and other related elements of       logistics and program support.

(iv) Military Department: Air Force (AT-D-YAO).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: January 23, 2026.

*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export       Control Act.                             policy justification            Australia--AIM-260 Joint Advanced Tactical Missiles

The Government of Australia has requested to buy up to four       hundred fifty (450) AIM-260 Joint Advanced Tactical Missiles       (JATM); up to five (5) AIM-260 JATM Integration Test Vehicles       (ITV); and up to thirty (30) AIM-260 JATM Guided Test       Vehicles (GTV). The following nonMDE items will also be       included: ammunition containers; shoe jettison assemblies;       KGV-135 A embedded communications security devices; spare       parts, consumables, and accessories; repair and return       support; component parts and spare equipment; training aids,       devices, and spare parts; weapon system support and test       equipment; classified and unclassified software delivery and       support; classified and unclassified publications and       technical documentation; personnel training and training       equipment; transportation support; site surveys; warranties;       U.S. Government and contractor engineering, technical, and       logistics support services; and other related elements of       logistics and program support. The estimated total cost is       $3.16 billion.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security objectives of the United States. Australia       is one of our most important allies in the Western Pacific.       The strategic location of this political and economic power       contributes significantly to ensuring peace and economic       stability in the Western Pacific. It is vital to the U.S.       national interest to assist our ally in developing and       maintaining a strong and ready self-defense capability.

The proposed sale will improve Australia's capability to       meet current and future threats by ensuring Australia has       modern, capable air-to-air munitions that improve       interoperability between the United States and the Royal       Australian Air Force (RAAF). Australia will have no       difficulty absorbing these articles into its armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractor will be Lockheed Martin Missiles       and Fire Control, located in Orlando, FL. At this time, the       U.S. Government is not aware of any offset agreement proposed       in connection with this potential sale. Any offset agreement       will be defined in negotiations between the purchaser and the       contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to Australia.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 26-03       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The AIM-260 Joint Advanced Tactical Missile (JATM) is a       GPS-aided air superiority missile with increased range and       effectiveness over existing air-to-air weapons with Precise       Positioning Services provided by Selective Availability Anti-      Spoofing Module or M-Code. Anti-tampering security measures       have been incorporated into the AIM-260 to prevent       exploitation of the software.

2. The AIM-260 Guided Test Vehicle (GTV) is an instrumented       version of the missile where the warhead is replaced with a       telemetry unit to capture missile data parameters during       live-fire flight testing.

3. The AIM-260 Integration Test Vehicle (ITV) is a modified       AIM-260 missile used for captive test purposes.

4. The KGV-135 A is a high-speed, general purpose       encryptor/decryptor module used for wideband data encryption.

5. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

6. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

7. A determination has been made that Australia can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This sale       is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and       national security objectives outlined in the Policy       Justification.

8. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Australia.