Arms Sales Notifications


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(5)(C) of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA),       as amended, we are forwarding Transmittal No. 24-0M. This       transmittal notifies a cost increase in excess of the total       value previously described in the Section 36(b)(1) AECA       certification 13-56 of May 12, 2014.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosure.                            Transmittal No. 24-0M       Report of Enhancement or Upgrade of Sensitivity of Technology           or Capability (Sec. 36(b)(5)(C), AECA)

(i) Purchaser: Republic of Turkiye.

(ii) Sec. 36(b)(1), AECA Transmittal No.: 13-56; Date: May       12, 2014; Implementing Agency: Navy.

Funding Source: National Funds.

(iii) Description: On May 12, 2014, Congress was notified       by congressional certification transmittal number 13-56, of       the possible sale under Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export       Control Act of up to 48 MK 48 Mod 6 Advanced Technology All-      Up-Round (AUR) Warshot Torpedoes, containers, fleet exercise       sections, exercise fuel tanks, surface recovery cage and       tools, exercise hardware, maintenance facility upgrades,       support and test equipment, spare and repair parts, personnel       training and training equipment, publications and technical       documentation, U.S. Government and contractor engineering,       technical, and logistics support services, and other related       elements of technical support. The total estimated value was       $170 million. Major Defense Equipment (MDE) constituted $126       million of this total.

This transmittal notifies an increase in MDE value by $100       million, due to recent cost increases. There are no       additional MDE or non-MDE items being reported with this       notification. The total case value will increase by $100       million to $270 million. MDE will constitute $226 million of       this total.

(iv) Significance: Recent cost increases have brought about       the need to add value to the original notification. The       proposed sale will improve Turkiye's naval power and its       capability to meet current and future threats.

(v) Justification: This proposed sale will support the       foreign policy goals and national security of the United       States by improving the naval capabilities and       interoperability of a NATO Ally that is a force for political       and economic stability in Europe.

(vi) Sensitivity of Technology: The Sensitivity of       Technology Statement contained in the original notification       applies to items reported here.

(vii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: February 21, 2025.