Arms Sales Notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-25       concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of the United Arab Emirates for       defense services estimated to cost $130 million. We will       issue a news release to notify the public of this proposed       sale upon delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely.                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 25-25       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of the United Arab       Emirates

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment* $0.

Other $130 million.

Total $130 million.

Funding Source: National Funds.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase: Foreign Military       Sales (FMS) case AE-D-QAM was below the congressional       notification threshold at $40.9 million ($0 in MDE) and       included Common Munitions Built-in-Test Reprogramming       Equipment (CMBRE); munitions support equipment; night vision       device (NVD) support and spare equipment; spare parts,       consumables, and accessories; repair and return support;       classified and unclassified software delivery and support;       classified and unclassified publications and technical       documentation; site surveys; studies and surveys;       transportation support; U.S. Government and contractor       engineering, technical, and logistics support services; and       other related elements of logistics and program support. The       Government of the United Arab Emirates has requested that the       case be amended to include additional F-16 aircraft       components, spares, and accessories and other related       elements of logistics and program support. This amendment       will cause the case to exceed the notification threshold, and       thus notification of the entire program is required. The       above notification requirements are combined as follows:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.

Non-Major Defense Equipment: Common Munitions Built-in-Test       Reprogramming Equipment (CMBRE); munitions support equipment;       night vision device (NVD) support and spare equipment; spare       parts, consumables and accessories; repair and return       support; classified and unclassified software delivery and       support; classified and unclassified publications and       technical documentation; site surveys; studies and surveys;       transportation support; U.S. Government and contractor       engineering, technical, and logistics support services;       aircraft components, spares, and accessories; and other       related elements of logistics and program support.

(iv) Military Department: Air Force (AE-D-QAM).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: May 12, 2025.

*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export       Control Act.                             Policy Justification                   United Arab Emirates--F-16 Sustainment

The Government of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has       requested to buy additional F-16 aircraft components, spares,       and accessories; and other related elements of logistics and       program support that will be added to a previously       implemented case whose value was below the congressional       notification threshold. The original Foreign Military Sales       (FMS) case, valued at $40.9 million ($0 in MDE), included       Common Munitions Built-in-Test Reprogramming Equipment       (CMBRE); munitions support equipment; night vision device       (NVD) support and spare equipment; spare parts, consumables       and accessories; repair and return support; classified and       unclassified software delivery and support; classified and       unclassified publications and technical documentation; site       surveys; studies and surveys; transportation support; U.S.       Government and contractor engineering, technical, and       logistics support services. The estimated total cost is $130       million.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security of the United States by helping to improve       the security of a major defense partner. The UAE is a force       for political stability and economic progress in the Middle       East.

The proposed sale will improve the United Arab Emirates'       ability to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity       to meet its national defense requirements. The United Arab       Emirates will have no difficulty absorbing this equipment and       services into its armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

There are no principal contractors associated with this       potential sale. At this time, the U.S. Government is not       aware of any offset agreement proposed in connection with       this potential sale. Any offset agreement will be defined in       negotiations between the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of additional U.S. Government or U.S. contractor       representatives to the UAE.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.