Arms Sales Notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(5)(C) of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA),       as amended, we are forwarding Transmittal No. 25-1I. This       notification relates to enhancements or upgrades from the       level of sensitivity of technology or capability described in       the Section 36(b)(1) AECA certification 22-63 of November 8,       2022.            Sincerely,                                                   Mary Beth Morgan                                 (For Michael F. Miller, Director).

Enclosure.                            transmittal no. 25-1I       Report of Enhancement or Upgrade of Sensitivity of Technology           or Capability (Sec. 36(b)(5)(C), AECA)

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Belgium.

(ii) Sec. 36(b)(1), AECA Transmittal No.: 22-63; Date:       November 8, 2022; Implementing Agency: Air Force.

(iii) Description: On November 8, 2022, Congress was       notified by congressional certification transmittal number       22-63 of the possible sale, under Section 36(b)(1) of the       Arms Export Control Act, of the Government of Belgium's       request to buy one hundred twenty (120) AIM-120C-8 Advanced       Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles (AMRAAM); and ten (10)       AMRAAM C-8 Guidance Sections. Also included were spare AIM-      120 control sections and containers; AIM-120C Captive Air       Training Missiles (CATM); other spare parts, consumables,       accessories, and repair/return support; classified software;       books, technical documentation, and other publications;       training and training equipment; munitions support and       support equipment; and other related elements of logistics       and program support. The estimated total cost was $380       million. Major Defense Equipment (MDE) constituted $358       million of this total.

On March 3, 2025, Congress was notified by congressional       certification transmittal number 25-0D of the possible sale,       under Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, of the       addition of the following MDE items: one hundred fifty-nine       (159) AIM-120D-3 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles       (AMRAAM); one (1) AMRAAM D-3 guidance section; and one AIM-      120D Integrated Test Vehicle. The following non-MDE items       were also included: weapon system support to include       software, and KGV-135A COMSEC chips. The total cost of the       new MDE articles was $479 million, and the total cost of the       new non-MDE items articles was $30 million. The total       notified cost of MDE increased to $837 million, and the total       notified case value increased to $889 million.

This transmittal notifies the inclusion of the following       additional MDE items: up to nine hundred ninety-seven (997)       AIM-120D-3 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles       (AMRAAMs) and up to one hundred nineteen (119) AMRAAM D-3       guidance sections. The following non-MDE items will be       included: AMRAAM support equipment and other related elements       of logistics and program support. The estimated total cost of       the new items is $3.131 billion. The estimated MDE value will       increase by $2.853 billion to a revised $3.69 billion. The       estimated non-MDE value will increase by $0.278 billion to a       revised $0.33 billion. The estimated total case value will       increase by $3.131 billion to a revised $4.02 billion.

(iv) Significance: This notification is provided as the       additional MDE items were not enumerated in the original       notification. The inclusion of this MDE represents an       increase in capability over what was previously notified.

(v) Justification: This proposed sale will support the       foreign policy and national security objectives of the United       States by improving the security of a NATO Ally that is a       force for political stability and economic       progress in Europe. The proposed sale will improve Belgium's       capability to meet current and future threats by maintaining       its F-16 and F-35 fleets in combat-ready status and providing       a credible deterrent to regional threats.

(vi) Sensitivity of Technology:

The Sensitivity of Technology Statement contained in the       original notification applies to items reported here.

The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

(vii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: October 3, 2025.