Arms Sales Notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-69,       concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Ukraine for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $179.1 million. We will issue       a news release to notify the public of this proposed sale       upon delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                            transmittal no. 25-69       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Ukraine.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment* $0.

Other $179.1 million.

Total $179.1 million.

Funding Source: Foreign Military Financing.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase: The Government of       Ukraine has requested to buy equipment and services to       support sustainment of its Patriot air defense systems.

Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.

Non-MDE: The following non-MDE items will be included:       classified and unclassified spare parts; maintenance support;       classified and unclassified software and software updates;       system modifications and associated modification kits; test       equipment; communication equipment and associated       accessories; integration services; repair and return;       storage; tooling; Field Surveillance Program; International       Engineering Services Program; maintenance support equipment;       U.S. Government and contractor representative technical       assistance; training; engineering and logistics support       services; classified and unclassified publications and       technical documentation; classified software; and other       related elements of logistics and program support.

(iv) Military Department: Army (UP-B-UDC).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: August 29, 2025.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export       Control Act.                             policy justification              Ukraine--Patriot Air Defense System Sustainment

The Government of Ukraine has requested to buy equipment       and services to support sustainment of its Patriot air       defense systems. The following non-MDE items will be       included: classified and unclassified spare parts;       maintenance support; classified and unclassified software and       software updates; system modifications and associated       modification kits; test equipment; communication equipment       and associated accessories; integration services; repair and       return; storage; tooling; Field Surveillance Program;       International Engineering Services Program; maintenance       support equipment; U.S. Government and contractor       representative technical assistance; training; engineering       and logistics support services; classified and unclassified       publications and technical documentation; classified       software; and other related elements of logistics and program       support. The estimated total program cost is $179.1 million.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security objectives of the United States by       improving the security of a partner country that is a force       for political stability and economic progress in Europe.

The proposed sale will improve Ukraine's ability to meet       current and future threats by further equipping it to conduct       self-defense and regional security missions with a more       robust air defense capability. Ukraine will have no       difficulty absorbing these articles and services into its       armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractors will be RTX Corporation, located       in Arlington, VA; and Lockheed Martin, located in Bethesda,       MD. At this time, the U.S. Government is not aware of any       offset agreement proposed in connection with this potential       sale. Any offset agreement will be defined in negotiations       between the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will require       approximately five U.S. Government and fifteen contractor       representatives to travel to the United States European       Command to support training and periodic meetings.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.