U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations Rules of Procedure


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, the Committee on Foreign Relations has  adopted rules governing its procedures for the 119th Congress.

Acquisition of land and buildings for embassies and       legations in foreign countries.

2. Boundaries of the United States.

3. Diplomatic service.

4. Foreign economic, military, technical, and humanitarian       assistance.

5. Foreign loans.

6. International activities of the American National Red       Cross and the International Committee of the Red Cross.

7. International aspects of nuclear energy, including       nuclear transfer policy.

8. International conferences and congresses.

9. International law as it relates to foreign policy.

10. International Monetary Fund and other international       organizations established primarily for international       monetary purposes (except that, at the request of the       Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, any       proposed legislation relating to such subjects reported by       the Committee on Foreign Relations shall be referred to the       Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs).

11. Intervention abroad and declarations of war.

12. Measures to foster commercial intercourse with foreign       nations and to safeguard American business interests abroad.

13. National security and international aspects of       trusteeships of the United States.

14. Ocean and international environmental and scientific       affairs as they relate to foreign policy.

15. Protection of United States citizens abroad and       expatriation.

16. Relations of the United States with foreign nations       generally.

17. Treaties and executive agreements, except reciprocal       trade agreements.

18. United Nations and its affiliated organizations.

19. World Bank group, the regional development banks, and       other international organizations established primarily for       development assistance purposes.

The committee is also mandated by Senate Rule XXV.1(j)(2)       to study and review, on a comprehensive basis, matters       relating to the national security policy, foreign policy, and       international economic policy as it relates to foreign policy       of the United States, and matters relating to food, hunger,       and nutrition in foreign countries, and report thereon from       time to time.

(b) Oversight.--The committee also has a responsibility       under Senate Rule XXVI.8(a)(2), which provides that ``. . . .       each standing committee . . . shall review and study, on a       continuing basis, the application, administration, and       execution of those laws or parts of laws, the subject matter       of which is within the jurisdiction of the committee.''

(c) ``Advice and Consent'' Clauses.--The committee has a       special responsibility to assist the Senate in its       constitutional function of providing ``advice and consent''       to all treaties entered into by the United States and all       nominations to the principal executive branch positions in       the field of foreign policy and diplomacy.                            rule 2--subcommittees

(a) Creation.--Unless otherwise authorized by law or Senate       resolution, subcommittees shall be created by majority vote       of the committee and shall deal with such legislation and       oversight of programs and policies as the committee directs.       Legislative measures or other matters may be referred to a       subcommittee for consideration in the discretion of the       chairman or by vote of a majority of the committee. If the       principal subject matter of a measure or matter to be       referred falls within the jurisdiction of more than one       subcommittee, the chairman or the committee may refer the       matter to two or more subcommittees for joint consideration.

(b) Assignments.--Assignments of members to subcommittees       shall be made in an equitable fashion. No member of the       committee may receive assignment to a second subcommittee       until, in order of seniority, all members of the committee       have chosen assignments to one subcommittee, and no member       shall receive assignments to a third subcommittee until, in       order of seniority, all members have chosen assignments to       two subcommittees.

No member of the committee may serve on more than four       subcommittees at any one time.

The chairman and ranking member of the committee shall be       ex officio members, without vote, of each subcommittee.

(c) Hearings.--Except when funds have been specifically       made available by the Senate for a subcommittee purpose, no       subcommittee of the Committee on Foreign Relations shall hold       hearings involving expenses without prior approval of the       chairman of the full committee or by decision of the full       committee. Hearings of subcommittees shall be scheduled after       consultation with the chairman of the committee with a view       toward avoiding conflicts with hearings of other       subcommittees insofar as possible. Hearings of subcommittees       shall not be scheduled to conflict with meetings or hearings       of the full committee.

The proceedings of each subcommittee shall be governed by       the rules of the full committee, subject to such       authorizations or limitations as the committee may from time       to time prescribe.                        rule 3--meetings and hearings

(a) Regular Meeting Day.--The regular meeting day of the       Committee on Foreign Relations for the transaction of       committee business shall be on Wednesday of each week, unless       otherwise directed by the chairman.

(b) Additional Meetings and Hearings.--Additional meetings       and hearings of the committee may be called by the chairman       as he may deem necessary. If at least three members of the       committee desire that a special meeting of the committee be       called by the chairman, those members may file in the offices       of the committee their written request to the chairman for       that special meeting. Immediately upon filing of the request,       the chief clerk of the committee shall notify the chairman of       the filing of the request. If, within three calendar days       after the filing of the request, the chairman does not call       the requested special meeting, to be held within seven       calendar days after the filing of the request, a majority of       the members of the committee may file in the offices of the       committee their written notice that a special meeting of the       committee will be held, specifying the date and hour of that       special meeting. The committee shall meet on that date and       hour. Immediately upon the filing of the notice, the clerk       shall notify all members of the committbe that such special       meeting will be held and inform them of its date and hour.

(c) Hearings, Selection of Witnesses.--To ensure that the       issue which is the subject of the hearing is presented as       fully and fairly as possible, whenever a hearing is conducted       by the committee or a subcommittee upon any measure or       matter, the ranking member of the committee or subcommittee       may select and call an equal number of non-governmental       witnesses to testify at that hearing.

(d) Public Announcement.--The committee, or any       subcommittee thereof, shall make public announcement of the       date, place, time, and subject matter of any meeting or       hearing to be conducted on any measure or matter at least       seven calendar days in advance of such meetings or hearings,       unless the chairman of the committee, or subcommittee, in       consultation with the ranking member, determines that there       is good cause to begin such meeting or hearing at an earlier       date.

(e) Procedure.--Insofar as possible, proceedings of the       committee will be conducted without resort to the formalities       of parliamentary procedure and with due regard for the views       of all members. Issues of procedure which may arise from time       to time shall be resolved by decision of the chairman, in       consultation with the ranking member. The chairman, in       consultation with the ranking member, may also propose       special procedures to govern the consideration of particular       matters by the committee.

(f) Closed Sessions.--Each meeting and hearing of the       Committee on Foreign Relations, or any subcommittee thereof       shall be open to the public, except that a meeting or hearing       or series of meetings or hearings by the committee or a       subcommittee on the same subject for a period of no more       than 14 calendar days may be closed to the public on a       motion made and seconded to go into closed session to       discuss only whether the matters enumerated in paragraphs       (1) through (6) would require the meeting or hearing to be       closed followed immediately by a record vote in open       session by a majority of the members of the committee or       subcommittee when it is determined that the matters to be       discussed or the testimony to be taken at such meeting or       hearing or series of meetings or hearings--

(1) will disclose matters necessary to be kept secret in       the interests of national defense or the confidential conduct       of the foreign relations of the United States;

(2) will relate solely to matters of committee staff       personnel or internal staff management or procedure;

(3) will tend to charge an individual with crime or       misconduct; to disgrace or injure the professional standing       of an individual, or otherwise to expose an individual to       public contempt or obloquy, or will represent a clearly       unwarranted invasion of the privacy of an individual;

(4) will disclose the identity of any informer or law       enforcement agent or will disclose any information relating       to the investigation or prosecution of a criminal offense       that is required to be kept secret in the interests of       effective law enforcement;

(5) will disclose information relating to the trade secrets       or financial or commercial information pertaining       specifically to a given person if--

(A) an Act of Congress requires the information to be kept       confidential by government officers and employees; or

(B) the information has been obtained by the government on       a confidential basis, other than through an application by       such person for a specific government financial or other       benefit, and is required to be kept secret in order to       prevent undue injury to the competitive position of such       person) or

(6) may divulge matters required to be kept confidential       under other provisions of law or government regulations.

A closed meeting or hearing may be opened by a majority       vote of the committee.

(g) Staff Attendance.--A member of the committee may have       one member of his or her personal staff, for whom that member       assumes personal responsibility, accompany and be seated       nearby at committee meetings and hearings. The chairman or       ranking member may authorize the attendance and seating of       such a staff member at committee meetings and hearings where       the member of the committee is not present.

Each member if the committee may designate members of his       or her personal staff for whom that member assumes personal       responsibility, who holds, at a minimum, a top secret       security clearance, for the purpose of their eligibility to       attend closed sessions of the committee, subject to the same       conditions set forth for committee staff under Rules 12, 13,       and 14.

In addition, the majority leader and the minority leader of       the Senate, if they are not otherwise members of the       committee, may designate one member of their staff for whom       that leader assumes personal responsibility and who holds, at       a minimum, a top secret security clearance, to attend closed       sessions of the committee, subject to the same conditions set       forth for committee staff under Rules 12, 13, and 14.

Staff of other Senators who are not members of the       committee may not attend closed sessions of the committee.

Attendance of committee staff at meetings and hearings       shall be limited to those designated by the staff director or       the minority staff director.

The committee, by majority vote, or the chairman, with the       concurrence of the ranking member, may limit staff attendance       at specified meetings or hearings.                               RULE 4--QUORUMS

(a) Testimony.--For the purpose of taking sworn or unsworn       testimony at any duly scheduled meeting a quorum of the       committee and each subcommittee thereof shall consist of one       member of such committee or subcommittee.

(b) Business.--A quorum for the transaction of committee or       subcommittee business, other than for reporting a measure or       recommendation to the Senate or the taking of testimony,       shall consist of one-third of the members of the committee or       subcommittee, including at least one member from each party.

(c) Reporting.--A majority of the membership of the       committee, including at least one member from each party,       shall constitute a quorum for reporting any measure or       recommendation to the Senate. No measure or recommendation       shall be ordered reported from the committee unless a       majority of the committee members is physically present,       including at least one member from each party, and a majority       of those present concurs.                               RULE 5--PROXIES

Proxies must be in writing with the signature of the absent       member. Subject to the requirements of Rule 4 for the       physical presence of a quorum to report a matter, proxy       voting shall be allowed on all measures and matters before       the committee. However. proxies shall not be voted on a       measure or matter except when the absent member has been       informed of the matter on which he is being recorded and has       affirmatively requested that he or she be so recorded.                              RULE 6--WITNESSES

(a) General.--The Committee on Foreign Relations will       consider requests to testify on any matter or measure pending       before the committee.

(b) Presentation.--If the chairman so determines, the oral       presentation of witnesses shall be limited to 10 minutes.       However, written statements of reasonable length may be       submitted by witnesses and other interested persons who are       unable to testify in person.

(c) Filing of Statements.--A witness appearing before the       committee, or any subcommittee thereof, shall submit an       electronic copy of the written statement of his proposed       testimony at least 24 hours prior to his appearance, unless       this requirement is waived by the chairman and the ranking       member following their determination that there is good cause       for failure to file such a statement.

(d) Expenses.--Only the chairman may authorize expenditures       of funds for the expenses of witnesses appearing before the       committee or its subcommittees.

(e) Requests.--Any witness called for a hearing may submit       a written request to the chairman no later than 24 hours in       advance for his testimony to be in closed or open session, or       for any other unusual procedure. The chairman shall determine       whether to grant any such request and shall notify the       committee members of the request and of his decision.                              RULE 7--SUBPOENAS

(a) Authorization.--The chairman or any other member of the       committee, when authorized by a majority vote of the       committee at a meeting or by proxies, shall have authority to       subpoena the attendance of witnesses or the production of       memoranda, documents, records, or any other materials. At the       request of any member of the committee, the committee shall       authorize the issuance of a subpoena only at a meeting of the       committee. When the committee authorizes a subpoena, it may       be issued upon the signature of the chairman or any other       member designated by the committee.

(b) Return.--A subpoena, or a request to an agency, for       documents may be issued whose return shall occur at a time       and place other than that of a scheduled committee meeting. A       return on such a subpoena or request which is incomplete or       accompanied by an objection constitutes good cause for a       hearing on shortened notice. Upon such a return, the chairman       or any other member designated by him may convene a hearing       by giving 4 hours notice by telephone or electronic mail to       all other members. One member shall constitute a quorum for       such a hearing. The sole purpose of such a hearing shall be       to elucidate further information about the return and to rule       on the objection.

(c) Depositions.--At the direction of the committee, staff       is authorized to take depositions from witnesses.                               RULE 8--REPORTS

(a) Filing.--When the committee has ordered a measure or       recommendation reported, the report thereon shall be filed in       the Senate at the earliest practicable time.

(b) Supplemental, Minority and Additional Views.--A member       of the committee who gives notice of his intentions to file       supplemental, minority, or additional views at the time of       final committee approval of a measure or matter, shall be       entitled to not less than 3 calendar days in which to file       such views, in writing (including by electronic mail), with       the chief clerk of the committee, with the 3 days to begin at       11:00 p.m. on the same day that the committee has ordered       a measure or matter reported. Such views shall then be       included in the committee report and printed in the same       volume, as a part thereof, and their inclusion shall be       noted on the cover of the report. In the absence of timely       notice, the committee report may be filed and printed       immediately without such views.

(c) Roll Call Votes.--The results of all roll call votes       taken in any meeting of the committee on any measure, or       amendment thereto, shall be announced in the committee       report. The announcement shall include a tabulation of the       votes cast in favor and votes cast in opposition to each such       measure and amendment by each member of the committee.                               Rule 9--Treaties

(a) General.--The committee is the only committee of the       Senate with jurisdiction to review and report to the Senate       on treaties submitted by the President for Senate advice and       consent to ratification. Because the House of Representatives       has no role in the approval of treaties, the committee is       therefore the only congressional committee with       responsibility for treaties.

(b) Committee Proceedings.--Once submitted by the President       for advice and consent, each treaty is referred to the       committee and remains on its calendar from Congress to       Congress until the committee takes action to report it to the       Senate or recommend its return to the President, or until the       committee is discharged of the treaty by the Senate.

(c) Floor Proceedings.--In accordance with Senate Rule       XXX.2, treaties which have been reported to the Senate but       not acted on before the end of a Congress ``shall be resumed       at the commencement of the next Congress as if no proceedings       had previously been had thereon.''

(d) Hearings.--Insofar as possible, the committee should       conduct a public hearing on each treaty as soon as possible       after its submission by the President. Except in       extraordinary circumstances, treaties reported to the Senate       shall be accompanied by a written report.                             Rule 10--Nominations

(a) Waiting Requirement.--Unless otherwise directed by the       chairman and the ranking member, the Committee on Foreign       Relations shall not consider any nomination until 5 business       days after it has been formally submitted to the Senate.

(b) Public Consideration.--Nominees for any post who are       invited to appear before the committee shall be heard in       public session, unless a majority of the committee decrees       otherwise, consistent with Rule 3(f).

(c) Required Data.--No nomination shall be reported to the       Senate unless (1) the nominee has been accorded a security       clearance       on the basis of a thorough investigation by executive branch       agencies; (2) the nominee has filed a financial disclosure       report and a related ethics undertaking with the committee;       (3) the committee has been assured that the nominee does not       have any interests which could conflict with the interests of       the government in the exercise of the nominee's proposed       responsibilities; (4) for persons nominated to be chief of       mission, ambassador-at-large, or minister, the committee has       received a complete list of any contributions made by the       nominee or members of his immediate family to any Federal       election campaign during the year of his or her nomination       and for the 4 preceding years; (5) for persons nominated to       be chiefs of mission, the report required by Section       304(a)(4) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 on the       demonstrated competence of that nominee to perform the duties       of the position to which he or she has been nominated; and       (6) the nominee has provided the committee with a signed and       notarized copy of the committee questionnaire for executive       branch nominees.                               Rule 11--Travel

(a) Foreign Travel.--No member of the Committee on Foreign       Relations or its staff shall travel abroad on committee       business unless specifically authorized by the chairman, who       is required by law to approve vouchers and report       expenditures of foreign currencies, and the ranking member.       Requests for authorization of such travel shall state the       purpose and, when completed, a full substantive and financial       report shall be filed with the committee within 30 days. This       report shall be furnished to all members of the committee and       shall not be otherwise disseminated without authorization of       the chairman and the ranking member. Except in extraordinary       circumstances, staff travel shall not be approved unless the       reporting requirements have been fulfilled for all prior       trips. Except for travel that is strictly personal, travel       funded by non-U.S. Government sources is subject to the same       approval and substantive reporting requirements as U.S.       Government-funded travel. In addition, members and staff are       reminded to consult the Senate Code of Conduct, and, as       appropriate, the Senate Select Committee on Ethics, in the       case of travel sponsored by non-U.S. Government sources.

Any proposed travel by committee staff for a subcommittee       purpose must be approved by the subcommittee chairman and       ranking member prior to submission of the request to the       chairman and ranking member of the full committee.

(b) Domestic Travel.--All official travel in the United       States by the committee staff shall be approved in advance by       the staff director, or in the case of minority staff, by the       minority staff director.

(c) Personal Staff Travel.--As a general rule, no more than       one member of the personal staff of a member of the committee       may travel with that member with the approval of the chairman       and the ranking member of the committee. During such travel,       the personal staff member shall be considered to be an       employee of the committee.

(d) PRM Travel.--For the purposes of this rule regarding       staff foreign travel, the officially-designated personal       representative of the member pursuant to rule 14(b), shall be       deemed to have the same rights, duties, and responsibilities       as members of the staff of the Committee on Foreign       Relations.

Rule 12--Transcripts and Materials Provided to the Committee

(a) General.--The Committee on Foreign Relations shall keep       verbatim transcripts of all committee and subcommittee       meetings and hearings and such transcripts shall remain in       the custody of the committee, unless a majority of the       committee decides otherwise. Transcripts of public hearings       by the committee shall be published unless the chairman, with       the concurrence of the ranking member, determines otherwise.

The committee, through the chief clerk, shall also maintain       at least one copy of all materials provided to the committee       by the Executive Branch; such copy shall remain in the       custody of the committee and be subject to the committee's       rules and procedures, including those rules and procedures       applicable to the handling of classified materials.

Such transcripts and materials shall be made available to       all members of the committee, committee staff, and designated       personal representatives of members of the committee, except       as otherwise provided in these rules.

(b) Classified or Restricted Transcripts or Materials.--

(1) The chief clerk of the committee shall have       responsibility for the maintenance and security of classified       or restricted transcripts or materials, and shall ensure that       such transcripts or materials are handled in a manner       consistent with the requirements of the United States Senate       Security Manual.

(2) A record shall be maintained of each use of classified       or restricted transcripts or materials as required by the       Senate Security Manual.

(3) Classified transcripts or materials may not leave the       committee offices, or SVC-217 of the Capitol Visitors Center,       except for the purpose of declassification or archiving,       consistent with these rules.

(4) Extreme care shall be exercised to avoid taking notes       or quotes from classified transcripts or materials. Their       contents may not be divulged to any unauthorized person.

(5) Subject to any additional restrictions imposed by the       chairman with the concurrence of the ranking member, only the       following persons are authorized to have access to classified       or restricted transcripts or materials:

(A) Members and staff of the committee in the committee       offices or in SVC-217 of the Capitol Visitors Center;

(B) Designated personal representatives of members of the       committee, and of the majority and minority leaders, with       appropriate security clearances, in the committee offices or       in SVC-217 of the Capitol Visitors Center;

(C) Senators not members of the committee, by permission of       the chairman, in the committee offices or in SVC 217 of the       Capitol Visitors Center; and

(D) Officials of the executive departments involved in the       meeting, hearing, or matter, with authorization of       the chairman, in the committee offices or SVC-217 of the       Capitol Visitors Center.

(6) Any restrictions imposed by the committee upon access       to a meeting or hearing of the committee shall also apply to       the transcript of such meeting, except by special permission       of the chairman and ranking member.

(7) In addition to restrictions resulting from the       inclusion of any classified information in the transcript of       a committee meeting or hearing, members and staff shall not       discuss with anyone the proceedings of the committee in       closed session or reveal information conveyed or discussed in       such a session unless that person would have been permitted       to attend the session itself or is a member or staff of a       relevant committee or executive branch agency and possess an       appropriate security clearance, or unless such communication       is specifically authorized by the chairman, the ranking       member, or in the case of staff, by the staff director or       minority staff director. A record shall be kept of all such       authorizations.

(c) Declassification.--

(1) All noncurrent records of the committee are governed by       Rule XI of the Standing Rules of the Senate and by S. Res.       474 (96th Congress). Any classified transcripts or materials       transferred to the National Archives and Records       Administration under Rule XI may not be made available for       public use unless they have been subject to declassification       review in accordance with applicable laws or Executive       orders.

(2) Any transcript or classified committee report, or any       portion thereof, may be declassified, in accordance with       applicable laws or Executive orders, sooner than the time       period provided for under S. Res. 474 if:

(A) the chairman originates such action, with the       concurrence of the ranking member;

(B) the other current members of the committee who       participated in such meeting or report have been notified of       the proposed declassification, and have not objected thereto,       except that the committee by majority vote may overrule any       objections thereby raised to early declassification; and

(C) the executive departments that participated in the       meeting or originated the classified information have been       consulted regarding the declassification.                       rule 13--classified information

(a) General.--The handling of classified information in the       Senate is governed by S. Res. 243 (100th Congress), which       established the Office of Senate Security. All handling of       classified information by the committee shall be consistent       with the procedures set forth in the United States Senate       Security Manual issued by the Office of Senate Security.

(b) Security Manager.--The chief clerk is the security       manager for the committee. The chief clerk shall be       responsible for implementing the provisions of the Senate       Security Manual and for serving as the committee liaison to       the Office of Senate Security. The staff director, in       consultation with the minority staff director, may appoint an       alternate security manager as circumstances warrant.

(c) Transportation of Classified Material.--Classified       material may only be transported between Senate offices by       appropriately cleared staff members who have been       specifically authorized to do so by the security manager.

(d) Access to Classified Material.--In general, Senators       and staff undertake to confine their access to classified       information on the basis of a ``need to know'' such       information related to their committee responsibilities.

(e) Staff Clearances.--The chairman, or, in the case of       minority staff, the ranking member, shall designate the       members of the committee staff whose assignments require       access to classified and compartmented information and shall       seek to obtain the requisite security clearances pursuant to       Office of Senate Security procedures

(f) PRM Clearances.--For the purposes of this rule       regarding security clearances and access to compartmented       information, the officially-designated personal       representative of the member (PRM) pursuant to rule 14(b),       shall be deemed to have the same rights, duties, and       responsibilities as members of the staff of the committee on       Foreign Relations.

(g) Regulations.--The staff director is authorized to make       such administrative regulations as may be necessary to carry       out the provisions of this rule.                                RULE 14--STAFF

(a) Responsibilities.--

(1) The staff works for the committee as a whole, under the       general supervision of the chairman of the committee, and the       immediate direction of the staff director, except       that such part of the staff as is designated minority staff       shall be under the general supervision of the ranking member       and under the immediate direction of the minority staff       director.

(2) Any member of the committee should feel free to call       upon the staff at any time for assistance in connection with       committee business. Members of the Senate not members of the       committee who call upon the staff for assistance from time to       time should be given assistance subject to the overriding       responsibility of the staff to the committee.

(3) The staffs primary responsibility is with respect to       bills, resolutions, treaties, and nominations and other       matters within the jurisdiction of the committee. In addition       to carrying out assignments from the committee and its       individual members, the staff has a responsibility to       originate suggestions for committee or subcommittee       consideration. The staff also has a responsibility to make       suggestions to individual members regarding matters of       special interest to such members.

(4) It is part of the staff's duty to keep itself as well       informed as possible in regard to developments affecting       foreign relations and national security and in regard to the       administration of foreign programs of the United States.       Significant trends or developments which might otherwise       escape notice should be called to the attention of the       committee, or of individual Senators with particular       interests.

(5) The staff shall pay due regard to the constitutional       separation of powers between the Senate and the executive       branch. It therefore has a responsibility to help the       committee bring to bear an independent; objective judgment of       proposals by the executive branch and when appropriate to       originate sound proposals of its own. At the same time, the       staff shall avoid impinging upon the day-to-day conduct of       foreign affairs.

(6) In those instances when committee action requires the       expression of minority views, the staff shall assist the       minority as fully as the majority to the end that all points       of view may be fully considered by members of the committee       and of the Senate. The staff shall bear in mind that under       our constitutional system it is the responsibility of the       elected members of the Senate to determine legislative issues       in the light of as full and fair a presentation of the facts       as the staff may be able to obtain.

(b) Personal Representatives of the Member (PRM).--Each       Senator on the committee shall be authorized to designate one       personal staff member as the member's personal representative       of the member and designee to the committee (PRM) that shall       be deemed to have the same rights, duties, and       responsibilities as members of the staff of the Committee on       Foreign Relations where specifically provided for in these       rules.

(c) Restrictions.--

(1) The staff shall regard its relationship to the       committee as a privileged one, in the nature of the       relationship of a lawyer to a client. In order to protect       this relationship and the mutual confidence which must       prevail if the committee-staff relationship is to be a       satisfactory and fruitful one, the following criteria shall       apply, unless staff has consulted with and obtained, as       appropriate, the approval of the Senate Ethics Committee and       advance permission from the staff director (or the minority       staff director in the case of minority staff):

(A) members of the staff shall not be identified with any       special interest group in the field of foreign relations or       allow their names to be used by any such group; and

(B) members of the staff shall not accept public speaking       engagements or write for publication in the field of foreign       relations.

(2) The staff shall not discuss their private conversations       with members of the committee without specific advance       permission from the Senator or Senators concerned.

(3) The staff shall not discuss with anyone the proceedings       of the committee in closed session or reveal information       conveyed or discussed in such a session unless that person       would have been permitted to attend the session itself or is       a member or staff of a relevant committee or executive branch       agency and possesses an appropriate security clearance, or       unless such 13 communication is specifically authorized by       the staff director or minority staff director. Unauthorized       disclosure of information from a closed session or of       classified information shall be cause for immediate dismissal       and may, in certain cases, be grounds for criminal       prosecution.                    RULE 15--STATUS AND AMENDMENT OF RULES

(a) Status.--In addition to the foregoing, the Committee on       Foreign Relations is governed by the Standing Rules of the       Senate, which shall take precedence in the event of a clear       inconsistency. In addition, the jurisdiction and       responsibilities of the committee with respect to certain       matters, as well as the timing and procedure for their       consideration in committee, may be governed by statute.

(b) Amendment.--These rules may be modified, amended, or       repealed by a majority of the committee, provided that a       notice in writing (including by electronic mail) of the       proposed change has been given to each member at least 72       hours prior to the meeting at which action thereon is to be       taken. However, rules of the committee which are based upon       Senate rules may not be superseded by committee vote alone.