Defending the Arctic Refuge


Mr. VASQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in defense of the frontier  spirit that is core to the American identity.

I rise today to urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on S.J. Res. 80 and  H.J. Res. 131, two proposals that would forever alter the Coastal Plain  of the Arctic refuge and the special areas of the western Arctic in the  great State of Alaska.

Let me tell you a little bit about this special place, a place in  which I have had the privilege to spend time. The Arctic refuge, the  homeland of Gwich'in and the Inupiat people, offers unmatched, truly  wild fishing and hunting opportunities for all Americans.

It is the only national wildlife refuge that protects an entire  Arctic ecosystem, and it stands as a profound source of pride for this  Nation.

These lands, the birthing and calving grounds of the Porcupine  caribou herd, have been at the center of national debate for more than  a century, ever since Republican President Theodore Roosevelt  established the National Wildlife Refuge System and dedicated himself  to protecting wild places and the wildlife that depend on them.

These lands are where Americans hunt caribou, grizzly bear, and Dall  sheep, where Americans trap wolverines, and where anglers can catch  their first Arctic char.

Most importantly, these lands have provided sustenance to the  Gwich'in and Inupiat peoples since time immemorial.

For the last century, bipartisan lawmakers, including both Republican  and Democratic Presidents, have agreed to protect this place,  safeguarding it from destructive development with a firm resolve and a  desire to leave something behind for the next generation.

That same commitment to conservation has been carried on by  bipartisan leaders in Congress for generations. Today, this tradition  of conservation is being threatened by a careless proposal to roll back  established protections for our wildlife, our waters, and our public  lands, threatening indigenous livelihoods and sovereignty, the  recreational and scientific value of these lands, and an iconic symbol  of American wilderness.

I believe that, in this body, we must preach hope and possibility and  that we must defend our values and the American way of life that has  been meticulously built over centuries, and both parties must work  together to protect the things we love.

These two proposals before you are misguided. This Chamber should not  deepen the chaos it has already created. Instead, we should be working  together to pass legislation that resolves land management conflicts  and restores stability to our public lands planning system. We should  also adequately fund our land management agencies.

That is why, as a hunter, an angler, and someone who cares deeply  about our Nation's incomparable system of public lands and wildlife  habitat, I can't support the reckless destruction of the Arctic tundra  and the Coastal Plain.

For the many private interests that have sought to exploit these  sacred lands, it would be much easier if these species and Tribes never  existed. It would be much easier for them if the last remaining musk ox  hadn't survived the Ice Age or if the Porcupine caribou herd simply  went extinct, just to add a few dollars to their pockets today without  giving a damn about tomorrow.

The truth is, in my district back home in New Mexico, the Permian  Basin is a domestic energy powerhouse, fueling America's energy  independence and bolstering New Mexico's economy, but there are some  places that ought to be left alone because their quality, history, and  identity to us as Americans is far too valuable to be measured on a  balance sheet.

Now, much to my dismay, this administration has already issued an  executive order to rescind the Coastal Plain leasing program, and the  Department of the Interior has already done just that.

Given that the administration has already taken action to overturn  responsible management plans, these bills only make it more challenging  to manage these special lands. It will also expose any future decisions  related to oil and gas in the refuge to significant legal uncertainty.

This is a losing proposal. Simply put, it is bad legislation, no  matter what side of the issue you stand on.

If, like me, you still believe in bipartisanship and revere the  greats like Teddy Roosevelt, who fought to protect special places like  America's Arctic, and you dream that someday you or one of your  children can hunt wild ptarmigan on the Coastal Plain, catch an Arctic  char on the Canning River, or harvest caribou in the Brooks Range, you  should vote against these bills and honor the voices of the indigenous  communities and American citizens who depend on this land for survival.

From New Mexico to the Arctic, people who live in small communities  take care of themselves, and they want to keep it that way. Surely,  anyone who represents a rural district in this Congress can appreciate  that.

I encourage my colleagues to look at this landscape and examine these  bills and their impacts before voting, to see the value of the Arctic  and its worth to all Americans, not to simply brush this off as a  party-line vote.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on H.J. Res. 131.