Recognizing Terri Judah


Mr. VASQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Terri Judah for  her outstanding contributions to Carlsbad, New Mexico. Terri is a  community leader who has devoted her time and effort to feeding New  Mexico's families and working for New Mexico's children for over two  decades.

Terri gets a profound sense of joy from helping those in need and has  organized an annual Thanksgiving food drive for over twenty years. The  food drive started two decades ago when Terri partnered with her  daughters' Girl Scout troop to create 19 food baskets to deliver to  families in need. Driven by Terri's enthusiasm and hard work, the food  drive blossomed over time to include help from hundreds of volunteers  in the community, including Girl Scout troops, sports teams, students,  and local businesses. The Thanksgiving food drive now feeds hundreds of  families each year and fed over 300 families last year.

The continued success of this food drive requires extensive  dedication, compassion, and community support. In the weeks and months  leading up to Thanksgiving, Terri starts setting up donation sites  throughout town, storing donations, and coordinating volunteers to  assemble baskets and deliveries. The entire community truly rallies  around Terri and steps up to ensure families will not go hungry in the  holiday season.

Terri also created Operation Hope--a project where she collects and  restores used items such as furniture, clothes, and toys, to give to  any family that reaches out for assistance. Terri began this effort  when she learned that one of her former students was living hand to  mouth, and she decided she could not sit idly by. She jumped into  action, collecting items that could help her student's family live a  little more comfortably and continues to offer support to any family  that asks for help.

Above all her impactful work, Terri is a proud wife, mom, grandma,  and friend to all. She has also taught kindergarten in Carlsbad Public  Schools for the past twenty-five years. She is a beloved teacher, and  her students are forever known as ``Judah's Jaguars''. She truly does  it all.

On behalf of the people of New Mexico's 2nd Congressional District, I  would like to thank Terri for her commitment to helping those less  fortunate and ensuring her neighbors are fed during the holiday season.  She exemplifies the best that New Mexico has to offer, and we are  extremely proud of her incredible work.