Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700505/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. MILLS. Mr. Speaker, the chairman is right. We just pointed to the  three key things that you need in order to have lethal force against  the United States. One is intent.

I think that Iran and the regime have made it very clear when they  are chanting ``death to America,'' the thousands of lives they have  changed with either maiming or killing American troops or civilians  abroad, but also likelihood.

We know that they are able to build 100-plus missiles a day. We know  they had ICBMs. We have now found out they had the hypersonic ballistic  capabilities as they targeted over six different countries.

The thing we talk about, the JCPOA, as was just mentioned, Resolution  2231 where the administration tried to come up with an idea of a  negotiation that led to diplomatic and peaceful solutions, was  continually violated by this regime as even Secretary-Generals Ban Ki- moon and Guterres had pointed out multiple times as the Iranian regime  sent mid-range ballistic missiles to the Houthis and to other areas to  continue attacking Americans and the West.

The hypocrisy is what I really want to point out here, not the fact  that we already understand the Article II authorities that the  President has, which is well within the bounds constitutionally, not to  mention the fact that this body, before I came into Congress, was  already abdicating the roles and responsibilities under Article I,  Section 8, Clause 11 when they started doing things like AUMFs.

Let us point to things like what we saw in Libya. It was very clear  in 2011, as we see here in military intervention, that it was without  prior congressional authorization, relying instead on a U.N. Security  Council resolution and legal justification from the Department of  Justice that argued that the administration had limited nonground troop  missions and doesn't constitute hostilities. Mr. Speaker, that is  exactly what we have here: no ground troops.

It also goes on further to justify under the United Nations mandates,  international mandates, and the legal justification to say that because  they were focused on protecting civilians, not sustained fighting and  didn't involve ground troops. I don't know about you, but I think 40- plus Iranian civilians, peacefully protesting for a change, being  brutally murdered, being raped, being tortured, being slaughtered,  being hung from cranes, being persecuted and imprisoned--I think  President Trump stopping this after 47 years was protecting civilian  lives.

I think it is established that we had no boots on the ground. I think  that we have demonstrated the imminence, the likelihood, and intent of  an evil regime to try and go ahead and attack Americans and threaten  our way of life.