Reaffirming Iran Remains the Largest State Sponsor of Terrorism


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700435/reaffirming-iran-remains-the-largest-state-sponsor-of-terrorism


Mr. MILLS. Mr. Speaker, 47 years--I am going to say it again: 47  years. That is how long this evil regime has waged war not only against  the West and our allies but Americans.

Whether it be the Beirut bombing, whether it be the hostages, or  whether it be the violation of our own sovereign territory of our  embassies, make no mistake about it: It was Iran and their regime that  actually waged war against America--far longer than the strategic  strikes to eliminate the imminent threat that this regime posed.

My colleague from Florida has pointed out all the different occasions  in which this regime has targeted Americans. Let me point out the fact  that not only are they engaged in the illicit trade and drug  trafficking of Captagon, not only are they going ahead and leveraging  sanctioned oil to countries like China and others to fund these proxy  militias--we are talking about the worst of the worst, including the  Houthis over in Yemen and Hamas, which indiscriminately murdered,  raped, and showed barbarism on October 7 in Israel.

Look at Hezbollah under Hassan Nasrallah, who was responsible not  only for the slaughtering of Christians in Lebanon but also for the  targeting of Americans with the expansion of their militias in Iraq.

Hashd al-Shaabi and Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq in Iraq are responsible for  more attacks against American troops and contractors, as well as for  rocket attacks on our embassies, than any other.

The list goes on and on, Mr. Chairman. We can talk about the fact  that we want to go back to Article I, Section 8, Clause 11  responsibilities of declarations of war, but I would argue that my  colleague on the left has also voted for the Authorization for Use of  Military Force as an abdication of those responsibilities.

I would also argue the fact, as the chairman had talked about, while  you are right that a piece of paper isn't going to change things, it  sends a clear message that this body stands unified in acknowledging  that this state sponsor of terror will not have a reign any longer,  thanks to President Donald J. Trump and the decisive action to  guarantee that their nuclear enrichment program will not continue to  thrive. Their mid-range ballistic missiles, their long-range ballistic  missiles, and their ICBMs will not threaten American lives any longer.

Our servicemembers who are deployed in the region can sleep  peacefully at night knowing that they are not going to have Shahed-136s  or other attack drones killing them in their sleep.

I would also go ahead and iterate the fact that I can guarantee the  six new Gold Star families and those six new heroes will be proud to  know that we haven't forgotten and that we are going to continue to  acknowledge that this evil regime is the greatest state sponsor of  terror.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to support this resolution, and I  thank the chairman for giving me this time.