Stock Trading Ban for Members of Congress


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691212/stock-trading-ban-for-members-of-congress


Mr. MILLS. Mr. Speaker, I don't need a written speech or a prepared  document to say how common sense this is.

For far too long, people have basically turned politics into a career  which was never its intent. It was meant to serve we the people. There  is something that is mutually exclusive: You cannot serve yourself and  personal enrichment and serve the public at the same time.

We know for a fact that even within the National Defense  Authorization Act that you can get language put in, provided to you by  companies that allow for certain amounts of money to be sole sourced or  in some ways appropriated to defense companies that they can then turn  around and invest in.

How is that not insider trading when it is public knowledge on what  is out there, but not public knowledge on what is being put into the  NDAA during the markups?

Insider trading must stop. I can tell you that banning stock trading  for Members of Congress and their spouses should not be something that  is in question.

We must rebuild the actual image of Congress. We must rebuild the  image of the Federal Government, where we are actually here to truly  serve the people. I think this is a paramount step in us making sure,  with friends and colleagues like Representative Magaziner, we are able  to move forward and rebuild the trust, the hope, and rebuild this  institution to be what it once was.

Our Founding Fathers, many of them in the private sector, were very  successful businessmen. They served in an effort to try and get back to  their businesses because they actually made more money there, but it  has changed where people are making more money while in Congress while  stock trading than they can in the private sector.

The same way that a plan B for failed male athletes shouldn't be  women's sports, a plan B for failed entrepreneurs shouldn't be Congress  and stock trading.

Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and I ask everyone to move forward  in guaranteeing that we rebuild the confidence in government and we  restore what it means to serve we the people.