Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695264/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. MILLS. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chair, this amendment, which passed in the House NDAA last year,  would ensure that base commanders follow Federal law by ensuring that  only approved flags are flown on military installations.

Patriotic Americans understand that the American flag is to be  revered.

Anybody who has served understands the sacrifice that has been made  to keep Old Glory flying.

On military bases, it is truly sacred. It is the symbolic altar of  the Nation.

During morning and evening colors, all work ceases as troops salute  her raising and lowering. In battle, our forces carry her, wearing them  proudly on their sleeves. She serves as the final blanket for soldiers  who come home, having given and paid the last full measure.

The 2024 NDAA rightly addressed this issue by codifying an  appropriate list of approved flags that uphold the honor and dignity  that our military is built on.

However, there is a glaring error. A caveat built into the list gives  commanders the ability to fly any flag they deem appropriate. Since  President Trump and Secretary Hegseth have taken office, the woke  infiltration of our military, even its highest leaders, continues to be  exposed.

The embarrassment of these flags is hard to grasp: drag shows on  ships and military installations; base security training teaching  guards that pro-life bumper stickers were indicators of possible  terrorism; and taxpayer-funded gender transition and hormone treatments  that kept soldiers nondeployable or nontrainable for years. The list  goes on, but the point remains.

Even still, there are senior officials and officers that refuse to  mount the portraits of President Trump and Secretary Hegseth on their  chain of command due to insubordination. Believe me, these individuals  will not last long in our Armed Forces.

I ask you: Do you think that commanders who approved and even  encouraged all of this to happen would exist or hesitate before deeming  a Pride or trans flag appropriate for the month of June? Of course not,  and it would likely be their idea in the first place.

Finally, I want to emphasize the power of symbolism. Symbols serve as  a representation of our values, priorities, and our identity.

When a company completes a grueling training hike and sees that flag  flying over their garrison, it symbolizes home, and I promise you that  last mile may feel like a sprint to get to that cloth.

When a platoon returns from a patrol and reenters the wire, she  symbolizes safety.

Imagine what our enemies would think of our strength and resiliency  if we ever allow flags flown contrary to the principles of America.

I promise you that as much as this stands as the military standard,  it also serves as deterrence to our adversaries.

Mr. Chair, therefore, I invite my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this  important measure.

Mr. MILLS. Mr. Chair, may I inquire as to how much time I have  remaining.

Mr. MILLS. Mr. Chair, the only thing that was just said by our  colleague across the road that I can actually agree with is  inclusivity. What is more inclusive than the American flag, the flag we  all honor as American patriots? The one thing that we know about the  Pride flag is that it represents only one portion of those who serve.  That is not called inclusivity, sir. That is called division. That is  why for the first time since the previous administration took over, we  have actually hit our recruitment numbers in every single branch. That  is something you can't say when it comes to the last administration's  efforts.

So what I look at is this: the 1777 Flag Act. The fact that we  actually stand for something that unifies us, not divides us. The fact  is that we need to get back to meritocracy, not division through  diversity, equity, and inclusion.

Mr. Chair, this is very simple. It is a patriotic stance. The very  flag which stands behind you, that stands proud in this Capitol, is the  same one that sits over Presidents, over our fallen soldiers, and over  our military installations. That is not division. That is not  recognition of others' sexual preferences. That is the actual  acknowledgment of what we fight for day in and day out as Americans.

Mr. Chair, I would say in response to the gentleman that the Pride  flag does not replace the American flag. It is flown at certain times  of the year. It affirms a huge portion, a significant portion of our  military.

Yes, I agree the American flag is inclusive. We can also show that we  can include a minority that is often disparaged.

Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms.  Dexter).

Mr. MILLS. Mr. Chair, to identify the fact that that flag violates  our House rules by flying any other flag but the American flag.

Mr. MILLS. Mr. Chair, simply not waving the flag represents--

Mr. MILLS. Mr. Chair, I want to be very clear in this. They on the  other side may think we can out-pronoun our enemies, and that will keep  our adversaries at bay. We can ``he,'' ``him,'' ``they,'' ``them,''  ``she,'' ``her'' all day long. That is not what makes us strong as  America.

It is the flag we wear, the training we have, and the meritocracy  which should always exist. I will continue to fight for every member of  our Armed Services and every single person to know that it is the  American flag which will fly high and proud. We will defend her against  all enemies, foreign and domestic.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. MILLS. Mr. Chairman, as my colleagues have pointed out, it is  very simple. Article I, Section 8, Clauses 11 through 13, are the war  powers of Congress, granted to us and given to us. It states very  clearly: ``Congress shall have the power to declare war, grant letters  of marque and reprisal, and make rules concerning captures on land and  water.''

Yet, the key thing is that Congress shall have power, not abdicating  our roles and responsibilities and not continuing endless wars that  spend trillions of dollars and thousands of American lives. We need to  bring the power back to Congress to ensure that it is not being abused  by anyone within the executive authority, regardless of who is in the  actual seat.

This is very simple, Mr. Chairman. We have abdicated and abdicated to  where the Article I section of the Constitution no longer has its  intended powers and purposes that it initially had. We must get that  back, and I support this.