Agriculture Appropriations


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, the appropriations process is officially  underway here in the Senate.

Last week, the Appropriations Committee held its first markup of  appropriations bills for fiscal year 2026, and I am pleased to report  that the committee referred two bills to the floor with bipartisan  support. Today, I want to talk about one of the bills that came out of  last week's markup, and that is the Agriculture appropriations bill.

Agriculture is the lifeblood of our country, and in places like my  home State of South Dakota, farming and ranching are a big part of our  way of life. I know how hard American farmers and ranchers work to  deliver food, fuel, and fiber to America and to the world, and I know  this work can be challenging and, at times, unforgiving.

In recent years, farmers and ranchers across the country have faced  some pretty fierce headwinds. Higher input costs and depressed  commodity prices strained their budgets, and higher interest rates made  financing more difficult. Then there were the supply chain disruptions;  natural disasters and drought; and things like bird flu, African swine  fever, and the New World screwworm that threaten livestock.

Just 2 weeks ago, Republicans passed a reconciliation bill that  addresses many of the challenges head-on by bolstering programs that  farmers and  ranchers depend on. But as I said then, farmers' and ranchers'  priorities are going to continue to be a priority here in the Senate,  and the Agriculture appropriations bill is an example of that.

Our colleagues on the Appropriations Committee have reported a bill  that provides robust funding to support America's farmers and ranchers.  It provides important funding to the Farm Service Agency, including  support for $10.5 billion in capital access for farmers and ranchers.  And it supports efforts to track foreign-owned land to prevent our  adversaries like China from buying up America's farmland.

It also makes investments in rural development programs at USDA. In  South Dakota, that money goes far in supporting water programs,  electricity, and broadband programs in rural areas.

This bill also invests in conservation programs, and it advances  efforts to help farmers and ranchers get their products to the market.  I am glad to see support for processing capacity for meat, poultry, and  egg products. And I am pleased that this bill also promotes programs  that help State-inspected plants operate across State lines, which  provides producers with more options for their products and supports  smaller processors.

The bill also includes funding for the Agricultural Marketing Service  to help facilitate greater access to international markets for American  agriculture products. And the updated market data that will result from  investments in this bill will help farmers and ranchers make better  decisions about their businesses.

In just the past year, the threat to our food supply posed by  diseases and pests has been national news. I am glad to see the Trump  administration's actions to address bird flu and its effect on the egg  supply have had a positive impact. And the Agriculture appropriations  bill continues efforts to combat bird flu as well as other potentially  devastating threats like chronic wasting disease and the New World  screwworm.

Nutrition is another important part of agriculture policy, and the  bill that has been reported out provides robust funding for programs  like WIC and SNAP, and I appreciate Senator Hoeven's work to find  offsets for increased spending on these programs.

The work of feeding America and the world isn't easy, but I know our  farmers and ranchers take a lot of pride in what they do. They know  they are not just working toward the next harvest; they are keeping a  heritage alive, a way of life that none of us can live without.

I appreciate the work the Appropriations Committee has put in to  support our farmers and ranchers and, in particular, the leadership of  Chair Collins and Senator Hoeven. And to America's farmers and  ranchers, we will continue to have your back.