Memorial Day


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, this month, I have had the privilege of  welcoming two groups of South Dakota veterans to Washington during  Honor Flight visits. I went simply to say hello and to thank these men  and women for their service to our country. This is something I have  done for many years, and it is always an occasion that inspires me and  makes me grateful to be an American and an heir to what they fought  for.

After one of these groups of veterans returned home to South Dakota,  KELOLAND News reported on their  visit, and a quote from one Vietnam veteran in that story struck me. He  said:

I'm no hero. The heroes are the ones that didn't get to       come back and have families, didn't get to become       grandparents. They're the heroes.

Mr. President, this is a common sentiment among veterans. I know my  dad, a World War II veteran, never talked much about himself; it was  always about the men he served with, especially those who didn't come  back. But no matter how many times I hear this, it always stops me in  my tracks because it reminds me that we ask those who serve our country  to be willing to sacrifice everything--their entire future and all that  it could hold. And many, many Americans have given their lives to  defend our security, liberty, and peace.

This Monday, on Memorial Day, we honor the men and women who  sacrificed everything in service to our country. We remember their  heroism and courage, and we take inspiration from their commitment to  the ideals upon which our country is founded.

This year marks 80 years since the end of World War II. Millions of  Americans served in the military during the war, and more than 400,000  Americans died. Among these were about 1,700 South Dakotans, men like  CPT Arlo Olson of Toronto, SD, who was awarded the Congressional Medal  of Honor for his bravery in advancing through Italy and who was killed  there in 1943. He was 25 years old. Lieutenant Earl Ferguson, from  Philip, who died when his B-24 bomber was shot down while targeting an  oilfield in Romania. He was 26. And Private Glenn Dow, from Sioux  Falls, who was killed on Omaha Beach on D-Day. Private Dow was 19.

These men gave their entire lives to defend our freedom and secure  peace for us. They entrusted to us the future they would not see  themselves, and they call on us to defend the peace they won.

In one of his Memorial Day proclamations, President Reagan wrote:

The defense of peace, like the defense of liberty, requires       more than lip service. It requires vigilance, military       strength, and the willingness to take risks and make       sacrifices.

He continued:

The surest guarantor of both peace and liberty is our       unflinching resolve to defend that which has been purchased       for us by our fallen heroes.

On Memorial Day, we remember that our freedom has come at a cost, and  we recognize that it is on us to live up to the ideals for which  generations of Americans have been willing to give their lives.

These are American heroes, and we are a grateful nation.