Nominations


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, either today or tomorrow, we will confirm  another nominations package, bringing the total number of the  President's nominees confirmed this year to more than 400. That far  exceeds the total confirmations of both President Trump's previous term  and President Biden's.

It is an impressive number on its own, but it is particularly  impressive when you consider the obstacles the Democrats have put up. I  am not exaggerating when I say that President Trump's nominees have  faced a historic level of obstruction from Senate Democrats.

When you look at this term, President Trump remains the only  President on record not to have had a single civilian nomination  confirmed by unanimous consent or voice vote.

Let me repeat that. President Trump remains the only President on  record not to have had a single civilian nomination confirmed by  unanimous consent or voice vote.

Democrats have required a rollcall vote on every single one of the  President's nominations, an unprecedented level of obstruction in  modern times.

Now, of course, Democrats would like you to believe that they have  engaged in this historic level of obstruction because the President has  put up, in the words of the Democrat leader, ``historically bad  nominees.'' The only problem is a lot of these nominees have gotten  Democrat votes on final passage. So either Democrats are voting for  ``historically bad nominees'' or something else has been going on here.  That something else looks a lot like petty partisanship.

It became abundantly clear, a while ago, that the real reason  Democrats have been dragging out nominations for Assistant  Administrator of the Office of Solid Waste and Director of the Office  of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement is nothing more than  petty politics. Democrats cannot deal with the fact that the American  people elected President Trump, and so they have engaged in this  pointless political obstruction and revenge.

Republicans, however, have not been daunted. We have just kept  plowing through confirmations, racking up an impressive number of hours  in session and a historic number of votes in the process.

In September, we took steps to restore Senate precedent on largely  noncontroversial Presidential nominees to ensure that no other  President has to face the kind of petty partisanship President Trump  has encountered.

When the American people elect a President, they expect that  President to be able to get his or her team in place. That doesn't mean  that Senators should never oppose nominations, but it does mean the  nominations should not be held up for purely partisan reasons. Or, in  the words of the Democrat leader, just a few short years ago:

That doesn't mean we don't disagree. But it does mean, when       nominees are held up, opposed, or blocked--it's for a       legitimate purpose, not for leverage in partisan games, to       score political points at the expense of public safety.

Democrats have engaged in a lot of partisan games this year, but  Republicans have just kept doing our jobs. I am proud of just how much  we accomplished on nominations, and I look forward to continuing to get  the President's team in place in the new year.