One Big Beautiful Bill Act


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, in the runup to last year's elections,  Republicans made some promises to the American people. We promised to  turn the page on the failures of the last 4 years, to help working  families and to get our economy moving, to make our country stronger  and more secure. Last week, we delivered legislation that will help  fulfill those promises. That starts with permanent tax relief for hard- working Americans.

Back in 2017, during the first Trump administration, Republicans  passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, legislation that cut Americans' tax  rates, doubled the child tax credit, and nearly doubled the standard  deduction. But without action from Congress, a substantial part of the  Tax Cuts and Jobs Act would have expired this year, and that would have  meant a huge tax hike for hard-working Americans--some $2,500 for  people in my State of South Dakota.

We were determined not to let that happen--not next year, not ever-- and I am proud that our bill permanently extends all of the individual  tax relief from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. That means lower tax rates  for every income level, permanently, an enhanced $2,200 child tax  credit that is now linked to inflation, and the higher standard  deduction.

And we did more than that. We included no tax on overtime, no tax on  tips, an even bigger standard deduction for seniors, and new investment  accounts that will help the next generation get a running start on  their American dream. In a word, the American people will be able to  keep more of their hard-earned money instead of sending it to the  Federal Government in Washington, and they will have the freedom to  spend, invest, and save more of their own money how they see fit.

In addition to providing permanent relief for American families, our  bill is about getting our economy moving again. The 2017 Tax Cuts and  Jobs Act had our economy firing on all cylinders: more jobs, higher  wages, companies large and small investing in America. The 2017 tax  cuts transformed the Tax Code so that it would encourage growth, and it  worked, but not all of that reform was permanent until now.

Now, with the bill we passed last week, all of the 2017 pro-growth  reforms are a permanent fixture of our Tax Code. That includes lower  rates for small- and medium-sized businesses, the job-creating 199A  small business deduction, and investment incentives that free up cash  for small businesses, farmers, and ranchers to invest in their  operations and in their employees. And, once again, we went even  further than the 2017 reforms. We included full expensing for new  factories and factory improvements to fuel economic growth and made-in- America goods and jobs.

And we included an even higher death tax threshold that will spare  more family farms, ranches, and businesses from a potentially  devastating tax, not to mention the expense of planning for it.

Any bill that is about a stronger, more prosperous America would be  incomplete if it didn't make America's farmers and ranchers stronger.  Agriculture is the lifeblood of this country, but the last few years  have been incredibly challenging for our agricultural producers. Our  bill tackles those challenges head-on by bolstering programs that  farmers and ranchers depend upon. It raises reference prices for every  covered commodity; it expands crop insurance coverage and  affordability; and it supports risk management, disaster assistance,  conservation programs, and critical research and disease prevention  programs that are essential to a robust agriculture sector.

With this bill, Republicans are also making America more secure. We  are ending the era of open borders by making a generational investment  in border security. We are finally finishing the border wall. We are  hiring more border agents and giving them the tools they need to keep  illegal immigrants and illegal drugs out of our country. And we are  hiring more ICE officers and enhancing our capacity to detain and  deport criminal illegal immigrants who have taken up residence in our  country.

We are also making a major investment to bolster our national defense  and build a military that can defeat the threats of today and tomorrow.  We are boosting shipbuilding, expanding our Air Force fleet, and  investing in drones and counterdrone technology. We are restoring our  defense production capacity so that we can make more munitions here in  America. We are protecting the homeland with missile defense and  nuclear modernization--and more. Our bill is no substitute for robust  yearly defense funding, but it gives us a head start on the long-term  investments necessary to turn our readiness deficiencies around and  ensure that America's military is the strongest in the world for years  to come.

One often overlooked part of our national security is our energy  security, and our legislation will help ensure that America has a  reliable and affordable energy supply for the long term. Our bill also  helps deliver on Republicans' promise of a smaller and smarter  government. Our bill achieves $1\1/2\ trillion in Byrd-compliant  savings, including the first real entitlement reform in decades--reform  that will put the programs in question on a more sustainable path for  today's recipients and for tomorrow's.

I am proud that Republicans are delivering on our promises to the  American people, and I can't wait to see our policies begin working to  help build a safer, a stronger, and a more prosperous country. It is  going to be great.