Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, notwithstanding rule XXII, I ask unanimous  consent that confirmation of the Sauer and Dhillon nominations be at a  time to be determined by the majority leader, in consultation with the  Democratic Leader, during Thursday's session of the Senate.

Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, just over 2 weeks ago, the Senate passed  the HALT Fentanyl Act with bipartisan support. As I said at the time,  this bill joins other efforts to combat the fentanyl crisis that is  taking so many lives in our country.

But now Democrats seem to want to take a step backward in that fight.  They want to end the emergency that President Trump declared that  addresses the flow of fentanyl across the northern border from Canada.

Fentanyl moves in a sophisticated supply chain. Precursor chemicals  are shipped from China to North America--landing in Mexico, Canada, and  the United States. Those chemicals are then used to produce fentanyl,  which is smuggled into the United States across borders or sent through  the mail.

Now, much of the fentanyl that comes into the United States comes  from the southern border from Mexico. And I am glad that President  Trump has taken swift action to secure the border with Mexico and  address the flow of drugs across that border.

But we would be wrong to view this as solely a southern border  problem. The reality is that fentanyl production is growing in Canada.  One 30-year veteran of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police specializing  in transnational crime said:

Canada is a significant platform for transnational networks       and one of the most concerning threats for synthetic narcotic       production and exportation to our allies, including the U.S.

Canada's financial intelligence agency has identified about 100  organized crime groups involved in fentanyl production in the country.  That is four times--four times--as many as there were in 2022. Canadian  law enforcement has raided drug ``super labs''--sophisticated fentanyl  production facilities that may have links to the cartels.

For now, most fentanyl from Canada enters the United States in small  amounts--often through the mail. But as one cartel member told ``60  Minutes'' last month, cartels are already smuggling fentanyl across our  northern border.

So what will happen if we focus on fentanyl coming across the  southern border and from China but fail to address the northern border  component of this crisis? Will the cartels simply shift tactics and  expand their operations to the north? I think we can be confident the  answer to that question is yes.

We have already seen some illegal immigrants attempt that shift when  faced with stricter security measures at the southern border. And last  week, the FBI Director warned the House Intelligence Committee that our  enemies will adapt to security measures at the southern border by  shifting resources to the northern border.

If we are serious about ending the fentanyl crisis in America, we  need to address the entirety of the crisis. We are not going to solve  the problem by going after just part of it. Ending this emergency  declaration will tell the cartels that they should shift their focus to  the northern border.

So I urge my colleagues to oppose this resolution and ensure that  President Trump has the tools that he needs to combat the flow of  fentanyl from all directions.

This is the second resolution seeking to end an emergency that the  Senate has considered in the last few weeks. Last time, it was ending  the national energy emergency. Now it is ending an emergency related to  fentanyl.

The American people recognize that these are legitimate crises and  that they warrant an aggressive response. President Trump and  Republicans promised that we would unleash American energy and end the  lawlessness at our borders, and we intend to keep those promises.

Mr. THUNE.  Res. 37, the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid  upon the table.