Unanimous Consent Requests


Mr. THUNE. I would say to the Senator from South Carolina the answer  to that is yes.

Mr. THUNE. The answer is yes.

Mr. THUNE. Yes.

Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, let me just reiterate what the Senator from  South Carolina said, and that is that this measure that we passed does,  indeed, give important protections to Members. I think it is an  important defense of the separation of powers. It protects Democrats,  and it protects Republicans, alike, from a weaponized Department of  Justice that is pursuing political enemies.

The measure was never meant to enrich Senators. It has always been  true, under our rules, that Members wouldn't keep damages they recover  under this measure.

I would hope that we can work together to pass a resolution to  reflect what has always been true and what I have been saying all  along, and that is that this measure is about accountability and not  profit.

Mr. President, I have a unanimous consent request.

Mr. President, what this would simply do is it would preserve the  important elements of this, which I think are critical to the  protection of the article  I branch of the government, constitutionally, but address the question  that has been raised about personal enrichment, which I have said,  again, is not the case here. This would clarify that any damages  awarded under this law would be forfeited to the U.S. Treasury. No  individual Senator could benefit.

That was the case before, but this would clarify that. And it seems  to me, at least, if you want to address the concern that has been  raised by the Senator from New Mexico about Senators trying to get  hundreds of thousands of dollars out of the Justice Department and the  Federal Government--taxpayers--this would address that by simply saying  anything that is awarded--a settlement that is awarded under this  statute--would be forfeited to the U.S. Treasury. But it would preserve  the important protections that are in place under the statute when it  comes to Members' personal information.

I happen to think--and that was what animated this--that individual  Senators, Members of the article I branch of our government, should not  be subject to a weaponized Department of Justice or prosecutors who go  around the law. So this strengthens the law and ensures that, in the  future, that doesn't happen.

It is, in my view, again, something that protects this institution,  something that protects individual Senators. The unanimous consent  request that I am offering here would clarify, in the form of a  resolution, that it would apply to the Senate.

By the way, this only applies to the Senate. Frankly, there is a good  argument that, if I am a Member of the House of Representatives, I  would want the same protections included here. That wasn't the case.  When we drafted this, it was in response to a statute that covered the  Senate only. So this specifically applies to Senators.

And this resolution that I am offering here and asking unanimous  consent for would clarify--make crystal clear--that any damages awarded  as a result of claims brought under this statute would be forfeited to  the U.S. Treasury and not be allowed for an individual Member to take  advantage of.

Just to be clear, no personal enrichment, accountability, and, I  think, protection for the article I branch of our government, which, in  my view, based on what we saw and what we are seeing as the facts  continue to come in from the Arctic Frost investigation, there was  clearly a violation of the law and a law that needs to be strengthened  and clarified so protections are in place for future Members of the  U.S. Senate.

Again, I would argue, someday, probably, Members of the House would  want that same protection.

So that is my request, Mr. President; that the resolution be agreed  to--the resolution at the desk makes that clear--and that the motion to  reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no  intervening objection or debate.

Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I would simply respond by saying again, in  clarifying this question of personal enrichment, I am not sure exactly  what that is predicated on. Clearly, the attempt being made here was to  give standing to Members whose personal, private information was  collected by a prosecutor who went around the law.

The law requires notification when a U.S. Senator's personal  information is acquired. What happened was that the prosecutor  threatened legal action if the carriers that were collecting this data  on individual Senators provided the notice that was required under the  law. The prosecutor clearly went around the law.

I just believe, for the future protection not only of this  institution but of individual U.S. Senators, it is going to be critical  that we codify some of these protections in ways that aren't currently  covered in the law.

As I said before, if there is some question about the monetary  judgment that might come or of the damages that might be awarded, this  is what we are attempting to clarify right now, and that is that no  individual Member--and frankly, that is already true under our rules,  but this would further clarify that.

But if the Senator from New Mexico is interested in amending or  modifying this in some fashion that preserves or retains the  protections on an individual Member's data--which, frankly, again, as I  said before, I think is a really important protection not just for this  U.S. Senate but for U.S. Senators in the future--I think there is a  willingness to be able to address that.

But I think, again, the suggestion that this is a bunch of U.S.  Senators who are trying to figure out a way to enrich themselves at  taxpayers' expense just is completely, completely unfounded and is  inconsistent with the facts.