Americans Have A Right to A Quality Public Education


Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak out against the  attack on every American's right to a quality public education in this  country.

Families have been promised the right to send their kids to good  public schools, regardless of where they live, how much money they  make, or their child's disability. However, the careless actions of  Secretary McMahon and the Trump administration continue to threaten  that promise.

From canceling programs dedicated to teaching children with dyslexia,  autism, and other disabilities in the middle of the school year, to  cutting teacher pay and illegally withholding billions of dollars meant  for after-school programs, President Trump and Secretary McMahon are  choosing to make it more difficult for your child to get the attention  and high-quality education that they deserve at school.

They are choosing to miss deadlines and hold your tax dollars  hostage, tax dollars meant specifically for our children.

This funding is typically released every year before July 1 to ensure  that schools are ready to go for the school year that is about to start  the next month. It represents at least 10 percent of Federal K-12  funding in every State and almost 15 percent in my home State of  Georgia, almost $225 million.

These dollars appropriated by Congress are meant to improve student  learning and empowerment, as well as their achievement, operate before-  and after-school programs, train teachers, and help adult learners go  back to finish high school.

A few weeks ago, on the evening of June 30, the Department of  Education sent out the following message to States:

``Given the change in administrations, the Department is reviewing  [the funding for these programs], and decisions have not yet been made  concerning submissions and awards for this upcoming academic year.  Accordingly, the Department will not be issuing grant award  notifications obligating funds for these programs on July 1.''

In their own words, they knew this deadline was coming and missed it  anyway. They chose to wait until the last second to notify States and  schools that the funding your family relies on to educate your child  for the school year that is starting in a few short weeks is not where  it is supposed to be.

Instead of being in your child's classroom, your money is sitting in  Washington because the Secretary of Education could not be bothered to  meet a deadline that is the difference between a school having an  after-school program or not. This is funding that is the difference  between a child having a safe place to go while they wait for mom or  dad to get off work and come get them or not.

The Trump administration's failure to release this funding on time is  disrupting school and district planning, jeopardizing the education of  millions of students, and forcing layoffs, program delays, and  cancellations for students and their families. It is wrong, and it is  completely unnecessary.

Last week, I led a letter to the administration signed by 150 Members  of the House demanding that the administration follow the law and  release this funding. House Democrats will continue to do everything  that we can to make this right for the families who are counting on us  every day.

There is no legitimate reason that any child or family in this  country should have to personally deal with program closures and larger  class sizes. That is what the Secretary and President are demanding of  parents every single day that they fail to meet this incredibly basic  responsibility.

My son, Jordan, was, unfortunately, killed in a shooting in 2012, and  I miss him every single day. While my son may be gone, I will never  stop being his mother. I will never stop fighting for every child who  isn't getting what they truly deserve from our great country.

When I came to Congress in 2019, I promised I would never stop  fighting to ensure that every kid who grows up here in the United  States receives the skills necessary and stays alive long enough to  live a decent life, a life that my son never got to truly fully explore  or enjoy.

Time and time again, Secretary McMahon and President Trump fail to  rise to the challenge, and the American people are the ones who  continue to pay the price.

No more excuses. Secretary McMahon and this administration must  follow the law and immediately release the funding meant for our  schools, teachers, and families. It must happen.