Black History Month


Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I am so honored and privileged to be here  tonight to speak on the Congressional Black Caucus, with our Special  Order hour tonight specific to honoring Black History Month.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join tonight's Special Order hour  honoring Black History Month, my Black history, my people, my  community.

As a second vice chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, it is  vitally important to me that we commemorate the stories and triumphs of  Black Americans all year long and especially during Black History  Month.

I am the daughter of civil rights leaders. My father was the Illinois  branch president of the NAACP and served on its executive board for  over 25 years. I grew up in the struggle. I grew up in the marches. I  grew up in the rallies. I certainly learned how to sing ``We Shall  Overcome'' because it is what I sang with my family all the time, for  as long as I can remember.

I draw upon the strength of these experiences, the experiences and  strength of my mother and my father during a time which feels not  unlike the uncertainty of the 1960s. Though there are those who may  feel discouraged that we are fighting the same bigotry and the same  hatred, going down the same road that my parents fought against, that  Dr. King fought against, that Rosa Parks and Fannie Lou Hamer fought  against, that our dear friend and beloved colleague John Lewis fought  against, I continue to look to the civil rights movement as a reminder  that we are not powerless.

Our voices and our role as legislators in this body give us all the  tools that we need to speak up, to stand up, and to fight back for  Black America and for all of America.

It is what my father did and what my mother did, even during a time  when diners charged him more money for a cup of coffee than the White  man sitting next to him.

I can remember, as a child living in Chicago, Illinois, going into a  local Walgreens. I remember standing there with my family, all of them  fair-skinned, with red hair, brown hair, and freckles, and me, the  brownest child in the family, being told I couldn't go sit with my  family because they didn't believe I was a part of my family.

It is these kinds of experiences that I will fight for the rest of my  life to make sure that no child, no individual in this country, ever  feels discriminated against. It is what my father did. It is what I did  as a grieving mother when my son, Jordan, was killed by a White man who  simply didn't like the loud music that he was playing in his car. It is  what we must do now as a Presidential administration, emboldened by  hatred and vengeance, seeks to weaken and dismantle Federal programs  that support our veterans, care for our seniors, and defend our Nation  from public health emergencies, just to name a few.

What we must continue to do as we face threats of erasing Black  history, American history, we must continue to fight from our  classrooms and from our textbooks.

We must stand up. Black America must speak out. We must remember  our responsibility to act--not just to react--in the best interests of  all the American people. In the face of attacks on minority communities  in a nation where our diversity is truly our strength, it is more  important than ever that we celebrate the progress of this Nation--and  Black history is part of this Nation--of every step which brings us  closer to forming a more perfect Union.

We have been promised that by this Constitution. We have been  promised that by this country, and I know that we will continue to  fight every step of the way to fulfill that promise.

In my time in Congress, I have been privileged to represent a rich  tapestry of this Nation, woven by the many threads which make us  uniquely American. I have been proud to represent one of the most  diverse congressional districts in America, and I am honored to  represent so many talented local leaders who have blazed a trail and  accomplished many firsts in their community.

In my current district, eight mayors or county executives are the  first Black people to ever serve in those positions. Cobb County  Commission Chairwoman Lisa Cupid, College Park Mayor Bianca Motley  Broom, Douglasville Mayor Rochelle Robinson, Fairburn Mayor Mario  Avery, Fayetteville Mayor Ed Johnson, Mableton Mayor Michael Owens,  Palmetto Mayor Teresa Thomas-Smith, and Powder Springs Mayor Al  Thurman.

These leaders can be proud of the fact that they were the first, and  I take pride in knowing that they will certainly not be the last.

The fact that I was elected the first Black Representative of  Georgia's Sixth Congressional District, the first Democrat to hold that  seat since 1979, the first person of color to ever hold that seat in  2018 is a testament to the progress in our State and to the work of  leaders on the ground and Black America. I am grateful for all those  who have paved the path of progress for me and all future leaders to  follow in their footsteps.

Mr. Speaker, we face extraordinary and unprecedented challenges in  this moment, but this month and always, we will celebrate the strength  of America's diversity, the unity of her people, and our unwavering  determination to leave behind a brighter tomorrow for future  generations, for our children. They deserve that. Because of the  celebrations of African Americans that we are talking about during this  Special Order hour, I have every confidence that my people will  overcome.