Improving Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Improving Law Enforcement  Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act.

Law enforcement officers serve as our lifeline of defense against  danger. With this bill, we have an opportunity to equip the Department  of Justice and Congress with very crucial information to better  understand and enhance officer safety.

Law enforcement officers deserve to return home safely to their  families, knowing their well-being is truly a priority. Federal, State,  local, and Tribal officers face very long hours, immense pressure, and  unpredictable dangers every day. Over time, the constant strain of the  job can take a significant toll on their bodies and minds.

While there are some mental health resources currently available to  our officers, there is still so much more that we can and should be  doing to ensure their wellness and, most definitely, their safety.

By prioritizing data-driven approaches to officer safety and  wellness, we can address systemic risks, reduce preventable tragedies,  and build a stronger, more resilient law enforcement system.

The goal is that the required report will provide us with insight  into the challenges our officers face and help us to understand the  additional support that they need to remain physically and mentally  safe.

Federal law enforcement officers dedicate themselves to protecting  our Nation, to protecting our communities, and it is our responsibility  in this body to ensure that they receive the protection that they  deserve.

Law enforcement officers face unparalleled risks every day, from  physical violence to psychological traumas. According to the FBI,  assaults against officers remain very, very high, with tens of  thousands of them who are injured annually.

Beyond the line of duty, officers experience higher rates of PTSD,  depression, and suicide compared to the general population. Yet, for  too long, this body, Congress, has not done as much as we should to  tackle these issues that they face.

This bill requires the collection and analysis of critical data on  attacks on officers, injuries that they suffer, their mental health  challenges, and wellness program effectiveness. Without accurate data,  we are fighting blind.

By identifying trends, such as the frequency of attacks on officers  or gaps in mental health support, we can implement targeted solutions  to keep our officers safe and to keep them healthy.

Many officer fatalities and injuries are preventable with better  training, better equipment, and better policies. For example, if data  reveals that a significant number of injuries occurred during traffic  stops, agencies can adopt safer tactics or deploy new technologies. If  certain regions report higher rates of firearm-related fatalities, we  can prioritize resources there.

Officer suicide rates outpace line-of-duty deaths. I will say this  again: Officer suicide rates outpace line-of-duty deaths. Yet, stigma  and inadequate resources prevent many of them from seeking help. This  bill will help us track mental health trends, evaluate the  effectiveness of peer support programs, and expand access to  counseling. Healthy officers are better officers. They are more  effective officers, both for their own well-being and for the  communities that they serve.

When officers are safer, healthier, and better supported, they are  better equipped to serve with professionalism and with empathy. Our  communities benefit when law enforcement agencies are operating using  data to improve practices rather than reacting to crises.

Yet, the Improving Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness  Through Data Act isn't just about gathering data and reporting  statistics. It is about lives, and it is about public safety. It is  about the officer who returns home safely to their family at night. It  is about the rookie who gets lifesaving training, or the veteran who  receives mental health care instead of suffering in silence.

Mr. Speaker, if we are to realize any of these benefits, this bill  must be the first step that we take and definitely not the last. We  must be prepared to act on the information that we get from these  reports that come from this bill, much of which is already collected by  the DOJ and other agencies. We must be prepared to provide tangible  resources to our law enforcement, which I am sure the reports will  suggest that they need.

As we observe National Police Week and talk about officer safety and  wellness, I would be remiss if I did not call for the immediate  restoration of hundreds of millions of dollars that are affecting  nearly 40 States in public safety grant funding that the Department of  Justice chose to abruptly terminate. Some of that canceled funding went  to law enforcement training; support and other critical resources; and,  more specifically, to addressing the health, safety, and wellness of  law enforcement.

As I have here, President Trump's 2026 budget would have devastating  impacts on public policy by cutting $1 billion across 40 Department of  Justice grant programs which support police departments and reduce  violent crime, hate crime, and crime against women.

Mr. Speaker, $646 million from the Federal Emergency Management  Agency, FEMA, for violence and terrorism has been terminated. I can go  on and on, but I won't.

These terminations include a grant totaled at over $8 million to the  National Policing Institute, which assisted rural police departments  and district attorneys' offices to pay for violent crime investigators  and programs to combat child sex abuse.

I also feel that it is necessary to mention once again, as the  ranking member has, the plaque that we voted to hang in the Capitol  more than 3 years ago to honor the countless officers who fought--and  they died--to protect the lives of Members of Congress, all of us in  this body. They not only fought to protect Members of Congress but  staffers and other personnel and to save our democracy on January 6,  2021.

Mr. Speaker, hanging this plaque is the least that we could do to  honor those who have fought and died and given their lives for us, this  body. Hanging this plaque is required by law, a law that was passed. We  passed the law over 3 years ago.

Why is this plaque not up? That is a simple question. Why is this law  being defied? That is a simple question.

Many of those officers have been left feeling ignored and betrayed by  the very same Members of Congress. They stand outside every single day  to protect and watch over us. They feel betrayed.

Many times, they can't even look at us as we walk out the door  because they feel betrayed. They fought to protect us on that day,  January 6, and, yes, we still betray them.

Former U.S. Capitol Police Sergeant Aquilino Gonell recently told our  staff: Trump is treating the rioters like they were the ones defending  the Capitol.

He went on to say of Trump: Calling January 6 ``a day of love,'' if  that was a day of love, ``They almost `loved' me to death.''

If we really intend to support our officers, they should not be  feeling this level of betrayal and disappointment in the government  that they swore to defend and protect. Officers who put their lives on  the line for us deserve better.

Mr. Speaker, I will take a point of privilege to say that when I lost  my son, Jordan, in Jacksonville, Florida, on November 23, 2012, at a  convenience store gas station by a man who never should have had a gun,  that convenience store family, the owners, at least had the decency to  put a plaque up in remembrance of my slain son, who was simply stopping  to get some chewing gum as he was going from one mall to the next with  his friends. They at least had the decency, and my son wasn't doing  anything to protect the Nation or protect Members of Congress. Yet and  still, out of dignity and respect for someone who was slain  unnecessarily, they at least had the decency to put up a plaque in  remembrance of my son.

We should no less do that for these folks who stand here every single  day. They would take bullets for us. Let's do the right thing. Why  would we not honor them? We can't say one thing and do another, that we  want to serve and protect them. We want to make their lives better. The  American people are watching us. They are depending on us.

Mr. Speaker, let's do the right thing. Simply just put this plaque  out for all of us, for their service to us and to this Nation.

Mr. Speaker, while I urge my colleagues to support this legislation,  I also urge them to do more than just collect data and request reports  from other officials.

Mrs. McBATH.

Mrs. McBATH.  Elfreth).

Mr. Speaker, I will just spend a little bit more time speaking. Not  only are my colleagues apparently letting DOGE get away with  terminating the Department of Justice grant programs, but they are also  attempting to rob Federal law enforcement officers of their hard-earned  retirement benefits.

I will put on the Record that, unlike other Federal employees,  Federal law enforcement officers are eligible to retire voluntarily  after serving our country for at least 20 years and reaching the age of  50 or after 25 years of service at any age.

Now, the Special Retirement Supplement for Federal officers provides  roughly one-third of a Federal officer's retirement benefits, bridging  the financial gap between when an officer chooses to retire and when  they become eligible for Social Security at age 62.

This Special Retirement Supplement ensures financial stability for  those who have dedicated their lives and their careers to protecting  this country, but our Republican colleagues, their reconciliation bill,  would limit the supplement only to those who reach the mandatory  retirement age of 57 no matter how many years they have served.

It would also apply not just to new hires but to all officers, to  those who clearly earned the ability to claim this benefit and didn't  sign up for this new rule. The moment Trump signs the reconciliation  bill into law, any officer that retires before reaching the age of 57  would lose one-third of their retirement benefits, making voluntary  retirement untenable for every Federal law enforcement officer who is  at or near retirement.

Cutting the supplement would have an immediate effect on the  retention of overburdened, increasingly demoralized officers across the  Federal Government, creating an overwhelming incentive for tens of  thousands of eligible officers to retire before they plan to, before  this change becomes law.

In closing, it is National Police Week, and we are honoring the brave  men and women in law enforcement who put their lives on the line every  single day to protect our communities and this Nation.

I was proud to vote ``yes'' on this resolution on the House floor  yesterday to express our Nation's gratitude to our law enforcement. I  would also like to thank all the families for their courage and  strength because families of law enforcement are part of this, too.

As ranking member of the Crime Subcommittee, I hear directly from  families and officers from all across the country about the reforms  that they desperately need. I will continue to champion bills that  provide tools that help our law enforcement officers and keep them all  safe because they deserve that.

We stand with all of our officers around the country, whether they be  Federal, State, or local, and we thank them for their service.

Though I really wish that we were doing so much more this week to  make our officers safe or to invest in resources for their well-being,  I will support this legislation and encourage my colleagues to do the  very same.

Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers, and I yield  myself the balance of my time to close.

Mr. Speaker, as I have said earlier, while I do really support this  legislation, I also call on my colleagues to stand with law enforcement  by restoring these critical grants commemorating the bravery of our  officers on January 6 and every day, protecting their pay, protecting  their benefits, and all that the Federal officers have earned over the  course of the time that they have served their communities and this  country and ensuring that every Federal agency can continue to provide  critical assistance to our State and local law enforcement.

We can do a lot better. They deserve so much better from us. Let's  please work to do better.

Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.