Medical Bills Are Too High


Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding me  time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak out on the rising costs of  healthcare, which are putting undue burdens on the American people. I  thank my colleague Representative Jennifer McClellan for consistently  continuing to elevate the voices of the Congressional Black Caucus  members as we talk about the stories of our communities and the stories  of our people and those who we represent, highlighting the needs of  those in our Nation who are suffering right now.

I thank our chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Yvette Clarke,  for her earnest, continued work to also make sure that the  Congressional Black Caucus is standing on the front lines and trying  each and every day to make sure that we are defending people's rights  to exist in this country freely and fairly without these undue burdens.

Earlier this year, we watched as this Republican congressional  leadership reached historic new lows in their inability to work in a  bipartisan fashion to meet the needs of the people who we were elected  to serve.

For 43 days, Speaker Johnson refused to come to the table and extend  the healthcare subsidies which will prevent premiums from skyrocketing  for the millions of Americans who get their insurance from the  Affordable Care Act marketplace. That is approximately more than 70,000  people, constituents, in my district alone.

During that same time, we watched President Trump and his  administration play politics with Federal food assistance, jeopardizing  benefits for hungry families.

I heard a story in my district in Georgia from Rich about the impact  that these cost increases would have on his livelihood. I have heard  many stories, but this one really struck me.

He writes: I am the self-employed, sole provider for a family of four  where two of us have preexisting conditions. If the Republicans get  their way and remove the subsidies, my very basic catastrophe plan- style HMO will literally increase tenfold. I am currently spending 39  percent of my income on healthcare, including the subsidized ACA  policy. Removing subsidies will ultimately lead me to financial  bankruptcy.

There are more stories just like this, and they are a window into how  the chaos and unpredictability of this administration is making it  harder on working families to succeed and thrive.

Since January, we have dealt with the uncertainty and the chaos that  has been brought by this second Trump administration. From the  unpredictability of the tariffs, the rising costs of healthcare, and  the increasingly unattainable goal of homeownership, what is going on  in Washington should concern every single American in this country.

Congress and the Trump administration should be doing more to lower  costs and improve outcomes for our hardworking families.

As I have continued to do since I first came to Congress, I have been  committed to addressing the concerns of the families who I am very  honored to represent. No family in this country should ever be forced  to choose between paying their insurance premiums or for prescription  drugs over paying their mortgage. That is unconscionable, and that is  most definitely un-American.

We must identify solutions to put the dream of homeownership back  into reality for young Americans, and we must make it less expensive  for Americans to get the skills necessary to provide a decent life for  themselves and for their families, but they can't do that if they are  sick. They can't do that if they can't go to work. They can't do that  if they can't pay their bills, such as their hospital bills or other  medical bills.

I am a two-time breast cancer survivor myself, and not a day goes by  that I don't think about how egregious not extending these ACA tax  subsidies is to the American people. I am a lucky person.

I am very grateful that I had the ability to have private insurance,  group insurance, where I could pay for all of my healthcare and didn't  have to sit there and worry about how I was paying the bills while I  was getting healthy and well.

There are people all over this country who, if they ever get sick,  that is the absolute demise of their ability to be able to live in this  country and care for their families, and that is un-American.

I am so grateful to Chairwoman Clarke and my fellow CBC member,  Representative McClellan, for convening us again tonight as we look  ahead to the year 2026. I truly look forward to working with every  single one of my colleagues to build a better life for the hardworking  families that we are privileged to represent, but I honestly pray every  single day that everyone here, every one of us in this Chamber, truly  is committed to the same ideals.