Tipped Employee Protection Act


Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding me  time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to fight for some of the most overworked  and underpaid people in our country to ensure that the money that they  work so hard for goes to them and their families, not to someone who  didn't work for it.

The true purpose of this bill is not to protect tipped employees. The  true purpose is to make it easier to pay people less for their work and  to pay them less than $7.25 an hour.

This bill allows employers to classify anyone who may receive a  seasonal or random tip as a tipped employee, meaning they can now be  paid below minimum wage by their employer. Those tips should be in  addition to a worker's wage.

Employers should not be able to pay their workers less because that  worker happened to receive a Christmas bonus or an occasional tip from  a customer, but that is exactly what this bill would do.

This bill flies directly in the face of President Trump's campaign  promise to help tipped workers. What good is no tax on tips if you have  to give those tips directly to your boss so that they can take it out  of your base pay?

When someone pays taxes, they at least get something in return. Like  many Americans, I do not think that the average person sees the benefit  that they really should for what they pay in taxes. That is because the  Republican majority chooses to spend the American people's money on tax  breaks for billionaires instead of spending it on our kids, and instead  of spending it on childcare, housing, healthcare, on things that really  make people's lives far more affordable.

What is the worker getting in return in this situation? It is just  the opportunity to work. I think the American people agree that their  employers should be paying them to work and not the other way around.

No worker in this country should be paid this low. I don't care who  they are. Many States have raised their minimum wages. Unfortunately,  my State of Georgia has not. Without the Federal floor of $7.25,  workers in Georgia could legally be paid just over $5 an hour because  our State minimum wage is just $5.15. Who can live on that?

Instead of trying to find ways to pay people as little as possible,  this body, Congress, should be raising the wages and helping Americans  keep more of their hard-earned dollars in their pocket, the money that  they worked so hard for.

Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, before I came to this body, I was a flight  attendant for a national air carrier. The money that I am making today  is far more than I ever made as a contract employee for an airline.

Mr. Speaker, I will tell you that during the hard, 16-hour days that  I had, much like what I have here, we weren't allowed to receive any  tips. We weren't allowed to receive any of those kinds of benefits.  Basically, if we did, if someone really, really pushed a tip on us, we  would spread it among our crew. It was the right thing to do because in  the airline industry, there is a cap on what you can make. There is a  cap on your salary.

Mr. Speaker, having been a contract employee and having done all of  that before I came here, I am so grateful every time I come across an  individual in the customer service industry who has really done a good  job. Paying them tips is the least that we can do to make sure that  they are honored for their service.