DC Criminal Reforms to Immediately Make Everyone Safe Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695561/dc-criminal-reforms-to-immediately-make-everyone-safe-act


Mr. DONALDS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of my bill,  H.R. 4922, the DC CRIMES Act.

Now, in reference to what the gentleman was just talking about,  Article I, Section 8, Clause 17 of the United States Constitution is  quite clear. It grants Congress the power to exercise exclusive,  exclusive jurisdiction over the Federal District, which all Americans  know now is Washington, D.C., and it is the Nation's Capital.

That is in the Constitution that was ratified by several States.  Congress does have the constitutional authority to regulate activities  within the Federal District. When it is said that somehow Congress is  now eroding local control, that is simply not true.

Any local powers by the D.C. Council have been granted to the D.C.  Council by Congress, and Congress is the seat of authority when it  comes to the Federal enclave.

He also talked about Florida's laws. Let's be very clear: Florida has  established itself as a beacon of law and order, making sure that our  citizens are safe throughout all of our jurisdictions. If there are  some abilities for some measures of flexibility, Florida has proven,  beyond a shadow of a doubt, that it knows how to keep its people safe,  which is very different with respect to the D.C. Council and with  respect to escalated crime here in the Nation's Capital.

Our great Nation's Capital has been plagued by violence, destruction,  disorder for far too long, and decades of weak, pro-crime leadership  has turned this once great city into a dystopia.

I will remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that some  of their colleagues have been victimized by the crime here in  Washington, D.C. Rather than prioritizing the safety of law-abiding  citizens and protecting the lives of innocent residents and visitors,  District officials have actively facilitated dysfunction and chaos  through  their progressive, soft-on-crime policies.

Instead of addressing the clear epidemic of youth crime in this city,  the D.C. Council increased the age of youth offenders to individuals 24  years old and younger. Meaning fully grown, legal adults in the  District of Columbia can receive sentences meant for children.

This is simply insane, and that is why I introduced the DC CRIMES  Act, which lowers the definition of youth from under the age of 25 to  under the age of 18, removes the ability of judges to sentence youth  offenders below mandatory minimum guidelines, and requires the D.C.  attorney general to establish a public website containing much-needed  statistics on juvenile crime in D.C.

The Trump administration's efforts have shown that lawlessness is a  choice, and it is time for Congress to step up, adhere to our  constitutional duty, and firmly address crime in the Nation's Capital.

For the citizens of D.C., I would say, we wish your Council did this  the right way, but they did not and we will act.