Designating the House Press Gallery in the United States Capitol As the ``Frederick Douglass Press Gallery''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692222/designating-the-house-press-gallery-in-the-united-states-capitol-as-the-frederick-douglass-press-gallery


Mr. DONALDS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res.  137 to rename the House Press Gallery the Frederick Douglass Press  Gallery, in honor of a man whose life and work embodied the very best  of American ideals and shattered through glass ceilings.

Frederick Douglass was born into slavery in 1818 and courageously  escaped bondage in 1838. He built a life dedicated to truth, liberty,  and justice.

He became a journalist in Rochester, New York, and launched The North  Star using his own money, giving voice to the voiceless in the years  before the Civil War.

He fought fiercely against slavery, championed equal rights and  women's suffrage, and became one of the most forceful orators in  American history. During the Civil War, Douglass recruited Black  soldiers, met with President Lincoln to advocate for equal pay and  treatment, and worked to assist those escaping slavery.

After his Rochester home was destroyed in a suspected arson attack,  he moved to Anacostia here in Washington, D.C., and became the editor,  and later owner, of the New National Era, which chronicled Black  progress throughout the Nation.

Douglass was the first Black reporter admitted to the Capitol press  galleries. From 1871 to 1875, he reported on the House and Senate  action, keeping the African-American community informed during  Reconstruction after the 13th, 14th, and 15th Amendments. He spent  countless hours writing and studying right here in the House Press  Gallery. Even after his tenure in the gallery, he often would return to  the Capitol.

Congress has honored Douglass with a portrait and plaque in the  gallery and a statute in Emancipation Hall. This  resolution permanently renames these famous offices off of the House  floor for all Americans today, and years to come, to honor his work for  freedom in this hallowed Chamber.

I thank Speaker Johnson, Chairman Graves, Representatives Andre  Carson, Burgess Owens, Stephen Horsford, Wesley Hunt, and  John James  for their leadership on this resolution.

I also thank my former staffer, Luke Diel, for all of his hard work  and dedication in this effort. I urge my colleagues to support H. Res.  137.