Safe and Smart Federal Purchasing Act


Mr. DONALDS. Mr. Speaker, I would be remiss without thanking Chairman  Comer for the time on the floor today, and I might have to ask the  chairman to introduce me everywhere going forward. I greatly appreciate  that.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of my bill, the Safe and Smart  Federal Purchasing Act.

For background, lowest price technically acceptable is the source  selection method outlined in the Federal Acquisition Regulation, or  FAR.

Simply put, the LPTA FAR standard prioritizes price above everything  else.

Focusing on price, instead of other technical or operational factors  in Federal procurement, can result in agencies cutting corners, long- term value being sacrificed, or in its worse aspects, even potential  risks to America's national security.

In my view, the use of the LPTA may not always be appropriate when  Federal agencies purchase innovative technologies and technical  services, and agencies should have the flexibility to pay more for a  superior solution if the circumstances are appropriate.

I will say to the American people that, obviously with all of the  things that we are talking about in Washington around the Department of  Government Efficiency, better known as DOGE, going through and trying  to cut costs, we do have to be mindful that we are getting the best  products for the Federal Government to use because that actually does  yield great results for the American people.

Moreover, we, as Congress, have an obligation to fully understand the  impacts of utilizing the LPTA.

One example of when the LPTA may not be appropriate relates to the  procurement of Chinese drones.

Chinese drone maker, DJI, is the world's largest manufacturer of  personal and professional drones, and Federal agencies to this day  utilize DJI drones, which present a large national security risk.

Why would Federal agencies procure Chinese drones when there are  higher-quality American drones currently available on the market?

That is when the lowest price technically acceptable FAR standard may  come into play.

To provide some additional context, Chinese state-backed DJI  aggressively dropped its prices in 2015 and now DJI drones account for  more than 75 percent of the global drone marketplace, offering its  products in over 100 countries. While a wide range of innovative  American drone products are available, in many cases, the LPTA slides  the Federal procurement preference scale away from American drones in  favor of these Chinese drones merely because they are cheaper.

To emphasize, all companies in China are required by Chinese law to  give the Communist Chinese Party access to all their information upon  request.

In fact, in August 2017, Homeland Security Investigations issued an  intelligence bulletin warning that DJI was providing critical  infrastructure and law enforcement data to the Chinese Government.

Today, the lowest price technically acceptable does not account for  national security implications, so my bill would simply require an  evaluation of potential national security concerns associated with the  LPTA FAR standard.

Instead of just looking at the initial price tag and procuring the  cheapest product and service, it is vitally important that the United  States Government understand the national security implications  associated with its own Federal procurement policies.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member, Mr. Connolly, for co-leading  this bipartisan initiative with me, and I urge my colleagues to support  this commonsense piece of legislation.