-9999


Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. President, in just 1 year and 1 week--that is, 373  days--Donald Trump and his administration have changed what it means to  walk down the street in America.

Three hundred and seventy-four days ago, an American citizen did not  need to worry about carrying a passport or worry that they would be  pinned to the ground for being unable to prove that their hometown was,  in fact, the only home they have ever known.

Three hundred and seventy-four days ago, immigrant families didn't  need to call on their neighbors or rely on the help of Good Samaritans  to grocery shop for them, to take their kids to school, to have access  to what we value in life--all because they are afraid to open their  door.

Three hundred and seventy-four days ago, standing up for your First  Amendment rights, your Fourth Amendment rights, even your Second  Amendment rights was not in itself a provocation in the eyes of the  Federal Government.

But in so little time, so much has changed. In this America, we see  masked agents hiding their faces from the world and even hiding their  identification, terrorizing communities across the Nation, smashing car  windows and dragging mothers and fathers from their vehicles in front  of their kids--in front of their kids--often taking those kids and  separating them from their parents, breaking down doors, and detaining  citizens and noncitizens alike.

As for warrants? No. Apparently, DHS lawyers now claim you don't need  a judicial warrant to break through the door of a U.S. citizen and haul  them out in their underwear in the dead of winter, only to later  release them without charge, without apology, only with newfound terror  courtesy of the U.S. Federal Government.

Agents with just 47 days of training are sweeping through American  cities; agents with barely over a month of training--just 47 days. And  why 47? Because it is a nod to the vanity of the 47th President rather  than allocated to the need to be instructed on how to, say, use, or  avoid using deadly force.

Agents with less training than a teenager getting their driver's  license are now badgering, beating, and even killing Americans on our  streets in the name of the President while his chosen enforcers smugly  walk through American cities cosplaying their favorite uniforms from  the 1930s and 1940s.

DHS is now building databases of Americans, detaining and even  disappearing people off of corners in Minneapolis, Chicago, Portland,  Nashville, Los Angeles, and far too many communities across the Nation.

The Trump administration demanded that Republicans deliver a $170  billion taxpayer-funded slush fund for these misbegotten efforts,  taking that money away from your healthcare and taking that money away  from food for hungry families to spend on weapons for enforcement  agents and billions on detention centers to imprison people who are  undocumented but who have committed no crimes and have no criminal  records at all.

This is the America that Donald Trump has created, but it is not the  America that we will accept. We will not accept the labeling of Renee  Good--a mother of three, a loving and caring member of her community,  caught on camera showing compassion to Federal agents even as she  protested them--we will not accept that she was killed and then later  falsely designated a ``domestic terrorist.''

We will not accept that Alex Pretti--a 37-year-old Veterans'  Administration ICU nurse--exercising his constitutional rights and  stooping to help a woman who had been pushed to the ground, can be  labeled as an ``assassin'' merely hours after being shot in the back in  cold blood nearly a dozen times.

These were not labels given by some arrogant agent in the field. This  was not some bad apple using this terminology amongst otherwise  upstanding immigration officials. No. These labels were applied by the  highest ranking officials of this operation in President Trump's White  House--the Cabinet Secretary overseeing these raids, Kristi Noem; the  architect of this campaign of fear and mass arrest and detention, the  ``racist in chief'' Stephen Miller.

This impunity that we see on our streets, this violence--it comes  from the top; gaslighting amplified by the Vice President and the  President himself.

This brazen denial of rights and facts is in the water at DHS  headquarters, and it is increasingly clear that this has become the  culture of ICE and Customs and Border Protection.

That is why I am standing here this week to say clearly: not another  dime for this kind of lawless immigration regime. We will not add to  the slush fund that Republicans gave Kristi Noem and Border Patrol  Chief Greg Bovino last year to fulfill Stephen Miller's dystopian  vision of America. We require real reforms, in statute--not promises of  change, not Executive actions worth less than the paper they are  printed on.

Look out on the streets of Minneapolis, where two American citizens  have been gunned down in as many weeks, where tear gas flies through  the air and doors fly off their hinges under the banner of this  administration. In those streets stand Agencies backed by billions of  dollars still to be spent--billions that can arm them, billions that  can detain and oppress.

This is an America in regression, where the color of your skin could  be the only pretext for getting pulled over, detained, or worse--a  reality that has persisted for Blacks, Latinos, Asians, and others  notwithstanding the progress made in my lifetime.

As a child of the generation that shone a light on and helped pass  laws to end such racist tactics, for most of my life, we have made  strides to ensure that we moved past that America. But now we are  returning to an America that I do not recognize, nor is this an America  that I can accept.

We have the power in this body to do something about it, and until we  do, my vote will reflect my complete and utter rejection of this  lawless and cruel regime. This cannot become the status quo. This  cannot become the new normal for America, for Alex Pretti and Renee  Good, for the Californians detained without cause and without  convictions, like those suffering in detentions facilities like  California City whom I met, along with Alex Padilla, last week.

For all of them--for their dignity, for their children, for their  families, for their friends, for their safety--and for this country, we  must act.