Alex Padilla


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692501/alex-padilla


Mr. SCHIFF. Would the Senator yield for a question?

Mr. SCHIFF. I thank the Senator for yielding.

I just watched footage of our colleague--my California colleague-- Senator Alex Padilla, being forcibly removed from a briefing by the  Secretary of Homeland Security's staff. He went there to observe and to  ask questions, and I watched with horror on this video, seeing these  agents grab my colleague--my fellow Senator from California--grab him,  push him out of the hearing, as he was identifying himself as a U.S.  Senator, bringing him into a hallway, bringing him down to the ground,  bringing his arms behind his back. I saw this happen to my colleague,  and I am shocked by how far we have descended in the first 140 days of  this administration, where we have a President calling out the military  over the objection of a Governor to try to intimidate and interfere  with law enforcement in California, calling out the Marines to try to  inflame tensions in our city; and, now, this latest act, when a U.S.  Senator goes to demand questions about the lawfulness or lawlessness of  these actions, to see him tackled to the ground, brought to the ground.

What is becoming of our democracy? Are there no limits to what this  administration will do? Is there no line they will not cross? We see  lawlessness after lawlessness. We see threats to judges of impeachment  and of physical harm. We see arrests of Members of Congress. And now  this.

All of us have lived as part of a generation since World War II that  was used to seeing our freedoms ever expanding. We saw walls coming  down. We saw new democracies being born. We came to think that somehow  this was inevitable like the laws of nature; that it was the moral arc  of the universe always bending toward justice, only to see that it was  not bending toward justice.

And to see this now at home; to see, in the United States of America,  the executive use force like this against a Member of a coequal branch  of government; to see that it has come to this already--and not a peep  yet from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, no whisper of  dissent yet. I hope that changes. I hope that changes.

The Founders separated the powers between the executive and the  legislative and the judiciary because they wanted to set ambition  against ambition--ambition of one institution against another--to  protect all of our freedom, but that requires that we go beyond our  partisan affiliations and when something is wrong--dead wrong--when  something is a threat to our democracy, that we call it out regardless  of party. And this is wrong. This is wrong.

We ask: How do you lose a democracy? How does one lose a democracy?  This is how you lose a democracy: actions like today. But even more  importantly than what has just happened is what will happen in the next  24 hours. Will this be roundly condemned? Will this be roundly  condemned or somehow will we just fall down some partisan line again  and see another leap toward autocracy in this country?

Alex Padilla is one of the most decent people I know, one of the most  dedicated public servants I know, someone of just the greatest  character. We all know him well in this institution. He embodies public  service. He never forgot where he came from. He came from very humble  origins, and he never forgot where he came from.

And the beauty of this country is you can come from a very humble  origin, and you can end up here. When I first got here, Jon Tester, a  farmer from Montana and a Senator from Montana, told me about a  conversation he had with John D. Rockefeller when he got here. He said  Rockefeller told him: You and I came from very different places, but we  both ended up here.

It is the beauty of America that Alex Padilla could end up here, by  dint of his brilliance and his integrity and his compassion. And all of  that is at risk. All of that is at risk right now if we let the abusive  handling of this good man and so many other good men and women around  the country--if we let this go without our firmest opposition, without  our strongest pushback, without our strongest defense of our democracy.

With that, I ask the Senator from New Jersey whether he will yield to  the Senator to my right, yield for a question.