Climate Change


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700133/climate-change


Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. President, just more than a year ago, Los Angeles  County faced one of the most destructive disasters in the Nation's  history. Entire neighborhoods torched and torn apart by wildfires, the  magnitude of which we haven't seen on suburban streets of the  Southland. The loss of loved ones, of homes, of businesses, the  precious memories--all gone in mere moments--still weigh heavy upon us.

Since then, I have talked to survivors of those fires who have gone  on to rebuild, or tried to, only to see their insurance coverage  dropped. With worsening drought and prolonged dry seasons, insurance  companies are refusing to cover the same homes and businesses they  covered just a few years ago. They are seeing what we are seeing; that  this may not be the last of these tragedies in our hills in our  lifetimes. This is the climate crisis in human terms, and this  administration's response has been to make it catastrophically worse.

President Trump has rolled back fuel efficiency standards, withdrawn  from international climate agreements, opened pristine Federal lands to  more drilling, and--as we saw last week's repeal of what is known as  the endangerment finding--gutted the EPA's authority to regulate carbon  emissions.

A New York Times headline last month actually read ``E.P.A. to Stop  Considering Lives Saved When Setting Rules on Air Pollution.'' It  sounds like parody but, sadly, these destructive efforts are real. All  of this while summers grow hotter, some winters grow colder, wildfires  rage, hurricanes intensify, and insurance markets collapse. The  President calls this energy dominance, but dominance over what? the  laws of physics? the carbon cycle?

Here is what has actually happened: We are sacrificing long-term  prosperity for short-term profit. We are driving up costs for American  families through higher insurance premiums, higher food prices, and  higher disaster recovery expenses.

We are ceding global leadership in clean energy and technology--the  defining economic opportunity of the 21st century--to China and to  Europe. And we are doing it all while pretending that the house isn't  on fire. Angelenos know better, so do millions of Americans living  through droughts, floods, and heat waves that would have been  impossible a generation ago. The climate doesn't care about your  politics. The debt comes due whether you believe it or not.

Our change in climate is not the only threat our communities face in  Donald Trump's America. In the aftermath of January 6, 2021, there was  a brief moment when Americans of all political persuasions condemned  political violence. The attack on the Capitol was so brazen, so  shocking, that even some of the President's allies momentarily found  their moral bearings and said ``count me out.'' That moment has clearly  passed.

We now have a President who has pardoned January 6 rioters, calling  them patriots, and brought them into his administration, including one  caught shouting ``kill them'' at police officers that day.

We have an administration that treats White nationalist extremism as  a core competency in the hiring process and an administration that  focuses Federal law enforcement resources, not on violent offenders but  on prosecuting political opponents, unleashing masked ICE agents on  innocent people, and deporting children and grandmothers.

At the same time, we have seen the gutting of public health  infrastructure that was built over decades to protect Americans from  pandemics. We have seen emergency preparedness budgets slashed and the  people who ran them driven out of government.

The message is clear: If you are a violent extremist who supports the  President, you get a pardon, but if you are a public health official  who takes your job seriously, you get a pink slip.

This makes Americans less safe from terrorism, from disease, from  domestic threats that don't care about party affiliation. Security and  attacks against police officers aren't partisan issues--at least they  shouldn't be. But when the President treats loyalty as more important  than competence, when he treats protection as something selectively  offered to supporters rather than universally provided to the people,  he fundamentally misunderstands the first duty of government. And the  need to protect the public is certainly not the only thing he  misunderstands.

From the birth of our Nation, our Founders were obsessed with  preventing tyranny and the emergence of another King, another despot.  They created checks and balances, separation of powers, an independent  judiciary. They understood that the greatest threat to liberty wasn't  foreign invasion; it was the concentration of power in the hands of one  person or faction.

This President has systematically dismantled these safeguards in his  second term. The Justice Department is supposed to be independent,  pursuing justice without fear or favor, but under this administration,  it has become an instrument of Presidential revenge, a sword and shield  for the President launching investigations of critics and dropping  cases against allies.

His Justice Department--and I say ``his'' because it no longer  represents the public or justice but is run by his former criminal  defense lawyers and represents only his personal interests--sought to  indict two of my Senate colleagues for stating the plain truth that  members of the military may refuse an illegal order. Indeed, they have  a duty to do so. Their oath, after all, is to the Constitution, not to  the person of the President.

It is difficult to overstate what an abuse of power the pursuit of  that indictment represents. The effort to jail one's opposition is a  hallmark of dictatorship, not democracy.

Career civil servants from all across the Federal Government--people  who have served under both Republican and Democratic administrations  with professionalism and integrity--are being purged for insufficient  loyalty to the person of the President. Inspectors general who uncover  wrongdoing and expose corruption are fired; whistleblowers,  intimidated. We are witnessing the conversion of the Federal Government  from a public trust into a personal fiefdom.

Here is the thing that should terrify every American regardless of  party: Once these norms are broken, they are immensely difficult to  restore. Once you establish that a President can use the Justice  Department to punish enemies, every future President will face that  temptation--pressure, even. Once you establish that civil servants must  demonstrate personal loyalty rather than professional competence, you  have replaced the rule of law with the rule of one.

The Founders warned us about this. Their pursuit of a more perfect  Union was dependent upon a calculated departure from consolidated  power. Now we are living the fears of our Founders and seeing that  threat expand rapidly.

With the President's weaponization of our institutions comes a  parallel and equally disturbing trend. America has always had a secret  weapon in global competition. We attract the best and the brightest  from around the world. Nobel Prize winners, startup founders,  groundbreaking researchers--they come here because America offers  something unique: freedom, funding, and the belief in science. The  ultimate intellectual melting pot. That is being attacked on a daily  basis.

This administration has slashed funding for the National Science  Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, and the Department of  Energy's research programs. It has attacked universities as  ``indoctrination centers.'' It has made it harder for foreign students  to get visas or stay after graduation and start a business.

I have spoken with researchers at Caltech, UCLA, Stanford--you name  it--world-class institutions in my State. They tell me the same story:  Graduate students from abroad are choosing to study in Europe or  Canada, even China. Postdocs are leaving. Even American-born scientists  are considering opportunities elsewhere because they can't count on  research funding, because they are tired of political attacks, because  they don't want to work in an environment where basic facts are treated  with partisan hostility. America is now, for the first time, losing the  race for talent, and in a knowledge economy, talent is everything.

China isn't attacking its scientists. Europe isn't defunding its  research universities. They are doing the opposite because they  understand what this administration apparently doesn't: The future  belongs to nations that invest in intellectual and creative talent, not  to the nations that drive it away.

When the next breakthrough treatments, the next transformative  technologies, the next generation of innovation comes from Shanghai or  Berlin instead of San Francisco or Boston, we will know why and who is  responsible.

In 1783, George Washington wrote:

For if Men are to be precluded from offering their       Sentiments on a matter, which may involve the most serious       and alarming consequences, that can invite the consideration       of Mankind, reason is of no use to us; the freedom of Speech       may be taken away, and, dumb and silent we may be led, like       sheep, to the Slaughter.

Washington understood that the rule of law, the principle that no  one--not even the President--is above the law is fundamentally what  separates democracy from despotism.

President Trump has spent his whole career evading the rule of law.  He has refused to comply with congressional subpoenas. He has ignored  court orders. He has pardoned coconspirators and dangled pardons in  brazen attempts at witness tampering. He has attacked judges who rule  against him as ``biased'' or ``partisan.'' He has called for the  prosecution of political opponents without evidence. He has treated the  justice system not as a neutral arbiter but as a weapon to be captured  and wielded. And, increasingly, he is succeeding.

We have seen this partisan and dangerous Supreme Court grant  Presidents sweeping immunity from prosecution. We have seen judges  appointed based on loyalty rather than jurisprudence. We have seen the  normalization of conduct that in any previous administration would have  been utterly disqualifying.

After 2\1/2\ centuries of American life, we came to believe that the  rule of law was so well entrenched in this country as to be sacrosanct,  beyond reproach or repeal. We were wrong. It depends on norms; on  shame, even; on the willingness of people in power to accept limits on  that power. When those restraints disappear, when corruption becomes  routine and impunity becomes expected, the Republic is in deep danger.

The health of our democracy is at risk, but so, too, is the health of  our Nation.

Let me tell you about a constituent of mine. Her name is Catherine.  She wrote to me last November. She shared that she is a retired  teacher, but earlier in her career, when she was working, she had  trouble getting health insurance because she had a preexisting  condition that made insurance unobtainable for her until we passed the  Affordable Care Act. The ACA changed that. It literally saved her life.

Now the President is trying to dismantle the ACA again. The ``Big  Ugly Bill'' repealed its tax credits and took a trillion dollars from  Medicaid to give the rich in this country a tax cut. He has  systematically attacked the healthcare system Americans rely on to give  more tax breaks for corporations, and all the while he has driven up  costs so that he can claim the system is broken and then privatize it.  It is not hard to see.

The pattern with this administration is to promise relief but deliver  crisis, promise lower costs but drive them up, promise to protect  people then cut their care. But those broken promises will also mean  shattered families, deeper uncertainty, and an America that is sicker  and poorer.

This is what is happening to Catherine right now. She is on a  fixed income--roughly $45,000 a year--with a house payment and two kids  in college. Because of the ``Big Ugly Bill's'' failure to extend the  ACA tax credit, her premiums have gone up $800 a month this year-- nearly $10,000 over the course of the year--almost a quarter of her  annual income. She has relied on the good will of her neighbors and of  her local hospital, but her words still ring in my ear:

I am not going to make do. I don't know what I'm going to       do.

In Trump's America, the economy of opportunity is only for those on  the inside--the billionaires and big corporations that can afford to  donate to Donald Trump's ballroom, buy his meme coins, or pay a million  dollars to stand at his side while he takes the oath of office or  celebrates the 250th anniversary of the Nation. And the rest? Let them  eat the cost of mounting tariffs.

Remember when Trump said his tariff wars were going to be easy to  win? Well, how is that working out for us? Tariffs, which are taxes on  American consumers, not on foreign countries, have driven up the cost  of everything, from groceries to electronics. Retaliatory tariffs from  other countries have devastated American farmers and manufacturers. And  he is fighting a Court decision that should force him to pay those  taxes back to the people. Business investment has stalled because no  one knows what the rules will be from one month to the next. The  President promised to bring down inflation. Instead, his tariffs have  made it worse.

Of course, it is not just the tariffs. Tax cuts to the rich people  and corporations have exploded the deficit. Regulatory rollbacks have  boosted corporate profits but created long-term risks. And attacks on  the Federal Reserve's independence have undermined the Nation's economy  and driven prices even higher.

Trump promised to bring back manufacturing jobs. We have lost them.  He promised to bring down inflation. It has gone up. He promised to  reduce the trade deficit. It has reached a record high.

Americans literally cannot afford 3 more years of this, which brings  me to the heart of the matter, the No. 1 way President Trump has  worsened the state of our Union. He has taken a diverse, complicated,  and sometimes fractious country--which has always been diverse,  complicated, and sometimes fractious--and instead of trying to unite  it, he has done more than anyone else in our history to break it apart.  He governs through fear and scapegoating. Immigrants are ``invaders.''  Vulnerable kids are a ``lie.'' Political opponents are ``enemies from  within.'' The media is ``fake news.'' Anyone who disagrees with him is  a traitor.

Think about what this has meant for all of us, what it has meant for  you. There are family members who are no longer speaking to one  another, friendships that have ended. Communities are turning inward or  turning on each other. The basic trust that allows democracy to  function--the assumption that even when we disagree, we share certain  values and commitments--is coming apart.

I have been in public service long enough to remember when Democrats  and Republicans could team up with each other without suffering  political attack, when we could disagree without questioning each  other's patriotism or humanity, when we could make progress on matters  big and small. That world has grown very small indeed, in no small part  because of this President.

The great tragedy, of course, is that America has real challenges  that require real solutions. The cost of everyday life, housing and  healthcare, education and energy costs, infrastructure and the imminent  challenges of the climate crisis--these are hard problems. Reasonable  people can disagree about how to solve them, but we can't solve them or  prepare for the problems of the future if we can't talk to each other.  We can't solve them if we treat politics as warfare rather than  negotiation. We can't solve them if the President of the United States  purports to love America but spends all of his time attacking  Americans.

``A house divided against itself cannot stand.'' Lincoln said that.  It was true then; it is true now.

So, tonight, President Trump will deliver his State of the Union  Address. He will claim that America is strong, prosperous, and united,  but, sadly, he has made us weaker abroad, more divided at home, less  trusted, less prosperous, less safe, and less free than when he took  office. The state of our Union now is not strong, thanks to him. It is  fragile--deeply, deeply fragile.

But we cannot forget that fragility is not the same thing as frailty.  We have been broken before and found ways to mend ourselves. We have  lost our way before and found somehow the courage to chart a new  course. We have forgotten our highest ideals before and yet always  eventually remembered who we are.

We cannot think of ``a more perfect Union'' as a destination. ``A  more perfect Union'' is a direction. It is the  choice we make generation after generation to see each other not as  enemies but as friends, as partners in the boldest experiment in  democracy the world has ever known. It is the work of building longer  bridges instead of higher walls between parties, between communities,  between the America we are and the America we could be. It is the  recognition that our Nation's diversity isn't our weakness; it is the  very source of our strength, our creativity, our resilience.

``A more perfect Union'' means families who don't go bankrupt because  someone got sick. It means kids who can breathe clean air and inherit a  livable planet. It means immigrants being welcomed for their  contributions, not vilified for their origins. It means learning from  our history and charting a more equitable course for the future. It  means justice that applies equally to the powerful and the powerless.  It means scientists free to pursue truth without fear. It means  alliances that multiply our influence instead of isolation that  diminishes it. It means an America where disagreement doesn't mean  demonization, where debate doesn't mean destruction, where we can be  fierce advocates for our beliefs while still recognizing the humanity  in those who disagree.

None of that is easy, and if the last 10 years of American life are  any evidence, none of that is guaranteed. The Constitution gives us the  tools, but we have to do the job. The Founders lit the flame, but we  have to keep it burning. They started the work, and we must continue  it.

Tonight, the President will try to convince you that everything is  fine. I am asking you to trust your own eyes, to trust your own  experience, to trust the evidence, and then I am asking you to trust  something else: your own power--the power to organize, to vote, to  speak truth, to run for office, to hold leaders accountable; the power  to look at what we have lost and decide we are going to fight with  everything we have to get it back.

Because a more perfect Union doesn't depend on any one person or  President, as much as he may want it to. It depends on teachers who  refuse to teach lies. It depends on students who refuse to abandon  their dreams. It depends on journalists who refuse to stop asking  questions, on scientists who refuse to abandon facts, on neighbors who  refuse to turn against each other, on Americans who refuse to accept  that this is as good as it gets. It depends on you, on me--every single  one of us.

The work is hard. The progress is slow. The discouragement is real.  But so is the possibility. So is the promise. So is the extraordinary,  improbable, beautiful experiment that is America if we have the courage  to believe in it again and the determination to make it real. The  pursuit of a more perfect Union has to continue. It must, and it  continues with us.