Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699093/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. President, this year our Nation will celebrate its  250th birthday--250 years in which our country has built on the  foundation that is our Constitution.

The Framers could not conceive exactly what the future would bring,  but they did anticipate a great deal, in significant part because they  could count on some of the immutable characteristics of human nature,  of institutions, of communities--like the attraction of the  accumulation of power--and how, unless that gravitational force is  counterbalanced, one institution or one man can come to dominate the  life of a country.

One power in particular concerned our Founders, and that was the  power to make war. They had seen and been the victims of a monarch who  used the power of war against them. So they made the radical decision-- so contrary to all the precedent at the time--not to invest such a  vital attribute of state sovereignty in the Executive but to grant the  power to declare war to Congress.

In April 1798, a future President, James Madison, wrote to another  future President, Thomas Jefferson, underscoring the danger and the  decision. He said:

The constitution supposes, what the History of all       Governments demonstrates, is that the Executive is the branch       of power most interested in war and most prone to it. . . .       It has accordingly with studied care, vested the question of       war in the Legislature.

``[M]ost prone to it''--words written more than 200 years ago and so  fitting for today, when in but his first year in office, the President  used military power in Iran, Nigeria, Syria, Yemen, and most  significantly, in Venezuela.

After months of escalating military action against boats in the  Southern Caribbean, after amassing a massive military armada on the  doorstep of a foreign nation, the administration dispatched American  servicemembers to invade and arrest the corrupt leader of Venezuela,  Nicolas Maduro--military action that we were repeatedly told would  never come to pass, by a President who promised to avoid starting new  foreign wars, engaging in nation building, or conducting regime change  operations.

This operation was not about narcotics, nor was it about democracy,  nor was it about oil. The military occupation in Venezuela captured the  country's corrupt dictator but has left the corrupt drug-running regime  in place instead of turning over the reins of governance to that  country's legitimately elected leadership of Maria Corina Machado and  Edmundo Gonzalez. And now our President has committed to running  Venezuela for years in order to exploit its oil resources.

Today, we have the opportunity to exercise the power bestowed on us  by our Framers to authorize the use of force--or decline to do so--but  to reassert some constraint on an Executive grown too fond of the use  of military power.

We took the first step last week when a bipartisan majority of this  body voted to set before the Senate a War Powers Resolution on  Venezuela. That was a strong bipartisan signal that this Chamber was  unwilling to let the war powers of this body atrophy to the point where  they are no more substantial than air.

Now we are on the precipice of that debate--whether we should again  risk the lives of our servicemembers to procure access to another  nation's oil--and the American people should see us weighing that cost.

The President has threatened the possibility of additional strikes in  Venezuela if Venezuela does not ``behave.'' And by ``behave,'' I think  we have to acknowledge that the behavior the President expects is for  that country to share access to its oil wealth with American oil  companies. Many of those companies are dubious about investing in  Venezuela. Some believe it would take years or more than a decade to  make that profitable.

Whether it makes good business sense to them is their decision, but  whether we use the military might of the United States of America to  safeguard their investment is our decision, and I say it is not worth  risking the lives of our troops.

There are some deeply important questions as to the use of American  military power that are implicated in this debate--questions that  deserve answers.

Will we see years of American gunships parked off of Venezuela as  part of some new, amorphous ``Donroe Doctrine''? How do we expect to  run another country of more than 20 million people? Will U.S. forces be  used to protect oil infrastructure in Venezuela? Will our President  continue to stand by the illegitimate regime that Maduro's capture has  left in place or will we support the outcome of the last election in  which Maduro's opposition was triumphant? Are we better off spending  our Nation's time and taxes on Venezuela or should we spend them at  home to bring down costs and address the affordability crisis?

Our servicemembers and their families deserve answers to these  questions before we ask any servicemember to put their life on the  line. Let us make sure they get those answers. Let us have this debate.  Let us move beyond a parliamentary point of order designed to hide from  the American people the cost of our military involvement in Venezuela,  the continuing cost of it. Let's have the fulsome debate that deserves  because at the center of this debate is a question of whether we want  to risk our servicemembers' lives in order to secure the oil resources  of another country.

I do not believe it is worth doing so, but let those who believe that  it is worth the risk and the danger to our servicemembers and their  families--let them come to the Senate floor and make that argument. Let  us have this debate. Let us not hide behind some parliamentary maneuver  to even avoid a conversation here.

There hasn't been a single hearing in committee, an open hearing, on  this subject, not a fulsome debate over the use of our military power.  Let us do so now.