Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Within or Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702105/directing-the-removal-of-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-within-or-against-the-islamic-republic-of-iran-that-have-not-been


Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. President, it has been 13 months to the day since the  House first passed Donald Trump's ``One Big Ugly Bill,'' 290 days since  it was signed into law--the largest cut to healthcare in American  history; $1 trillion slashed for families, children, seniors, our most  vulnerable; billions taken away from hungry families; millions of  Americans pushed closer to poverty, closer to financial ruin; rising  costs.

And for what? To pay for tax cuts for the richest Americans, to give  big corporations another leg up, and to give ICE and CBP a budget so  astronomical it rivals the military budget of many industrialized  nations.

For the average American, it has been 290 days of lost opportunities  and less affordable healthcare; of harder conversations at the kitchen  table; of more sleepless nights worrying about how to get by; more  skipped meals; more doctor visits postponed; week upon week of American  families hoping against hope that this President and this Congress  might recognize the difficulty that they are facing, the struggle they  are enduring, the central promise that this President is breaking.

Day one of Donald Trump's final term is long past, but the prices-- much to the contrary of what he has promised--have not dropped. His  first 100 days are now 15 months ago, and still, inflation persists.  Indeed, it is worse.

Two hundred and ninety days into the lifespan of the President's  supposed signature legislative achievement, this ``Big Ugly Bill,'' and  life for so many Americans is not bigger, and it is not more beautiful.  At gas stations across America, the reality of Donald Trump's America  is clear. At grocery stores in California to the Capitol, that reality  is hitting people in their pocketbooks.

And we are not on the right track either--an illegal war in Iran that  has neither a clear goal nor an endgame, that has pushed prices higher,  that has rocked markets on a daily basis and made the summer road trip  that so many families were looking forward to the latest victim of  Trump's economy; a misguided tariff agenda that has been struck down by  the highest Court. But now this administration will only take steps to  return the billions in illegal duties it levied to the corporations  that charged them, not the Americans who paid them.

This body recognizes the immense strain that our constituents are  under. I know it does because people are making their discontent loudly  known at the ballot box and at public fora all over the country in the  red States and the blue States alike.

I can assure each and every one of you watching that Members of  Congress understand the American dream is slipping out of reach. We  know that you are worried about making ends meet. We understand that  you are agonizing over whether you can keep your business afloat or  what opportunities will be there for your kids.

We have heard your stories. We understand the dread you feel as you  near the first of the month, the fear that is all too real when you  open the mailbox, unsure of what surprise bill will arrive and tip your  family into bankruptcy, the terrible math that you must use to decide  which dose of medicine or which meal you can afford to skip just to  keep the lights on. This is the reality for so many Americans, and we  understand that.

It might be--I don't know--worse, if you could just accuse the  Congress of  being in the dark, if we were somehow blind, rather than a majority of  this body willfully turning a blind eye to the struggles of regular  people.

But as I stand here recounting to you the myriad ways in which the  past year of Trump's America has gotten harder--a reality that you live  every day--Republicans are getting ready to act on their next big  budget resolution, not to help drive down costs, not to address the  healthcare crisis, not to do something to help. No, their grand plan to  address our Nation's challenges is asking the American taxpayer to give  even more money out of their pocket, out of their bank account, to ICE  and Border Patrol agents.

An out-of-control police force that has killed Americans and  terrorized our streets, and they want more money for CBP and ICE  without even a modicum of reform. Now, how is that supposed to help  your life? And the short answer is: It isn't. There is nothing in this  bill to make your healthcare, your energy, or your housing more  affordable. Nothing.

So if there is no money, no billions in this bill to improve the  quality of your life, just what are my colleagues proposing to spend  these billions on? And it is this: on Agencies that have shot and  killed American citizens in our streets, in broad daylight, on video,  for exercising their constitutionally protected right to free speech;  the agents that have broken into homes, refused to show their faces or  their badges, and taken children from their parents; this run-amok  force that has defied court orders, detained citizens and people with  lawful status, denied them basic medical treatment, which has resulted  in an unprecedented number of deaths in immigration custody and denied  their constitutional rights.

ICE and CBP get $140 billion in this bill after getting close to $170  billion less than a year ago, for a whopping total of $340 billion. I  am sorry, but that is an insane amount of money. That is more than we  give to the Marine Corps and the FBI and the DEA and all the other  Federal law enforcement Agencies combined.

So if you take the money from the Marine Corps, one of our incredible  military services, and you add it to the money for law enforcement  Agencies like the FBI and the DEA and the ATF, and you add it all  together, it isn't a fraction of what we are giving to just these two  pieces of immigration enforcement. That is what they get.

That is what these Agencies get: $340 billion. And you? You get  nothing. You get not a dime. After putting more than $3 trillion on the  Nation's credit card to give tax breaks to the rich and to give these  Agencies the funding to arm themselves to the teeth, after taking your  healthcare dollars and plowing them into heavily armed and ill-trained  ICE agents, they want to put even more money into what is becoming  Trump's private army.

A Gallup poll released last month found that about 1 in 3 adults,  U.S. adults, the equivalent of about 82 million people, reported having  made at least 1 daily life trade-off in the past year to pay for  healthcare expenses. That is 39 million Americans stretching a  prescription longer than the doctor recommended; it is 38 million  Americans going into debt to pay a medical bill; it is 28 million  Americans skipping a meal. One in nearly every 10 Americans reporting  the cutback on utilities or on the amount they are driving. And that  was even before gas prices spiked thanks to Trump's Iran war with no  solution in sight.

And we see these impacts playing out across the country in realtime,  month after month, week after week, hospitals are shutting down,  clinics are closing, workers are laid off, services are canceled, and  families are paying more out of pocket and going without the care they  need.

Earlier this year, a hospital in Oakland, CA, announced plans to lay  off 300 medical staff because it is projected to lose more than a  hundred million a year thanks to the ``Big Ugly Bill.'' Another  hospital in Santa Rosa, CA, had to shutter its pediatric unit; Corona,  CA, lost its labor and delivery unit; clinics in Madera and Fresno had  to lay off staff. There are so many of these stories, and thanks to the  trillion-dollar Medicaid cut forced by Republicans in their last  budget.

And where layoffs or service cuts were not enough to balance the  budget, a worse fate awaited these healthcare providers. Clinics in  Compton, Gilroy, Santa Cruz, San Mateo, and South San Francisco all  closed their doors thanks to Donald Trump.

Thousands of Californians, all now without a place to go for medical  care; that is if they can afford care at all.

Our insurance Marketplace in California saw a 30 percent decline in  enrollment as premiums spiked to sometimes double what they were paying  for their healthcare before the ``Big Ugly Bill.''

But healthcare--let's face it--it is not the Republican priority.  This is something they are not willing to fund. This is not something  in this bill.

Instead, we are asked to fund immigration Agencies that have already  seen their budgets explode and their accountability erased by this  administration.

For months, Democrats have sought on behalf of the families and  communities terrorized by ICE to enact basic guardrails, reforms, and  oversight of their conduct; to mandate they wear body cameras and clear  identification, just like any other law enforcement agency; to stop the  use of excessive and deadly force, and to guarantee that when they do  there is accountability in the form of truly independent  investigations; to mandate the use of judicial warrants so that when  they are going to someone's home, as the Constitution requires, they  have a judicial warrant; to stop racial profiling and the targeting of  schools and churches.

All of this for a reason: So we don't have more tragic victims like  Alex Pretti or Renee Good or the people that have died in detention  centers like Luis Beltran Yanez-Cruz or Gabriel Garcia-Aviles, a list  that is already far too long.

Now, bear in mind, these reforms that I have mentioned are all wildly  popular with the American people, and we have worked in good faith to  try to secure these very basic guardrails, saying clearly until these  commonsense measures can be implemented, we would vote not for one more  dime for these Agencies that have taken lawless instructions from the  likes of Stephen Miller and Greg Bovino.

But the administration and my Republican colleagues don't want to  solve the problem of excessive use of force from ICE and CBP; they  don't want the accountability; they don't want the reform. And so they  will use this budget and reconciliation process to bypass the need for  changes to how ICE and CBP operate, to jam more money through without  Democratic support, and to advance a budget that contains literally not  a single dime for healthcare, hospitals, food and groceries, energy  bills, nothing but more money for ICE and CBP.

And the terrible tragedy is that we in this Chamber, we here could  meet this challenging moment in our Nation when people cannot afford  the cost of living.

We could meet that need with a budget that would help people in need.  John F. Kennedy on his first day of office stood on the west steps of  the Capitol and said:

If a free society cannot help the many who are poor, it       cannot save the few who are rich.

For every day of Donald Trump's second term, he has sought only to  save the rich, to help those that already have so much, to line pockets  that are already so deep; and in doing so, he has revealed his campaign  rhetoric to be just that, just words.

My Republican colleagues may see this as a convenient way to avoid  our demands for accountability, but the American people will see this  as a failed opportunity for the GOP as it squanders perhaps the last  chance in the 119th Congress to act meaningfully on making America  affordable again.

The attempt to sell the ``Big Ugly Bill'' has failed. The American  people were not fooled, neither will they be fooled now, because the  billions wasted and the millions hurt will not go unnoticed. There will  be an accounting, if not now, then in November.

And the American people's rejection of this President's agenda will  be big, and in its own way, it will be beautiful. It will certainly be  necessary.

If we are ever to make this economy work for people again, we must  reject more money for lawless agents in favor of more money for  healthcare for the American people.