Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696564/directing-the-removal-of-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-within-or-against-venezuela-that-have-not-been-authorized-by-congress


Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. President, I am proud to join my colleagues Senator  Kaine and Senator Paul in introducing this War Powers Resolution that  provides that we have not authorized the use of force against  Venezuela.

We meet at a precarious moment, when we might be on the precipice of  war with that country. Today, in the Caribbean or on its way to the  region, are the following military assets: Three Arleigh Burke-class  destroyers, the USS Gravely, Jason Dunham, and Sampson; the USS Lake  Erie, a Ticonderoga-class guided missile cruiser; the USS Newport News,  a nuclear attack submarine with torpedoes and Tomahawks; the USS Iwo  Jima, an amphibious assault ship equipped with a flight deck for F-35s,  Ospreys, and attack helicopters; the MV Ocean Trader, a floating base  designed for special operations; reaper drones, Harriet jets, and fifth  generation fighters--incredibly lethal aircraft.

But this is not all. The largest aircraft carrier ever built, the USS  Gerald R. Ford is on its way right now from the Mediterranean. This  means we will see upward of an additional two dozen Super Hornets and  two dozen additional F-35s. This warship will be accompanied by three  additional destroyers, bringing at least 10 of America's best naval  warships within striking distance of Caracas.

All told, there will be more than 400 missiles and vertical launch  systems on Nicolas Maduro's doorstep--115 Tomahawks alone, with an  additional 70 coming with the Ford.

Are we supposed to believe that this is only about striking speed  boats? If so, why would there be 10,000 American servicemembers in the  vicinity? Why fly three B-52s from the United States to the region? Why  have B-1 supersonic bombers flown off the coast of Venezuela in just  the last few weeks for a so-called ``bomber attack demonstration''?

That is not my definition of the mission. That is what the Pentagon  called it. Bomber attack demonstrations for what--to blow up fishing  vessels?

We all need to see that this has quickly become so much bigger and so  much more dangerous. And maybe that was the point, to focus the  narrative on drug trafficking so we don't recoil from what may be right  around the corner with Venezuela, and that is the use of force to  achieve the goal of regime change.

I understand the President, this weekend, said he was not  ``inclined'' along those lines. But I urge my colleagues to look at the  administration's actions and not merely its words, because if it walks  like a military buildup and talks like a military buildup, it might  just very well be a military buildup.

Two weeks ago, the President said:

We are certainly looking at land now, because we've got the       sea very well under control.

And now we have the buildup I just described.

People may be putting a lot of stock into the President's most recent  words saying he would not strike Venezuela when he was on ``60  Minutes,'' on Sunday. When asked if the leader of Venezuela's days were  numbered, he also answered: Yes, ``I think so.''

That is what our Commander in Chief said, with the largest warship  the U.S. has sailing close to Venezuela. If any other world leader  moved this kind of firepower to another country's doorstep, we know  what we would believe was taking place.

The bottom line is this: Americans do not want another war. They  don't want American servicemembers put into harm's way, either flying  missions or with boots on the ground, for a war not authorized by  Congress. Mothers and fathers of American sailors, marines, soldiers,  and pilots do not want to lie awake at night wondering if their kids  will be the ones who have to be deployed to yet another armed conflict,  this time in South America.

Last month, we came to this body with a resolution to end the  unlawful strikes that this administration had been taking against boats  in international waters. We came up a few votes short. But while we  remain concerned about those ongoing strikes,  this debate is about a different resolution. This resolution is tailor- written to stop one thing: a war with the nation of Venezuela. The  Trump administration has not asked Congress to authorize such a war,  but the administration appears to be laying the groundwork for one  anyway. If they believe a war is necessary, let them come to Congress  to make the case for one.

Maduro is a murderous dictator. He is an illegitimate leader in  having overturned the last election by the use of military force. He is  a bad actor. But I do not believe the American people want to go to war  to topple this regime in the hopes that something better might follow.

If the administration feels differently, let them come to the  Congress and make the case. Let them come before the American people  and make the case. Let them seek an authorization to use force to get  rid of Maduro. But let us not abdicate our responsibility. Let us vote  to say no to war without our approval. We don't have to wait, nor  should we wait for that war to begin before we vote. The War Powers  Resolution very clearly and intentionally gives Congress the ability to  prevent a President from going to war in the first place. The  legislative history of the War Powers Act makes that abundantly clear.

My colleagues might object: Well, these aren't yet hostilities.

Yet people are already dying.

They might object: Well, this is not yet imminent.

Yet with the kind of military force being brought to the region,  there is a danger to our sailors, our marines, and our soldiers, as  Senator Kaine outlined, because if Venezuela believes we are on the  precipice of war, they have the capability to take action against our  ships. That clearly meets the definition of ``imminent.''

Our predecessors in Congress designed this law precisely to respond  to the very type of military buildup that we see here and act in  advance of the U.S. being dragged into another war without Congress's  authorization.

We in this body serve our constituents, who have told us for years-- now for decades--no more war, no more use of military force for regime  change.

We must reassert our constitutional power, our duty to have the sole  decision when American lives could be on the line, when war is on the  line.

I share my colleague Senator Kaine's concerns in having read the  opinion of the Office of Legal Counsel. Regardless of what people view  of the merits of that opinion, what we are talking about here is a  wholly other matter. What we are talking about here is potential war  with Venezuela. What we are talking about here is a massive military  and naval buildup in the region, where hostilities may be imminent  under circumstances clearly contemplated by Congress when it passed the  War Powers Resolution.

I have debated Senator Kaine whether this is our most important  power--that is, the power to declare war or to refuse to declare war-- or whether it is the power of the purse. It may indeed be a bit of both  in the sense that one way of cutting off a military campaign is by  cutting off support for that military campaign.

We have already abdicated our power of the purse in this institution.  Should we also abdicate our responsibility to declare war and allow the  administration or any administration or any President to usurp that  authority? It would be antithetical to what the Founders intended and  what they wrote.

As the Founders wrote, the power was given to the legislative branch  to declare war because the power to make war was something that an  Executive might grow too fond of. So the power was given to Congress,  to this legislative body. Let's use that power. Let's reassert our  authority. Let's say through this resolution that if the President or  the administration wants to go to war for the purpose of regime change  or any other purpose, that it must come to Congress and make the case  to us and to the American people.

I urge an ``aye'' vote on the resolution.