Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700452/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. President, we are at war once again. George W. Bush  had his Iraq war, and Donald Trump now has his Iran war.

Make no mistake, with the massive deployment of American military  forces, with the massive amounts of ordnance that are being used, with  the tragic loss of six lives--six servicemembers of the United States-- we are at war.

We are at war, having had no national debate of whether we should  enter into war. We are at war, having had no authorization by  Congress--a power explicitly given by our Founders to the Congress to  declare war. The Founders understood that the executive branch, acting  alone, would grow too fond of war. We are seeing that fear materialize  before our eyes with a President who now has used military force  repeatedly against different countries with different rationales.

Why should we care whether there is a vote in Congress on war? Why  should we care whether there is a debate in the country over war?

We should care because, if we vest the sole power to make war in the  President of the United States--the sole decision to bring a country  into war with the President of the United States--there is no check on  the use of that authority; there is no check on the abuse of that  authority; there is no meaningful way to constrain a President from  getting involved in adventurism around the world that causes our  country an enormous price to pay in lives lost, in treasure lost.

Now, you might say: Well, what about these other uses of military  force by others in the past? Well, of course, with the Iraq war, there  was a vote on authorization. With the Afghanistan war, there was a vote  on authorization. But what about these other uses? Doesn't a President  have a right to use force to defend the country from imminent attack?

The answer is yes. If there is an imminent threat of attack, the  President has the authority. But if it goes beyond anything imminent,  he must come to Congress for an authorization.

So what was the imminent threat here? Well, the short answer is,  there was none. But the administration has given several shifting  rationales--several incompatible arguments--of why they believe there  was an imminent threat.

Let's look at Secretary Rubio, last week, who said that the Iranians  were headed in the pathway to, one day, being able to develop weapons  that could reach the continental United States.

Well, a threat to reach the United States, one day in the future, is  the very antithesis of ``imminent.''

Donald Trump said, on Monday, that the regime had missiles capable of  hitting Europe and our bases, both local and overseas, and would soon  have had missiles capable of reaching our beautiful America.

By ``soon,'' the best estimates are that it would take years. That is  certainly not imminent.

Secretary Rubio, on Monday, had this to say:

There absolutely was an imminent threat . . . We knew that       there was going to be an Israeli action.

He said:

We knew that that would precipitate an attack against       American forces, and we knew that if we didn't preemptively       go after them before they launched those attacks, we would       suffer higher casualties . . . We knew that if Iran was       attacked, even by someone else, they would immediately come       after us and we were not going to sit there and absorb a blow       before we responded.

So, on Monday, Rubio says, because Israel was going to attack, we had  to preemptively attack.

But on Tuesday, the President contradicted his own Secretary of State  and said: ``We were having negotiations with these lunatics''--meaning  the Iranians. ``It was my opinion that they''--meaning Iran--``were  going to attack first. They were going to attack if we didn't do it. .  . . If anything''--the President said--``I might have forced Israel's  hand, but Israel was ready.''

So the President says, no, the imminence didn't come from Israel, and  that he may have, in fact, forced Israel's hand.

On Tuesday, Hegseth took sides with the President and not Marco  Rubio, saying that Trump's explanation was ``100 percent correct.''

OK, so the imminent threat didn't come from anything that Israel was  planning to do. It didn't come from missiles that could hit the United  States that were years away.

What was the other imminent rationale that the administration used?

Well, on February 21, Steven Witkoff said that Iran is ``probably a  week away from having industrial-grade bomb making material.''

Of course, that contradicts what the President said last June, with  the first Iran war, in which he said and reiterated, just this past  Saturday, that ``we obliterated the regime's nuclear program.''

Well, either we obliterated it or we didn't; and if we obliterated  it, it is obviously not an imminent threat.

On Monday, Secretary Hegseth told reporters at the Pentagon that the  Islamic Republic was building sophisticated missiles and other  conventional weapons to shield its plans for a nuclear bomb.

Iran had a conventional gun to our head as they tried to       lie their way to a nuclear bomb.

Again, there was no evidence that Iran was on the cusp of a missile  that could hit the United States, no evidence that Iran was building  the mechanism of a bomb, and no evidence of imminence.

What about regime change? Is that somehow a rationale for war at all,  let alone war without an authorization by the American people and  Congress?

Donald Trump, in 2016, had this to say about regime change. He said:

We must abandon the failed policy of nation-building and       regime change.

Earlier in 2025, Donald Trump said:

Regime change takes chaos and, ideally, we don't want to       see so much chaos.

But, on Saturday, Donald Trump said:

When we are finished, take over your government.

He said this to the Iranian people.

It will be yours to take. . . . Take back your country.

On Monday, Secretary Rubio said:

We would love to see this regime be replaced.

On Tuesday, Donald Trump said ``someone from within'' the Iranian  regime might be the best choice to take over.

But regime change is not an argument that we face as an imminent  threat.

Finally, the last rationale of the administration's was on Saturday,  when the President posted on Truth Social that ``Iran tried to  interfere in [the] 2020, 2024 elections to stop Trump, and now faces  renewed war with [the] United States.''

On Sunday, he cited Iran's effort to assassinate him as a key factor  in ordering the operation that killed Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. ``I got  him before he got me,'' Trump told ABC News. ``I got him first.''

So this was, I guess, the final rationale. He is the one to get the  Iranians before they got him.

So here we are with this shifting series of incoherent rationales-- none of them amounting to imminence, none of them posing a direct and  imminent threat to the United States. Now we are at war again, where we  have tragically lost the lives of American servicemembers, where we are  sinking billions and billions of dollars again into a foreign war  without a time constraint, without a plan. This comes at great cost to  the American people, most particularly to our military families.

But we are about to get a request for a supplemental appropriation,  probably in the tens of billions of dollars, to backfill all the  munitions we are using today. That is tens of billions of dollars that  will not go into your healthcare. That is tens of billions of dollars  that will not go to reducing the cost of your housing or your  groceries. That is tens of billions of dollars that will not go into  investing in America. That is tens of billions of dollars that we are  literally blowing up over Iran when we face no imminent threat.

Folks, we have already, essentially, walked away from our most  important power, and that is the congressional power of the purse. The  President rescinds funds, and he impounds funds, and we put up no  murmur of protest. We have walked away from that most important power  in the Constitution that the Founders gave us.

The other most important power they gave us is the power to declare  war. There is no argument that this is anything less than war. This  resolution is about stopping that war, but it is also about reasserting  Congress' vital role as a check on the Executive and on the abuse of  the authority to bring a nation to war.

This is about whether the American people, through their elected  representatives, will have a say when their sons and daughters are put  in harm's way, when the resources of this country are diverted away  from their communities and toward the building of bombs and weapons and  engagement in another potentially endless foreign war.

I thank Senator Kaine for this resolution, and I am proud to work  with him on this. I urge all of my colleagues to support it.