Motion to Discharge--S.J. Res. 59


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693120/motion-to-discharge-sj-res-59


Mr. SCHIFF. Madam President, I rise today in support of Senator  Kaine's resolution for the simple and compelling reason that it upholds  our constitutional duty. Regardless of what people may think of the  military's execution of its mission last weekend--and our  servicemembers performed with courage, with professionalism, with  extraordinary precision--or their views of its effectiveness--and I  hope and pray the mission was effective--Iran is a malevolent regime,  it is the paramount sponsor of terrorism in the world, and it must  never be allowed to obtain the bomb.

Regardless of whether you support the President's decision to engage  in preemptive strikes in the first place, regardless of whether or not  you support the President generally or you do not, the Constitution  charges the Congress, not the President, with the power to declare war.

Now, there may be a fog of war and a murky uncertainty concerning the  battle damage assessment, but there is no ambiguity here when it comes  to the Constitution. Article I, section 8 provides that ``Congress  shall have [the] Power . . . To declare War''--not the President, or  the President if it is not convenient to the Congress, but the  Congress. And this body, for far too long, has been allergic to the  responsibility it has to govern the use of military force.

Not since the very early part of this century has Congress approved  any authorization for the use of military  force. Nevertheless, a great deal of military force has been, in fact,  used by the United States, since then, in far-flung places in the  world.

In fact, post-World War II, the war powers have been utilized by an  increasingly strong Executive and an increasingly deferential and  fearful legislature.

Now, during the last several weeks, it has been apparent to anyone  watching that the conflict in the Middle East had the potential to draw  in the United States of America--when missiles began striking Tehran  and Tel Aviv; when the President of the United States, with signature  bombast, began to telegraph the possibility that we would enter the  fray; when countless American families were forced to consider whether  their children would be the next to bear the burden and carry the  sacrifices of another potentially endless war in the Middle East.

And so with those families and our servicemembers in mind, Senator  Kaine introduced this resolution to ensure that the President did not  risk committing the United States to yet another open-ended conflict in  the region without a debate in Congress and a decision by Congress as  to whether the country should go down that dangerous road.

Now, at that time, many Senators, myself included, pushed for an  intelligence briefing from the administration. We had significant  questions we needed answered: Had Iran made the decision to build a  bomb? Had Iran begun the process of building the mechanism of a bomb?  Was there an imminent threat to the United States or our forces? What  were the threats to U.S. personnel and facilities in the region, should  Iran respond? How might Iran and its proxies escalate and harm U.S.  interests, not only in the region but here at home and in other parts  of the world? How much damage could U.S. military action do to the  Iranian nuclear and missile programs, and for how long would it set  them back? And, most important, what was the risk that such a bombing  campaign could escalate into all-out war?

Days passed, no briefings. Even after last Saturday's strikes, still  no briefing. Not until yesterday did the administration come to  Congress to answer the most basic of questions, and only after  suggesting, it was reported, that they would potentially choke off  further information to the Congress.

The Constitution demands otherwise. The Founders split the  government's wartime powers, just as they divided responsibilities for  so many other things. It is Congress which declares a war, which raises  an army and a navy and pays for the financial cost of defense and war.

And keep in mind that the need for congressional approval of  warmaking was not hypothetical to the Founders. The United States had  just fought a war against a King, and the Founders did not want to put  the power to start another war in the hands of any single person.

The Framers put their thinking on parchment, and in a letter to  Thomas Jefferson, in the summer of 1789, James Madison reflected on how  they had approached this question of war power, which was the subject  of much debate in Philadelphia at the Constitutional Convention. He  said:

We have already given, in one example, [an] effectual check       to the Dog of war, by transferring the power of letting him       loose from the Executive to the Legislative body, from those       who are to spend to those who are to pay.

``From those who are to spend to those who are to pay''--that is  because a decision as consequential as entering into war requires  informed debate and buy-in from the people's representatives and the  public, from us here in the Senate and from our colleagues in the  House, because we need to weigh the benefits and the risks for our  constituents and for the country as a whole, because a decision like  this one should be insulated from partisan politics and not made with  haste or with blinders on.

There are, perhaps, Senators in this body who will say: This debate  is no longer needed. The mission is over. Iran has backed down. A  lasting cease-fire is in place. The threat has passed.

And I would say to them: I don't know that to be true, and neither do  you.

And on behalf of all those who could and would pay, we should not  allow this great and solemn power to make war to be usurped any longer.  The only way for us to know whether the United States might be drawn  into a broader conflict is if we exercise our authority to prevent it  or to determine that the Congress wants to affirmatively provide a  President with the authorization to use force.

So I am a yes on this resolution.

And if the Senate votes to bring this resolution before the body,  which I hope it will see the wisdom of doing, I will move an amendment  that I have filed with Senators Kim and Kaine that I would hope would  receive all of our support. Our amendment makes clear what is implicit  in Senator Kaine's resolution already, and that is that terminating the  use of U.S. Armed Forces against Iran does not affect the ability of  the United States to defend itself, to share intelligence with Israel  or our other partner nations, or to assist them in taking defensive  measures to protect themselves from an attack by Iran or its proxies.

Our intent in this amendment is to make it crystal clear that calling  up and passing this resolution would in no way restrict the United  States' ability to defend itself or our partners.

And with that question settled, we should be able to turn to the real  need for this debate: Should this Congress continue to abdicate our  constitutional duty to an administration that, at every turn--at every  turn--has deemed us irrelevant; an administration that, for too long,  deferred its obligation to brief Congress and has reportedly threatened  to take steps to choke off the amount of information we have and need  to assess the impact and the consequences of unilateral military  action; an administration that openly disdains and threatens a free  press, ignoring the fact that our fourth estate exists to ask questions  for the people, even if those questions are uncomfortable--especially  when those questions are uncomfortable--and shine a light on the places  where tyranny and despotism can grow and foster and fester?

Because here is the bottom line: Article I, section 8 says that ``the  Congress shall have [the] Power . . . To declare War.''

And every American should know that Congress is not giving up on its  most basic constitutional right to debate and determine whether U.S.  forces undertake further operations--offensive operations--against the  Iranian regime or any other.

This resolution, with my amendment, would give Senators confidence  that a vote on that question will in no way put American troops or our  allies at increased risk, and the underlying resolution would give the  American people the confidence of knowing that they will not be dragged  into another war without their consent.

There must be a check on the dogs of war. There must be a voice for  those who will pay the costs of going to war, and the Senate must be  that voice.