Providing Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; the `omnibus' Low NoX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691621/providing-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-and-nonroad-engine-pollution-control-standards-the-omnibus-low-noinfxinf-regulation-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision


Mr. SCHIFF. Madam President, Members, welcome to the roaring  twenties, not the ones you may have read about in F. Scott Fitzgerald  novels, not the ones with jazz and liberation and industrial boom. I  mean these roaring twenties--the ones where instead of flappers, you  get fossil fuel and dirty air; where instead of innovation, you get  obstruction, tariffs, isolationism, blinding nostalgia for a world that  no longer exists. Instead of leaders who want to tackle the climate  crisis head-on, you get votes to tear down the tools that we need to  fight it.

The reason I stand here today and was here last night until 1:30, 2  in the morning is that Senate Republicans have pushed through  resolutions to revoke California's authority to set its own vehicle  emissions standards, to set its own rules about what kind of air we  breathe in California.

This is an authority that my State has had by statute for more than  50 years. We have had the right to deal with our unique problems of  congestion, our topography, our smog. We have had the right to demand  of ourselves cleaner air, for ourselves and for our children.

That is under attack right now, and not just California's ability to  set its standards to protect its people, but because other States have  also followed California's lead. This will affect the quality of air  all around the country.

And that is the gravamen of the problem for my colleagues in the GOP.  And that is that it is not just California. It is the fact that so many  other States have followed our lead. So many other States have decided  they would rather have fewer cancers than more cars with combustion  engines.

That was their choice. That was their right. They weren't coerced  into joining California. They made the decision about what was best for  their constituents, and it is not for us in this body to arrogate to  ourselves, to decide we know better for Californians or we know better  for people in other States than what their own leaders have decided  about the quality of their air.

This is a direct attack not only on my State but on our ability to  innovate, to lead, and, indeed, to breathe clean air. This is bad  policy--clearly, certainly yes--but it is also a dangerous abuse of the  process in this House that will lead to other harmful consequences.

To get this done, to repeal California's statutory waiver to set its  own air pollution rules, Republican leadership has decided to blow a  procedural hole in the filibuster. And let's call it what it is: This  is a dangerous new kind of nuclear option that dispenses with the  filibuster. But they would have us believe: only here, only when it is  necessary to cater to the oil industry. It is the oil exception to the  filibuster rule.

Now, the nuclear option has been used over nominees in the past. And  there has been debate about doing away with the filibuster entirely.  But, today, what we are talking about is only carving out the oil  industry from the filibuster--so not carving out protection for voting  rights; not carving out protection for reproductive freedom; not  carving out fundamental rights for the American people, for which there  would be a strong case to  have a carve-out from the filibuster. But no, today, we are talking  about an oil-industry-only carve-out. And they are using it to overturn  some of the most successful clean air policies in American history.

Since the 1960s, California has had the obligation and the ability  and the authority to lead, and they have used it. We have used it to  reduce pollution, to increase fuel efficiency, and to drive innovation  across the country. And much of the country has California to thank for  the development of electric vehicles, for the improvement in fuel  efficiency standards, because as we have led, others have followed and  industry has adapted.

Despite the naysayers and those always saying it is too hard, it  can't be done, America got cleaner cars thanks to California, and  consumers got more choices thanks to California. Now, some in this  Chamber want to go back in time, not because the policy failed but  because it succeeded.

Imagine if, just after Henry Ford unveiled the Model T, Congress  passed a resolution demanding we double down on bigger, stronger  horses, because that is what this is--a deliberate attempt to deny the  future because it threatens the status of Big Oil.

The President says that he is for energy independence. That is their  mantra: Make America energy independent. But that is not what they are  doing. They are killing clean energy all over the country.

You know what just came out of the House in the dead of night, last  night, in their reconciliation bill--their ``Big Ugly Bill?'' A  provision to essentially kill every clean energy project in the country  that is not almost all finished. If it isn't going to be operational in  a very short period of time, they want to pull the plug.

Now, why would they do that? Why would they do that when, in fact,  most of those projects are in red States, not blue ones, not States  like California but States like Indiana and Kentucky.

Why would they do that? Because the obligation here is not to their  State or constituency. The obligation here is to the oil industry. They  would sacrifice the jobs and the clean energy industry all over the  country. To their own constituents, they would put those people out of  work. And why? Because of fealty to the oil industry.

This is not about energy independence. It is about oil dependence.

Today, we are in a full transition to a clean transportation future-- or we could be--and Senate Republicans are trying to bring back the  smog. They are trying to make America smoggy again.

We are seeing the climate crisis, and they are trying to cut the  brake lines on progress. We are literally standing at the gates of the  future--a future that we will lead or China will lead, a renewable  energy future--and some would rather turn it all around and ride off in  a horse and buggy, because that is what this vote means. That is what  these votes mean--not just being stuck in a past technology beholden to  an old way of doing things, but also stuck in a dirtier and more toxic  world.

Millions will be stuck breathing in hazardous emissions  unnecessarily.

What is the pay-for here? What is the pay-for for this gift to the  oil industry? Cancer--cancer is the pay-for. We will pay for this  repeal of clean air rules with cancer--maybe your cancer, maybe your  father's cancer, maybe your sister's cancer, maybe your child's cancer.

That will be the pay-for because this is about power, and it is about  profit, and it is about punishing States that dare to lead. It is about  undermining the Senate's own rules to score a short-term win that will  do long-term damage but will placate the oil industry, because once you  start twisting the CRA into a weapon to attack anything you don't  like--rules, waivers, facts--you don't just hurt California; you hurt  the country, because don't think for a second it ends here.

If this gambit works, it will not be the last time this tactic is  used. Today, we blow a hole in the filibuster for the oil industry.  Tomorrow, we blow another hole in the filibuster for what other  polluting industry? Or, more broadly, should we expect this majority to  use it to strip away protections for workers or privacy rights or  reproductive freedom?

This is the real fight here, not just over emissions or waivers or  vehicles, but whether we are a nation led by and empowered to shape the  future or held hostage by the past.

The roaring twenties were a time of reckless optimism. The stock  markets soared, inequality deepened, and political leaders told  Americans not to worry, everything was under control--until it wasn't,  because the same decade that gave us jazz and swing also gave us the  Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, a disastrous attempt to protect American  industry by walling off our economy to the rest of the world.

It sparked global retaliation. It strangled trade. It helped turn a  market crash into a full-blown depression.

What are we seeing now? New tariffs, retaliation threats, political  attacks on States that lead, and now an attempt to tear down  environmental progress and green innovation just as the global economy  is demanding more of it--much more of it.

The roaring twenties gave us invention, yes, but also an illusion, a  false belief that we could grow forever without rules and without  consequences.

We are in danger of making the same mistake again. We should be  building the EV infrastructure for the future, not dismantling climate  progress. We should be investing in clean energy, not clinging to  combustion engines. We should be protecting the rules of this Chamber,  not torching them when they become inconvenient to the oil industry.

The gutting of these norms doesn't end in prosperity; the sacrifice  of clean air doesn't end in making us healthy again. It ends in cancer;  it ends in an enfeebled economy; it ends in a country going backward  and shrinking in on itself. It ends in crisis. Let's not go there.