Save America Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700828/save-america-act


Mr. SCHIFF. Madam President, the author George Orwell wrote about a  dystopian future in which the party in power spoke in doublespeak, a  language in which up meant down and down meant up, good meant bad, and  nothing was as it seemed.

In the language of Orwellian doublespeak, to save something meant to  destroy it, which brings me to the so-called SAVE America Act.

This legislation will not save anything about America, but it will  destroy something precious about this country. It is not meant to  empower people to determine the direction of the Nation but to deprive  them of that power; not to encourage citizen participation in  government but to discourage it; not to heal a nation that is badly  divided but to cause further division, disunion, and democratic decay-- because this is perhaps one of the most cravenly political efforts  undertaken by Congress in a generation.

The President knows that his policies are deeply unpopular. He knows  that his war of choice with Iran is deeply unpopular. He understands  that he has betrayed the promises he made to the American people to  bring down costs and improve the quality of their lives. He knows that  the voters are prepared to hold him accountable in the midterms and  vote his party out of power.

But rather than address his many policy failures, he wishes, instead,  to prevent people from voting. It is as cynical a device as it is  destructive of the foundation of our democracy--the right to vote.

Our Nation is facing a series of challenges that are touching every  facet of people's lives. They are paying more at the pump. They are  paying more on groceries. They are paying more to heat their home, and  this summer, they will pay more to cool it. This is all from a  President that has gone from promising to break inflation on day one to  now saying, ``If prices rise, they rise.'' Imagine that. If prices  rise, they rise.

But that is not all. If the cost of oil goes up, he declares, that is  good because it means we make more money.

Well, maybe he does. Maybe, the oil industry friends do. But the  American people who are paying through the nose at gas stations all  across the country are not making more money. They are spending it on  gas at the pump, and they cannot afford it.

This war of choice is costing America billions. More importantly, 13  brave servicemembers have lost their lives in a new foreign war we were  promised would never be started.

Now, we have heard a whole host of rationalizations for this war,  explanations for this war. None of them add up. At one point, the  President said that we had to go to war with Iran because Iran was 2  weeks away from having a nuclear bomb.

Well, beside the fact that there is no intelligence suggesting even  remotely that that is true, the President himself said, only 9 months  ago, that we had obliterated Iran's nuclear capability.

Well, it can't be both. The President was either telling the truth 9  months ago or he wasn't; or he is telling the truth now or he isn't.  But it can't be both. And, of course, everything we know about Iran's  nuclear program indicates they are not 2 weeks away from having a  nuclear bomb.

So it was also said by the Secretary of State: We are at war with  Iran because Israel was going to go to war with Iran, and we knew that  Iran would retaliate against us; and, therefore, we had to go to war  with Iran.

But the President disputes that rationale for the war. The President  says, basically, that his Secretary of State is wrong, that he forced  Israel's hand.

OK, so what is the President's rationale then for this war? Well, we  all see that the President and the Secretary say it was necessary to  destroy Iran's missile capability because those missiles could soon hit  the United States of America, except that isn't remotely true either.  The Defense Intelligence Agency concluded that it would not be 9 years  before Iran would have that kind of capability. It would take 9 years  for that country to develop missiles capable of hitting the United  States.

So there was no imminent missile threat to the United States. There  was no immediate nuclear threat.

That leaves regime change. The President has said that he wants  Iranians to rise up and challenge the regime. At the same time, it is  being publicly reported that he was warned that that would be extremely  unlikely; that is, that the Iranian people would have the power to  overturn this entrenched, murderous, terrorist-sponsoring regime; that  this would not be Venezuela; that you couldn't simply take out the No.  1 mullah and expect to replace him with the No. 2 mullah that would do  the United States' bidding; that that was not foreseeable, not likely,  not probable.

Instead, the President was warned this could lead to an even more  hard-line regime. And now, we don't have the Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. We  have Mojtaba Khamenei, who is supposed to be potentially even worse.

So this is not about regime change. It is not about the missile  program. It is not about the nuclear program. It is not because of  Israel.

So what is it that led us into war? What is it that justifies the  risk to the lives of our servicemembers? What is it that justifies the  tragic reality that 200 of our servicemembers have already been injured  in this conflict?

We are left to wonder. We haven't had a single public hearing about  this. We have not had the opportunity to put any of these  administration figures under oath to explain why we are at war; why the  President betrayed his promise to keep us out of foreign war, to keep  us out of regime-change wars, to keep us out of another Middle East  war; why our servicemembers are bearing the brunt of this; why American  consumers are bearing the brunt of this.

There are public reports that General Caine warned the President that  Iran might attack our allies in the region, but the President expressed  a surprise that this has happened. There is public reporting that the  general also warned the President that Iran might seek to close the  Strait of Hormuz. And Iran has effectively closed the Strait of Hormuz,  and, as a result, we are all paying for that in skyrocketing prices at  the pump.

All of this was all too eminently foreseeable. But here we are.  Global oil markets and global shipping are seeing the seismic waves of  Trump's war in Iran--a war without strategy, a war with different aims  depending on the day, a war that some can't even bring themselves to  call war because the moment they do--as the President calls it war, as  the Secretary of War calls it war--but the moment that we in this  Chamber call it war, we are acknowledging our own failure to live up to  our institutional responsibility that this is the body with the power  to declare war, not the President.

The Founders did something remarkable, at the time, when they  entrusted that power to Congress--not the President, not the executive  branch--because they feared a President who would grow too fond of war.  And this is exactly what has happened.

Our allies are not standing with us, a predictable outcome since we  have not stood with them. The President says that China and Japan and  all these other countries are going to join us in ushering ships into  the Strait of Hormuz, but none of those countries are volunteering to  do that.

We are seeing the time-tested proposition of regime-change wars: You  break it, and you own it.

If you travel across California, as I have, you will hear not just  about the sticker shock at the grocery store or the gas pump--and  grocery prices are going to go up because fertilizer also transits  through the Strait of Hormuz. The tariff policies are killing farmers,  and the result is we are paying more at the grocery store.

But it is not just the grocery store. It is not just the gas station.  You will hear about how there are no homes that average families can  afford to buy, no apartments that teachers can afford or first  responders. You will hear about the fire or the storm or the flood that  turned the community upside down, like the fires we had in Los Angeles,  when, a year later, they are still waiting for the Federal help that  was promised them to rebuild.

You will hear about the community that is losing its only hospital or  having trouble keeping its OB/GYN or recruiting an OB/GYN, its labor  and delivery open because of drastic cuts to healthcare. And instead of  investing in those critical parts of our community, we are spending $1  billion a day with this war in Iran.

If you listen closer, you hear a mother ready to enter the golden  years of her retirement, worried that her 401(k) won't be enough to get  her through, if she is even lucky enough to have a 401(k); or a father  in the prime of his working years but worried that Social Security may  not be there when he is finally ready to retire; a parent raising a  toddler, unable to return to work because the cost of childcare would  erase whatever income they would make; a business owner unable to keep  up with tariffs that have changed their input costs a dozen times the  last 2 months; a farmer finally ready to give in and sell the farm to a  big conglomerate after generations of tilling the land because trade  wars and immigration raids have made farming impossible; a college  student about to earn their degree seeing their world turned upside  down by technological revolution and AI, wondering if their years of  hard work and exams will amount to anything resembling a career; a high  school student seeing a world on fire and wondering if their lives will  be anything like what their parents enjoyed, if they can ever afford a  home or to retire or have access to healthcare or raise a family or  have a job that will sustain them, whether they can still live in a  democracy even, or something less, something more sinister, something  where Big Brother is watching and listening, where what they say can  cost them their job or their future. I have heard a great many examples  of these fears. My constituents have shared their deep concerns with  me.

Linda from Moreno Valley wrote:

Dear Senator Schiff, I'm a retired teacher and having to       make ends meet by picking up work here and there. 69 years       old and for the first time in my life my family did not       celebrate Thanksgiving or Christmas holidays 2025! Why?

I am hurting and don't have the money! Groceries, food       prices are not down!

Gas prices are not down!

I could not pay the high drug price for prescription mid-      month, so I went without. I fix a broken-down car every other       month because I can't afford a new or used one right now.

Trump's tariffs have hurt me, and I don't foresee them as       doing any good to us in the next three years. Somehow I just       don't feel Great! Just sad.

From Leah in Modesto:

While billions are being spent on foreign conflict, many       Americans here at home are struggling. I live in California       and paid $7.95/gal for gas today.

Economic inequality is another urgent issue. Current tax       policies continue to benefit the ultra-wealthy while everyday       Americans are left behind.

Working families need relief, opportunity and a system that       feels fair and offers 20-somethings hope for a reasonable       future, not one that widens the gap between the top and       everyone else.

My 29-year-old daughter is in college, while still working       40 hours/week to survive and is actually thinking about not       having children for fear of the inability to provide. That is       not the future she wants.

From Sarah in Los Angeles, I heard:

I am writing as a constituent who is struggling under the       burden of federal student loan payments that are no longer       affordable.

Despite working full time in a helping profession, my       monthly loan payment has increased to a level that threatens       my ability to meet basic living expenses such as housing,       healthcare, and utilities.

This is not a matter of poor planning or lack of       responsibility, it is the result of a system that has become       financially unsustainable for many working adults.

I urge you to use your position to push for policies that       recognize the real cost of living and the long term impact of       student debt on mental health, economic participation, and       community stability.

Well, Sarah, if we weren't spending a billion dollars a day in Iran,  that is a billion dollars a day we could be spending to buy down your  student debt, to help other kids go to college and be able to afford it  or go through training programs to train themselves for this brave new  world of technology and AI that we are entering.

From Valerie in Redwood City, she writes:

I am writing because my [Gas] bill has doubled.

[My gas company] indicates that it has gone down that is       not the case at all.

I am not able to retire because my bill has increased. I'm       over 70 and a preschool teacher. I live in a condo and cannot       afford solar panels. I don't turn on the heaters often I use       heating pads on the floor. Thank you kindly for your help in       this matter.

From Kiersten in Sausalito, I heard:

My husband is a first responder and law enforcement officer       with the National Park Service and has served for 18 years.

He currently works in the Bay area, where income is       adjusted for cost of living, but the childcare subsidy is       not.

Our household gross income is $185,000, with my husband       earning $105,000 of that.

Reliable childcare in Marin County costs well over $3,000       per month, and that figure does not include the basic       expenses required to live here, such as housing, food, and       other necessities. The average cost of a house in our area is       over $1 million.

If I were to leave my job and stay home full time, we would       not be able to afford comprehensive family healthcare through       his government plan while also covering our basic living       expenses. As it stands now, I am essentially working to cover       health care for myself and our child, with the remainder of       my income going toward childcare.

I would like to see efforts made to modernize and       regionalize childcare subsidies so that families serving the       federal government can realistically afford to live and work       in the communities they serve.

From Sasha in Sacramento, Sasha writes:

Rent takes more than 43% of my net pay and my biggest fear       is that my pets will become sick or injured when I can't       afford their medical bills.

My grocery bill went up 33% from 2024 to 2025 and that was       with me making changes to cut out expensive foods like fish       and red meat.

As a registered voter, I am asking you to focus your       attention to fix the economic freefall we are in.

These are the sentiments, these are the anxieties I hear every day at  townhalls, in constituent meetings, in college dining halls, and dining  room tables, in email after email, letter after letter, and call after  call. Our mailboxes are full. People are scared. They are worried. They  feel the kinds of anxiety that leaves them awake at night, turning over  the numbers in their head and wondering if they will ever truly make  ends meet.

We could confront these challenges. We could turn to any one of our  legislative committees and take up these issues. We could bring up any  number of bills that would lower costs, make our communities safer,  bring home our troops from a war that the American people never asked  for, but instead, the majority has seen fit to say in the face of all  of these challenges that instead of solving them, they will simply take  away people's right to vote because the American people are paying  attention.

They have noticed that prices have not gone down on day one as the  President promised. They have noticed gas prices climbing higher and  higher. They have noticed Republicans saying that this is a sacrifice  they should be comfortable making.

They have seen their groceries, their gas, their utility bills, their  appliances, all rocked by mercurial trade policies and on-again, off- again tariffs. They know this Republican Congress' signature  accomplishment--the largest healthcare funding cut in history and  billions of dollars in food aid slashed to fund a tax cut for wealthy  people and large corporations--has only made matters worse.

And you know what? I know you have noticed it too. You have noticed  these broken promises, and you have noticed that the American people  are pissed. And they are ready to exercise that frustration at the  ballot box to send a clear message.

But the response of the majority is to try to make it harder to vote.  Now that it is their jobs on the line, they are finally trying to make  it harder to get fired by doing away with your right to vote.

That is the SAVE America Act for you. It should be called the ``Save  Our Political Hides Act'' because that is exactly what it is, a bill to  supercharge the purging of voter rolls; a bill to give the Department  of Homeland Security the power to decide who stays registered to vote  and who gets kicked off; a bill to kill online voter registration; a  bill to kill voter registration drives, to take away your ability to  register to vote at the DMV or by mail; a bill that will reject every  common form of identification, even your driver's license, if you want  to register to vote: a servicemember showing their military ID? Nope.  That is not good enough if it isn't showing proof of citizenship.

If you are one of the millions of people who changed their names,  their last names when they got married, sorry, it is going to be twice  as hard for you to get your ballot. Online registration, registration  by mail, registering at the DMV, voter registration drives, all these  methods of signing up to vote would be illegal under this bill.

Four years ago, less than 6 percent of Americans registered to vote  in person--less than 6 percent. Imagine living in rural California, now  forced to drive hours away for even the chance to make your voice heard  in November. A family vacation will now be used to get to the county  clerk's office just to get a ballot, not to mention if you can't afford  to take the time off work or if you are not able to get behind the  wheel.

But let's say you make it to the county clerk's office, the  Republican majority has sworn up and down that all they want for you is  to show a driver's license to register to vote, but guess what. A  driver's license won't be enough anymore.

If the SAVE America Act passes, neither driver's license or a  military ID or a Tribal ID, none of that will be enough to register to  vote. And what about that REAL ID, the upgraded license that the  Federal Government has been urging Americans to get for the past  several years? Nope. That is not good enough either. If that doesn't  show proof of citizenship, that is not good enough either.

One in every two Americans don't have the passport needed to register  to vote, and millions more won't have another one of the required  methods either. Americans born here, voting here all their lives,  denied their ability to exercise their constitutional right by this  bill.

Let's say you are just like Melania Knauss. You are a naturalized  citizen and wanting to vote this November. You may even want to vote  for the Republicans on your ballot. Well, now you discover you are like  69 million other women who have changed their name when they got  married, which means that Melania Trump will now have to not only bring  her proof of citizenship but also her marriage license to prove she is  eligible to vote.

And so in this Republican SAVE America Act world, to even try to  register for your constitutional right to vote, you might have to pay  $165 to get a passport, take the hours it will require of you to get to  the clerk's office, the wages you will miss by getting there, the gas  you will have to buy at a much higher rate now, and, inevitably, the  bureaucracy will make you come back once or twice.

But let's assume you get all the way through the process of  registering to vote in Trump's new federalized election system. Now,  you face the prospect of actually casting your ballot. You go to the  White House website right now, it will tell you they plan to use this  bill as a basis to ban mail-in voting. That is not hyperbole;  whitehouse.gov/saveAmerica, read it: ``No mail-in ballots.''

That means 47 million voters from the last election would have to  find a new way to vote. And it is not just voters in California, which  has gone out of its way to ensure your constitutional right is not an  impossible one to exercise, nearly 3 million Floridians voted by mail.  And that is not just Democrats. About one in five Republicans cast  their ballot by mail in 2024--no longer, if the President gets his way.

Why make it so hard for Americans to exercise a constitutional right?  Because Donald Trump has admitted the true aims of this bill. If the  SAVE America Act becomes law, he says the Republican Party will ``never  lose a race in 50 years.''

This is what this bill is designed to do. It is designed to lock in a  Republican majority for half a century by locking you out of the  polling place. Former--or soon-to-be-former Secretary Kristi Noem said  that we need to make sure the ``right people'' are voting.

Well, who are the right people? The right people, I guess, are people  they expect to vote for the President's party.

It used to be in this country both parties sought to increase voter  turnout, that we both recognized it as an unmitigated good that more  Americans were participating in elections. Not anymore.

This is nothing less than a deliberate campaign to undermine  confidence in our elections.

The Speaker says we have a major voter fraud problem. He cites as his  evidence three Republican House candidates in California who he says  were ahead on election day, but as absentee ballots came in, they fell  further and further behind. He can't prove it, but to him, it stands to  reason there must be fraud.

He knows better than that. That is just a pure falsehood. This is a  deliberate campaign to undermine confidence in our elections. The  seizing of ballot boxes in Georgia are meant to undermine confidence in  our elections. The subpoenaing of records in Maricopa County are meant  to undermine our confidence in elections. All the false talk about  massive voter fraud is a complete fiction even according to the  conservative Heritage Foundation--a complete fiction--and they would  use this fiction to take away the legitimate franchise of millions of  Americans.

Look, we have serious challenges in this country. We have a war that  the American people don't want and don't support. We have the cost of  basic necessities increasing all the time. We have a challenge we  didn't face in the great recession or even the Great Depression. The  problem today is not that people are out of work, although unemployment  is rising. The problem today is that people are working, and they still  can barely afford to get by.

That is the central challenge facing our country, and I think, until  we grapple with that challenge, our democracy will be on fragile  ground. When people see the quality of life their parents enjoyed as  something better than what they have and when they look at their  futures and they find it in doubt for their kids, all too many will  entertain any demagogue who comes along and promises they alone can fix  it.

But the answer cannot be to simply take away people's right to vote.  We need to address that challenge to make the economy work for  Americans again. Anyone working hard in this country should be able to  provide for themselves and their families. That is what we should be  focused on. That is what the President promised to do. Taking away  their right to vote and turning us into some kind of--if not an  autocracy, something less than a democracy, that is not the answer.

So I urge my colleagues to vote against this ``Save our Political  Heinies Act'' and vote in favor of our democracy, to vote to expand the  franchise to more and more Americans, not take it away because of the  failure of the President's policies.