Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696336/trump-administration


Mr. SCHIFF. Yes. Would the Senator yield for a question?

Mr. SCHIFF. I thank the Senator for yielding and for your  extraordinary speech and all that you have elucidated today and for  your powerful advocacy on behalf of our democracy.

I think there are any number of signs of when a democracy is in  trouble, when a country is descending into a kind of dictatorship.  Books have been written about this subject. No one account, I think,  can comprise all of the elements of the deterioration of democracy, but  there are certain telltale signs that I think we are seeing all too  clearly.

And my question goes to some of the things that we are witnessing  that I think are hallmarks of the decline of a democracy and that ought  to be sounding a three-alarm fire for the American people. Let me begin  with a few of them.

First is the misuse of the military at home and abroad. When a  President begins to use a military for unpurposeful purposes, when a  President deploys American forces in violation of the law to American  cities, when a President assembles top leadership--flag officers,  generals, admirals--and tells them that our cities are to be military  training grounds, that there is an enemy within, it is as sure as  anything a sign of a democracy in trouble, of a democracy in decline.

When troops are repelling in Black Hawk helicopters, not in Somalia  but in Chicago, it is the most visible sign of a democracy in trouble.  This is, as we all know, in violation of the law which prohibits the  use of our military for domestic law enforcement purposes.

Likewise, the misuse of the military abroad, without the  authorization of Congress, is another sign of the deterioration of our  democracy.

When a President arrogates to himself the power to blow up ships in  the Caribbean or now in the Pacific without any authority, in violation  of law and Constitution, it is another sign of the President arrogating  the military power to himself--to the person of himself, not to the  Constitution, not to his core responsibilities, but to himself.

No. 2, among the dozen or so most virulent signs of the decline of  our democracy, at the risk of an authoritarian regime taking hold of  this country, are the attacks on our universities. We see this in  Hungary and elsewhere. When rulers start to attack the independence,  the academic freedom of our universities, it is a sure sign of a  democracy in trouble. When a President tries to dictate by withholding  Federal funds--the lifeblood of research universities--and withholds  those funds unless an academic institution agrees to adopt his cultural  agenda or fire certain faculty or allow it to have some kind of a  monitor, some kind of a Big Brother overseeing what takes place in our  universities, it is a sign of a democracy in decline.

No. 3, when an administration, when a ruler goes after the right of  representation by attacking lawyers, law firms, legal professionals and  says: Thou shall not represent this cause which is deeply unpopular to  me, you shall not take on this client who is antagonistic to me, you  shall not hire this lawyer who is a personal enemy of mine--that is  antithetical to the history of our democracy and all democracies.

John Adams, prior to becoming President, took on one of the most  unpopular cases in American history, representing British soldiers who  had participated in the Boston Massacre. Why did he do that? Why take  on such an unpopular cause? Because he understood the importance to a  democracy of the right of representation.

No. 4 of the signs that our democracy is in deep, deep trouble is the  abuse of the Justice Department to go after the President's enemies and  to protect his friends. It is in actions like, in the State of  Virginia, the firing of a U.S. attorney who believes that a prosecution  is not warranted, notwithstanding the personal injunction of the  President that ``thou must prosecute these people.'' That prosecutor  was fired and another was brought in to implement the President's will  to go after his enemies.

But it is also, likewise, a sign of the loss of democracy when the  powers of the Justice Department can be used to protect the President's  friends, when a Justice Department can be told: You shall not look  further into the $50,000 in bribe money taken from a top White House  official; close down that investigation. You shall look no further into  the corruption of the mayor of New York; close down that investigation  because that mayor is useful to the administration politically. That is  as sure a sign as anything that we no longer have an independent  Justice Department but one in the thrall of the White House.

No. 5, suppression of free speech. Suppression of free speech,  something not just in any amendment but in our First Amendment. When an  administration uses its power to force ABC to pay him personally or to  force CBS to pay him personally for the right to continue its broadcast  license or for the opportunity of its parent to have a merger, these  are overt efforts to censor the press.

When it uses its regulatory power and threats to try to take off the  air a comedian or two comedians, it is a sure sign of the loss of press  freedom.

And, equally, we see in other requests of regimes an effort to  concentrate power, to concentrate the media itself in the hands of  friendly oligarchs or to create a kind of state-run media, which we are  deeply at risk of and see in the development of TikTok, and the course  of power of the government to decide who the future owners of TikTok  will be, to make sure they are of the same political persuasion as the  President; or we see reflected in the oligarch control of Twitter or  now X; or we see in organizations that are buying up stations like  Sinclair and using its vast power for the purpose of censorship.

Next, in a declining democracy, in a budding autocracy, we see the  demonization of vulnerable communities. And what could be more visible  in America today than the demonization of immigrant communities by this  administration or the demonization of the other, the false portrait  that people who come to this country are all murderers and rapists and  drug smugglers? The demonization of some of the most vulnerable people  in America are also in the LGBTQ community and the trans community. We  see this time and time again in history in countries becoming  dictatorships, that they build their power on the backs of people they  dehumanize.

You are seeing at home another powerful sign of a budding  authoritarianism--a growing authoritarianism--and that is the use of  propaganda, the use of taxpayer money for propaganda. You see banners  with the President's glowering face now on public buildings in  violation of law. You see Kristi Noem doing Hollywood-looking produced  ads that are played at airports, falsely blaming Democrats for the  shutdown--political propaganda paid for by you, the taxpayer; or  highly-produced immigration videos featuring Kristi Noem thanking the  President--more political propaganda.

Another sign of the decline of our democracy, of the growth of our  authoritarian regime, is the corrupt use of government power for self- enrichment. This we saw from the very first days of this  administration: the meme coin dinners in which the premises of the  White House are used but private donors are encouraged to buy the  President's meme coin, a cut of which the President gets; using the  power of the prestige of that office--sometimes even the venue of that  office--to enrich himself; the receipt of aircraft, a $400 million  aircraft from Qatar, a nation that has a keen interest in U.S. policy;  the President acquiring a plane in plain violation of the emolument  clause; soliciting private donors for ballrooms; real estate deals in  the Gulf; the rampant conflicts of interest with crypto money coming in  from the Gulf to the First Family; the use of government power and  position for corruption and self-enrichment.

Another powerful sign of a democracy in decline is the usurpation of  Congress's power of the purse, the illegal withholding of funding, the  impoundment of funding, the illegal rescission of funding, the illegal  termination of grants, and, I would say beyond that, the mass firing of  Federal employees--the lawless firing of Federal employees--the use of  Congress's power to appropriate money, one of the most important  powers--arguably, the most important power we have--now taken by the  administration and without a fight in this body, certainly not  a bipartisan fight. That is surely a sign that we are losing our  democracy.

The undermining of elections and voting is another key ingredient in  dictators around the world. Cementing their position and power is the  undermining of the foundational right to vote. We see it in its various  forms now. We see it in this push to engage in gerrymandering around  the country. But we see it in closing down polling stations in urban  areas. We see it in efforts to suppress the vote of certain  communities. We see it in the purging of voter rolls. We see it in  affirmative efforts to discourage people from voting. We see it in the  demonization of election workers, the interference with election  boards.

Finally, although the list is much longer, I would end with this: the  attack on truth itself, the attack on facts, the attack on science, the  purging of people from our scientific agencies, the rabid falsehood,  the firehose of falsehood coming out of the White House and our  Agencies, daily--provable, palpable falsehood, eroding the very idea of  truth and fact.

If you can persuade people that nothing is true, then what are we to  use to decide who should govern?

If there is no shared experience, then how do we decide what the  policies should be?

How do we avoid just falling back on political tribes or, worse,  political violence, if there is no truth? if there is no fact? if there  is no accountability?

So I thank Senator Merkley for shedding light on the risk--the risk  to our precious democracy and the risk to this incredible inheritance  from our Founders.

Part and parcel of saving our Republic and part and parcel of saving  the country is to understand the dangers so that we can confront them.  Future generations are going to ask what we did in this hour when our  democracy was most vulnerable. Our parents and their parents went off  to world wars to protect our democracy. Our task is far easier, on the  one hand, but no less important on the other.

So I ask you: Are you seeing these same signs I am seeing of the  danger to our democracy, of the degradation of our democracy, and what  do you feel we can do to save this inheritance?

(Mr. SCHMITT assumed the Chair.)