Unanimous Consent Requests--The Calendar


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698422/unanimous-consent-requests-the-calendar


Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. President, in a moment, I am going to ask this body  to pass legislation requiring the Department of Defense to show  Congress and the American people the September 2 video of strikes that  killed two survivors on a shipwrecked vessel after the administration's  first strike disabled the craft. The American people deserve to see  this video and to witness what is being done in their name.

The administration has proudly published the footage of countless  other strikes, including the first one from the very same day,  believing it could do so without compromising any sources or methods  used by our military or intelligence services. This followup footage  should be no different.

Since the beginning of this campaign of unauthorized strikes against  boats in the Caribbean and Eastern Pacific, there has been one key  feature from this administration: an eagerness to push out the videos  of these attacks.

We first learned about these strikes when video of an attack was  published by the President of the United States, who posted the video  of it on his social media. That was video of the first strike on  September 2.

In the strikes since--strikes that have killed nearly 100 people in  the last few months--the attacks have been announced to the world by  the President and the Secretary of Defense, posting videos of them on  their social media.

Last week, we saw the administration distribute lengthy footage of  the seizure of an oil tanker off the coast of Venezuela.

So why not release the video of the second strike that the  administration ordered on September 2? Why is the administration hiding  it behind closed doors, sharing it with only a small handful of  Members, and leaving the rest of Congress and the country in the dark?  What is it about the killing of these two survivors that the  administration is unwilling to let the people see?

The legality of the entire campaign of striking these boats and  killing those onboard, rather than interdicting and arresting them, has  been called into serious question. An attack on shipwrecked sailors is  expressly prohibited by the laws of war.

The rationale for hiding this video seems far less about any nebulous  claim of the need to protect sources or methods, and far more about  protecting the administration from accountability and oversight that  the American people demand.

This legislation is simple: Make this video available--first, in  full, without edits, to all Members of Congress. Then, if there is any  legitimate basis to be concerned with the revelation of some source,  method, modus operandi, or technology that isn't already apparent with  the eager release of all the other videos, make it public with proper  redaction.

Surely, the same people who scrub and declassify every other video  the Pentagon has publicly posted can be enlisted to do the same for  this one.

Or is the so-called ``most transparent administration in history''  afraid of what this video would show? Would it show a clear violation  of the laws of war, which use the killing of shipwrecked combatants as  the textbook definition of an illegal use of force?

The truth on this is going to come out. We know that it will. Let it  be  now. We already know from the reports of our colleagues who have seen  the video what it shows--first, a strike on a boat; and then, a short  while later, a second strike on the disabled wreckage of the boat and  two survivors, killing them.

I should make clear: None of these strikes is lawful because these  targets are not combatants. There is no imminent threat of invasion,  and there is no legal authorization in the United States or  international law for the use of military force for drug interdiction  alone.

We have condemned campaigns of extrajudicial killings in other  countries that have done so to allegedly combat the drug trade--like  the Philippines under Duterte--and we must not engage in that conduct  here.

But the second strike on September 2 compounds the illegality. It  flies directly in the face of laws and values to underpin the U.S.  military.

So I ask my colleagues to support this bill. Allow this legislation  to pass and ensure that we are not hiding information from the American  people. After all, the President of the United States said he was fine  with releasing the footage. ``Whatever they have,'' he said, ``we'd  certainly release. No problem.''

It is time we hold the President to his promise to be transparent  with the American people. Our servicemembers and their families deserve  nothing less.

Right now, we have a massive military force in the region. We have  killed almost 100 people. We are beginning a blockade of a country with  which we are not at war and with which the American people do not want  us to go to war--not over regime change, as despicable as the Maduro  regime is. The American people do not want to go to war over regime  change, which is apparently the real objective here.

We should pass a War Powers Resolution to make clear that Congress  does not support a military campaign that may draw us into another  endless war or destabilize the region. And we can start by releasing  the video of one deadly strike already undertaken, but the evidence of  which has been withheld from the American people.

I urge passage of this bill.

As if in legislative session and notwithstanding rule XXII, I ask  unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate  consideration of the bill at the desk to require the release of video  strikes conducted on September 2, 2025, against designated terrorist  organizations in the area of responsibility of the U.S. Southern  Command; that the bill be considered read three times and passed, and  the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.

Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. President, first, as my colleague served on the  Intelligence Committee when I chaired the committee, he should well  know that Members of Congress actually don't hold clearances that can  be revoked; we either serve on certain committees or we don't.

But more to the point, in listening to my colleague address this  motion to release the video to the American people, I have heard very  little of the basis for an objection to releasing this video except  some nebulous claim that somehow this footage must be classified.

I would pose this question to my colleagues: Do you recognize that  this video has already been partly displayed to the American people?  The administration was all too proud to show the first part of this  same video, the first attack on this ship, to the American people.   They showed that to the whole world. They just didn't show all  of us the rest of that video; that is, they only showed the footage of  the first strike. What they withheld was the footage of the killing of  the survivors of the strike.

So, to make the claim here without basis that, well, somehow the  continuation of that footage is confidential but that the beginning of  that footage showing the first attack can be released without injury to  sources or methods--it just doesn't pass the smell test.

This is going to come out. It is just a question of how long we have  to fight to make this available to the American people.

But if the administration is proud of this, if the administration is  proud of what it is doing in the name of the American people, it should  be proud to show this video to the American people. And we should hold  the President, who said: Whatever they have, we would certainly  release; no problem--we should hold the President to that commitment.