Welcoming Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew


Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. President, I rise today to welcome to Washington, DC,  next week His All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, the  spiritual leader of Orthodox Christianity.

His All-Holiness is a guiding light for the 300 million Orthodox  Christians, including many thousands across California, from San Diego  to Eureka. More than that, since ascending to his position in 1991, he  has reached beyond Orthodox Christianity to be an inspiration to people  of all faiths around the world suffering from religious persecution,  violence, and displacement.

Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew has fostered dialogue across the  world and across religions with Christians, Muslims, and Jews. On today  of all days, I note his efforts to combat international terrorism,  helping lead the effort to the Brussels Declaration in December 2001  calling on leaders of all religions to condemn violence and forswear  the use of religious justification for terrorism and mistreatment.

His All-Holiness is also a true champion of peace, tolerance, and  defense of the environment. His coming to Washington will highlight the  role that religious leaders play in pursuit of these goals and remind  us to be stewards of all people and the planet before pursuing partisan  and personal ends.

I congratulate His All-Holiness on the well-deserved and highly  impressive honor of being awarded the 2025 Templeton Prize, which  recognizes spiritual and scientific advancement. The award puts him in  the company of Mother Teresa, the Dalai Lama, King Abdullah, Jane  Goodall, and Francis Collins--men and women from all walks of life who  have made contributions to understanding the universe and humanity's  place within it.

In awarding the prize, the Templeton Foundation noted Bartholomew's  dedication to environmental causes, for which he has earned the  nickname of the ``Green Patriarch.'' The foundation said his  environmental ministry is ``harnessing the power of the sciences to  expand our collective understanding of humankind's place and purpose in  the world'' and that ``Bartholomew has also deepened Christians' ideas  of what it means to be faithful in the world today. It involves caring  for all aspects of God's creation including the people around us and  the natural world in which we live.''

I join American Orthodox Christians, environmentalists, and  peacemakers in welcoming back to Washington and the United States His  All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew. Congress will be honored  to once again host him in our Halls next week.

I urge my colleagues to listen to his message of peace, environmental  stewardship, and the importance of bridging the divides between  religions, nations, and all groups who spend more time on the things  that divide us than those that should bring us together. We will gain  from his return if we have the wisdom to listen.