Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693725/anti-cbdc-surveillance-state-act


Mr. STUTZMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank our Financial Services chairman  for his leadership on a really important issue that is going to affect  many generations ahead of us.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the anti-CBDC  Surveillance State Act.

Our Founding Fathers were clear that Congress, not the executive  branch, has the power to coin money and regulate its value.

Yet, in 2022, the Biden administration issued an executive order that  placed the highest urgency on the research and development of a central  bank digital currency, a so-called digital dollar.

Under the wrong circumstances, this technology could allow the  Federal Government unfettered access into the wallets of every  American, putting privacy and freedom at risk.

Unfortunately, Americans know all too well how far some  administrations are willing to go to intrude into our lives. We all saw  how the Biden administration ruthlessly pressured social media  platforms to silence the voices of Americans who criticized their  disastrous COVID-19 policies.

We saw this same ideology taken to the extreme when Canadian Prime  Minister Justin Trudeau froze the bank accounts of Canadians who dared  to protest his government during the pandemic.

Now, imagine if the Federal Government could see where we spend our  hard-earned paychecks, track our charitable donations, or even cut off  access to our own money if it disapproves of our beliefs.

Any digital dollar must reflect our values of privacy and our First  Amendment rights. This bill ensures our digital assets policy is in the  hands of the American people, not the administrative state. It protects  our values of privacy, individual freedom, and free market innovation  by prohibiting a CBDC surveillance tool that could be wielded against  the American way of life.

I am proud to be a cosponsor of this important legislation, and I  thank Whip Emmer and Chairman Hill for their outstanding leadership on  this important issue.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.