Lowering Housing Costs and Advancing Main Street Community Banks


Mr. STUTZMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Congressman  Haridopolos, for organizing this evening's event.

I am proud to say that this body just passed the Housing for the 21st  Century Act in a strong bipartisan manner. Owning a home is the  American Dream. It is one of the best investments any person can  possibly make here in America.

At a time when too many American families are struggling to afford a  home, House Republicans are taking meaningful action to address one of  the most pressing challenges facing our country.

Indiana remains one of the most affordable States for homeownership  in the country, but I know the dream of owning a home is still out of  reach for many Hoosiers. Every day, I hear from families that work  hard, save their money, and still cannot find a place to call their  own. Unfortunately, this is true not just for families in my district,  but for the families across the country, as well.

House Republicans have heard these concerns and responded with  legislation that will directly help more Americans achieve the dream of  homeownership.

Instead of throwing more taxpayer dollars at ineffective government  programs, we are restoring housing affordability by getting government  out of the way.

Included in this package are many commonsense, bipartisan reforms.  Among them is my Streamlining Rural Housing Act. I thank Chairman Hill  for including it in this package.

Today, rural housing projects in Indiana and across the country that  rely on both HUD and USDA programs must undergo two separate  environmental reviews. This duplicative process drives up costs for  developers, delays construction, and discourages the very investment we  need to expand affordable rural housing.

My bill requires HUD and USDA to establish a joint environmental  review process so that these projects no longer face redundant  oversight. The result is simple: fewer delays, lower costs, and more  homes built for working families across the country.

This package also delivers several other important housing reforms.  One such reform led by my colleague on the Committee on Financial  Services from Tennessee, Mr. Rose, removes the permanent chassis  requirement for manufactured homes. This simple fix will reduce  unnecessary costs and help families move into new homes more quickly on  day one.

The package further modernizes longstanding programs so that Federal  housing tools better match our current market realities. It provides  local communities with greater flexibility to invest in housing  solutions tailored to meet their needs and encourages private  investments to expand supply where it is needed the most.

Mr. Speaker, this is what a Republican Congress and President Trump  were elected to do, and we are delivering results for the American  people. We are cutting red tape, and we are restoring the American  Dream of homeownership.

I am proud to have supported the Housing for the 21st Century Act,  and I look forward to its swift consideration in the Senate.