President Trump in the Middle East


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691249/president-trump-in-the-middle-east


Mr. STUTZMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share my thoughts on the  dilemmas that we face here in Congress.

Watching what is happening not only here at home and here in Congress  but also around the world, we have a great opportunity in front of us.  We can be not only strong here at home, but we can also be strong  abroad. President Trump is showing that as he travels today in the  Middle East.

I just want to remind us all that we have threats around the world  who are watching the United States on a daily basis.

I was recently over in Syria, and there was a great opportunity there  that President Trump has addressed by lifting the sanctions on the  Syrian people, but the Syrian people know that America can be trusted.  Now, let's take that opportunity and help not only them, because that  is going to help stabilize the region in the Middle East and it is  going to help our ally, Israel, it is going to help our other allies  who are participating in the Abraham Accords. I want to applaud  President Trump for what he is doing.

However, to see how the people in the Middle East and others around  the world who are there have respect for our President is refreshing,  to know that they know he is going to do what he says he is going to  do.

He is a strong leader. He is one who is willing to sit down and talk  to anyone. He is not afraid to sit down and talk to anyone. He has the  American people behind him. He has the American economy behind him.

Look at what he is doing with China right now, Mr. Speaker. We all  know that China is the threat that we are concerned about the most. We  also know that others around the world don't want to do business with  China because of the way they operate. They manipulate their currency.  They take advantage of their own people, and they don't respect the  environmental standards that we do.

What President Trump is doing is truly remarkable. He is resetting  the national stage, the global stage, for the United States of America  and for the American people. The tariff policy that he has implemented  is bringing people to the table.

People ask: Why are people wanting to talk to President Trump in the  Middle East as he is there visiting?

They see how much they want to get his ear. It is because he has  reset the table and said: The American people are going to be put  first, no longer are we going to continue to supplement, subsidize, and  let other countries take advantage of the American people.

So I applaud the President today.                                  The Budget

Mr. STUTZMAN. Mr. Speaker, I want to talk about our budget. We here  in Congress have a greater opportunity and a responsibility to be sure  that we move towards a balanced budget and reduce our debt and  deficits.

I would encourage all of us, Republican and Democrats, to realize we  are spending more money than what we make. Mr. Speaker, $1 trillion  goes towards our interest each year. That means $1 trillion doesn't go  towards helping the American people.

Also, we are in deficit spending. Trillions of dollars are going to  the national debt. I was first elected to Congress in 2010. The debt  was $9 trillion. In 2017, I left for a period of time, it  was $18 trillion. Now we are in 2025, and the national debt is $36  trillion of debt. That is going to be put on the backs not only of our  children and grandchildren, but it is going to be put on the backs of  us as Americans today.

Hardworking Americans are watching what we are doing. They are  working hard.

Are we working hard for them?

We need to come to the table with this reconciliation package. I want  everybody--we should all be at the table and realize that our  healthcare costs are out of control. President Trump is already showing  leadership on this. If the healthcare industry can't get its act  together and lower the costs, then we are going to have to address it.  It is no longer a free market in healthcare.

So I believe that we, as Congress, are going to have to start taking  measures to be sure that the cost isn't just continually passed on to  the American people and driving our debt further and further.

I would challenge the healthcare industry: Start doing it now; start  lowering the cost.

We know healthcare costs in this country are out of control. Medicaid  is the one that is now paying for it, and more and more people have  been forced on to Medicaid. This goes back to ObamaCare. We were told  by the Democrats that ObamaCare was going to fix our healthcare  problems. Look where we are at today, Mr. Speaker. It is worse today  than what it was back in 2008 and 2009 when ObamaCare was passed.

This is our opportunity to realize we have to cut spending in  Washington. Let's make sure we take care of our men and women in  uniform, but let's address the healthcare costs that are truly  subjugating our Federal budget.