Shared Property Agency Collaboration and Engagement Act of 2025


Mr. ONDER. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to speak today in support of my  bill, H.R. 3424, the Shared Property Agency Collaboration and  Engagement Act, or SPACE Act.

I am grateful to Congressman Chris Pappas for co-leading this  bipartisan effort to bring greater efficiency and accountability to  Federal Government real estate decisions.

Mr. Speaker, the GSA currently manages more than 8,300 owned and  leased assets, totaling over 363 million square feet. Yet, many of  these facilities are underused, duplicative, or poorly maintained.

Agencies often operate in silos. One agency leases new office space  while another has empty square footage in the same city. There is no  coordinated system to ensure that agencies share space or consolidate  operations when possible. That lack of communication leads to waste of  taxpayer dollars.

That is why the SPACE Act directs the Administrator of the GSA to  identify barriers to Federal agencies sharing space in federally owned  or leased buildings and to develop solutions to overcome those  barriers. This includes examining logistical, legal, regulatory, or  cultural hurdles that prevent our agencies from entering into shared- use agreements, even when that would save money and improve efficiency.

Once the Administrator completes this review, the GSA will report its  findings and recommendations to the relevant committees of jurisdiction  in both the House and the Senate.

This is a fiscally responsible, good government reform. It doesn't  grow government; it makes existing government work smarter. We  shouldn't be asking taxpayers to fund more buildings when the Federal  Government already has plenty of space that is being mismanaged or  ignored.

The SPACE Act promotes better use of what we already own by reducing  waste and protecting taxpayer dollars. This is not a new idea. The GAO,  the Public Buildings Reform Board, and numerous oversight bodies have  repeatedly recommended this kind of interagency coordination in order  to reduce costs and improve property management. The SPACE Act puts  those recommendations into action and establishes a clear process to  identifying opportunities and delivering results.

Again, I thank Congressman Pappas for working with me on this  legislation. This is the kind of commonsense, bipartisan approach that  shows that we can work together to fix real problems without adding  bureaucracy or spending more money.

The SPACE Act is about accountability and stewardship. It says to  Federal agencies: Before you ask for more, use what you already have  and work with your neighbors to do it.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  support H.R. 3424 and to help us to move this important reform forward  today.