Agricultural Risk Review Act of 2025


Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, H.R.  1713, the Agricultural Risk Review Act. My bill would make permanent  the existing policy enacted under the Consolidated Appropriations Act  for fiscal year 2024 and bolster our food security against foreign  adversaries.

H.R. 1713 would amend the Defense Production Act to add the Secretary  of Agriculture as a permanent member to the Committee on Foreign  Investment in the United States, or CFIUS, for any transactions related  to the purchase of farmland, biotechnology, or any other transaction  related to the agricultural industry.

My bill also includes the Safeguarding American Farms from Foreign  Influence Act authored last Congress by the former chairman of the  Financial Services Subcommittee on National Security, Mr. Luetkemeyer.

That section of the bill requires CFIUS to consider referrals from  USDA for reportable agricultural land transactions prior to the  interagency process that determines whether review of the transaction  is warranted.

These bills received unanimous support when considered separately,  and then when joined together were also reported favorably to the floor  in a unanimous vote. These are commonsense measures in line with  existing practices and current law.

CFIUS' mandate is to review transactions involving foreign  investments in the United States to ensure such transactions do not  threaten our national security. Agriculture is too important to our  country's security to be left out.

Our geopolitical adversaries are eager to exploit vulnerabilities in  critical supply chains, such as our food supply. The inclusion of the  Secretary of Agriculture in reviews of agricultural transactions is  just plain common sense.

Mr. Speaker, my bill has been bipartisan across administrations.  Former Agriculture Secretary Perdue under the first Trump  administration and former Agriculture Secretary Vilsack under the Biden  administration agreed that having a permanent seat at the table is  vital to the protection of our farmland and food supply.

I am also pleased to boast bipartisan support from the leadership of  the House Financial Services Committee. This bill has passed  unanimously out of the House Financial Services Committee for two  Congresses now, and it is past time for it to become law.

From Hawaii and Washington to New York and Florida to my home State  of Oklahoma, our Nation's agricultural land must be protected. That is  why a bipartisan group of Members from over 20 States across the  country have supported me in this effort.

I am grateful we took a positive step in the last Congress to include  this language in our annual appropriations process, but we must cement  this requirement in permanent law.

This legislation recognizes and supports the long-held understanding  that food supply is a critical component of U.S. national security. I  urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill.