Black Sunday


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701637/black-sunday


Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and remember the 91st  anniversary of a solemn day for the people of Oklahoma: Black Sunday.

While perhaps there are not many Americans who know about that  consequential Sunday on April 14, 1935, I want to take a few minutes to  tell you about it, Mr. Speaker, based on what my ancestors told me and  the hardships that came from that day.

I still remember my grandfather, Fred Lucas, telling me and my  cousins about Black Sunday. You see, Mr. Speaker, in Crawford,  Oklahoma, on  Sunday afternoon in those days in the 1930s, they would have a  community baseball game which would last after church through the  afternoon and into the early evening hours.

My grandfather described that particular Sunday because they had just  finished a multi-night hellfire and brimstone revival, and the  community was very fired up about the things going on in the world and  their responsibilities. Remember, this is 1935. It was tough times, but  if a community could afford a bat, a ball, and at least a glove for the  catcher, they could play baseball, the American pastime.

My grandfather described that afternoon. In the course of the  baseball game, this giant, dark cloud appeared in the northwest sky. It  rolled in, and the closer it got, literally, it was a miles-tall cold  front full of nothing but dust.

Finally, someone in the crowd said: Oh, my goodness, we have not  repented. We have not followed the advice, and the Lord is going to  take action against us.

The entire community scattered. They may have misgauged the dust  storm, but the dust was so bad that literally for the next few days,  the skies were dark, the Sun was clouded, and everyone stayed in to  avoid that.

Now, that dust storm did not just come across Oklahoma. It came  across the entire Plains. It worked its way across North America, and  it made it all the way to Washington, D.C., where ironically, that next  week, the House Agriculture Committee was in meetings to discuss how to  address the conservation disasters of the Dust Bowl of the 1930s.

It was so bad that it brought it to the attention of my colleagues,  our predecessors here in Congress, that not just were the Great Plains  suffering, but so was the rest of the country.

The House Agriculture Committee, the United States House, and the  United States Senate took action. Thirteen days later, on April 27,  they passed the act, and it was signed into law by the President that  created the Soil Conservation Service, what we now refer to as the  NRCS.

That great ecological tragedy was based on years and decades of bad  decisions. In 1935, Congress chose to address that and began the  process that we now think of as the NRCS, the EQIP programs, all the  things to protect the soil, the water, and the air quality in this  great Nation. It was an accomplishment.

Mr. Speaker, when I was sent by my neighbors to represent them in the  United States Congress to serve on that very same Ag Committee, I was  very focused on making sure that the mistakes that had gone back almost  a century would not be repeated and that we would do better going  forward. Every farm bill that we passed since I have been here, we have  strengthened those provisions in the conservation title. It is why we  have not had a Black Sunday again on the Great Plains of the United  States.

Mr. Speaker, we have to remember the ominous things in our past, not  just the good. Black Sunday was an ominous event that reflected decades  of bad policy, but it started the process of correcting that.

I am proud of the conservation accomplishments we have made. I am  proud that my children, my grandchildren, and I have never seen  something like my grandfather, Fred Lucas, described.

Let's stay at the forefront of conservation. Let's continue to  protect our water, our soil, our air; and let's move this country  forward.