Commercial Remote Sensing Amendment Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688972/commercial-remote-sensing-amendment-act-of-2025


Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I have to acknowledge this: I can't think of  a better set of hands to have the chairmanship of this critically  important committee of Science, Space, and Technology in than Chairman  Babin and Ranking Member Lofgren and my good friend, the gentlewoman  from Michigan (Ms. Stevens) over there. The committee that the chairman  presides over represents the future of this great country. I always  tell people that the Science, Space, and Technology Committee is not  just about yesterday or tomorrow, but it is 5 years, it is 50 years, it  is 250 years into the future, and that is just an amazing thing.

Today, I rise in support of H.R. 1325, the Commercial Remote Sensing  Act. I have introduced this bipartisan legislation in the past two  Congresses, and on both occasions, the measures passed the House by  voice vote. I reintroduced the bill this Congress along with my  colleague and friend, the ranking member of the Science, Space, and  Technology Committee, Ms. Lofgren.

It updates the reporting requirements for NOAA's Office of Commercial  Remote Sensing Regulatory Affairs so that Congress can monitor how  regulations are impacting the growth and improvement of the commercial  remote sensing industry.

Congress first authorized the licensing and regulation of commercial  remote sensing space systems in 1992. Since then, the industry has  become a crucial resource in a number of industries including  agriculture, finance, trade, and energy.

Remote sensing uses data collected from satellites to produce images  of Earth. This imagery and data has a number of important applications.  It can allow farmers to improve crop production by more efficiently  applying water and fertilizer. It can inform the future commodity  prices by actively monitoring weather and crop health.

It can also improve our ability to prepare for and respond to natural  disasters by instructing flood plain mapping, tornado tracking, and  drought monitoring, topics that are all front-of-mind for all  Americans, but especially those in my home State of Oklahoma.

Commercial remote sensing can also be helpful in humanitarian relief  efforts and monitoring treaty compliance, among other national security  and foreign affairs applications.

This technology provides us with critical information for a number of  fields. As the industry is constantly evolving and growing, we must  make sure that Congress is receiving timely and comprehensive reports  to accurately evaluate how regulations are affecting the state of the  industry.

The Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act of 2015 established a  reporting requirement from the Department of Commerce on the status of  commercial remote sensing licensing and regulation. That requirement  expired in 2020.

H.R. 1325 will reinstate the reporting requirement and keep Congress  informed of agency actions, their impact on licensees, and the state of  the commercial remote sensing industry.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1325 is a simple, bipartisan bill that will help  ensure that the United States remains the global leader in the  commercial remote sensing industry.

I thank Ranking Member Lofgren for joining me in advancing this  legislation, and I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill.