-9999


Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, nestled in the far northeast corner of  Alaska is one of the wildest and most untouched places left in North  America: The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.

I have been blessed to see this refuge with my own eyes. I have seen  its towering peaks; I have seen the critical habitat on the Coastal  Plain where caribou drop their calves; and I have seen its polar bears.

Over the course of a year in the Arctic Refuge, you might also see  one of the last great spectacles of migrating caribou, dueling musk ox  straight out of the Pleistocene, or rare spectacled eiders nesting on  the Coastal Plain.

In fact, the Arctic Refuge is home to hundreds of iconic wildlife  species, including 200 species of birds that have called this landscape  home since long before humans stepped on this continent.

Simply put, the Arctic Refuge is the crown jewel of the American  National Wildlife Refuge System, and it has been ever since it was set  aside in 1960 by President Eisenhower to protect its wildlife and  habitat values.

But that is only part of its story.

The Arctic Refuge is also deeply connected to the traditions and  daily life of the people who have lived there for thousands of years-- longer than this building, this city, this country have existed-- because the refuge is not just land.

For wildlife, it is essential habitat. For many people who live there  and are sustained by its caribou, this place is literally their grocery  store. It is not just a reminder of the past, it is hope for the  future. But that future is at stake.

The Arctic Refuge is under threat from the Trump administration's  relentless attacks on public lands, attacks that put so-called energy  dominance above every other use, every other value.

Today, the Senate will vote on a congressional resolution of  disapproval to overturn the management plan for the Arctic Refuge. And  instead of a targeted approached that emphasizes things like  subsistence hunting, wildlife conservation, and a focus on Tribal  consultation, a vote for this resolution will--redundantly--open up the  entire Coastal Plain of the refuge to be leased for oil drilling  without local input.

I say ``redundantly'' because the Trump administration has already  overturned this management plan. The Republicans in Congress have  already  passed legislation requiring this area--a national wildlife refuge-- requiring it to be drilled for oil, despite a complete lack of interest  by legitimate industry players.

Now, we could be discussing ways to lower electricity costs, which  are spiraling out of control or doing something about the skyrocketing  healthcare costs in this country right now. But instead, we are talking  about industrial oil and gas development in the beating heart of our  greatest wildlife refuge, literally developing the place where the  porcupine caribou herd drops their calves every year.

Now, when Congress first debated whether to allow oil development in  the Arctic, America's energy landscape looked very different. We were  importing significant amounts of oil, much of it from our political  adversaries. Oil prices were rising, and U.S. energy could not meet  demand.

Yet, even in that context, in those challenging years, for decades  and across both political parties, Congress recognized the  irreplaceable, ecological, and cultural importance of the Arctic  Refuge.

Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle understood that some places are  sacred, some places are simply too unique and important to sacrifice,  and together they kept these lands closed to industrial development.

In fact, it was not until 2017 that a Republican majority reversed  that longstanding commitment and opened this refuge to exploitation.  They turned their backs on the American people who own this refuge and  embraced the development-anywhere-and-at-any-cost approach, doing so  despite the fact that the United States was already experiencing record  oil production and was on its way to being a net energy exporter.

And now they have done it again in their ``Big Bad Bill.'' But this  time they want more and more. To what end? We know this hasn't worked  before. We know previous efforts to offer leases here have actually  been a failure.

Now, they told us that development of the Arctic Refuge would bring  in a billion--billion with a ``b''--a billion dollars to the Treasury  to pay off the tax cuts that were in the 2017 bill for billionaires.  But as we all remember, that came up a little short. In fact, it came  up $993 million short to be exact. And it is because development in the  refuge is so complicated and so expensive.

It is costly in time. Seasons are short. Days can be even shorter.  There is not a lot of time to break new ground. There are no roads, no  infrastructure even remotely close to this part of the Coastal Plain.

That is why it is estimated that oil prices would have to be at least  $75 a barrel just to break even on oil from the refuge. Compare that to  today's average cost for a barrel, which is hovering around $60.  Legitimate investors knew these pitfalls.

In 2023, the six largest banks in the United States, the five largest  banks in Canada, and 29 other international banks all issued policies  against financing drilling in the Arctic Refuge. The banks, insurers,  too, followed suit, which is why the second justification that they are  using to do this just doesn't make sense--that producing oil in the  refuge will make gas cheaper for everyday Americans.

You can see from the map that this is not remotely true. If  construction and drilling costs are so high that a barrel of oil has to  be almost $20 more expensive just to break even, what do you think that  does to the prices at the gas station when you fill up your car? It  doesn't mean cheaper gas. The last thing that they will tell you is  that we have to drill everywhere in America because we are ``in an  energy emergency.'' But the truth is, the only energy crisis in America  is the one that President Trump has created himself.

It is the skyrocketing utility bills that Americans are facing  because of the Republicans' relentless attacks on affordable American- made clean energy.

Opening precious wilderness to industrial development is not going to  fix that, especially when it is to drill for oil that costs so much to  produce. Drilling in the Arctic Refuge is not going to make energy more  affordable, and it seems to me, as I stand up here to speak about yet  another attack on our public lands, that no place is sacred from this  extract-at-all-costs playbook--not even wildlife refuges.

So what is next? Are we going to develop geothermal energy in  Yellowstone? Maybe more uranium mining in the Grand Canyon. I think  Teddy Roosevelt must be tired from rolling over in his grave.

The bottom line is that the Arctic Refuge is too unique, too globally  important to develop. It is a wildlife refuge for a reason.

Now, proponents love to hide the fact that this is, in fact, a  national wildlife refuge. They call it all kinds of things so that they  don't have to use the phrase ``wildlife refuge.'' They will call it the  1002 area. They will call it ANWR. It sounds like someplace in the  Middle East that you would expect oil and gas production.

They don't want us to pay attention to how crazy a prospect  developing one of our last remaining untouched landscapes is.

The Arctic Refuge provides subsistence fish and game for people who  live in the region. It serves as a seasonal home to species you might  see in your own State, species like Arctic terns and all sorts of  waterfowl. And it is a remarkable, vast, and breathtaking wilderness  that should inspire us to be better stewards of our wildlife heritage.

The Arctic Refuge is the crown jewel of our National Wildlife Refuge  System, and it belongs to every single American and deserves our  protection.

So I would urge colleagues to vote no on the CRA today.