Congressman Neguse's Coronavirus Community Relief Act Gains Broad Support in the House and Senate


Congressman Joe Neguse has gained broad and bipartisan support for his legislation to provide $250 billion in local stabilization funds for cities and counties with populations under 500,000. This week, U.S. Senator Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) announced that he will introduce companion legislation in the Senate to Neguse's Coronavirus Community Relief Act. Since introduction Neguse's legislation has gained the support of 111 U.S. Members of Congress, and is bipartisan with the support of Congressman Scott Tipton. 

 "From Boulder and Fort Collins to Eagle County, communities across our district, and communities across the country are struggling with the impacts of the COVID-19 outbreak," said Congressman Joe Neguse. "Like their larger neighbors, these smaller counties, cities, and towns have faced enormous costs while responding to the COVID-19 pandemic. These costs include deploying timely public service announcements to keep Americans informed, rapidly activating emergency operations, readying employees for telework to keep services running, and more. We must ensure each of our communities receive direct stabilization funds to address the outbreak and recover when this public health emergency has passed."

"Small and rural communities across the nation either will face, or have already faced, enormous economic burdens and costs in an effort to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. It is crucial that we provide the same direct emergency assurances to smaller towns, counties, and cities and grant them the same stability that we are providing our larger metropolitan areas," said Senator Heinrich, lead sponsor the legislation in the Senate. "I am proud to lead this effort in the Senate to expand upon the Coronavirus Relief Fund that we secured in the CARES Act and open up this critical funding so that no community is left behind, especially in New Mexico."

The Coronavirus Community Relief Act would ensure that all communities receive the direct relief they need to continue the COVID-19 pandemic fight and allow additional flexibility on how state and local governments could use funds to mitigate the economic crisis caused by COVID-19.

Under the Coronavirus Community Relief Act, funds disbursed to state and local governments with a population under 500,000 could use the funds for costs including but not limited to lost revenue, reimbursement for expenses already incurred, and increases in costs reasonably believed to have been caused or as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

In the House, the bill is co-lead by Assistant Speaker Ben Ray Luján, Andy Levin and Tom Malinowski and cosponsored by Representatives Nanette Barragan, Joyce Beatty, Ami Bera, Earl Blumenauer, Suzanne Bonamici, Anthony Brown, Julia Brownley, G.K. Butterfield, Salud Carbajal, Kathy Castor, Matt Cartwright, Judy Chu, David Cicilline, Gilbert Cisneros, Jr., Katherine Clark, Wm. Lacy Clay, Emanuel Cleaver, TJ Cox, Angie Craig, Jason Crow, Henry Cuellar, Madeleine Dean, Peter Defazio, Rosa DeLauro, Suzan Delbene, Antonio Delgado, Ted Deutch, Mike Doyle, Veronica Escobar, Abby Finkenauer, Lois Frankel, Frederica S. Wilson, Tulsi Gabbard, Ruben Gallego, Sylvia R. Garica, Vicente Gonzalez, Josh Gottheimer, Raul M. Grijalva, Deb Haaland, Josh Harder, Alcee Hastings, Jahana Hayes, Kendra Horn, Steven Horsford, Jared Huffman, Pramila Jayapal, Hank Johnson, Marcy Kaptur, Bill Keating, Joe Kennedy, Ro Khanna, Dan Kildee, Derek Kilmer, Ann McLane Kuster, John B. Larson, Brenda Lawrence, Barbara Lee, Susie Lee, Ted Lieu, Dave Loebsack, Alan Lowenthal, Elaine Luria, Lucy McBath, Betty McCollum, Donald McEachin, James P. McGovern, Joseph D. Morelle, Debbie Mucarsel-Powell, Grace Napolitano, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Jimmy Panetta, Ed Perlmutter, Dean Phillips, Chellie Pingree, Mark Pocan, Katie Porter, Ayanna Pressley, David Price, Jamie Raskin, Harley Rouda, Bobby L. Rush, Tim Ryan, Jan Schakowsky, Brad Schneider, Kim Schrier, David Scott, Donna Shalala, Mike Sherrill, Albio Sires, Elissa Slotkin, Adam Smith, Darren Soto, Abigail Spanberger, Jackie Speier, Greg Stanton, Haley Stevens, Mark Takano, Mike Thompson, Scott Tipton, Rashida Tlaib, Xochitl Torres Small, David Trone, Lauren Underwood, Marc Veasey, Peter Welch, Jennifer Wexton, Susan Wild.

In the Senate, the bill is cosponsored by Senators Doug Jones (D-Ala.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), and Kamala Harris (D-Calif.).