H.J. Res. 140


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701723/hj-res-140


Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, I want to thank my colleague from  Minnesota for her endless advocacy for this special place, one of  America's true gems.

I do hope to make it to the Boundary Waters this summer. Last July, I  was supposed to be in the Boundary Waters. I had long planned a trip  with my family. It was to be our first time exploring the Boundary  Waters.

My family made it; I did not. My wife Julie and my sons Micah and  Carter had an incredible time that they will always remember. They  paddled their canoes across lakes. They portaged from lake to lake.  They slept under a blanket of stars that most people in Washington, DC,  could never imagine because they can't see it.

I was supposed to be part of that trip. I was stuck here, fighting to  strip out the public land selloff language from the Republican budget  bill. They sent me lots of pictures afterwards, pictures of the  northern pike here that my son caught--my son Micah.

My wife Julie was able to spend some really quality wilderness time  with both of our sons before they went off to their respective colleges  for the year. She basically told me that they ate more food on this  trip than most rugby teams.

Like my family, millions--literally millions--of Americans have  hunted and fished and paddled and traversed the Boundary Waters. In  fact, it has an almost religious connotation among sportsmen in  particular.

It is somewhat amazing to me to see a Republican Party that used to  have such fidelity to hunters and anglers basically roll all of the  organizations that my colleague from Minnesota rattled off which said  this is not the right place for this--organizations like Pheasants  Forever, Backcountry Hunters & Anglers, and Theodore Roosevelt  Conservation Partnership and on and on and on--but that is where we are  today.

You know, stories from the Boundary Waters, stories of stalking  whitetail and grouse are passed down from generation to generation in  the Midwest. Legendary stories of lake trout and northern pike and  walleye abound, sometimes with the fish actually getting bigger with  each telling of the story. The water, as the Senator from Minnesota,  Senator Smith, said, is some of the cleanest you will find anywhere in  the lower 48. It is a bucket-list, once-in-a-lifetime designation for  so many public land owners. And that is precisely what is at risk with  this vote--one of our Nation's true crown jewels.

So let's back up a little bit for folks who don't have firsthand  knowledge of what the Boundary Waters is, where it is, and do a little  explaining.

The Boundary Waters is one of the most incredible intact wilderness  landscapes left in our Nation. It is an absolute tapestry of lakes and  streams, consisting of well over 1,000 individual lakes, 2,000  designated campsites, and hundreds of miles of rivers and streams. The  Boundary Waters contains the largest contiguous landscape of uncut  forest remaining in the Eastern United States.

The 3 million-acre Superior National Forest in which the Boundary  Waters  sits contains fully 20 percent of all the freshwater in the entire  National Forest System--an incredible figure.

In fact, this wilderness was so important that Teddy Roosevelt  himself, President Roosevelt, set it aside as part of the Superior  National Forest all the way back in 1909. Almost half a century later,  Congress voted overwhelmingly to include the Boundary Waters as one of  the original units of the National Wilderness System.

In many ways, Minnesotans rely on the Boundary Waters to support  their local economy. Every year, the Boundary Waters Canoe Area  Wilderness draws more visitors--more visitors--than any other  wilderness area in the entire Nation. This recreation supports 17,000  Minnesotan jobs, contributes roughly $1 billion in annual sales, and  preserves and shares, more importantly, a way of life--a way of life  that has been passed down from generation to generation.

This is a place, this is an area that is no stranger to threats. In  addition to containing so many of the natural resources that come with  the wilderness, the area also contains copper.

I should say, you know, for one, there is a long history of iron  mining in this area. I grew up the son of someone who worked for  Anaconda Copper, the grandson of somebody who was a gold miner. But I  want to talk a little bit about the difference between some of these  Iron Range mines that mine ore that is just chemically inert. It is  chemically stable.

When you mine for iron, you are basically mining iron oxide. You are  mining rust, and then you are turning that back into iron. This is not  that kind of mine. This is a copper sulfide mine, and the company that  wants to mine here is called Twin Metals. And that sounds so  Minnesotan. I think they might have picked it to sound Minnesotan. It  is actually a subsidiary of a Chilean mining company called  Antofagasta.

They want to build this copper-nickel mine less than a mile upstream  from the Boundary Waters on a spit of land between two waterways.

Let me explain a little bit about what it looks like to mine copper  in a place like Boundary Waters, particularly when you are mining  copper sulfide ore. The company will have to dig some very deep shafts  to reach these very deep ore bodies. They will then remove many  millions of tons for processing, millions and millions of tons of  copper sulfide ore. After they remove what copper and nickel are  economically recoverable in that ore, they will dump as much as 100  million tons of waste rock and low-grade ore on the site, never to be  removed.

Now, deep underground, the copper is locked up in this ore rich in  sulfur, but that ore has never been exposed to water. It has never been  exposed to oxygen or air. And when you bring it to the surface and you  let it sit out in a pile and you expose it to air and water, oxygen  bonds with that sulfur, and when you bond oxygen to sulfur, you get  sulfuric acid. Sulfuric acid is one of the hardest waste products you  can imagine to try to control.

The waste rock that has been dumped on the site will naturally form  sulfuric acid. That acid will then dissolve toxic heavy metals present  in the waste rock, and then you have this toxic stew of heavy metals  along with sulfuric acid.

Now, there is no plan to remove all this waste from the mine site, so  it is basically a ticking time bomb of acid and heavy metals.

Studies by the EPA say that the odds of sulfuric acid polluting the  Boundary Waters under this scenario are highly likely. And I will do  you one better: It has a perfect track record of polluting water. That  is according to the peer-reviewed study on sulfide-ore copper mining  that drove the 2023 decision to ban mining in the area. It is also my  personal experience as a former natural resources trustee who had to  negotiate with copper companies that polluted water with this same  technology.

So it is not just highly likely; it is guaranteed. Sulfide mining in  the Rainy River watershed will cause certain irreversible pollution to  the Boundary Waters. Think again about eating those fish that you  caught or drinking that water you dipped from the middle of the lake,  because the thing about sulfuric acid poisoning is it is invisible. You  can't see it, but it makes water unsafe to drink.

Sulfuric acid also lowers the pH level of water, changing entire  ecosystems. At high levels, fish that rely on healthy water to live  literally experience respiratory failure in water poisoned by sulfuric  acid. They literally drown to death. They will not be able to reproduce  normally. Their food sources will be tainted, meaning entire fish  populations of lake trout and smallmouth bass will be at risk.

The sulfuric acid produced by this mine will leach heavy metals like  lead, mercury, or copper into that same water. That will then  accumulate in the bodies of fish and wildlife that consume that water.  And when people eat meat and fish with heavy metals, they accumulate in  our bodies too.

This isn't a myth; it is a virtually guaranteed outcome because we  know that plans for the mine include storing over 100 million tons of  toxic waste rock on the edge of the wilderness upstream of the Boundary  Waters. Think about how much that is. Let's visualize how much waste  rock we are talking about being dumped and never removed from this mine  site. A hundred million tons is like 740,000 Boeing 777 airplanes. It  is twice the mass of all the living people on Earth. It is 500 times  the weight of the Empire State Building sitting there, generating toxic  acid. It is the amount of toxic waste that Antofagasta--a foreign  mining company that plans to sell the copper to foreign countries-- plans to store on the edge of the largest patch of wild rivers and  forests in our country, the place that has 20 percent of all the  freshwater in our National Forest System.

The damage is really unthinkable, but it is also irreversible because  currently we don't have any technology available that is capable of  reversing sulfuric acid contamination.

This is bad. It is so bad that in 2016, even before there was a  mineral withdrawal, the Obama administration canceled the mine's lease.  And in 2023, after years of review and overwhelming public support, a  20-year mineral withdrawal was established in the Rainy River  watershed, home to the Boundary Waters. That decision reflects common  sense. Some places are too valuable to gamble with.

With today's technology, if it is a gamble, why not wait 30 years  when maybe that technology is a sure bet? But it is not a sure bet  today.

That decision also reflected the voices of the American people  because the assessment that led to the mineral withdrawal was completed  by the U.S. Forest Service in 2022, and it included hundreds of  thousands of public comments--675,000 public comments--over 95 percent  of which favored the withdrawal area being withdrawn from nonferrous  mining, sulfide mining.

Today, 70 percent of Minnesotans oppose mining in the Boundary  Waters. Instead of listening to Minnesotans and Americans from all over  the country who care about this place, Republicans today are using an  unprecedented, blunt-force legislative method that includes zero public  comment--no comment period--to make decisions about our public lands  without any input from the people to whom those lands actually belong.

We can't talk about the Boundary Waters without also speaking of  belonging and Tribal communities. Three Tribes--the Bois Forte Band,  the Fond du Lac Band, and the Grand Portage Band of Chippewa--have  extensive treaty rights in Northeastern Minnesota. These are rights to  do things like hunt and fish and gather wild rice. These rights are  guaranteed to them by the 1854 Treaty of La Pointe and have been  reaffirmed by Federal courts over and over again. By overturning the  public land order with a CRA resolution, Senate Republicans will not  only cut Tribes out of the conversation, but they disrespect the Tribal  treaty rights and directly risk those Tribes' guaranteed access to  their traditional way of life and subsistence use of this place.

So since my Republican colleagues are refusing to include  constituents' voices in this process, I will bring a few of those from  New Mexico to the floor here today.

Dr. Brown, from Santa Fe, wrote me in urging that we oppose this  vote. He said:

I've canoed the Boundary Waters many times and can attest       to its uniqueness . . . with some of the purest water in the       U.S., these lakes are visited and admired by thousands of       Americans . . . Pollution of the       Boundary Waters would be a tragedy for the nation and the       world.

Dr. Merriman, from Albuquerque, said:

Please vote no on HJ Res 140. Some things are worth more       than money.

Lee, from Los Alamos, wrote:

I am writing to ask you to oppose H.J. Res 140 . . . The       [Boundary Waters Canoe Area] is a national treasure--not just       for Minnesotans but for me and other New Mexicans as well.

From Naima in Santa Fe:

This is a hideous giveaway to corporate profiteers and       cannot stand. Please vote NO.

From Dr. Bagne in Silver City:

Any short-term economic gains would clearly not outweigh       the long-term risks to the ecosystem and water supplies.       Although it is in Minnesota, many similar public lands in New       Mexico would be threatened by . . . relaxing mining rules.       Please oppose.

Judy, from Albuquerque, wrote:

I am aghast . . . Please do all that you can to stop this       giveaway of our wonderful public lands. This happened despite       all the thousands of citizen signatures against the vote.

From Roxane in Rio Rancho:

Please vote against reversing the ban on mining . . . I am       very concerned that the Trump Administration is flying under       the radar and doing a lot of damage that will be difficult,       or even impossible, to reverse.

From Amy in Albuquerque:

Please do not allow this to happen. [The Boundary Waters]       belong to all Americans, not to a Chilean mining company with       contracts to [process ore in] China.

Their voices matter because the Boundary Waters are our public  lands--all of ours. President Teddy Roosevelt, who had the incredible  foresight to protect this beautiful place, had it right when he said  that we ``should see to it that they are preserved for [our] children  and [our] children's children forever, with their majestic beauty all  unmarred.''

The way I look at public lands is that they are the closest, most  tangible thing we have to being able to represent true Jeffersonian  democracy.

They are the thing, as we saw last June, that often unites us across  the political spectrum. If you take these public lands away, you tear  away the places where we are the most free. This is an issue of our  heritage, and it is an issue of our inheritance.

It is an issue for Minnesota, but it is not just an issue for  Minnesota--it is an issue for our Nation. It is about something bigger.  It is a test of whether our public lands--as a friend of mine likes to  say--our public lands that are the anvil upon which we have forged our  collective identity.

Can that be stripped from us? Can it be stripped of their  protections?

You know, I am going to summarize this one more time. We are going to  allow a foreign mining company to take our minerals, to ship those  minerals to China for processing, and then to sell those back to us  with a tariff on top.

Like, how is that ``America First''? It is not. And to risk this  globally, incredible rare asset that is the Boundary Waters for that,  boy, that just seems really shortsighted to me.

I would urge every one of my colleagues--I would urge you--to vote no  on this Congressional Review Act resolution.