Haaland, Heinrich, Cole Introduce Bill to Unleash Emergency Access to Broadband Internet in Indian Country


Today, Co-Chairs of the Congressional Native American Caucus Deb Haaland (NM-01) and Tom Cole (Okla.-04) and U.S. Senator Martin Heinrich announced the introduction of a bill to unleash emergency access to broadband internet in Indian Country. The COVID-19 DISASTER in Indian Country Act will direct the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to grant Indian tribes emergency special temporary authority of available spectrum on tribal lands so they can immediately deploy broadband networks on tribal lands during this pandemic. The bill has more than 200 endorsements from across the country, including more than 100 Tribe and Native Hawaiian communities. "Every community deserves access to emergency services and economic relief during this crisis, but for decades Indian Country has been left behind creating connectivity barriers that lead to elders not having access to telehealth services, children not being able to login for their lessons, and workers unable apply for unemployment benefits. That's why we're introducing this unprecedented bill that would unleash broadband internet in Indian Country during this pandemic," said Congressional Native American Caucus Co-Chair Haaland. "The federal government's lack of investment and failure to ensure adequate broadband access in Indian Country created an uneven playing field long before this public health crisis. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, internet access is vital for students to continue their education, connecting patients with tele-health services, and linking individuals with emergency federal assistance and resources. I am proud to lead the COVID-19 DISASTER in Indian Country Act in the Senate, and I will continue to fight for long-term federal investments in broadband infrastructure in Indian Country to ensure all tribes have access to the internet," said U.S. Senator Heinrich.  "Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, tribes are in need of access to broadband now more than ever," said Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus Cole. "When Indian Country has access to broadband, they have access to better healthcare, education and much more. I am proud to introduce this historic bill." The disproportional impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in Indian Country, the need for broadband and other wireless services couldn't be more apparent. Because Tribes have historically lacked access to spectrum to deploy broadband networks on reservations, 1.5 million people living on tribal lands have been left without basic access to healthcare, public safety, and educational services. This bill will provide the first opportunity for tribes to have access to wireless networks over their lands to adequately deploy wireless services for the first time in history. It also designates $300 million for tribal broadband deployment, repairs, and technical assistance through the USDA to immediately deploy networks. Specifically, the COVID-19 DISASTER in Indian Country Act will deploy wireless networks in Indian Country by:Granting Tribes emergency temporary authority of available spectrum support wireless networks on tribal landsCreating new emergency COVID-19 tribal funding through the USDA's Community Facility Grant Program:$297,500,00 for immediate deployment of tribal broadband networks -- including repairs to existing damaged infrastructure and backhaul costs; and$3,000,000 for technical assistance and training for immediate tribal broadband deploymentSetting new 10-day FCC timeline to designate emergency spectrum authority within 10 days of receiving requestExtending Emergency Special Temporary Authority of spectrum on tribal lands to operate for at least 6 months

The bill is cosponsored by U.S. Reps. Ed Case (Hawaii-01), Ruben Gallego (Ariz.-07), Derek Kilmer (Wash.-06), Kendra Horn (Okla.-05), Raúl M. Grijalva (Ariz.-03), Betty McCollum (Minn.-04), Ted W. Lieu (Calif.-33), Jared Huffman (Calif.-02), Lucille Roybal-Allard (Calif.-40), Earl Blumenauer (Ore.-03), Pramila Jayapal (Wash.-07) Suzan DelBene (Wash.-01), Darren Soto (Flor.-09). U.S. Senator Heinrich is leading the companion bill in the U.S. Senate.

Tribes, tribal leaders, tribal organizations, teachers, students, experts and advocates voiced support for the COVID-19 DISASTER in Indian Country Act.