Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, and all of my colleagues in the Senate,  throughout this impeachment trial, I thought a lot about what this  country stands for. For me, as the son of an immigrant whose family  came to the United States from Germany in the 1930s, America stands as  a beacon of liberty, equal justice, and democracy. 

  We are a nation forged by a revolution against a monarchy and its  absolute power. We are a nation founded by the ratification of the most  radically democratic document in history, the Constitution of the  United States of America. 

  Under the Constitution, we are governed not by monarchs--who act with  impunity and without accountability--but by elected officers who answer  to, and work for, ``We the People.'' 

  Generations of Americans have struggled and sacrificed their lives to  defend that audacious vision. The Senate has a duty and a moral  responsibility to uphold that vision. 

  Over the last 2 weeks, I fear that the Senate has failed in that  duty. I am deeply disappointed that nearly all of my Republican  colleagues refused to allow for the kind of witness testimony and  documentary evidence that any legitimate trial would include. You  cannot conduct a fair trial without witnesses. 

  In my view, you also can't have a legitimate acquittal without a fair  trial; that the Senate refused to shed more light on the facts is truly  astonishing. Despite this, the facts as we know them are clear and  plain. President Trump pressured the Government of Ukraine, an American  ally, not for our national security interests but for his own selfish  and corrupt political interests. When he was caught, he sought to cover  it up by suppressing documents and preventing witnesses from testifying  before Congress and the American people. 

  The President's defense team had every opportunity to present us with  evidence that would explain his actions or give us reason to doubt this  clear pattern of fact. Instead, they shifted their defense away from  the damning facts and embraced an extreme legal philosophy that would  allow any President to abuse their power and ignore the law. 

  This dangerous argument is not new. It was used by President Richard  Nixon when he said: ``Well, when the president does it, that means it  is not illegal.'' 

  President Nixon also strayed far from his duties to our Nation for  his own personal and political gain. It was only after courageous  Members of the U.S. Senate, in his own political party, put their  country first and stood up to him that President Nixon finally  resigned. 

  We are now in yet another time when our Chief Executive has failed  us, and our Nation requires more leadership and conscience from the  U.S. Senate. Unfortunately, my Republican colleagues are unwilling to  deliver that kind of moral leadership. 

  President Donald Trump has proven to be unfit for the office he  occupies. He abused his powers and continues to engage in a coverup. He  presents a clear and present danger to our national security and, more  fundamentally, to our democracy itself. 

  That is why my conscience and my duty to defend our Constitution  compel me to vote to convict Donald Trump. I  hope the rest of you will join in this vote, but I am not naive. I  understand how President Trump operates. I know how ugly it can become  if you dare to challenge him. But your fear of this bully cannot  outweigh your duty to the American people. Your fear cannot blind you  to how you will be viewed by history. What you should really fear is  what will happen when there are no limits on any President, even when  he is risking our national security and our foreign alliances to  illegitimately maintain his grip on power. 

  What we should all fear is what President Trump will do next if the  Senate does not hold him accountable for the clear abuses of power he  has already committed. This is the same President who praises dictators  and despots and jeopardizes our international alliances. This is the  same President who stole billions of dollars from military construction  funds to pay for his monument to division and racism. This is the same  President who is more focused on lobbing insults and spreading Russian  conspiracy theories on Twitter than he is on his own intelligence  briefings.  

  Let me just say that I pay close attention to the intelligence that I  am allowed to see, and from my seat on both the Armed Services and  Intelligence Committees, I am acutely aware of the threats that our  Nation faces. They include an emboldened North Korea, the Iranian  regime, and terrorist organizations across several continents. 

  Russia and China are acting aggressively to assert their  authoritarian influence and provoke American interests and our allies,  including the Ukraine. Finally, with the 2020 Presidential election  mere months away, Russia is once again targeting our election systems  and manipulating our democratic discourse. 

  Right now, patriotic Americans working in the State Department, for  our intelligence agencies, and serving in the military are defending us  from those very threats. These Americans pledge to obey the orders of  their Commander in Chief. They trust that their Commander in Chief's  loyalty and sole focus is squarely on the best interests of the United  States of America. I don't say this lightly: President Trump has  betrayed that trust. He promised us that he would put America first.  Instead, he put himself first. 

  Throughout our history, the defense of our Nation has depended on the  leadership of men whose names we now remember when we visit their  memorials, names like Lincoln and Washington and Roosevelt. These men  all swore the same oath that President Trump did when they assumed our  Nation's most powerful office. Our Presidents swear to ``faithfully  execute the Office of President of the United States'' and to  ``preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United  States.'' President Trump has violated that oath. 

  So I will ask us once again, what does America stand for? In  considering that question, I think of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.--the  only man who did not serve as President whom we recognize with a  memorial on our National Mall. More than 50 years after his  assassination, Dr. King's life's work to make our Nation more fully  live up to our founding principles still resonates. These are the same  principles that compelled my father's family to come to this country:  liberty, equal justice, democracy. 

  While fighting for those principles, Dr. King wrote in his letter  from a Birmingham jail: ``The ultimate measure of a man is not where he  stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands in  times of challenge and controversy.'' My colleagues, this is one of  those times. 

  Two years after writing the Birmingham Jail letter, Dr. King led  thousands on a 5-day, 54-mile march from Selma to Montgomery for our  fundamental American right: the right to vote in free and fair  elections. Remember, that right is what President Trump has threatened  by inviting foreign interference in our elections. Upon reaching the  steps of the Alabama State Capitol, Dr. King proclaimed: ``We must come  to see that the end we seek is a society at peace with itself, a  society that can live with its conscience.'' I sincerely hope that  those of us in this body can keep seeking that society, that America. 

  Before I finish, I also want to address Americans who have watched  this trial unfold and are rightly disappointed by the coverup that it  has become. I would urge you to remember what Dr. King said about  accepting finite disappointment but never losing infinite hope. Despite  what the Senate is about to do and the danger I fear it will bring  about, I will never lose hope in what America stands for because we the  people--not any King or dictator--still hold immense power in this  Nation, and it is up to all of us now to wield that power. 

  I yield back. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT