Condemning the Attacks on Minnesota Lawmakers in Brooklyn Park and Champlin, Minnesota, and Calling for Unity and the Rejection of Political Violence in Minnesota and Across the United States


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692853/condemning-the-attacks-on-minnesota-lawmakers-in-brooklyn-park-and-champlin-minnesota-and-calling-for-unity-and-the-rejection-of-political-violence-in-minnesota-and-across-the-united-states


Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Kentucky for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, a little over a week ago, America witnessed a horrific  act of political violence that goes against everything the United  States stands for.

On June 14, a deranged murderer disguised himself as a police officer  to gain entry into the home of Minnesota State Senator John Hoffman. He  shot the senator and his wife, Yvette, a combined total of 17 times as  Yvette shielded her daughter, Hope, who then called 911.

Thankfully, Yvette Hoffman has been released from the hospital while  John remains in serious but stable condition. He remains in our  prayers.

The killer, still disguised as a law enforcement officer, then  stopped at the homes of two other Minnesota lawmakers, one whom was  fortunately not home, and the other who was perhaps saved by a timely  law enforcement intervention.

He later arrived at the home of Minnesota State House Speaker Emerita  Melissa Hortman and assassinated her and her husband, Mark Hortman.

Law enforcement then led a 2-day manhunt before capturing the killer  and finding a list of more than 45 lawmakers and potential targets.

As someone who has experienced political violence firsthand, this  brings back a lot of emotions. The man who shot me on the ball field  that day also had a list of lawmakers. I am grateful for the actions of  the brave law enforcement officers who ran toward the danger and saved  lives on the ball field that day and saved no doubt many lives in  Minnesota on that day just a few days ago.

This was a methodically planned attack on the people's right to be  governed by their duly-elected Representatives and should be  universally condemned, Mr. Speaker.

America's differences must be resolved through debate and democracy,  not through violence.

The resolution we are voting on today denounces these disturbing and  anti-American attacks and mourns the tragic loss of Melissa and Mark  Hortman.

H. Res. 519, introduced by the gentlewoman from Minnesota (Ms.  Morrison), unequivocally condemns the horrific attacks on Minnesota  lawmakers and their families in Brooklyn Park and Champlin, Minnesota,  and calls for the rejection of political violence in Minnesota and  throughout the United States.

Political violence will never have a place in America. Lawmakers from  both sides of the aisle must unite to reject political violence in all  forms across the country.

Melissa Hortman was a dedicated public servant, and we join Minnesota  and the Nation in honoring her life and the life of her husband, Mark.  We also pray for the speedy recovery of John and Yvette Hoffman and for  peace and unity in the face of tragedy and division.

Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the resolution.