Pay Our Homeland Defenders Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701362/pay-our-homeland-defenders-act


Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I thank my friend from Oklahoma, the  great chairman of the Appropriations Committee, for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of Congressman Ciscomani's  bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security.

Madam Speaker, this is a bill that should have passed weeks and weeks  ago. In fact, today will mark the third time that this House has voted  to fully fund the Department. In case you want to know how that vote  went, Madam Speaker, there has been a record vote twice already in the  House. You can see who is voting ``yes'' to fund TSA agents, to fund  the people at the Department of Homeland Security who work every day to  keep us safe here in America. All the Republicans, almost every  Republican, voted ``yes.'' On March 5, almost every Democrat voted  ``no,'' voted to shut the Department down. The Democrats shut this  down, Madam Speaker.

Then, we brought another vote, Madam Speaker, and you can see January  22 was the first vote, almost a party-line vote, Republicans voting  ``yes'' to fund the Department and Democrats voting ``no.''

March 5, same thing, Republicans voting ``yes'' to fund the  Department and Democrats overwhelmingly voting ``no'' to shut it down.

Now, today is a day where they can seek redemption and stand up for  those workers, the TSA agents, who are showing up for work and not  getting paid.

Do you know that if you are a TSA agent in America this fiscal year,  Madam Speaker, you have gone 49 percent of this year without a  paycheck?

That is disgraceful. It is disgraceful that Democrats have voted time  and time again to deny pay for those especially who are showing up to  do this hard work.

You have Americans waiting in line for hours and hours, 3 hours, 4  hours. At my home airport in New Orleans, people were sleeping  overnight there so they would have a chance to make their flight. There  are people waiting over 3 hours and still missing a flight, Madam  Speaker, to go maybe on a family vacation, maybe they have to go to a  funeral or a wedding.

This is disrupting the lives of real people.

Let me tell you what the TSA chief testified to yesterday, just  yesterday. The TSA chief told lawmakers that their agents ``have  received eviction notices, lost their childcare, missed bill payments  and been charged late fees, damaged their credit, defaulted on loans,  and have been unable to even qualify for a loan to help ease the  financial burden during the shutdown.'' That was testimony given  yesterday, and it is totally avoidable.

That kind of pain should not be inflicted on our Federal workers, and  yet you can see the party-line vote time and time again, like today  when we bring a bill to say let's just give these people paychecks for  the work that they are doing.

We can all have disagreements over how government operates. Go look  at the changes President Trump has already made at the Department of  Homeland Security. This week we got a new Secretary. There have been  dramatic changes to the Department. In fact, changes both sides have  made or have asked for have been made.

Yet, Democrats don't want to take ``yes'' for an answer, Madam  Speaker, because they want chaos. Let's just call it for what it is.  They want open borders. They want chaos. We are going to give them an  opportunity to do the right thing because the American people are sick  and tired of it, and they should be.

There is going to be a moment of accountability real soon. In about  an hour, you will be able to see, America will be able to see who is  voting ``yes'' to fund these people who are working so hard, and who is  voting ``no'' to keep the chaos going, to keep the long lines going.

Now, I would like to say I am going to read you some good news. I  want to read you a quote from Hakeem Jeffries, Madam Speaker. I think  this is an important quote that everybody should listen to right now.  This is Hakeem Jeffries: ``We are here today to do a single job, and  that should be to fund fully the Department of Homeland Security.  Anything else is an abdication of our responsibility. Anything else is  an act of legislative malpractice. So we are playing political games at  a time when the safety and the security of the American people is being  threatened.''

That is Hakeem Jeffries, Madam Speaker. Unfortunately, that was  Hakeem Jeffries from February of 2015. What happened to that Hakeem  Jeffries?

How will Hakeem Jeffries of 2026 vote? The previous two times we  know, Madam Speaker, the vote was ``no.'' However, in 2015, he said it  would be an act of malpractice to shut this Department down.

Let's talk about what times we are in. Some people want to think that  we are at a September 10 mentality, a pre-September 11 mentality. We  are at a heightened state of alert right now. We have actually had,  Madam Speaker, four terrorist attacks on our American homeland in the  last month.

This Department is more critical than ever, and this is when  Democrats choose to shut it down, to put Americans at risk? It is  dangerous.

It is not just cruel to these workers who are going without pay. They  testified yesterday that there are some TSA agents sleeping in their  cars because they can't afford rent. That is cruel, but it is also  dangerous to this country to shut down this Department at a time like  this.

Don't go back to a pre-September 11 mentality. This Department was  created for a reason, to protect the homeland so we don't ever have a  September 11 again.

``Never forget,'' remember that mantra? It seems like some people  want to forget, have forgotten. Maybe they have amnesia. Maybe they  need to remember that quote from the Democratic Leader back in 2015 who  said it would be political malpractice to vote to shut this agency  down.

Let's do the right thing. Let's everybody--not just Republicans  today--let's have Republicans and Democrats join together and do what  is needed to protect America's homeland. Vote ``yes'' on Congressman  Ciscomani's bill to fully fund the Department of Homeland Security, get  this back open. Bring common sense back into this country.

Madam Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote.