Providing for Disposition of Senate Amendment to H.R. Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701508/providing-for-disposition-of-senate-amendment-to-hr-department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Minnesota for  yielding and all the applause coming from the other side.

Look, Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this important bill to  fully fund the Department of Homeland Security. You know, we have done  this time and time again at least in the House. This will mark tonight  the fourth time that the House has voted to fully fund the Department  of Homeland Security.

I know there has been a lot of back and forth in the Senate, and then  at 3 in the morning Senators just decided, well, throw in the towel and  maybe see what they can cobble together to get out of town.

But, Mr. Speaker, we have got a job to do. Our job is to protect the  American people to do our job to keep them safe, and that is why we  created this Department, not some of the Department, not just pieces of  the Department, but the entire Department of Homeland Security.

I know the other side over and over again has wanted to go back to  open borders. We are not going to go back to open borders. The American  people don't want us to go back to open borders. They have seen the  peril of that.

We also, Mr. Speaker, cannot go back to a September 10 mentality, a  pre-September 11 mentality where you just ignore the signs of the bad  things that are happening in this country. We changed that after  September 11, and we vowed: ``Never forget,'' never let it happen  again, yet here we are.

Some Members want to get in the time machine, and they want to go  back to another day where maybe America didn't have any attacks. Well,  how about we go back in a time machine and listen to the Democrat  leader Hakeem Jeffries. I will read a quote from Hakeem Jeffries. ``We  are here today to do a single job, and that should be to fund fully the  Department of Homeland Security. Anything else is an abdication of our  responsibility. Anything else is an act of legislative malpractice. We  are playing political games at a time when the safety and the security  of the American people is being threatened.'' That was said in 2015 by  Hakeem Jeffries.

Now, what has happened between now and then? Well, let me tell you,  Mr. Speaker, this is not your father's Democratic Party anymore. You  have seen how far the radical crazy elements of the party have taken  over and tried to bring it to this socialist mentality, this open  borders mentality, this defund the police mentality. And, yes, this  bill absolutely defunds the police.

You have got under this bill that came over from the Senate, even  when  you count in the working families tax cut that every Democrat voted  against, even when you count that in, 6,700 people at the Department of  Homeland Security will be defunded. That is right. They will be  defunded.

The American people rejected the defund the police movement. Just  because it happened in the Senate at 3 in the morning doesn't mean  nobody heard it. We did. We didn't just hear it, we read the bill, and  we said, no, Mr. Speaker, that is not the responsible thing to do for  this country.

This country is counting on us. And by the way, it is at a time when  we are at a heightened level of threats. If you are wondering what that  heightened level is--I know there are some people that just want to go  after police all the time. Why don't we just read a couple of the names  that the other side doesn't want to read.

Richard Williams, Mr. Speaker, was an 83-year-old U.S. Air Force  veteran who was randomly shoved into the subway tracks by an illegal  alien from Honduras. He just died this week.

We have all heard of Sheridan Gorman. Maybe not enough people, Mr.  Speaker, have heard of Sheridan Gorman, but we are going to say her  name again. She was a beautiful 18-year-old young girl from Loyola  University in Chicago, a student who had the world before her. She was  shot to death by, yes, an illegal alien from Venezuela who came over  here under President Biden's open borders that the other side wants to  take us back to. We are not going to do that. That surely is not the  responsible thing to do.

Stephanie Minter, a 41-year-old mother from Virginia, was randomly  stabbed to death by an illegal, yes, with a lengthy rap sheet with more  than 30 prior charges.

How many more of these do we have to have before some people will  say, okay, maybe we need to fund this Department? I don't think there  is an endless list before--they just don't want to offend their radical  base, Mr. Speaker. That is really who they are afraid of.

Obviously, if they were concerned about all these Americans--over and  over and over again. This is just in the last month who has been killed  by people here illegally, and they are going to go and defund almost  7,000 people at the Department? That is insane.

And, oh, by the way, have we talked about the multiple terrorist  attacks that have happened, yes, here on our homeland, not on foreign  soil, here on our homeland just in the last month, and they want to  partially defund this agency with this bill and the working families  tax cut. Still over 10 percent of the whole agency will be defunded at  a time when we are at a heightened terrorist threat.

Could you imagine if you had a terrorist outside of your house, and  somebody said, well, we will let you lock the front door, but we don't  have time to lock the back door? You would think that was crazy. You  would lock the front door, the back door, the windows, and everything  else, and you would go get your shotgun.

But yet, they want to defund this agency and make our country  vulnerable, make Americans less safe? I am not going to have anything  to do with that, Mr. Speaker. I want to fund the whole Department. That  is what this bill does. It pays everybody. It pays the TSA agents as  they should be, as Democrats have voted time and time again to not pay.  We pay them. And it is not long-term. I wish it was. We have sent them  a long-term bill. This is for a few months. We at least have time to  keep negotiating our differences.

These are big differences, but these are dangerous times in America.  This is not the time to defund the police, to defund the Department of  Homeland Security at any level. Mr. Speaker, I would urge everybody to  vote for this bill. Let's do our job. We are here doing the right thing  to keep America safe. I urge adoption.