Rescissions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692544/rescissions-act-of-2025


Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, our conference chair  (Mrs. McClain) for managing this time on this important bill.

Mr. Speaker, a lot of people come up here, and they talk about trying  to get America's fiscal house in order. They talk about the idea of  getting back to balanced Federal budgets. I don't know many people here  who are against it.

I know later in this Congress when we put a bill on the floor to  require a balanced Federal budget, there will be many Democrats, Mr.  Speaker, who will vote ``no'' on that because when it comes time to  actually put your votes on the board to back up the principles that  most Americans relish, they walk away. They won't be there when it  actually matters.

Everybody can talk about cutting wasteful spending, even if you don't  necessarily agree that it is wasteful spending. However, what we are  bringing today is wasteful spending, even if you think it might not be  as bad as some other things you don't agree with. We all have to agree,  Mr. Speaker, that as we just saw a few weeks ago, Moody's downgraded  the credit rating of the United States.

It wasn't a recommendation, Mr. Speaker. It wasn't a warning that if  you folks don't get your fiscal house in order this might happen. They  actually did it. They downgraded the credit rating of the United States  because spending has to get under control. The party over there that  spent the last 4 years under President Biden spending like drunken  sailors, in all due respect to drunken sailors because they don't spend  this bad, but the trillions of dollars of debt that were racked up had  consequences, Mr. Speaker.

It had consequences not only in terms of our national debt, but it  affected the pocketbooks of families all across America because that  bloated spending in Washington, which is money we don't have, by the  way; and it increased inflation to the point where people couldn't even  go to the grocery store to fill up their carts. They couldn't afford to  go to the gas station to fill up their cars. They couldn't afford to  take out a loan to buy a house because interest rates had gotten so  high that today we are spending more money servicing our interest than  we are on America's national debt.

These are all real, dramatic facts that concern most Americans. They  say: Thank goodness Congress is finally bringing a bill to the floor to  start cutting some spending that aren't priorities.

You can call it wasteful if you want. Call it whatever you want, but  these aren't things that we can afford to spend, even if you agree with  them, because it is not money we have in the bank. It is all borrowed  money, Mr. Speaker.

Where did we start? The White House laid out a number of things, but  they looked at that USAID program. They didn't gut the whole thing, but  they said there are a number of things that are being done that just  don't represent the values of the United States and are being done in  foreign countries while we don't have our fiscal house in order here in  America, so how about we start there.

I know the Democrats on the other side are acting like, oh, my God,  the world is going to stop spinning on its axis if this spending goes  away, so why don't we talk about some of the spending that will go  away.

Mr. Speaker, again, it is borrowed money, not money we just took out  of the bank. It is money we borrowed from countries like China to spend  that is a debt to our kids.

To each one of these I list, Mr. Speaker, you should ask: If you vote  ``yes,'' you are finally relieving that debt burden, but if you vote  ``no,'' you think it is okay to send this bill to our kids. We are not  paying for it today, Mr. Speaker, but our kids would if we keep doing  it.

If the other side votes no, they want to keep borrowing money from  our children to spend a million dollars on voter ID in Haiti. This is  the same party that doesn't want voter ID in America, calls it racist,  wants to fund voter ID in Haiti. They want to spend $6 million for net- zero cities in Mexico. I know some of their best supporters are waving  a Mexican flag in an American city right now, and they support those  efforts. Most Americans don't support those efforts, Mr. Speaker. They  want to spend $3 million for ``Iraqi Sesame Street.'' The minority  leader held up a ``Sesame Street'' character here on the floor as if  ``Sesame Street'' is somehow going to go away.

I was just watching a commercial on TV yesterday where the Cookie  Monster was actually doing an advertisement for Netflix because a  private company is paying money to run ``Sesame Street.'' It is not  going away. It is doing just fine. It is very lucrative.

What will go away is some of the far-left radical views that are  being espoused. By the way, when this goes away at NPR, you can still  turn on about six or seven other channels and get the same far-left  radical views, but they are all going to be private companies, Mr.  Speaker, not taxpayer-funded entities.

If somebody wants to pay money to go on one of their services that  they stream or get over-the-top or however they get their digital  content, they can still do that. There are a lot of options. There has  never been more options.

Some people joke that they buy their services for their cable or  whatever else they get and that there are 200 channels, but they might  only watch 4 or 5 of them. There is still going to be a plethora of  options for the American people, but if they are paying their hard- earned dollars to go get content, why should your tax dollars go to  only one thing that the other side wants to promote?

Let everybody compete on a fair basis. They can still watch ``Sesame  Street'' in Iraq, but let the Iraqi people pay for it, not the  taxpayers of the United States of America's children. Today's taxpayers  aren't paying for it because it is all borrowed money.

They want to spend $2.1 million for climate resilience in Southeast  Asia, Latin America, and East Africa; $500,000 for electric buses in  Rwanda. Rwanda is more than free to go buy all the electric buses they  want or diesel buses. Why should the taxpayers of America be borrowing  money from our children to buy electric buses for Rwanda?

They want to spend $33,000 for ``Being LGBTQI in the Caribbean.'' It  is taxpayer money that a ``no'' vote today says is more important than  strengthening a program like Social Security. I say not.

Also included is $643,000 for LGBTQI+ programs in the Western  Balkans. This is borrowed money.

Mr. Speaker, there is $567,000 for LGBTQI+ programs in Uganda and  $5.1 million to strengthen the ``resilience of lesbian, gay, bisexual,  intersex, and queer global movements.'' I am not sure what that global  movement is. They can continue that movement in some other way, but  just not with the taxpayer dollars of the United States of America's  children.

Again, there is no bank account that $5.1 million came out of. It is  all borrowed money that a ``no'' vote says is more important than  strengthening Social Security.

There is $135 million in contributions to the World Health  Organization, which we all saw during COVID was the mouthpiece for the  Chinese Communist Party. I would imagine if we stop this $135 million  funding, the CCP may pick it up because they were regurgitating their  talking points during COVID.

At some point, Mr. Speaker, the question we have all got to answer  is: Number one, do you believe in fiscal responsibility? Maybe some  people have other priorities than these they would like to defund. If  you think these are all things that are worth borrowing money from our  children to fund, then that is what the ``no'' vote represents.

If you think it is time we start somewhere, and here is the place to  finally start--not to finish, just the beginning--getting control over  spending and respecting those families who are working hard, who are  working two shifts at the diner to pay taxes on tips that will soon go  away if our One Big Beautiful Bill Act passes, or somebody who is  working overtime because you want to send your kid to college and you  find out this is where your taxpayer dollars are going and you are  disgusted and say, when will somebody do something about it, then today  is the day to do something about it.

Talk is cheap. Put the action on the floor. Let's finally get control  over  spending in a small way. Start a bigger picture toward a balanced  budget. It starts here.

Vote ``yes,'' to get this done, and let's keep moving forward to  strengthen this great country. I urge a ``yes'' vote.