Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700016/veterans-accessibility-advisory-committee-act-of-2025


Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, ``let the good times roll''; ``laissez les  bons temps rouler.''

Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Wisconsin for yielding, and I  thank Chip Roy for bringing the SAVE America Act to the House floor.

This is a bill that is critically important to one of the most  precious franchises in America, and that is the sacred right to vote,  the right that so many gave their lives to preserve, to allow to pass  on to our next generation.

The importance of that vote is even more underscored when you  recognize that, yes, there have been times where people have stolen  your vote, Mr. Speaker. That veteran who was talked about deserves the  right to vote. If somebody votes illegally, Mr. Speaker, they are  stealing that veteran's vote. They are stealing your vote. They are  stealing everybody's votes if we allow people who aren't legally  eligible to vote to participate in elections.

How can you best preserve that? One way is that, when you are  registering to vote, you have to prove citizenship. It is in this bill.  Another way is when you go to vote, you just have to show your ID.

This is not some convoluted idea, Mr. Speaker. You hear the other  side talking about it as the end of the world.  Their own leaders have referred to it as ``Jim Crow.''

It is not the first time that they have used that phrase. They used  that when the State of Georgia put an ID requirement on voting. They  said it was going to be horrible and take away people's rights. It was  going to disenfranchise minority voters, Mr. Speaker. That is what they  said, but then what happened? We have actually got history to go look  at.

After Georgia passed that law that was called every ridiculous name  in the book, what we saw was record participation in elections. You  actually had the University of Georgia that went and asked voters after  that election, and a whopping zero percent, Mr. Speaker, of Black  voters said they had a poor experience going to the ballot. Over 72  percent said they had an excellent experience at the ballot. Then, you  could go further.

By the way, the American people get this. They understand that there  are examples of voter fraud. I come from a State where our elections  commissioner went to jail--yes, went to Federal prison--for stealing  elections. We cleaned up our election system in our State. We have seen  an increase in voter participation.

Why? Again, they would tell you if you actually increased the  integrity of elections by requiring picture ID that somehow it is going  to suppress votes, but the opposite happens, Mr. Speaker. What really  does happen is that voters now have confidence in the sanctity of  elections. More people will participate because they know that somebody  is not going to be stealing their vote by showing up when they are not  supposed to be there, just by requiring a picture ID.

Americans have been asked about this. An overwhelming 83 percent of  Americans are in favor of requiring a photo ID to vote. That is not  Republicans. That is all across the spectrum. Over 70 percent of  Democrats support picture ID, 82 percent of Hispanic Americans support  picture ID to vote, and 76 percent of Black Americans support a picture  ID to vote.

If they still want to lie to people on the other side, Mr. Speaker,  if they still want to try to scare people and talk about Jim Crow, then  you might want to ask those same people why the Democratic Party at  their convention just in 2024 required photo ID to get in. You couldn't  get into the Democratic convention without showing a photo ID. If they  want to call it Jim Crow, they need to look in the mirror, Mr. Speaker.

If you want to ensure the sanctity of the vote, the SAVE America Act  does that. You will see higher participation because Americans across  all spectrums--Black, White, Hispanic, Republican, Democrat,  Independent--will know that there is a higher likelihood that nobody  there is showing up illegally to steal your vote if you have the right  to vote.

One person, one vote--that is the mantra that we all ought to  embrace. The SAVE America Act gets us back to that great franchise of  American democracy, and that is the right to vote.

Mr. Speaker, I urge everybody to pass this bill over to the Senate  and then the Senate to get it to President Trump's desk so we can  strengthen American democracy.