Congratulating Jim Donovan on His Retirement


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701574/congratulating-jim-donovan-on-his-retirement


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Jim  Donovan for his more than two decades of service to CBS 3 Philadelphia.  As so many in our community know, Jim was an award-winning anchor of  the CBS Philadelphia morning and noon newscasts. He has also been a  dedicated philanthropist. and now is being recognized as the 2026  Autism Cares Foundation CARES Award recipient.

During his time with CBS 3, Jim has embodied the highest standards of  journalistic integrity while being a warm inviting presence for all the  viewers tuning in each morning and afternoon throughout the  Philadelphia region. He is a 15-time Emmy Award winner in addition to  being nominated an additional 20 times and has had a career in  broadcast television that accolades alone cannot capture the magnitude  of. Jim has reported from 55 countries across the globe, covered Pope  Francis' visit to Philadelphia in 2015, and has earned both national  recognition and the deep respect from colleagues and audiences alike.

Jim began his career in broadcasting in 1987 as an intern at WWOR-TV  in New Jersey and later moved on to hold roles at CNBC in New York City  along with WGHP in North Carolina and WBNS in Ohio. In 2004, he  began his tenure at CBS Philadelphia as an investigative journalist. He  later took the helm of the morning newscast, helping to relaunch it to  one of the region's most-watched programs.

Outside of his outstanding career, Jim has been a community advocate  since he planted his roots here in our community. He has advocated for  several different groups, using his platform and his voice to bring  awareness to a variety of causes. One such group is Bucks County's  Autism Cares Foundation, which was founded in 2007 to focus on  improving the life experiences of individuals with disabilities. Jim  has been the emcee of many of their events including their annual CARES  gala along with their Races 4 Resources annual charity 5k. He also has  graced audiences and guests with his charming personality as the  auctioneer for the gala's annual silent auction as well. Throughout his  relationship with the Autism Cares Foundation, he has become a  cherished member of their community, a strong voice and advocate, as  well as a friend and role model to many of individuals the Foundation  serves. It is without a doubt that he is a deserving recipient of the  2026 CARES Award.

As Jim begins his well-earned retirement, I extend my heartfelt  congratulations to him on not just an incredible career, but for his  tireless efforts to serve our community. May he have many wonderful and  restful years ahead of him.