Holocaust Expropriated Art Recovery Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700748/holocaust-expropriated-art-recovery-act-of-2025


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues, Representatives  Lee and Nadler, for bringing this very important piece of legislation  to the floor today.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support, as a cosponsor, of the  Holocaust Expropriated Art Recovery Act, the HEAR Act.

Mr. Speaker, during the Holocaust, the Nazi regime and its  collaborators systematically looted hundreds of thousands of works of  art and cultural treasures from Jewish families across Europe. These  were not simply valuable objects. They were pieces of family history,  family identity, and family heritage.

For decades, many survivors and their heirs have fought simply for  the chance to have their claims heard in court. The original HEAR Act,  passed with overwhelming bipartisan support in this Chamber in 2016,  tried to ensure that these claims would be decided only on their  merits, rather than being dismissed because of technical objections,  such as the passage of time.

Mr. Speaker, however, the courts did not follow Congress' intent on  many issues, and new legal barriers have emerged that threaten to close  or have closed the courthouse doors once again.

This legislation expressly reverses the ability of defendants to use  non-merit-based offenses, such as the Supreme Court's decision in  Germany v. Phillipp, which held that Germany's expropriation of German  Jews' property in the Holocaust was simply a ``domestic taking'' and  not a violation of international law under the Foreign Sovereign  Immunities Act.

If not corrected by Congress, that decision would prevent Holocaust  survivors and their heirs from recovering most of the art held by  foreign governments and their museums. It would excuse the historical  and moral culpability of Nazi Germany and its allies and collaborators  for perpetrating the Holocaust. An affirmative vote today closes that  huge loophole.

Mr. Speaker, time is not on our side. Roughly 30,000 Holocaust  survivors remain alive today in the United States of America, many now  in their nineties, some of whom live in my district. They deserve to  see in their lifetimes--and the world needs to hear--that in these  times of rising anti-Semitism, Congress wishes to right these  historical wrongs.

Mr. Speaker, this bill does not guarantee outcomes. It simply ensures  that claims are heard fairly and decided on their merits. Passing this  legislation reaffirms our Nation's commitment to justice, historical  truth, and the memory of those who suffered one of history's darkest  crimes.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  support the HEAR Act.