Recognizing Warminster Township Board of Supervisors Judy Hoover


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697487/recognizing-warminster-township-board-of-supervisors-judy-hoover


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and commend  the dedicated public service of Ms. Judy Hoover, a distinguished member  of the Warminster Township Board of Supervisors who celebrated her  final meeting as Secretary and Supervisor on December 4, 2025. Her six- year commitment to Warminster Township has been marked by leadership,  promise to strengthening local government, and an unwavering focus on  the residents of Warminster Township.

Throughout her service, Judy witnessed and helped guide Warminster  through a period of transformation when the Township faced financial  challenges in 2019 when she was first elected. Under her leadership and  a committed Board of Supervisors, Warminster established a more stable,  professional, and forward-looking municipal environment by 2025.

Judy played an influential role in decisions vital to Warminster's  fiscal health and infrastructure. Highlights of her service include  transforming greater expertise into local water authority and making  improvements at Five Ponds Golf Course. Judy maintained the standard of  being thoughtful and resident-focused in her approach to governance.  Ms. Hoover has been especially proud of the work of Library Director  Peter Lehu, whom she praised as ``the best Library Director the  township has ever had.'' She hopes to continue supporting the library  and other community institutions in the years ahead.

Her advice to the incoming 2026 Board is to support newly elected  Supervisor Mary Owens, ``hold tight'' to the Township's financial  stability, and examine every issue with the care required to secure a  better future for Warminster residents.

Beyond her elected service, Ms. Hoover has been an invaluable  resource to constituents in her part-time role with the Office of State  Representative Brian Munroe. In that capacity, she has assisted  residents of Warminster Township and the 144th Legislative District  with questions, concerns, and access to government services.

Her long professional career reflects a deep commitment to public  service and organized labor. Ms. Hoover served the City of Philadelphia  as a Real Property Evaluator and later as Legislative Coordinator for  AFSCME District Council 47. She has held numerous AFSCME leadership  roles over decades--including Business Agent, Delegate, Trustee,  Steward, Legislative Coordinator, and Health & Welfare Fund Trustee and  has received substantial training in fiduciary responsibilities and  public employee benefit trusts.

Her community involvement has been no less impressive. Ms. Hoover has  served as a Township Auditor, a Township Supervisor, and Secretary. She  remains active with the Warminster Parks and Recreation Board, Friends  of the Library, Friends of the Parks, and numerous nonprofit groups.  She lives in the Meadow Woods section of Warminster with her two  grandchildren, who attend Willowdale.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing Ms. Judy  Hoover. Today, we honor her in return for all she has done for the  community. Warminster Township, Bucks County, and the Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania are better because of the service, dedication, and  integrity that Judy Hoover has brought to every role she has held. May  we wish her continued success as she remains engaged in the civic life  of her community.