Recognizing Helen Birkhead's 100th Birthday


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Helen  Birkhead, a remarkable constituent from my district. It is my honor to  celebrate her on her 100th birthday--a day marking a hundred years of  love, laughter, and commitment to her family, friends, and community.

Born on August 30, 1925, in Trenton, New Jersey, Helen has  experienced a century full of changes and milestones. Her life story  stands not only as a testament to longevity, but also to unwavering  character. Throughout her ten decades of life, Helen has remained  deeply committed to her faith and her family, living each day with  purpose, grace, and quiet strength.

Helen graduated from Trenton High School, in Trenton, New Jersey.  Later, she made her home and spent much of her life in Ewing, New  Jersey after marrying her husband, Ken Birkhead. Ken was a United  States Navy veteran who went on to serve as an Ewing Township Police  Officer and work in construction. As a devoted homemaker, Helen created  a warm and loving home where she and Ken raised their two children,  Kathy and Kenny. Helen's endless love and support filled her household  with everlasting joy.

Beyond her dedication to her family, Helen remained steadfast in her  commitment to her faith. Helen is a devout Catholic and was a member of  the Incarnation Catholic Church in Ewing, New Jersey. Her Catholic  faith has served as a guiding light in her life--shaping her values and  offering strength and clarity through life's many trials and triumphs.

Today, Helen enjoys her daily walks and gathering flowers from the  community gardens to create beautiful floral arrangements for her  suite. A woman of few words, Helen loves sipping a good, hot cup of tea  while reminiscing on her past. Helen's ideal way to spend her birthday  exemplifies her ability to find joy in life's simplest blessings-- attending a quiet luncheon savoring her favorite treat: ice cream.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my esteemed colleagues in the United States House  of Representatives to please join me in extending our heartfelt  congratulations, sincere well-wishes, and all of God's blessings to  Helen Birkhead on the celebration of her 100th birthday.