Recognizing Larry Newman's 40 Years of Service with the Yardley- Makefield Fire Company


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695286/recognizing-larry-newmans-40-years-of-service-with-the-yardley-makefield-fire-company


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with deep admiration and  appreciation to recognize a truly outstanding individual from my  district--Volunteer Firefighter Mr. Larry Newman from Bucks County,  Pennsylvania.

This year, Mr. Larry Newman is celebrating 40 remarkable years of  continuous service with the Yardley-Makefield Fire Company.

Larry's story began long before he ever put on the uniform. As a  young child, he would visit the firehouse with his grandfather, who  himself was a proud volunteer firefighter. Those early memories and  experiences sparked a love for firefighting that never seemed to fade.

After graduating from St. John's University in Queens, New York, in  1969 with a degree in Business and Marketing, he pursued a successful  30-year career in men's fashion. Yet, the call to serve his community  never left him. In 1975, he answered that call by joining the Floral  Park Fire Department as a volunteer firefighter, which would only be  the start of his overall 50-year journey in fire service.

In 1986, after relocating to Yardley, Pennsylvania, Larry joined the  Yardley-Makefield Fire Company, where he has served ever since.

Throughout his 40 years with the Yardley-Makefield Fire Company, he  has stepped into a variety of roles--most significantly his 29 years  serving as President of the Fire Company. His leadership has helped  shape the growth of the department to ensure it remains prepared and  stays connected to the community it serves.

Larry's impact goes beyond his leadership roles. He has written many  successful grants that have helped the Fire Company purchase equipment,  such as a High Water Rescue Truck, which has allowed the department to  be able to respond more effectively.

He has been frequently honored as a Top Responder, answering more  than 400 fire calls in a single year, a testament to his strong  dedication. Whether responding to emergencies or representing the Fire  Company at schools during Fire Prevention Week and at community events,  you will often find Larry behind the wheel of a firetruck, always ready  to serve.

Larry Newman's life is a powerful example of what it means to live  with purpose. His record of duty, sacrifice, and selflessness embodies  the very best of the American Spirit.

On behalf of a grateful community, I offer our deepest appreciation  to Larry Newman for his 40 years of extraordinary service. May his  legacy of leadership, heart, and heroism continue to inspire future  generations of firefighters and public servants for years to come.

I congratulate Larry. We salute him.