Recognizing Bucks County Americans for Native Americans


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694745/recognizing-bucks-county-americans-for-native-americans


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the valuable  contributions of Americans for Native Americans (ANA), a dedicated  organization primarily supported by benefactors from Central Bucks  County, which lies within my district in Pennsylvania.

ANA is dedicated to improving the lives of Native Americans in the  Hopi, Navajo, and Zuni Nations in the American Southwest. By providing  essential goods and services, ANA addresses critical community needs  while serving as a foundation for greater self-reliance and long-term  empowerment.

Connie and Bill Eastburn founded this organization by recognizing  pressing needs in these Native American communities--warmth, structure,  and shelter. When they learned that 17 Navajo men had tragically passed  away due to inadequate shelter, Connie and Bill jumped into action.  Now, partnered with numerous organizations, they have been committed to  helping and improving the lives of Native Americans in the American  Southwest.

One facet of ANA's outreach efforts includes programs focused on  supporting the wellbeing and education of Native American children. The  largest program, Food for Kids, provides schoolchildren with much- needed meals. With the help of ANA's generous donors, the program's  funding skyrocketed from $10,000 in 2004 to $178,400 in 2024-2025.  Other programs include Clothing for Kids, Eyeglass Program, and the  Family and Child Education Program--all of which support and empower  these children and their families.

In addition, ANA supports the education of University of New Mexico- Gallup nursing students. By providing scholarships and financial aid to  aspiring Native American nurses since 2006, ANA has sponsored 349  Associate Degrees in Nursing through its Advanced Degree Scholarships-- totaling $318,278 of educational aid. By investing in the next  generation of healthcare professionals, ANA helps establish pathways  toward self-reliance, economic opportunity, and improved health  services within these Native American communities.

Furthermore, ANA pilots a program providing free veterinary care for  Native Americans and their animals on Navajo and Zuni reservations. In  partnership with various Zuni organizations, ANA began construction of  a fully self-sustainable veterinary clinic--a vital step toward  achieving their goal of equipping these communities with the resources  needed for self-sufficiency.

Americans for Native Americans continues to leave an indelible mark  on the Hopi, Navajo, and Zuni Nations in the American Southwest. I rise  to recognize the incredible accomplishments of this esteemed  organization and I commemorate their efforts and dedication. Through  the endless passion and dedication of Central Bucks County residents,  this organization demonstrates their unwavering commitment to serving  these communities.