Recognizing Mr. Konrad Kroszner's 16 Years with the Pennsylvania Biotechnology Center and Baruch S. Blumberg Institute


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696849/recognizing-mr-konrad-kroszners-16-years-with-the-pennsylvania-biotechnology-center-and-baruch-s-blumberg-institute


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an  extraordinary individual from my district, Mr. Konrad Kroszner, the  Director of Operations and Director of Systems and Engineering at the  Pennsylvania Biotechnology Center and Baruch S. Blumberg Institute.  Today, I proudly commend him on his well-earned retirement, following  16 years of dedicated work to furthering education and research in our  community.

As the Director of Operations and Director of Systems and  Engineering, Mr. Kroszner has been a driving force behind maintenance  and improvement for the Pennsylvania Biotechnology Center and Baruch S.  Blumberg Institute. In his pursuit of ensuring the safe operations of  the campus, he led two expansions during his tenure that improved  infrastructure for the biotech research teams, bringing old lab spaces  up to code to ensure that the latest safety and technical requirements  were being met.

Through Mr. Kroszner's tireless efforts, the researchers of my  district are better able to apply their technical knowledge through  their research in a safe and secure manner. He took personal pride in  his work, spearheading the smallest aspects of both the construction  and system-engineering aspects down to the minute details.

Konrad's work has not gone unnoticed. His expansion efforts and day- to-day care for the facilities have led the Pennsylvania Biotechnology  Center to become a world-class biotechnology center, aiding  institutions such as the Hepatitis B Foundation and Baruch S. Blumberg  Institute in their mission of curing disease such as Hepatitis B and  Liver Cancer.

Mr. Kroszner began his career at the United States Naval Academy,  where he graduated in 1977 with a Bachelor of Science degree in  mechanical engineering. He spent the next 10 years of his career as an  engineer with the Naval Air Warfare Center in Trenton where he  supported naval aviation fuel related issues, managed military  specifications for fuel contamination detection devices and components,  and provided emergency support for U.S. Navy fleet operations.

Beyond these contributions, he has left behind him a legacy of  technical knowledge, care, and dedication to his work. Mr. Kroszner's  work will continue to be a force for good in not only the Pennsylvania  Biotechnology Center, but our Nation through the world class facilities  he helped to improve that will continue to empower researchers long  after his retirement.

Mr. Speaker, I extend my heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Konrad  Kroszner on his retirement and thank him for 16 years of dedicated work  to the Pennsylvania Biotechnology Center and Baruch S. Blumberg  Institute. His leadership and dedication are sure to leave a lasting  mark on the community.