Recognizing the 100th Anniversary of Solebury School


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696356/recognizing-the-100th-anniversary-of-solebury-school


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and celebrate  the 100th anniversary of Solebury School, located in beautiful New  Hope, Pennsylvania. Solebury School has been a cornerstone of  independent education in Bucks County, known for its close-knit  community, academic excellence, and commitment to fostering  intellectual curiosity and character in young people.

Solebury School was founded in 1925 by four visionary educators,  Laurie Erskine, Julian Lathrop, Robert Shaw, and Arthur ``Doc''  Washburn, who shared a dream of creating a new kind of educational  environment. As the school's first headmaster, Doc Washburn captured  that vision best when he wrote, ``Our goal is to start a small school  with an informal atmosphere, where the needs of each boy would be  attended to, where friendship between teachers and pupils would be  encouraged, and where a boy would be prepared not only for college, but  for life beyond high school.''

From those humble beginnings, Solebury School opened its doors in  rented quarters in September 1925 with just four boys and four  teachers. One year later, the founders purchased the historic Michener  Farm, establishing the permanent campus that continues to serve  generations of students to this day.

Just down the road from Solebury stood the Holmquist School for  Girls, founded in 1917 by Miss Karline Holmquist, who shared a similar  belief that education should help each student discover and develop her  unique talents and capabilities. As both schools grew, they often  collaborated, sharing theatrical productions, musical performances,  proms, teas, and community gatherings. In 1949, these two institutions  united to form one of the first coeducational independent schools in  the Nation: Solebury School, as we know it today.

On October 1, 2025, Solebury marked 100 years since its first day of  classes. Over the past century, Solebury School has remained steadfast  in its founding ideals such as personal attention, intellectual  curiosity, and a deep respect for individuality. The school's faculty,  students, and alumni continue to embody these values, carrying forward  the founders' dream of education that not only prepares young people  for college, but also for meaningful, purposeful lives beyond the  classroom.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the 1st Congressional District of  Pennsylvania, I am proud to commend Solebury School for one hundred  years of distinguished service to education and community. I ask my  colleagues to join me in extending heartfelt congratulations to the  faculty, staff, alumni, and families of Solebury School as they  celebrate this extraordinary milestone and continue their inspiring  journey into the next century of learning, leadership, and community.