Recognizing Middletown Township Police Department Officer Michael Marks' 30 Years of Service


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701029/recognizing-middletown-township-police-department-officer-michael-marks-30-years-of-service


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an  exceptional individual from my district, Officer Michael Marks of the  Middletown Township Police Department. I proudly commend him on his  well-earned retirement, following 3 decades of committed service to the  people of Bucks County.

Officer Marks' exemplary career began in January of 1996, joining the  Middletown Township Police Department after graduating from the  Philadelphia Police Academy. He was primarily assigned to the Patrol  Division, where he built a reputation as a hardworking, dependable, and  highly respected officer.

Officer Marks also served the department and his fellow officers in  several other important roles. He helped to mentor and serve as an  example for the next generation of Middletown Township police officers  as a Field Training Officer. He selflessly stepped up when he was  needed, serving as the officer in charge when a sergeant was  unavailable, letting his sound decision making and professionalism  shine. Additionally, he served as a UAS operator, firearms instructor,  and a K-9 handler to police dogs Usher and Bach.

Notably, Officer Marks received numerous commendations recognizing  his stellar police work, thorough investigations, professionalism and  commitment to his profession. He also made a number of notable arrests  that were recognized throughout his time with the department. Beyond  his assignments and accomplishments, Officer Marks is known throughout  the department as a mentor, leader, and trusted colleague. He was  always willing to take younger officers under his wing to ensure not  only that they were doing a good job, but that they had someone to turn  to for invaluable guidance and support. He offered them a voice of  reason, his knowledge, and his approachability so that they could be  the best officers they could.

Outside of the department, Officer Marks is a well-respected member  of the Middletown community, having raised his family there. After a  long and honorable career in law enforcement, Officer Marks looks  forward to a well-deserved retirement.

Mr. Speaker, I extend my heartfelt congratulations to Officer Michael  Marks on his retirement and thank him for over 30 years of  distinguished service to the citizens of Bucks County. His leadership  and dedication will leave a lasting mark on the community he so  faithfully served.