Recognizing United States Army Sgt. Michael Debonis for His Public and Military Service


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701585/recognizing-united-states-army-sgt-michael-debonis-for-his-public-and-military-service


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an  exceptional individual from my district--Bucks County's own, Sgt.  Michael DeBonis. A courageous U.S. Army veteran and dedicated public  servant, Sgt. DeBonis assisted thousands of veterans in our community  in receiving the benefits they earned, organized trips to war  memorials, and led seminars with local law enforcement to better assist  veterans in crisis. I proudly commend him, following decades of  committed service to not only the people of Bucks County, but to our  Nation as well.

Drafted into the U.S. Army on May 7, 1968, Michael served in Vietnam,  specializing as a Military Policeman. Through his resolute dedication  to our Nation, he earned the Army Commendation Medal with 2 Overseas  Bars, the Vietnam Campaign Medal with a Silver Star for five campaigns,  and the Good Conduct Medal. Returning home to his wife Lynne in  December of 1969, Michael devoted his career to serving the brave  veterans who served alongside him.

As Senior Commander of VFW Post 6393 and Member of the VA Advisory  Board for the Horsham, Pennsylvania Clinic, Sgt. DeBonis provided  strategic guidance, advisory services,  event organization, and VA assistance to countless veterans throughout  my district. The friendship and camaraderie with his fellow veterans  remain unwavering and given without reservation. Sgt. DeBonis was not  only dedicated, but he was also selfless. While serving as Vice  President of the Bucks County Tour of Honor, he organized free trips  for thousands of veterans to Washington, D.C. to visit their respective  war memorials.

In his free time, Sgt. DeBonis is an avid lover of the outdoors. On  land, he is an ardent bird photographer, woodworker, astronomer, and  restaurateur. On the water, he is a passionate fly fisherman. Through  these pursuits, he not only enriched his own life, but also fostered a  deep appreciation for nature, craftsmanship, and his community above  all.

Most notably, Sgt. DeBonis is known as a trusted mentor and leader.  He is always willing to assist a fellow veteran, being the right person  to turn to for invaluable guidance and support. His indispensable  knowledge, veteran advocacy, and sound judgement are just a few of the  hallmarks that make Sergeant Michael DeBonis the outstanding man he is  today.

Mr. Speaker, I extend my heartfelt recognition to Sgt. Michael  DeBonis for his ongoing veteran advocacy and thank him for his decades  of distinguished service to the citizens of Bucks County and beyond.  His leadership and dedication will leave a lasting mark on the  community he so faithfully serves.