Recognizing the Ukrainian American Sport Center Tryzub's 75th Anniversary


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an  extraordinary group of individuals from Pennsylvania's 1st  Congressional District--an organization that has gone above and beyond  the call of duty in service to both our community and our country. It  is with great respect and admiration I recognize the Ukrainian American  Sports Center Tryzub's 75th anniversary.

Such honorable individuals are not defined by titles or accolades but  by the quiet power of their actions. They are distinguished by their  unwavering integrity, the strength of their character, and their  steadfast commitment to the people and places they serve. They are the  foundation upon which our communities stand--the ones who lift others  up, inspire hope, and, in doing so, call us all to higher standards of  service and compassion. Throughout their years helping the community,  the UASC Tryzub embodies this spirit of honor in ways that words can  scarcely capture.

Founded in Philadelphia by displaced World War II Ukrainian  immigrants, the UASC Tryzub became an important part of the community.  The UASC Tryzub organized teams of all sports to play in various  leagues in Philadelphia, as well as gave the Ukrainian American  community a nourishing environment with personal and professional  support. The goals of the UASC Tryzub align with preserving history,  culture, tradition, and Ukrainian sport (specifically professional  soccer). Their home-base in Horsham township continues to be a center  where the community comes together. Some notable achievements of the  UASC Tryzub include in 1856 the Club's Majors' Division soccer team  reached the national championship game for the coveted US Amateur Cup.  A year later the UASC Tryzub organized a professional soccer franchise;  the Philadelphia Ukrainian Nationals, which generated many professional  championships onto the City of Philadelphia. These achievements, along  with many others, brought a downpour of glory and attention to  Philadelphia from the international soccer world.

Today, 56 teams and 800 athletes, known as the ``Ukie Nation''  proudly wear blue and yellow and play under the Philadelphia Ukrainian  Nationals Banner. Travel and club teams, including all skill levels,  are offered for boys and girls all year round. The UASC Tryzub is not  only notable for their achievements, but for giving back to the  community. The players develop and improve not only their soccer skills  but their personal goals as well. Through scholarships, volunteering,  and community efforts to preserve Ukrainian heritage and bring  awareness to those in need, the Tryzub continues to support and grow  the Ukrainian American community.

In times of need, their service is a testament to the belief that an  individual's dedication can ripple through the lives of many, sparking  change, fostering resilience, and inspiring hope. Today, we honor the  UASC Tryzub not just for their remarkable deeds but for fostering an  incredible community.

Mr. Speaker, their actions remind us that progress is not forged in  grand gestures but in the cumulative power of selfless acts. They  embody the timeless American values of resilience, generosity, and  compassion, showing us that the future is built by those who care  deeply, act decisively, and give without hesitation.

On behalf of Pennsylvania's 1st Congressional District, I extend my  appreciation and recognition to the UASC Tryzub for their extraordinary  service of 75 years. I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring the  UASC Tryzub's 75th anniversary, which will inspire generations to come.  May their example remind us of the boundless potential within each of  us to make our communities, country, and world a better place.