Recognizing the Service of Colonel James E. McCloskey, Usmc, Retired on National Vietnam War Veterans Day


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701528/recognizing-the-service-of-colonel-james-e-mccloskey-usmc-retired-on-national-vietnam-war-veterans-day


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of National  Vietnam War Veterans Day to honor an extraordinary constituent from my  district, Colonel James E. McCloskey, United States Marine Corps  (Retired), who served with distinction and honor during the Vietnam  War.

Colonel McCloskey began his service in 1965 when he joined the United  States Marine Corps and was an Honor Graduate from the Officer  Candidate Course. In 1969, he began his first deployment to Vietnam,  where he served in a Marine Reconnaissance Unit. During the was,  Colonel McCloskey carried immense responsibility at a young age, being  responsible for not only mission critical tasks such as training local  militias, but also the lives of his own men. He made decisions under  pressure that would shape the lives of those under his command, and in  doing so earned their trust and respect. By the time he left Vietnam,  he had been awarded two Purple Hearts and a Bronze Star.

After completing his service with the Marine Corps, Colonel McCloskey  transferred to the United States Army Reserve. During his time in the  Reserve, he served in many significant positions including Battalion  and Brigade Command. In 1999, he retired after over 30 years of service  to our Nation. For his service. he was awarded the Legion of Merit  Medal. His over three decades of service reflect not only personal  bravery, but a deep commitment to the servicemembers he led and to each  mission entrusted to him. In the face of uncertainty and hardship,  Colonel McCloskey demonstrated the leadership and resolve that defines  our armed forces.

Even after his service in country, Colonel McCloskey never forgot the  Vietnamese people that he had grown close to. He has returned to  Vietnam several times, often at his own expense, to act as a diplomat,  volunteer, and teacher. He volunteered as a teacher at Vietnamese  universities, teaching International Marketing. He made frequent trips  to the State Department to help guide our diplomats in their  understanding of the Vietnamese people. Most significantly, he helped  found an orphanage run by nuns, which he spends the majority of his  visits repairing, building additions, and serving as a mentor to the  orphans. Through these efforts, Colonel McCloskey transformed the  legacy of the war into one of reconciliation, education, and hope.

As we pay tribute to all of our Nation's servicemembers who bravely  answered the call of duty in Vietnam, we thank Colonel McCloskey for  his leadership, service, and enduring commitment to preserving the  legacy of  his fellow Vietnam Veterans. May we always remember the sacrifices of  his generation, and may we remain forever grateful.