Recognizing Alan Bleam's 40 Years of Service with Plumstead Township


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an  outstanding constituent from my district, Mr. Alan Bleam. This year,  Alan celebrates his 40th year with Plumstead Township. It is my  distinct honor to commend him for four decades of resolute service to  our community.

A lifelong resident of Plumstead Township, Alan truly embodies the  spirit of Plumsteadville. From attending Gayman Elementary to Middle  Bucks Area Vocational Technical School, serving as a Junior  Firefighter, and achieving the rank of Eagle Scout, Alan has always  demonstrated a deep commitment to public service.

In 1982, Alan became an Active Member of the Plumsteadville Volunteer  Fire Company. Just three years later, he took on leadership roles both  as Recording Secretary and First Lieutenant. Over the years, Alan's  service with the fire company was marked by a deep sense of duty--a  reflection of his strong desire to serve and protect the community he's  always called home.

In 1994, Alan assumed the role of Roadmaster for Plumstead Township,  eventually rising to become the Director of Public Works--a position he  holds with great pride to this day. His efforts have been integral in  improving the township's infrastructure and ensuring the high standard  of living that residents have long depended on. In recognition  of his contributions, he was named the Plumstead Township Employee of  the Year in 1998.

Yet, Alan's impact reaches far beyond his professional endeavors. He  is a man rooted in community--his circle of friends from square  dancing, church, the fire company, scouting, and his own neighborhood  speak volumes about his caring character and connection to others. He  unites the people of this community and strengthens the bonds that make  living in close-knit towns so special.

In 1991, Alan married his true love, the late Desiree Bleam. Together  they shared 32 years of love, laughter, and devotion. Alan stood by her  side through her 13-year battle with Scleroderma, providing unwavering  support and care, in both his personal and professional endeavors, Alan  was a committed man--committed to his family and community.

Today, I commemorate Alan Bleam for his 40 years of remarkable  service for our community. His steadfast dedication to the betterment  of Plumstead Township continues to inspire us all.