Recognizing Mr. Frank C. Parker, Iv, Quakertown Community School District Director of Bands, for 27 Years of Service


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694748/recognizing-mr-frank-c-parker-iv-quakertown-community-school-district-director-of-bands-for-27-years-of-service


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a remarkable  individual from my district, Mr Frank C. Parker, IV. For nearly three  decades, Mr. Parker has nurtured and inspired the musical abilities of  students in the Quakertown Community School District.

Mr. Parker attended Moravian College, where he earned a bachelor's  degree in musical performance and studied wind conducting, choral  conducting, and saxophone under renowned academics and musicians.  During his time there, he co-founded both the Moravian College Jazz  Quartet and the Moravian College Dixieland Band. His exceptional talent  earned him the lead alto saxophone positions with the Moravian College  and Muhlenberg College Big Bands, and he also served as Principal Alto  Saxophone for the Moravian College Wind Ensemble.

His pursuit of excellence in music continued through his master's  education at Wilkes University and additional graduate coursework at  Villanova University, University of Miami, University of Arts, and West  Chester University.

Mr. Parker dedicated 27 years to sharing his musical expertise and  passion with QCSD students. From 1998 to 2004, he directed the award- winning Milford Middle School band, even earning them a performance at  the 2003 Pennsylvania Music Educators Association. During his six-year  tenure, the Milford Jazz Band received nothing less than a superior  rating at 26 consecutive jazz festivals--an extraordinary feat.

For the past 21 years, Mr. Parker has served as the Director of Bands  at Quakertown High School, where he led the Symphonic Band, Wind  Symphony, Jazz Ensemble, and numerous other small ensembles. Under his  direction, these ensembles were invited to perform at the PMEA  Conference, the NAfME National Conference, and the NAfME Eastern  Division Conference an impressive fourteen times.

Additionally, Mr. Parker directed Quakertown High School's award- winning marching band, which has won both national and state-level  competitions under his leadership.

At this year's PMEA Conference, Mr. Parker was honored as the Phi  Beta Mu Outstanding PA Bandmaster. Over the years, many of his students  have been selected to participate in PMEA district, region, and state  band festivals.

Outside of his work at QCSD, Mr. Parker has taught saxophone lessons  for the past 38 years. He is an active clinician, adjudicator, and  guest conductor, having led bands across Pennsylvania and Vermont. He  is a dedicated member of PMEA, NAfME, QCEA, PSEA, NEA, and Phi Beta Mu.

As a performer, Mr. Parker has experience as a saxophonist with wind  bands, big bands, and variety bands in the Lehigh Valley and  Philadelphia areas, and has performed internationally in Great Britain  and the British Virgin islands.

In retirement, Mr. Parker looks forward to guest conducting, running  clinics and teaching lessons online, as well as continuing to play his  saxophone. He is the proud father of one daughter.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Parker for his 27 years of service to the  Quakertown community, and I am honored to congratulate him on his well- deserved retirement. His efforts have made an everlasting impact on  generations of students, enriching their lives through music education  and inspiring a deep appreciation for the arts.