Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699356/department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Cole for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, the fiscal year 2026 Homeland Security appropriations  bill is the culmination of the hard work of our committee and our staff  and provides critical investments to protect the American homeland.

As a member of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security, I know that  this bill champions public safety and preparedness. It protects  taxpayer dollars and refocuses the Department on its core functions.

With border encounters at a historic low, this legislation fully  funds DHS and the effort to detain and remove violent, illegal  immigrants from our communities.

In central Washington, we know firsthand the important work done by  the Federal Emergency Management Agency. This bill increases FEMA grant  programs by 5 percent above their previous levels and restores critical  staffing positions lost under the fiscal year 2025 continuing  resolution. It also delivers funds directly to communities across the  country, including my own Yakima County, to establish a dedicated  emergency operation center and ensure timely and well-coordinated  emergency response efforts.

The U.S. Coast Guard is fundamental in protecting our border and  domestic security. This bill boosts funding for the Coast Guard and  provides funding to counter China's footprint in the Indo-Pacific.

Lastly, as a member of the Select Committee on the CCP, the Chinese  Communist Party, I am pleased to see this bill refocuses the  Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Agency, or CISA, on its core  cybersecurity mission and rightsizes the agency to preserve critical  functions. This includes funding to counter threats from adversarial  nations and ensure critical infrastructure systems are protected from  these threats.

Mr. Speaker, this Homeland Security bill is the last piece in  completing 12 fiscally responsible, bipartisan spending bills. It is a  testament to--

Mr. NEWHOUSE. It is a testament to the hard work of the committee and  subcommittee leadership on both sides of the aisle and the dedicated  staff that spent an untold amount of time to make this process work.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my colleagues on both sides to  support this negotiated bill that provides the resources necessary to  secure our borders, protect Americans here at home, and ensure we are  being good stewards of taxpayer dollars.