Establishing New Zip Codes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693863/establishing-new-zip-codes


Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, let me first start by thanking the  chairman and the ranking member for their fine work.

Mr. Speaker, the ranking member already mentioned some of the issues  that we are trying to solve with this bill, and there are so many other  communities that this bill will help, including Miami Lakes, which I  have the privilege to represent.

Mr. Speaker, this is going to be the third time if it passes--and I  hope it will--that we pass this bill out of the House. This bill has a  Senate companion, and, Mr. Speaker, it is a bipartisan Senate  companion. I want to mention the sponsors: Senator Rick Scott, Senator  Joni Ernst, and Senator Alex Padilla.

It deals with a lot of issues that we have already heard about, but  it is important to note that those are not small issues for those  communities. They are problematic issues.

We have heard from mayors, local elected officials, and constituents  for many, many years--I think all of us that this bill is dealing  with--but I am referring particularly to Miami Lakes in Miami-Dade  County. Unfortunately, the Postal Service has done nothing about it.

Miami Lakes alone has gone through the USPS' boundary review process  three times to no avail, which is, again, unfortunate.

While the Postal Service operates, by the way, on a fee-for-service  basis and receives no direct appropriations--I want to make sure that  everybody understands that--my team, my staff, has talked to the  Congressional Budget Office to make sure that there is no score with  this. The news is, as I just mentioned, this bill does not score.

I am confident--I sincerely hope, for the people of Miami Lakes and  the folks around the country--that the third time will be the charm,  that this will become law. I am confident that it will.

I started by thanking the chairman of the committee and his staff. I  thank the staff, along with the chairman and the ranking member. I also  thank, from my team, Vanessa Scott, who is my staffer who has worked  day in and day out. I would be remiss if I didn't thank the Speaker,  the majority leader, the whip, and all leadership for all they are  doing to get this bill to the floor once again. I thank all the Members  whose districts this will benefit for their hard work.