Resolution, to Remove United States Armed Forces From Hostilities with Presidentially Designated Terrorist Organizations in the Western Hemisphere


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698239/resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-with-presidentially-designated-terrorist-organizations-in-the-western-hemisphere


Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose this resolution,  which limits the United States' ability to fight narcoterrorist  traffickers in our own hemisphere, where we are most directly impacted.

I just heard from the distinguished gentlewoman that these are  fishermen, that these are fishermen in these boats. Really? I guess we  are supposed to not believe our own eyes when we see these boats loaded  with narcotics coming to the United States and going to other  countries.

These are narcoterrorists who have been killing Americans by the  thousands every single year through their poison. It is about time that  we have a President who is taking the murdering and the poisoning of  our youth seriously.

Literally, Mr. Speaker, every time one of these narcoboats is removed  from the water, it literally is saving thousands of American lives.

Let me refresh everybody's memory about who we are dealing with and  who the President of the United States is going after. They are going  after narcoterrorist organizations such as Tren de Aragua, Cartel de  los Soles, Clan del Golfo, and MS-13, just to mention some of these  dangerous cartels that kidnap and maim and poison our youth.

Let's put it in perspective, Mr. Speaker. More Americans have died  because of these narcocartels that are poisoning our youth than  Americans we lost in World War I, World War II, Vietnam, and Korea.  They are staggering numbers.

These cartels are responsible for the loss of lives of more Americans  than ISIS and al-Qaida combined. These are terrorist organizations that  are responsible for the death of our people.

I just also heard, oh, upset about pressuring Maduro, President  Maduro. Maduro is not a President. He is the head of a narcocartel that  has taken over by force and by terror a great country, the country of  Venezuela. This is man who is under indictment.

Let's vote this down, and let's protect the American people. Let's  not defend the narcocartel's drugs that are poisoning our people.