Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, before my colleague leaves, I want to  thank the Senator from Alaska, my chairman, for all the hard work,  because it has been a labor that both of us have worked on together. It  is something our country needs very desperately, and it is something  that we have been working on for some 12 or 13 years. So the time has  come. 

  With that, I am pleased that we are starting the process of turning  to the American Energy Innovation Act, which last year Senator  Murkowski and I kicked off in the 116th Congress with a hearing on the  outlook of energy innovation.  

  Over the course of the last 14 months, we have heard from experts who  have come before the committee to testify on the importance of  advancing a broad range of technologies. Where we stand today, we have  no silver bullet to solve the problems that we face--namely,  maintaining our affordable, reliable energy and reducing greenhouse gas  emissions, while also making sure that hard-working families and  communities are not left behind. 

  It is for this reason that I say we need to innovate, not eliminate.  I repeat that--innovate, not eliminate. There is a misconception that  all these emissions are coming from just the power industry, just one  source. It is all we hear about. It is not true. 

  The facts are these: In 2017, the power sector was responsible for  27.5 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. The power industry-- coal-fired powerplants and natural gas plants now are determined--was  responsible for 27\1/2\ percent. Twenty-nine percent of our emissions  come from transportation. How we come to work and what we use in  everyday life--29 percent comes from that. Twenty-two percent comes  from industry--the jobs that we do, the industries we have that we  need, jobs that are provided, and the products they produce. Then 11\1/ 2\ percent was commercial and residential sectors--the buildings we are  in, commercial and residential, but basically a lot of government  buildings. 

  With that in mind, we focused on an ``all of the above'' approach. We  didn't leave any rock unturned. Our bill will help reduce emissions in  all of these sectors, except for agriculture. Agriculture represents  about 9 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions, and that was not in  our jurisdiction. 

  Innovation is a critical step to help us reliably meet tomorrow's  energy needs while reducing emissions, not just in our energy sector  but also in industry, buildings, and vehicles. We all know greenhouse  gas emissions are a global issue, and investing now in these  technologies will position the United States as a global leader and  maintain our competitive edge. 

  It is time to seek practical solutions to reduce our greenhouse gas  emissions and find ways to ensure that our energy sector, the  environment, and workers can all benefit. Once we vote to proceed to S.  2657, we will be laying down the American Energy Innovation Act of 2020  as a substitute amendment. This legislation brings together the strong,  bipartisan work of our committee over the past year and draws from 53  bills. And I will repeat--39 of those are bipartisan. Once it is  enacted, it will provide the first comprehensive Senate energy policy  update in 13 years. 

  This bill represents an important downpayment on research and  development at the Department of Energy for a range of technologies to  reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In fact, it would advance innovative  technologies that can help us reduce emissions across sectors of the  economy that account for 90 percent of current U.S. greenhouse gas  emissions. 

  This piece of legislation will put us on the path to reduce 90  percent of the current greenhouse gas emissions. That includes energy  storage, renewable energy, energy efficiency, carbon capture, advanced  nuclear, vehicles, and provisions to help get those technologies out of  DOE and into the market. 

  As I have said before, there is no silver bullet, and this bill alone  will not solve climate change, but it is critical. It is a critical  step in the right direction, not just here in the United States but  also for the rest of the world. I am going to take a few minutes to  touch on a few of these now. 

  Let me start with our existing zero-carbon, baseload generation,  nuclear. Unfortunately, the U.S. nuclear industry has been losing  ground to international competitors, especially those with state-funded  nuclear programs like China and Russia. That is why I worked with  Senator Murkowski to create a robust R&D program that will develop new  technologies to not only usher in a new era of nuclear but also reduce  the operating costs of the current nuclear fleet that will be required  to operate into the middle of this century if we as a nation are to  meet our emission-reduction objectives. 

  We also included my EFFECT Act, which invests in research and  development and, just as importantly, demonstration and deployment for  each aspect of carbon capture, utilization, and storage. This includes  coal and natural gas technologies, utilization, storage, and even  atmospheric CO2 removal. 

  Fossil fuels are projected to continue to be a significant source of  electric generation in the near future, not just here in the United  States but around the world. We need to get ahead of the curve and  invest in the technologies that will allow us to continue using them  but in the cleanest way possible so we are reducing greenhouse gas  emissions. 

  We also included provisions to target industrial emissions that are  particularly hard to get to with existing technologies. 

  With all of this, we need to continue to create quality jobs in this  transitioning energy landscape. All of these provisions will protect  and create jobs while addressing carbon emissions--a win-win for  communities in West Virginia and rural communities across this country. 

  The American Energy Innovation Act also covers a lot of territory  when it comes to renewable energy, from the skies and hilltops to the  rivers and oceans. The bill includes incentives for small hydropower  facilities and an expansion of the Department of Energy's work on  marine renewable energy. It also tackles expanding geothermal energy  beyond the Western States. 

  Lastly, the energy package reauthorizes two incredibly successful  programs at DOE that have already helped transform our energy landscape  in large and small ways; that is, wind and solar technologies. The bill  focuses these programs on new materials, enhanced efficiency in design  and operation, and their full life cycle from manufacturing to  recycling. I want to make sure these clean energy technologies are  aiding the grid and the communities that need distributed or microgrid  connections to them from Alaska to Puerto Rico. 

  Of course, storage is a key enabling technology for a low-carbon,  modern grid that will help us achieve our emission reductions and  address climate change all while keeping energy reliable and  affordable. Our bill builds on DOE's existing energy storage R&D  efforts but with additional focus on advancing long-duration energy  storage technologies and with a fivefold increase in authorizations  from current levels.  

  The bill will also help to shore up our supply chain of critical  minerals because we are currently depending on imports from other  countries--namely China--for many of the mineral commodities required  to manufacture everyday items like our phones, security assets like  satellites, and emissions-reducing technology like electric vehicles  and wind turbines. 

  It is important to strike the right balance between supply chain  concerns and environmental stewardship, and I appreciate Senator  Murkowski working with me to remove a provision that was concerning to  some in our caucus and outside groups. 

  Of course, the energy package also has a robust energy efficiency  title that would promote efficiency in commercial and public buildings,  homes, industry, and the Federal Government. 

  Energy efficiency really is the low-hanging fruit, and 40 percent of  the Nation's energy is consumed in buildings. I will repeat that  again--40 percent of the Nation's energy is consumed in buildings. The  Department of Energy estimates that efficiency improvements can save  U.S. consumers and businesses 741,000 gigawatt hours of electricity  between 2016 and 2035, which is equal to 16 percent of electricity use  in 2035. We can reduce the amount of demand by 16 percent while not  deterring quality of life. 

  Multiple studies have shown that energy efficiency is cheaper than  investing in any other type of new generation. It is truly the cheapest  kilowatt. It is also readily available. There are lots of opportunities  to improve efficiencies in buildings, industry, and transportation. 

  These investments in policy changes can and will have a real,  positive impact on the lives of everyday Americans while saving both  energy and money. I call that a win-win, which we don't have many of. 

  I hope we have the opportunity to vote on an amendment to add  voluntary building codes back into the efficiency title of this bill,  both to help  consumers save on energy bills and to really advance carbon savings. 

  Finally, the electric grid is undergoing a rapid transformation. It  is becoming more complex, more flexible, and more diverse in terms of  energy resources. That means we have to continue focusing on shoring up  our vulnerabilities and anticipating future weaknesses in the ever- changing environment. 

  Our bill supports investments in programs that are of vital  importance to securing and protecting our critical energy  infrastructure. As I said before, this bill represents a critical step  in the right direction. I believe this package is well balanced with  many of my colleagues' priorities on both sides of the aisle. It is  truly a bipartisan bill. It represents a true effort. I thank Chairman  Murkowski and the other members of the Energy and Natural Resources  Committee for their work over the last 14 months to provide the basis  of this package. 

  I encourage my fellow Members to vote yes today, and I look forward  to working with you this week on this important piece of legislation. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT