CNN "The Lead with Jake Tapper" - Transcript: Interview With Sen. Joe Manchin


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

Joining me now is one subject of those attacks, Democratic Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia.

Senator, it's good to see you, as always.

In recent...

SEN. JOE MANCHIN (D-WV): Great to be with you, Jake.

TAPPER: In recent days, the president has tweeted about you a couple times, calling you Joe Munchkin, insulting you, suggesting you wouldn't even be able to understand the transcript of that infamous July 25 call with President Zelensky.

Why do you think your vote in particular has struck such a nerve with President Trump?

MANCHIN: Well, let's first start.

The name-calling, basically, munchkin, I guess that -- I guess he's confused on that, because I am a little bigger than him.

He's got me about 30 pounds on weight, but I am a little taller than him. So, that shouldn't be accurate there.

TAPPER: You're not a munchkin.

MANCHIN: I'm not a munchkin.

TAPPER: That's fact-check true. OK.

MANCHIN: The other thing is, is that I think, if you look, I voted with the president and with a bipartisan way more than anybody, Jake, 56 percent of the time.

So, for me to say, Mr. President, this is wrong. This is wrong. You can't do this. You can't use a rogue proxy, such as Giuliani, with our national policy, and threaten a poor nation that is trying to defend itself.

I said, here's a superpower of the world, the most -- the most powerful person, the president of the United States, calling the most inexperienced leader, Jake, and saying, hey, by the way, can you get involved in our politics here to help us a little bit and do something?

Corruption, fighting corruption is fine, but not going as far as they went with it.

TAPPER: So, you...

MANCHIN: So, I think that's when I was -- that took me over the top quicker than anything.

TAPPER: You spent the weekend in West Virginia, your home state.

MANCHIN: Yes.

TAPPER: President Trump has said that West Virginians are furious at you.

Are they?

MANCHIN: Well, there's some always going to be. I mean, this is part of the game.

When you divide the country up the way he has -- and I would say, Mr. Trump, you don't need to be a chief a uniter -- a divider in chief. He needs to be uniter in chief. He needs to be the head uniter for our country.

[16:30:05]

So, the country is split right now. So, there are people who get upset.

I explain to them. I have always said this, Jake. If I can go home and explain, I can vote for it. If I can't, I will vote against it.

I can explain this vote. The evidence was overwhelming, the evidence we received. I thought that the president was going to defend himself when he got to the Senate. He said he wanted have witnesses, and on and on and on.

And they took -- they didn't take that course. They wanted us to accept that, if it's the president does it, it's OK. The president is above the law.

And I said, I'm sorry, I can't buy on to that. That's not who we are. And that's not who the framers wanted us to be. And it's not the way that, if you read the Federalist 65, what Hamilton -- how he labored over this one article, the impeachment article, it was for this purpose.

And I hope that maybe my vote can send a signal to the president. I still want to work with you. I want you to succeed. But we're in this together. There's a division here. We have three equal branches of government. And we're a democracy because of that.

And I said, we have to have open and free elections. We can't have intervention, a foreign entity, any way, shape or form. So that's where I am. And I wish he would have produced witnesses. I said back home in West Virginia, if you accuse me of something, Jake, I can't wait to defend myself. I know I'm innocent. I want to defend myself. And, here, I'll have so and so come and tell you and testify, and I'll bring you documents.

Well, when you don't do that, that means it's either non-defendable or you already have the jury cooked, one of the two.

TAPPER: Mm-hmm.

President Trump just fired two key impeachment witnesses from their administration jobs, Vindman and Sondland, not to mention Vindman's brother.

Chuck Schumer says this is witness retaliation. Do you agree?

MANCHIN: Oh, absolutely.

I mean, how else can you determine anything else? Here's two people totally qualified. He did his job. Now, did he get fired because they have a dossier on him, a portfolio on him showing that he didn't act in a professional manner, that he had been in deficiency in some of his job relation? I don't know. I would like to see that report.

If that's not there, and they haven't built that over a period of time showing he wasn't -- he wasn't proficient, then the only conclusion you can make, Jake, is he got fired because of his being honest and coming forth as an American citizen and doing his job.

TAPPER: Now, earlier in this conversation, you criticized Rudy Giuliani and his rogue foreign policy.

MANCHIN: Yes.

TAPPER: You have said before that those moves by Giuliani are horrible for the country.

The attorney general, Bill Barr, today confirmed that the Justice Department is receiving information from Giuliani about the Bidens or whoever originating in Ukraine.

Do you have any concerns about that?

MANCHIN: Oh, sure I have concerns, if they're treating it any different than any other American would bring information that they think would be harmful to the United States of America and our way of life.

If that's being treated differently, with higher priority, and they're taking it more verbatim, then that would be very troublesome. So, I don't know that to be a fact. I would like to talk to Attorney General Barr myself and see what -- how they're operating and how they're really receiving the information, and how they're going through it to see if it has legitimacy or not.

TAPPER: I want to ask you, though, the White House released its 2021 budget request...

MANCHIN: Yes.

TAPPER: ... which outlines proposed cuts to food stamps, Medicaid, affordable housing, other safety net programs.

Now, this is just a priority list. It's not like it's going to automatically become law. But if this budget from President Trump were to be implemented, how might that impact the people of West Virginia?

MANCHIN: Well, in our state, we have -- we're the hardest working and we have been hit the hardest of any state. We have always done the heavy lifting.

So these types of programs that have been in necessity, especially with the opioid epidemic that we have, and the children, we have homeless children -- we have children that basically that our nutrition to them comes at the schools in the hands of us. And if you can't give a child a start, God help us all.

So, the only thing, I haven't seen the full -- our staff is breaking it down now. I haven't seen the president's full request.

But I always said this. When I was governor, and I used to put a budget forward, the budget that you put forward represents your values, who we are as a people, where the priorities in our life are.

And if the priorities, as far as -- is not in the human element that makes us the people that we are in America, and the compassion that we have for others, then I don't know what to tell you about that.

And I haven't seen it, but I'm understanding the cuts would be devastating in many, many areas. I'm hoping that we will reverse that. But, usually, these budgets are dead on arrival anyway. So we will go from there.

TAPPER: I want to ask you about the election in November.

The Iowa Democratic Party says that your colleague Senator Bernie Sanders won the popular vote and came in a close second in terms of delegates in Iowa. He could win New Hampshire tomorrow. What would that mean to you if Bernie Sanders is the Democratic nominee for president?

MANCHIN: Well, I think we have a long way to go.

But we just have to see who comes out of this the strongest and the fittest. You take a look and go from there. But Bernie -- the thing about Bernie -- and I have known Bernie for

quite a while now -- Bernie is the same person he is today as he was when I met him 10 years ago. He's never changed.

[16:35:02]

And if that's resonating, then there's got to be a middle somewhere, because Bernie is taking you to where your deep conscience is and thinking, yes, people haven't been treated fair. People have been left behind. Boom, boom, boom.

But maybe his fixes aren't something palatable to all of us. We would do it differently.

We have had this conversation, Bernie and I, before. I said, Bernie, as far as free education, I think any person that needs an education in America ought to have a pathway of earning it without having debt. But they have earned it by getting good grades and basically graduating on time.

And there's -- the carrot and a stick can work. But -- so we have a -- we identify the problems. We just have different solutions for them.

And I think that we will have to wait and see what the other states do in the caucuses and I guess in the primaries coming up. Super Tuesday will be a telltale for a lot of people.

TAPPER: Would you support Sanders over Trump, if it came down to that?

MANCHIN: Well, we'd have to see where we are at that time there.

Sanders, I can tell you one thing. He's got a good heart and he wants to do the right thing. His solution for fixing it might not be palatable and might not be something doable. I will have to see.

Who knows? Bernie might change and moderate just a little bit from now to then. Who knows?

TAPPER: All right, West Virginia Democratic Senator Joe Manchin, thank you so much for your time, sir. Always good to see you.

MANCHIN: You too. Thank you, Jake.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT