Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, thank you. I want to thank my colleague  from Oregon for his big heart and his compassion, continually always  worrying about those being left behind and forgotten. I can assure you  that Mr. Merkley does not leave anybody behind, and he never forgets  those who are in need of help. 

  Let me just say, in speaking about what we are dealing with, unlike  anything we have ever seen in my lifetime and most people's lifetimes,  up until a couple days ago, my State of West Virginia felt like we were  immune. There were no cases reported, and we were like an island in a  sea of infestation around us. I knew that was not the case. Many people  did not know that we were just not testing and the amount of tests were  just not out there, so people had a false sense of hope and security. 

  That has been shattered. We have our first case now. I am praying to  the good Lord we don't have many more, but I suspect because of the  fragility of our citizens and the elderly population that we have,  those who have done  hard work all their lives and have respiratory ailments could be in  jeopardy. We are very concerned about that. 

  I was reluctant to come and speak, but I think there are some things  that need to be said. We are moving in an unprecedented way to how much  money should be thrown at a pandemic and how much money do they believe  it will take to get us through this horrible time. First of all, we  should be thinking about are we investing and trying to build our  healthcare defense system back up? It has been basically decimated over  the last 2 or 3 years. Should we not put the scientists and people who  know back in positions where they can be looking at these horrible  illnesses and diseases, pandemics, and viruses that we have coming from  different parts of the world to protect us from them hitting our  country again like this? 

  Next of all, should we not be putting everything we have into our  research capabilities and working with all the scientists in all the  different centers so that we can find a way to treat this virus with a  vaccine that would prevent people from contracting this virus? Those  are the measures we should be totally and absolutely committed to and  spending our time and effort immediately upon. 

  Next of all, the financial help that we are going to need. First of  all, don't you think we should be using this--through every challenge  that we have ever had in this great country, we have found a way to  come out of it bigger and stronger. Don't you think we should be  manufacturing the medical devices that we need to heal and cure and  take care of American citizens right here in the good old USA? Don't  you think we should have the amount of products it takes to make the  pharmaceutical pills that we need in order to keep us healthy or cure  us, if you will? Don't you think some of that should be done in the USA  that we have allowed to leave our shores and which now we find is  desperately needed? Don't you think we should be making the medical  masks to protect our first responders and all of our medical workers  whom we need to have on the job? Those are the things we are worried  about from the fallout that can come from this horrific pandemic. It  gives us a chance to reconnect and also a way to correct the  lackadaisical approach we have had to manufacturing over the years.  This is a time for change. 

  Let me throw something else out. I don't think that you and I need a  $1,000 check. I don't think we need that. I think there are an awful  lot of people in America who still have a job, even if they are working  from home, and that basically is not going to change their life with  that $1,000 check. Think about the people who truly do need that check  and a lot more--people on the frontline who have no control of this  whatsoever, that don't have a guaranteed source of income unless they  are out there earning it every day. Don't you think we could help them  more through expanded unemployment benefits, working through the system  that we already have in place in all of our States and in this country?  Don't you think that might be a better way? 

  How about the small businesses that are not capitalized to the point  that they have no ability whatsoever to continue to operate when there  is no capital or cashflow or reserves to take care of themselves? Don't  you think we can help them through the SBA by removing the restrictions  and redtape we have? Unemployment benefits: Basically, waiving all the  wait times, increasing that to a $500-a-week limit? Things of that sort  would help, don't you think? 

  The large corporations, which I know everyone is concerned about, got  one tremendous tax break. That being said, they will come back. They  can afford to pay back a loan at zero percent interest, if you will,  helping in some way to keep that part of the economy stimulated but not  to the point where we are putting our children and grandchildren into a  debt that we can avoid--but not being compassionate and sympathetic  toward those who really need it on the frontline, which is the average  working person who gets up every day and finds out there is no work for  them. They are already on unemployment. They are in the system. Also,  the small businesses are struggling. They are there.  

  We are to the point now where we are going to bite off a lot more,  and we are going to write checks that our children can't cash. That is  exactly what we are doing, if we are not smart about this. It seems  that everyone is gathering around now for whatever type of cover. I am  not sitting here blaming the President or blaming any administration or  anybody else for what we didn't do 2 or 3 or 4 months ago. I am asking  now: Are we going to take responsibility for what we are about to do  that doesn't make any sense whatsoever? 

  With that being said, let's make sure that the money we are putting  in the system is fixing the medical end of it, finding a cure for this  virus, making sure that other viruses or pandemics don't attack us.  Let's make sure we are doing everything we can with what we are  responsible for. 

  Every leader takes an oath of office. When you raise your hand,  whether you are a mayor or Governor or President, whatever, you should  be thinking immediately upon taking that oath, what can I do to protect  the people I am responsible to represent? If you can't do that, then  you are going into the wrong job with the wrong ideas, I can assure you  of that. 

  I am saying that I have the most at-risk population in the country.  It is an older population that has done heavy lifting and heavy jobs  and basically has respiratory concerns and ailments. They are the most  vulnerable, and this pandemic can take a horrific toll on the  population of the State of West Virginia if we are not careful with  what we do. 

  We can also change the course of how we do business and how we look  after each other in America. This situation is asking all of us and  challenging every one of us to look to humanity with compassion and to  bring us together as a people. The American people are a most generous,  caring, and compassionate people. West Virginians treat everybody as  their neighbors. That is who we are. We must take care of our neighbors  and reach out and help those in need. 

  Right now, we have a situation where I am concerned. I am concerned  that all of us have not done our job as well as we could have, and we  are just throwing caution to the wind, thinking we can make everybody  happy with this political coverage because we are going to be throwing  money at everything, thinking this will take care of it. It will not.  It will not unless we deal with the root problems we have. That means  fixing our manufacturing base, taking care of Americans, making sure  people who can't work and who have no other recourse, basically have no  control of their destiny--basically provide the services. That means  the jobs have to be there to meet the demand. We cut most of that out.  Let's make sure we can take care of them and do that without  bankrupting our future generations. I think it can be done. 

  I will say this. I spoke to Vice President Mike Pence last night and  told him the dire need we were in. I said: Mr. Vice President, I know  the people are thinking that West Virginia has been spared. We have  not. We haven't been tested. We need more test kits. We need more  protection for our first responders. We need respirators and  ventilators. We need the tents and first-tier operations. We are not in  a second tier. We are too vulnerable to be in that second tier. If you  want to stop the carnage that could happen if this thing breaks loose  in my State full-fledged, then please help us. 

  I want to thank the Vice President for basically reaching out and  helping West Virginia. We are going to get through this. There will be  a light at the end of the tunnel. There will be a new day. We will have  a chance to right the problems we have right now that have been of our  own making, and we can correct them by our own actions right now. 

  I want to thank you, Mr. President. I hope all our colleagues are  working in a bipartisan way. We should be working together. There are  few times this opportunity comes. In a political arena, there are two  things that happen. You better never ever take advantage of a crisis,  and make something better happen. That is what we are dealing with now. 

  It is a mandate. People are mandating us to do our job. They are  mandating us to work together, not to be irresponsible or act like we  are not in  touch with the average person. We are because that is whom we  represent. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT