Cotton, Manchin, Cornyn Bill Ensures Danger Pay for Marshals Abroad


Senators Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas), Joe Manchin (D-West Virginia) and John Cornyn (R-Texas) introduced The Danger Pay for U.S. Marshals Act, a bill that makes U.S. Marshals Service (USMS) employees eligible for "danger pay" when serving abroad. A bipartisan companion bill has been introduced in the House of Representatives by Reps. Ben Cline (R-Virginia), Lou Correa (D-California), and Doug Collins (R-Georgia).

Bill text may be found here. "U.S. Marshals face the same risks as their FBI or DEA counterparts when serving abroad, but they aren't eligible for the same pay. Our bill would eliminate that discrepancy and ensure that USMS employees receive appropriate compensation for the dangers they face serving our nation," said Cotton. "Every day our U.S. Marshals put themselves in harm's way to ensure our safety. Currently, U.S. Marshals are stationed in Mexico, the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, and Columbia, all posts that would be eligible if Marshals qualified for danger pay. The Danger Pay for U.S. Marshals Act will ensure that those Marshals who are putting themselves at risk to secure our safety are compensated for their efforts. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass this commonsense legislation," said Manchin. "U.S. Marshals put themselves at risk every day in the pursuit of justice. This legislation would ensure those in the Marshals Service receive the pay they are entitled to while serving overseas, often under difficult or dangerous circumstances," said Cornyn. We are consistently proud of the work performed by the U.S. Marshals Service every day to keep the American people safe. Yet these federal law enforcement officers fail to receive adequate pay for their work in some of the world's most dangerous areas. FLEOA would like to thank Senator Tom Cotton and Senator Joe Manchin for seeing this inequity in federal law and agreeing with their colleagues in the House of Representatives on a fix. The Danger Pay for U.S. Marshals Act, now introduced in both the House and the Senate, will give Marshals the compensation they deserve to execute their mission," said Federal Law Enforcement Organization Association President Larry Cosme.