Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I will be voting to confirm Mr. Danly's  nomination to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.  I am doing so because I believe he is well qualified for the job. He  has been the Commission's general counsel for the past 2\1/2\ years. He  understands the complex legal issues that come before the Commission. 

  I voted to report Mr. Danly's nomination, both last November and  again last week, on the strength of his qualifications, not on  politics. I urge my colleagues to do the same. 

  The position to which Mr. Danly has been nominated is one of five  seats on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. By law, no more than  three of the five seats can be held by one party. Only three of the  seats are now filled--two by Republicans and one by a Democrat. The  other Democratic seat has been vacant since last August. 

  Traditionally, when both a Republican seat and a Democratic seat have  been vacant, past Presidents have sent nominations to fill both at the  same time. I am deeply disappointed that this has not happened this  time. The politics involved in this town are outrageous. It is truly  outrageous that even proper decorum, simple civility, and just a little  bit of procedure are not even considered anymore. 

  The White House has had a highly qualified candidate to fill the  Democratic seat for over a year, who has been totally vetted and has  gone through all the processes that we have, but the President and his  staff have still not sent us her nomination. I think they are scared. I  hear this because she is a very, very bright, very smart, very  articulate, and very intelligent person. She knows the issues, and she  is well respected in her field. 

  By breaking the longstanding practice of pairing nominations and not  sending us a nomination for the Democratic seat, the administration  undermines the bipartisan structure of the Commission. I made a  commitment to Mr. Danly that I would support his nomination because he  is well qualified, and I will honor that commitment and vote to confirm  him. Two wrongs don't make a right here, but this has got to stop. 

  Both sides have to stand up and say: Mr. President, this is a  tradition. This is what we do. This is customary of what has been done,  and it gives us a five-member FERC, which is extremely important for  energy in our country and the reliability that we depend on. 

  But as I told my colleagues on the Energy and Natural Resources  Committee, when we voted on Mr. Danly's nomination, I will not support  another nominee unless we get both. This has to stop, and I am asking  my colleagues on the Republican side to please help us with some kind  of structure and some kind of procedure back into the operation. We  need to start acting as a Senate and not be guided by the politics--the  toxic politics--and this tribal mentality. I want the President to send  us the nominations so we can have a fully functioning committee.  

  So with that, I ask all of my colleagues, please, let's vote for the  qualifications of the person, not the politics of the person. Also,  let's make sure we have a complete, working Commission and not just a  partial Commission that is overweighted. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT