Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I rise today to speak on the  impeachment trial of President Donald John Trump. I know this was not a  difficult decision for many of my friends and colleagues on both sides  of the aisle, but it is one that has weighed heavily on me. Voting  whether or not to remove a sitting President is no easy decision, and  it shouldn't be, as the consequences for our Nation are severe. 

  As a moderate, centrist Democrat from West Virginia with one of the  most bipartisan voting records in the Senate, I have approached every  vote I have cast in this body with an open mind and pride myself in  working across the aisle to bring my Republican and Democratic friends  together to do what is best for our country. 

  Where I come from, party politics is more often overruled by just  plain old common sense, and I have never, in over 35 years of public  service, approached an issue with premeditated thoughts that my  Republican friends are always wrong and my Democratic friends are  always right. Since the people of West Virginia sent me here in 2010, I  have never forgotten the oath I took to defend the Constitution and  faithfully discharge the duties of the office of which I am honored to  hold. 

  It is by the Constitution that we sit here today as a court for the  trial of impeachments. It is the Constitution that gives us what  Hamilton called the ``awful discretion'' to remove the President from  office. 

  At the start of this trial, my colleagues and I took an oath  swearing--swearing--to do impartial justice. 

  I have taken this oath very seriously throughout this process, and I  would like to think my colleagues have done the same, because, as the  House managers and our former colleague Republican Senator John Warner  from Virginia said: It is not just the President who is on trial here  but the Senate itself. 

  The Framers of the Constitution chose the Senate for this grave task  because, according to Hamilton, they expected Senators to be able to  ``preserve, unawed and uninfluenced, the necessary impartiality'' to  discharge this awesome responsibility fairly, without flinching. 

  The Framers knew this would not be easy, but that is why they gave  the job to us, the Senators. They believed the Senate was more likely  to be impartial and independent, less influenced by political passion,  less likely to betray our oaths, and more certain to vote on facts and  evidence. 

  This process should be based simply on our love and commitment to our  country, not the relationship any of us might have with this President.  I have always wanted this President and every President to succeed, no  matter what their party affiliation, but I deeply love our country and  must do what is best for the Nation. 

  The Constitution refers to impeachment ``trials'' and says the Senate  must ``try'' impeachments. The Framers chose their words carefully.  They knew what a trial was and what it meant to try a case. By using  the term ``standards of judicial fact finding,'' it calls on us to do  what courts do every day and receive relevant evidence and examine  witnesses. 

  Sadly, the Senate has failed to meet its constitutional obligation,  set forth by the Framers, to hold a fair trial and do impartial  justice, and we have done so in the worse way, by letting tribal  politics rule the day. 

  I supported President Trump's calls for a fair trial in the Senate,  which he suggested himself would include witnesses. But instead this  body was shortchanged, with a majority of my Republican colleagues, led  by the majority leader, voting to move forward without relevant  witnesses and evidence necessary for a fair trial, as our Framers  intended. 

  History will judge the Senate harshly for failing in its  constitutional duty to ``try'' this case and do impartial justice, to  defend the Constitution, and to protect our democracy. Sadly, this is  the legacy we leave to our children and grandchildren. 

  Removing a President from the office to which the people have elected  him is a grave step to take, but the Framers gave the Senate this  solemn responsibility to protect the Constitution and the people of  this Nation. 

  Over the duration of this trial, I have listened carefully as both  the House managers and the White House Counsel make their case for and  against the Articles of Impeachment. I commend both sides for their  great and grueling work in defending their respective positions. 

  The House managers have presented a strong case, with an overwhelming  display of evidence that shows what the President did was wrong. The  President asked a foreign government to intervene in our upcoming  election and to harm a domestic political rival. He delayed much needed  security aid to Ukraine to pressure newly elected President Zelensky to  do him a favor, and he defied lawful subpoenas from the House of  Representatives. 

  However, the President's counsel, too, defended their actions by  laying out their case of the President's actions. They pointed to the  unclassified transcript of President Trump's July 25 call with newly  elected Ukrainian President Zelensky to make the argument that Trump  discussed burden-sharing with other European countries and a mutual  interest in rooting out  corruption. They presented their views that the President was not given  due process in the House of Representatives and highlighted the  expedited nature of the House's proceedings. Finally, they argued: If a  President does something which he believes will help him get elected  and reelected in the public interest, that cannot be the kind of quid  pro quo that results in impeachment. 

  Over the long days and nights of this trial, I have listened to both  sides present their case and answer our questions. I remain undecided  on how I will vote, but these points I believe to be true. First, it  was not a ``perfect'' call. A newly elected President Zelensky, with no  experience in international politics, gets a call from the leader of  the free world asking for a favor related to U.S. domestic political  affairs. 

  No one--no one--regardless of political party, should think what he  did was right. It was just simply wrong. Pressuring a NATO ally who is  actively fighting off Russian aggression in his country is wrong.  President Zelensky, or anyone else, should never feel beholden to the  superpower of the world for a ``favor'' before they can receive  military aid. It is not who we are as a country. We stand shoulder to  shoulder with our allies and never, ever condition our support of  democracy for a political favor. 

  Of all of the arguments we have heard from the House managers and  White House Counsel during the long days and nights we have sat here,  the most dangerous and the most troubling to me is the false claim that  the President can do no wrong, that he is above the law, and if it is  good for the reelection of the President, then, it is good for our  country. That is simply preposterous. That is not who we are as  Americans. 

  That is not how I was raised in the small coal mining town of  Farmington, WV. Where I was raised, no one believed they were better  than anyone else and could act with total disregard for the well-being  of their neighbor if it was for their best interest. That is not why,  over 230 years ago, the founding generation rebelled against a King and  refused to crown a new one in this Republic. So let me be clear. No  one, not even the President, is above the law. 

  Finally, the purpose of impeachment is not to punish the President  but to protect the public. The ultimate question is not whether the  President's conduct warrants his removal from office but whether our  Nation is better served by his removal by the Senate now with  impeachment or by the decision the voters will make in November. 

  As Hamilton warned us, impeachments ``seldom fail to agitate the  passions of the whole community.'' They divide us on party lines and  inflame our animosities. Never before in the history of our Republic  has there been a purely partisan impeachment vote of a President.  Removing this President at this time would not only further divide our  deeply divided Nation but also further poison our already toxic  political atmosphere. 

  In weighing these thoughts, and of all of the arguments brought  forward in the case, I must be realistic. I see no path to the 67 votes  required to impeach President Trump and haven't since this trial  started. However, I do believe a bipartisan majority of this body would  vote to censure President Trump for his actions in this manner. Censure  would allow this body to unite across party lines and as an equal  branch of government to formally denounce the President's actions and  hold him accountable. His behavior cannot go unchecked by the Senate,  and censure would allow a bipartisan statement condemning his  unacceptable behavior in the strongest terms. 

  History will judge the Senate for how we have handled this solemn  constitutional duty, and without bipartisan action, the fears of the  great Senator Byrd will come true. As he said during the Clinton  impeachment, the Senate will ``sink further into the mire'' because of  this partisanship. ``There will be no winners on this vote,'' Byrd  said. ``Each Senator has not only taken a solemn oath to support and  defend the Constitution, but also do `impartial justice,' '' to help  the Nation, ``so help me God . . . . . That oath does not say anything  about political party; politics should have nothing to do with it.'' 

  I am truly struggling with this decision and will come to a  conclusion reluctantly, as voting whether or not to remove a sitting  President is the most consequential decision that I or any U.S. Senator  will ever face. 

  But regardless of my decision, and in the absence of 67 votes, I am  reminded again of the words of Senator Byrd: The House and Senate-- Republicans and Democrats--and the President ``must come together to  heal the open wounds, bind up the damaged trust, and, by our example,  again unite our people.'' 

  ``For the common good, we must now put aside the bitterness that has  infected our Nation . . . . We [must] begin by putting behind us the  distrust and bitterness caused by this sorry episode, and search for  common ground instead of shoring up the divisions that have eroded  decency and good will and dimmed our collected vision.'' 

  It is not the legacy of the individual Senators we should be  concerned about, but it is the legacy of this great institution, the  U.S. Senate, that we leave for generations to come. 

  I thank you, and I ask the good Lord to continue to bless this great  country of ours during this trying time. 

  Thank you, Madam President. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT