Manchin, FCC Commissioner Rosenworcel Encourage Lewis County High School to Submit Speed Tests During Covid-19 Pandemic


Today, U.S. Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Federal Communications Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel encouraged Lewis County High School students to submit broadband speed tests while they are learning from home during the COVID-19 pandemic. Senator Manchin will send these speed tests to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai to advocate for the FCC to create a public feedback system and fix their broadband coverage maps, which determine where federal funding goes to expand broadband coverage.

"Everyone in West Virginia knows that many areas of our state lack reliable broadband coverage and the COVID-19 pandemic has made this disparity even more clear. Commissioner Rosenworcel and I are teaming up with the students of Lewis County High School to submit tests to the FCC to prove that their broadband coverage maps are plain wrong and need fixed before millions of dollars are incorrectly distributed to expand broadband coverage," said Senator Manchin. "I look forward to working with the students of Lewis County High to push the FCC to fix their maps so that all students in West Virginia have reliable broadband access to complete their schoolwork during this crisis and beyond. And thank you Commissioner Rosenworcel for continuing to be a great ally to West Virginia and our efforts to expand reliable broadband. If you would like to submit a speed test, please visit https://www.manchin.senate.gov/speedtest."

"In West Virginia and all across the country there are millions of students who lack the internet access that is now needed to do their homework. Now that schools have closed their doors because of the coronavirus, these same kids can't get online to stay current with their classes. To help close this homework gap and address our nation's digital divide, we need better data about where broadband is and is not. That's why I'm joining Senator Manchin and the students in Lewis County to encourage everyone to conduct speed tests and deliver to the FCC data to help build more accurate broadband maps. With better maps, we can invest federal dollars where they are needed most and close the homework gap for good," said FCC Commissioner Rosenworcel. 

"The coronavirus pandemic is going to shift education permanently. With a greater reliance on remote learning and teaching, it is essential for our students and teachers to have reliable internet access at home. This will allow them to continue making the progress necessary to develop the skills that will make them positive productive members of our community," said Jeff Tidd, Lewis County Schools Technology Director.