Manchin Hears from West Virginia AARP Members Amid Coronavirus Pandemic


Today, U.S. Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) participated in a tele town hall with West Virginia AARP members to hear their concerns about the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Senator Manchin also led a letter last week urging the Administration to ensure Veterans and Social Security beneficiaries receive their stimulus checks automatically.

"Across our state every West Virginian is dealing with the coronavirus and its effects on their daily lives, especially our older West Virginians who are at a higher risk of complications from the coronavirus. Today I heard from AARP members across West Virginia who voiced their concerns about the coronavirus pandemic and how it directly affects older West Virginians. I am continuing to fight for our healthcare providers to get the medical supplies they need to care for West Virginians and for seniors through programs like Meals on Wheels and automatic stimulus checks for Social Security beneficiaries. We must do everything we possibly can to ensure that every West Virginian is taken care of during these difficult times," said Senator Manchin.

"West Virginians face the one-two punch of coronavirus's health and economic consequences, and many need immediate relief and ongoing help and support to cope with the pandemic. On behalf of our nearly 300,000 members in the Mountain State, we appreciate Senator Manchin's work to address the unprecedented public health and economic crisis that faces our state and nation. It is particularly important that older West Virginians -- many of whom live independently at home -- hear directly from those in Washington working on their behalf during this crisis, and we thank Senator Manchin for joining us in this important discussion," said Gaylene Miller, AARP West Virginia State Director.

Senator Manchin has participated in calls with the West Virginia Bankers Association, Community Bankers of West Virginia, West Virginia Credit Union League, West Virginia American Institute of Architects, West Virginia Press Association, West Virginia Association of Counties, West Virginia Municipal Leagues, West Virginia County Commissioners, West Virginia Sheriffs, West Virginia Economic Development Council, West Virginia Manufacturers Association, West Virginia American Federation of Teachers, West Virginia Hospital Association, West Virginia Medical Association, West Virginia Primary Care Association, West Virginia Nursing Association, West Virginia Chamber of Commerce, and West Virginia Directors for Senior and Community Services. In the coming days, he will continue to schedule opportunities to hear directly from West Virginians about how the ongoing pandemic is impacting their lives, businesses and communities.

Senator Manchin launched an information resources page where West Virginians can learn more about the coronavirus pandemic and how to protect themselves and their families. To learn more please click here.