Manchin Votes for NCSC Director, Again Urges McConnell to Focus Senate on Covid-19 Priorities


Today, U.S. Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV), member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on his support for William Evanina as the Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center (NCSC). He also urged Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell again to focus the Senate on COVID-19 related issues.

"Today the Senate confirmed William Evanina to serve as the Director of the NCSC. As Director of the NCSC, Mr. Evanina is responsible for leading and supporting the counterintelligence and security activities of the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Government, and U.S. private sector entities at risk from intelligence collection or attack by foreign adversaries. As a public servant for over 30 years, Mr. Evanina will continue to lead the NCSC with familiarity and experience.

"As the Senate votes on the second nomination since being back in Washington without any work on COVID-19 related priorities, I again urge Mitch McConnell to get to work on the problems facing the American people right now. I continue to hear from our healthcare providers who still lack the necessary PPE they need to do their jobs safely, individuals who are seeking testing before returning to work but cannot get it, and West Virginia small businesses still waiting on Economic Injury Disaster Loans. There is serious business to conduct and it's time we get to work."  

Senator Manchin sent a letter to Mitch McConnell last week urging him to focus the Senate's efforts in returning to Washington, DC on COVID-19 pandemic related issues and oversight of COVID-19 related legislation enacted by Congress.

In his letter, Senator Manchin listed COVID-19 related priorities for consideration:

A public hearing with Administration officials and industry leaders and experts regarding our testing capabilities and capacity, and implementation of the requirement of zero out of pocket cost testing for all populations.A public hearing regarding the implementation of and access to the Paycheck Protection Program and the Economic Injury Disaster Loan program with the Small Business Administration Administrator Carranza.A public hearing regarding the implementation of and access to the Treasury and Federal Reserve's Lending Facilities with Treasury Secretary Mnuchin and Federal Reserve Chairman Powell.A public hearing regarding the best ways to protect the health and safety of our frontline workers with Administration officials and health and safety advocates.A public hearing regarding the implementation of the CARES Act's Unemployment Insurance provisions with Labor Secretary Scalia.Confirmation of appointees to the bipartisan Congressional Oversight Commission, including the chairperson.