Manchin, Capito Announce $5 Million for Coronavirus Response in West Virginia


U.S. Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), members of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced $5,000,803 as part of the Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act, signed by President Trump on March 6th. This funding is distributed by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to the West Virginia Department of Health and Human Resources (DHHR) to assist in the COVID-19 pandemic response.

"West Virginia has the highest at risk population in the nation with over half of West Virginians vulnerable to COVID-19 and at high risk of complications. We must be as prepared as possible to care for everyone who is affected by the coronavirus, which includes keeping our healthcare professionals safe and equipped. I've heard directly from healthcare professionals across West Virginia that they need additional equipment such as masks, gowns, and ventilators so they can be safe while caring for those in need. I am glad West Virginia is receiving funding to help during this pandemic and will continue to do everything possible to ensure West Virginians get the help they need," said Senator Manchin.

"As the coronavirus pandemic impacts our nation and our state, it is crucial that we supply the resources West Virginians needs. This funding will go directly to our state health department, and help our state agencies better address this continued crisis. Now more than ever, our state is relying on our brave healthcare professionals. I cannot thank them enough for their courage during this time and will continue to make sure they are properly supported," said Senator Capito.  

Senators Manchin and Capito have launched information resource pages where West Virginians can learn more about the coronavirus pandemic and how to protect themselves and their families. To learn more please click here for Senator Manchin's page and here for Senator Capito's page.