Manchin Votes for Nuclear Regulatory Commission IG, Urges McConnell to Get to Work on COVID-19 Related Priorities


Today, U.S. Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) released the following statement on his support for Robert Feitel as Inspector General of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and the need to focus the Senate on COVID-19 related issues.

"This evening the Senate voted to confirm Robert Feitel as Inspector General of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Mr. Feitel is an experienced public servant with decades of service at the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Justice Department, and as an Assistant U.S. Attorney. As Inspector General of the NRC, Feitel will be responsible for preventing and detecting fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement at the NRC. Mr. Feitel is highly qualified for this role and I know he will diligently fulfill his role overseeing the NRC and its responsibilities.

"With the full Senate back in Washington, I urge Mitch McConnell to get to work on the problems facing the American people right now. Just this weekend I heard from our healthcare providers who still lack the necessary PPE they need to do their jobs safely, individuals who are seeking testing before returning to work but cannot get it, and West Virginia small businesses still waiting Economic Injury Disaster Loans. There is serious business to conduct and it's time we get to work."  

Senator Manchin sent a letter to Mitch McConnell last week urging him to focus the Senate's efforts in returning to Washington, DC on COVID-19 pandemic related issues and oversight of COVID-19 related legislation enacted by Congress.

The Senator listed COVID-19 related priorities for consideration:

A public hearing with Administration officials and industry leaders and experts regarding our testing capabilities and capacity, and implementation of the requirement of zero out of pocket cost testing for all populations.A public hearing regarding the implementation of and access to the Paycheck Protection Program and the Economic Injury Disaster Loan program with the Small Business Administration Administrator Carranza.A public hearing regarding the implementation of and access to the Treasury and Federal Reserve's Lending Facilities with Treasury Secretary Mnuchin and Federal Reserve Chairman Powell.A public hearing regarding the best ways to protect the health and safety of our frontline workers with Administration officials and health and safety advocates.A public hearing regarding the implementation of the CARES Act's Unemployment Insurance provisions with Labor Secretary Scalia.Confirmation of appointees to the bipartisan Congressional Oversight Commission, including the chairperson.