Manchin, Capito Announce $3 Million Hampshire County Broadband Grant


U.S. Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), members of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced Hampshire County will benefit from a $3 million rural broadband grant through the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)'s Community Connect program. This funding will help connect an estimated 600 homes, businesses, and farms in the area.

"I am so proud that Hampshire County and Hardy Telecommunications have been awarded $3 million to expand broadband access which is vital for rural communities to compete in the 21st century. This award is a testament to the hard work and dedication of the local leaders whom I have been honored to support in this effort over the past year. In October, we hosted a town hall with Federal Communication Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel to show her firsthand the connectivity challenges that Hampshire County families and businesses face every day. This grant will help close the digital divide and bring affordable, high speed internet to more West Virginians, and I look forward to continuing to support the good work of Hardy Telecommunications and Hampshire County in the coming year," said Senator Manchin.

"Folks in the Potomac Highlands know that crossing a county line can mean the difference between no service and good service," Senator Capito said. "Today's announcement will help provide Hampshire County with better service for hundreds of homes and businesses. USDA has been an incredible partner is closing the digital divide in rural areas, and I'm grateful for this investment in West Virginia. This grant is an important first step in working to get Hampshire County reliable service. I'll continue efforts to better connect our communities through my Capito Connect plan until we get all those last-mile areas covered." 

Background:

Through their positions on the Appropriations Committee, Senators Manchin and Capito have worked to increase funding and area eligibility for USDA's rural broadband programs. In the past six months alone, Senator Manchin has helped secure three Community Connect grants (in Monongalia, Marion, and Preston counties) and three ReConnect grants (in Wetzel, Tyler, and Harrison counties), totaling more than $32 million.