Manchin Statement on Supreme Court Decision to Hear Affordable Care Act Challenge Later This Year


U.S. Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) today issued the following statement on the Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS) decision to hear a challenge to the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Texas v. United States, later this year.

 "Today the Supreme Court announced their decision to hear Texas v. United States, a challenge to the Affordable Care Act, which currently protects health coverage for 800,000 West Virginians and millions of Americans. I hope that the Supreme Court's decision to hear the case will mean a definitive answer after the years of turmoil for those West Virginians and Americans living with preexisting conditions. These Americans live in fear of losing their healthcare because of the Administration's continuous attacks on the law of the land, the ACA, which protects their health coverage.

 "Time and time again, I have stated that the ACA is not perfect, but we simply cannot throw the baby out with the bath water. I am outraged by the Administration's efforts to do so while touting their support for people with preexisting conditions. It is unconscionable. I also urge West Virginia's Attorney General Patrick Morrisey to withdraw from this dangerous lawsuit on behalf of the hundreds of thousands of West Virginians who will be harmed.

 "While the Administration is actively undermining the protections for people with preexisting conditions, I will continue to fight for Congress to pass bipartisan legislation that will fix our current healthcare system and ensure that the Senate has the opportunity to defend the constitutionality of preexisting condition protections in court. Every West Virginian and American deserves access to quality and affordable health insurance and I will not stop fighting until their access is protected."

In a recent letter led by Senator Manchin, 47 U.S. Senators wrote to President Trump advocating for the protection of people with preexisting conditions in the President's proposed budget. Despite the Administration's promise to protect people with preexisting conditions, the President's proposed budget continues to fund the Department of Justice's (DOJ) legally unsound position in Texas v. United States.