Manchin, Capito applaud passage of resolution to honor University of Charleston men's soccer team


U.S. Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) today applaud the passage of their resolution congratulating the University of Charleston men's soccer team for winning the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division II Men's Soccer Championship at Highmark Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on December 14, 2019. The Senate passed the resolution by unanimous consent.

"I am a proud supporter of the University of Charleston's soccer program and like so many West Virginians, I was thrilled when the men's soccer team won the national championship in December," Senator Manchin said. "Their dedication is another reason to be proud of our incredible young people and our beautiful state. With this resolution, their accomplishments will be further recognized and remembered for years to come."

"I am so proud of the young men and coaches of the University of Charleston soccer team for once again winning the Division II National Championship," Senator Capito said. "Balancing education and athletics is no easy task, and these young men have shown that they can do just that and thrive at the top level. It is my pleasure to congratulate the Golden Eagles and the entire University of Charleston community for winning another National Championship!"

"This championship is testament to the University of Charleston's dedication to student success" said University of Charleston President Martin S. Roth. "Our student athletes' commitment to excellence in the classroom, on the field, and in the community, was evident from the first game to the last.  With the support of outstanding coaches, faculty, and staff, they won a national soccer championship while achieving a team 3.25 grade point average.  Few teams create their destiny to win the final game of the season.  We are exceptionally proud of the team's accomplishments, and the recognition their championship brings to Charleston and the state of West Virginia."