MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MANCHIN. Would the gentleman yield? 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MANCHIN. Well, truly, we are friends, and there is not a person  over there I don't consider my dear friend. A lot of times, that is  used in a very colloquial way, but I mean it. 

  The Senator from Nebraska, let me--from Kansas--let me just say this.  Excuse me for pronouncing the wrong State here. You don't have a  problem on this side with the 30-hour wait. That has never been. We  very seldom object on anything. That is not where the problem comes  from. So everyone thinking that we are going to make everybody stay  here for 30 hours--that is not going to happen from the Democrats  objecting. We will not. There is not a person I have spoken to who is  going to stop it. What they want to do is, in good faith, get to the  bill. Once we get to that bill--and in the meantime, they said: Well,  let's get on the bill. Can't we at least get on it and work on it?  Usually we don't move to that unless there is good faith in the  beginning. Right now, there is very little good faith there from the  top end of the food chain. That is the sad scenario we are in.  

  But I can assure you, as soon as there is an agreement, we are  moving, unless somebody on your side would object. There are no  objections on this side. So I would hope that you all you would not use  that 30-hour obstruction because it is not here. 

  I will have a chance to speak about this more, but I just thank you  because I know rural--your State is rural, my State is rural, and it is  the same. These people are out there, and they are depending on us, and  we have to get together here as Americans. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MANCHIN. Please. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I want to thank all of my colleagues, who  truly are all my friends, who are here expressing their concerns. I  think we are all on the same side. I think that for every one of you  and me and everybody within the House and Senate, we have this disease  in our States and we have it in our neighborhoods and backyards. This  COVID-19 doesn't know whether you are a Democrat, a Republican, or an  Independent. People are scared right now. 

  We have States that are sheltering in place. My State just announced  that at 12 or 1 p.m. today, they are going to shelter in place, and I  have a very vulnerable population I am concerned about. I have a very  vulnerable healthcare system I am very much concerned about, because if  they are not able to provide the services we are going to need and that  we need now, then, Good Lord, help us all. We will be in trouble then.  We are going to protect them, and that is what we are fighting for. 

  I know they are talking about this: Why are the Democrats stalling  just to get on the bill? If we just got on the bill, everything would  be fine. 

  How can we? For people to understand how this process works, we  usually have an agreement before we get on a vote to pass something. If  there is not an agreement, then, there is political posturing. That is  what is happening. The political posturing is going on because they  know there is a difference. So where can the pressure be put? 

  I have been here for 10 years, and I have never seen the place work  at all.  So I appreciate those of you who give me some historical values on how  it used to work. I wish it did. I always thought that when there was  good faith, whether I agreed or not, you could have a chance to amend  the bill or change the bill or do something to it. We don't get that  chance here. So if we start moving before we have an agreement, then  there is going to be no conciliatory movement toward something to then  make it happen. 

  Where are we at right now? Let me state something with regard to the  $500 billion in that bill. I don't know whether it is $1.3 trillion or  $2 trillion, but I know it is moving up rapidly. But in $500 billion of  it that we can basically identify, this is where I have had some  problems in what I understand. 

  First of all, there is no strong language that prohibits the stock  buybacks. I know they keep saying corporate bailouts. OK, forget about  the bailouts, but you tell me if this is not pretty favorably slanted  to one side. There is no strong language to prohibit stock buybacks. As  written, the buyback limitation can be waived by Secretary Mnuchin.  Secretary Mnuchin can direct funds to whom he sees as necessary but  with very, very little oversight. 

  There is no restraint on taking the assistance and firing employees  at a later time, as employers only have to keep employees ``to the  extent possible,'' which is in the language. These are the concerns. 

  The bill allows for a 6-month delay on releasing the names of  businesses. Tell me why we would put a 6-month delay on releasing the  names of businesses that take advantage and get this economic  opportunity. Why shouldn't we be transparent? 

  There is only a 2-year prohibition on increasing executive  compensation. We have seen what happens when it runs amuck. Those are  the concerns we have. Those are the concerns I have. 

  With that, let's take the measures we agree on. We agree we should be  protecting the healthcare industry. We have agreed on $100 billion. We  were way off from that, but, finally, by not agreeing to move on to the  bill, it is now up to $75 billion. I think when we come out this  afternoon, there will be $100 billion to take care of our hospitals,  our rural and other healthcare systems, so they can survive, making  sure that all of our healthcare providers are protected. These are the  things that we are talking about and the things we have asked for. 

  So they start saying: Oh, just get on the bill. Yes, just get on the  bill 

  And then what happens? Nothing else happens, because then it is out  of our jurisdiction, if you will, because we have little chance to  intervene. The rules are that, basically, the majority has the rule.  They can rule, and that is exactly how it works. So, we are trying to  get a bill. 

  There is no need for us to take a vote today because we are still  working on it. I know the Secretary of Treasury is in there working on  it. They are all sitting there working on it. Why would we have a vote  when we knew we didn't have an agreement? But we are getting close to  one, and if we get an agreement, I will state that every Democrat will  vote to suspend the rules, and we will move immediately, unless there  is an objection from my friends on the Republican side. 

  That is what we are talking about. Please, let's quit blaming each  other. People are depending in my State on our taking care of  healthcare workers, taking care of people laid off and who don't have a  paycheck through no fault of their own. Businesses have had to close  through no fault of their own. Those are the people on the frontlines.  I have people scared and sheltered in place right now, an elderly  population. 

  So there are things we have agreed on. I heard Senator Lankford from  Oklahoma, who was speaking on the things that I agree on 1,000 percent  with him. Why can't we be on that? If we can't get anything else done,  let's vote today on the things we can agree on. Let's move on the  healthcare, take care of COVID-19, and take care of the healthcare  industry and the workers and take care of the people who lost their  jobs and businesses. 

  We are worried about a $500 billion payout with very little oversight  and transparency. That is truly the problem in a nutshell, and all we  are asking for, basically, is, Shouldn't the people and the taxpayers  of this country understand where their money is going and the people  who are going to be able to use it? Add some transparency and oversight  to it. That is all we ask for, and that is all I ask for. 

  About all those other things that have been thrown in, I am not for  that, and I think you all know that. I am not for the green deal, and I  think you all know that. I think there has to be an all-in energy  policy approach. I think we all have to have common sense, and we have  to produce affordable, dependable energy and use everything we can-- renewables and using fossil fuels in the cleanest possible way. So who  is throwing that stuff in? I have no idea, but I can guarantee I  wouldn't vote for it. But what I will vote for is exactly what we  should agree on and what I think we do agree on. 

  Let's come together as Americans and forget about Republicans and  Democrats and get this place working again. If we had the amendment  process--I was totally opposed when Senator Reid basically kind of shut  things down and we weren't able to have amendments. You all were, too.  We were promised that no matter who takes over leadership, by golly,  the system is going to open up, and we are going to have amendments and  debates on the floor. And guess what. It got worse. It didn't get  better. It got worse. 

  If you want to know why people are throwing everything but the  kitchen sink into a piece of legislation, it is because they have very  little opportunity to do anything here. There is too much power in the  two basic leaderships. This much power should not be in so few people.  All of us should be involved. 

  I believe--and I have said this--that we all have that better angel  inside of us. I hope you let her fly. I hope you let her fly today. She  needs to get out and go a little bit. We need her. We need the better  angels in all of us to start looking out and taking care of each other.  There are a lot of people hurting and a lot of people with uncertainty  right now, and I want to make sure that we fix it. I will stay here all  day and all night to make sure it gets fixed--whatever it takes. 

  With that, I ask all of my good friends--and I mean that, all my good  friends--let's work together for the sake of this great country. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT