-9999


Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, today, I stand here to recognize small  business. Actually, today, I rise to recognize Kelsi Daniell.

Kelsi began working in my office 7 years ago, as a press secretary,  and quickly proved herself, moving up to communications director and  now deputy chief of staff for communications and policy. In an era of  title inflation, that title doesn't encompass nearly all that Kelsi  does. She truly is the glue that holds my operation together.

We all come to Washington focused on the things we really want to  tackle but quickly realize that even the best planned day can quickly  take unexpected twists and turns.

There are also fires to put out, and I have been fortunate to have  Kelsi's steady hand and solid counsel to count on. No matter the  assignment or situation, just like her favorite meme, ``This is  fine''--``This is fine''--she always responds this way and calmly goes  about her work.

However, most days, she is anticipating what could go wrong and  getting ahead of it. She is able to put out fires, sometimes even  before they start. She has already figured out how to handle the hot  topics of the day, while preparing for tomorrow. We all know, if there  is a problem, we can turn to Kelsi and say, ``Please, fix,'' and the  job gets done.

She is as precise as a fine-tooth comb, from pulling off press  conferences abroad to wacky floor speeches, and, of course, my day-to- day operations. Kelsi is relentless in ensuring perfection in  execution.

In fact, Kelsi, my staff was very nervous about surprising you today  with this speech--because she hadn't edited it. That is because she  always puts the finishing touches on every project that makes it  better.

She has the same impact on all of us around her. She always brings up  everyone by making each of us stronger, myself included.

Whether driving river to river, across Iowa, or navigating the Halls  of Congress, she never, ever slows down, including when she brought one  of those walking treadmills for her desk in DC. She has even led our  staff in Tabata training.

Mr. President, if you have been through that, it is hellacious.

And, of course, watch out for Kelsi if you are facing off against her  in pickleball.

Even while keeping us all on track, somehow, she has always found the  time to pour into the people around her as a mentor and as a friend.

She is actively involved in her church, and she became a mother  during the Iowa caucus.

Her commitment to excellence and drive to always push harder is a  true testament to her leadership--characteristics that she has infused  into my office and will take with her in whatever she sets her sights  on. It is a mindset for us all to aspire to as we prepare for whatever  the day brings us.

And as she likes to say before any meeting ends, ``one more thing":  Kelsi, I will miss your wise counsel, and I am so thankful for your  friendship. I know you will continue excelling at everything you do,  and I am grateful beyond words for everything you have done for me and  on behalf of my Iowans.

So God bless you, Kelsi, in your journeys.