-9999


Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, all Americans can take great pride in our  Nation's generosity that has saved millions of people around the world  from starvation and disease, and our government Agencies coordinating  aid efforts should be eager to share details about how their use of  taxpayer money makes the world a better place. Yet, over the past  decade, USAID repeatedly rebuffed my request for information, using  intimidation and shell games to hide where money is going, how it is  being spent, and why.

As a result of my oversight, I learned that the U.S. Agency for  International Development, or USAID, is a rogue bureaucracy operating  with little accountability and even sometimes at odds with our Nation's  best interests.

What warranted such secrecy and stonewalling? Here is just some of  USAID's questionable spending that I uncovered: Money intended to  alleviate economic distress in war-torn Ukraine was spent sending  models and designers on junkets to New York City and fashion weeks in  Paris and London at a cost of more than $203,000, $148,000 went to a  pickle maker, a dog collar manufacturer fetched $300,000, and a custom  carpet manufacturer collected $2 million.

Elsewhere, $20 million was awarded to Sesame Workshop, which produces  ``Sesame Street,'' to create content for Iraq. Two million dollars went  toward promoting--get this, folks--promoting tourism to Lebanon--a  nation that our very own State Department warns against traveling to  due to the risks of terrorism and kidnapping.

Yes, folks, 2 million bucks for tourism to Lebanon when we are  saying: Don't travel there.

Also, $67,000 was spent to feed edible insects to children in  Madagascar, and over $800,000 was sent to China's notorious Wuhan  Institute of Virology to collect coronaviruses.

What exactly was our International Development Agency developing at  China's Wuhan Institute of Virology? Well, if the CIA, the FBI, and  other experts are correct that the COVID virus likely originated from a  lab leak, USAID may have had a hand in a once-in-a-century pandemic  that claimed the lives of millions.

There is no shortage of other questionable USAID projects, but  President Trump is putting an end to this deep state operation.

The foreign assistance programs that do advance American interests  are now being administered under the watchful eye of Secretary Marco  Rubio. This includes projects previously supported by USAID that were  caring for orphans and people living with HIV.

Imagine how much more good work like this could be done with the  dollars that instead financed fashion shows, supported ``Sesame  Street'' programs in Iraq, or ended up at China's Wuhan Institute.

Overseas projects without merit are being ended, and the tax dollars  that were paying for them will be refunded if the Senate passes the  rescissions bill.

It also cancels taxpayers' subsidies to public broadcasting. Too  often, these programs are partisan propaganda. And you don't have to  take my word for it. A National Public Radio senior editor recently  confessed, and I will quote this editor's words, not mine:

It's true NPR has always had a liberal bent.

He admits the organization has zero--zero--Republicans in editorial  positions. Come on, folks, even CNN has Scott Jennings to roast the  loony liberal lunatics on that failing network.

NPR has the right to say whatever the heck they want, but they don't  have a right to force hard-working Americans to pay for their political  propaganda being masked as a public service.

Defunding this nonsense is causing a lot of squealing from the big  spenders around here. Washington insiders are more upset at this effort  to stop wasteful spending than at the misuse of taxpayer dollars. In  fact, saving tax money is such a crazy concept in Washington that  Democrats are threatening to shut down the entire government if this  bill passes. It says a lot about the other side's priorities when they  are willing to take hostage funding for veterans and senior citizens to  prevent $9 billion in unnecessary waste, fraud, and abuse from being  trimmed from our $7 trillion annual budget. The interest that we are  paying on our debt alone is costing nearly $3 billion every single  day--every day.

If we are ever going to get serious about our debt crisis, Congress  needs to pass a rescissions bill like this every single week--every  week.

Folks, the simple truth is, if you can't find waste in Washington, it  is because you simply are not looking. With our national debt now  exceeding $37 trillion, the real question we should be asking isn't why  is government spending now being scrutinized, but, rather, why did it  take so long?