-9999


Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I rise today to honor a fellow Iowan and an  exemplary leader, GEN James J. Mingus, upon his retirement from the  U.S. Army after more than four decades of distinguished service to our  Nation.

Born in Spencer, IA, General Mingus was instilled with strong  midwestern values of hard work, service, grit, and teamwork.

Long before he wore four stars on his shoulders, General Mingus took  up the call to service, in 1981, in the same way that so many of us  did. He enlisted in the Iowa Army National Guard. It was there that he  learned the mundane tasks of a young soldier, at that time--shining  black leather boots, making sure your uniform was ready for those  weekend drills in a blustery cold Iowa. But he also learned the more  impactful lessons in the National Guard, such as leadership and  teamwork and caring for the brother to the left and right of you. His  focus, even as a young soldier, was always on people.

In 1985, he earned his commission in Field Artillery at the Winona  State University Reserve Officers' Training Corps. When he entered  Active Duty, 2 years later, he transitioned to the Infantry.

From the outset, General Mingus' trajectory took him through some of  the Army's most demanding assignments. He commanded and served in  positions that required courage, initiative, and an unwavering sense of  duty. Those early assignments prepared him for service in the 75th  Ranger Regiment, where he served as an operations officer and later  commanded the 4th Ranger Training Battalion, helping to shape the  Army's toughest trainees into elite warriors.

Throughout his career, General Mingus was repeatedly entrusted with  greater responsibility. This was a reflection of the confidence placed  in him by soldiers and senior leaders alike. Over the course of his  career, General Mingus deployed not once, not twice--nope--not 5 times,  not even 10. General Mingus deployed 12 times to Iraq and Afghanistan,  repeatedly placing himself along soldiers in harm's way and earning the  enduring respect of those whom he led.

He went on to serve in key staff roles at U.S. Central Command and  the Joint Special Operations Command, where his strategic insight  helped to guide complex and high-risk missions.

In August 2018, General Mingus assumed command of the 82nd Airborne  Division at Fort Bragg--one of the Army's most storied divisions.  Through these experiences and as a testament to his dedication and  leadership, he was selected to serve as the 39th Vice Chief of Staff of  the U.S. Army and was promoted to the rank of four-star general. In  that role, he has served as the Army's second highest ranking officer,  helping to oversee the readiness, modernization, and the strategic  direction of our Nation's land forces.

But beyond rank and assignments, those who have served under him will  tell you that General Mingus' greatest legacy is his focus on people-- on soldiers and their families, on mentorship--and on ensuring that the  Army remains lethal, ready, and grounded in its core values. His  journey from an enlisted Iowa Army National Guardsman to Vice Chief of  Staff of the Army is a powerful example for every young man or woman of  how great our American opportunity is.

On behalf of a grateful nation, I extend my deepest thanks to GEN  James J. Mingus for his extraordinary service and sacrifice.

I also have a profound appreciation for Amy, his wife, who has such a  tremendous and beautiful spirit, and for their family, whose support  made this remarkable career possible.

As he moves into his next chapter, his legacy will endure in the  strength of the U.S. Army and in the countless soldiers who are better  leaders and better Americans because they served alongside him and  under him.

God bless you, GEN Jay Mingus, and thank you for your service and  sacrifice to our great U.S. Army and to our great United States of  America.