Des Moines Register - Joni Ernst: The Democrats' socialist agenda is out of touch with Iowa


By Joni Ernst

All eyes are on Iowa as the Democratic presidential candidates continue to descend on our state for the first-in-the-nation caucuses.

As Iowans, we take seriously the important role our state plays every four years as the country debates the best policy and leadership to move America forward.

More than two dozen Democrats declared their candidacy to take on President Donald Trump, and their policy ideas have become increasingly radical. The Democrats' debate this month was held in Iowa, yet these candidates are far from the mainstream and what Iowans want to see. In fact, the candidates continue to ignore the negative effects these policies will have on Iowans.

So what exactly are Democratic candidates offering Iowans? Well, socialized medicine is one idea. What you will not hear the candidates advocating it talk about is the estimated $32 trillion price tag, longer wait times, and decrease in quality care that come with it. The Green New Deal is another favorite topic for Democrats. This plan by coastal elites could cost an estimated $93 trillion, hurt family farms, crush jobs here in Iowa, eliminate the car you drive and require your hard-earned dollars to finance those who are "unwilling to work."

In sharp contrast, our economy is booming under President Trump and the Republicans in the Senate, as well as our Republican leadership in the great state of Iowa under Gov. Kim Reynolds. Unemployment is low, and we have full employment in Iowa. We have a great, strong economy and we are just getting started.

The new United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) has finally passed Congress and the phase one China trade deal was signed by the president. President Trump has been tough on trade with China, and the result is progress for the first time to protect our intellectual property and to make sure farmers are getting a fair deal for our products. Additionally, President Trump's and Republicans' tax cuts for the middle class triggered record growth in our economy. He has relieved burdens of needless regulation, allowing small business to prosper. That's what Iowans care about; making sure that Washington is working for them.

Under President Trump, our military has been given the resources it needs to protect our nation against threats from our enemies. With his strong leadership, we've seen the destruction of ISIS and the elimination of ruthless terrorists from the face of the planet. Gen. Qasem Soleimani killed and maimed hundreds and thousands of American troops. I am thankful we have a president with the intestinal fortitude to take out that horrible man. The Democrats' reaction to the death of Soleimani served as the most recent example of their inability to make the tough, decisive actions in foreign policy that send a strong message to our enemies and protect our freedom. 

I saw first-hand what it was like to live without freedom when I was in the Soviet Union for an agricultural exchange in college. It was then that I made the decision to dedicate my life to protecting our freedom.

Our American values and our way of life here in Iowa are under attack from the left, and I will not back down and let it happen. That is why I am seeking another term in the Senate, to stand up for Iowa and hold the line against the socialist ideas coming from the coastal elites.

The forces of the radical, socialist left are on the march across our state. We know there is a better way. But, there's more work to be done to push back on the coastal liberal insanity; to stand up for Iowans, our farms, and our very way of life in the face of socialism; to defend our country by strengthening our military and supporting our fighting men and women around the world; and to make Washington squeal. If you are running for United States Senate, then Iowa voters deserve to know who you stand with: the people of Iowa? Or a socialist running for president?

The debate this month was further evidence of an ugly truth. This is today's Democratic Party.  With four more years of Donald Trump in the White House and a Republican majority in Congress, we can advance more ideas that will continue to strengthen the heartland and advance rural America, while holding the line against the socialist agenda coming from the radical left.