Ernst Issues PSA on COVID-19


U.S. Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA) issued an audio public service announcement (PSA) on the COVID-19 pandemic, encouraging Iowans to continue adhering to guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to limit the spread, flatten the curve, and to "stay safe and stay strong."

Full text of Senator Ernst's PSA to Iowans:

"Hello everyone, this is Senator Joni Ernst.

"These last few weeks have been challenging for all of us, with the COVID-19 pandemic impacting Iowans in every corner, county, and community across our state.

"There's no question we face a serious challenge, because this is a serious disease. And that's why it's so important that every single one of us across Iowa is doing our part to help mitigate the spread and win this fight against COVID-19.

"That means doing some of the basic things, like regularly washing our hands and even using a scarf or bandana to cover our faces in public. It also means strictly following the social distancing guidelines set out by the health experts at the CDC. As much as possible, we simply must stay home.

"The goal is to "Flatten the Curve.' We've all heard this term in the last few weeks. This means mitigating the spread of COVID-19 by staying home and drastically limiting our in-person interactions with others -- by doing this we can save lives.

"As we all know, this health crisis has forced every one of us to make changes. We've put major parts of our lives and our communities on hold--everything from weddings and big life events, to family trips and high school sports games.

"Folks, while this is different than what we are used to, and has caused hardships and disruptions for us all, it is vitally important for everyone to take this seriously and for us each to do our part to "Flatten the Curve.'

"If we do, we will help save lives and we will get through this -- together -- as Iowans. It takes each and every individual Iowan doing their part to help limit the spread of this deadly disease.

"For information on the ways you can stay healthy and to help Flatten the Curve, visit www.cdc.gov/coronavirus. You can also visit my website, at www.ernst.senate.gov, and reach out to my office -- we are always here to help.

"Iowa, please stay safe, and stay strong."