Ernst Praises U.S. Servicemembers and Intelligence Personnel for Successful Mission to Kill Brutal Terrorist Soleimani


Former company commander in Iraq and Kuwait, U.S. Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA) joined Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) and 41 Senate colleagues in supporting a resolution honoring the members of the military and intelligence community who carried out the successful mission that killed Qasem Soleimani, a designated terrorist and head of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps-Quds Force (IRGC-QF).

"Qasem Soleimani was a terrorist who was responsible for the slaughter of hundreds of Americans. The world is a better, safer place because of the brave and decisive action of the men and women of America's armed forces who carried out their mission from President Trump with precision and excellence in taking out Soleimani," said Senator Ernst, the first female combat veteran elected to the Senate. "As a former company commander in Iraq and Kuwait, I commend all of our military and intelligence personnel who assisted in this mission, and all of our servicemembers around the world sacrificing to keep us safe every day."

This resolution models a resolution unanimously supported by the U.S. Senate in 2011, after American forces killed Al Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden. Full text of the resolution can be found HERE.

Background:

Following the successful mission by the U.S. military in taking out Soleimani, Ernst said in part, "at the direction of President Trump, he has been brought to justice before he could kill even more Americans."  

In addition, this week, Ernst joined both Varney & Co. and Outnumbered Overtime to discuss her reactions to President Trump's maximum pressure campaign against the Islamic Republic of Iran.

Following President Trump's remarks on the missile attacks near U.S. facilities in Iraq by the Iranian regime, Ernst praised the president's "decisive action" and said she's hopeful "Iran is choosing the smart path--for their own sake--by de-escalating, in the meantime we must continue our maximum pressure campaign against the Iranian regime and remain vigilant against the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism."