Ernst Helps Secure Over $383M for Iowa's Rural Hospitals, Clinics, and Community Health Centers


As a result of the bipartisan CARES Act, U.S. Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA) has helped secure $383,318,585 for Iowa's rural health care providers. This announcement follows Ernst's urging for the federal government to immediately assist rural health providers, and builds on earlier relief the senator helped garner for Iowa's health providers through the CARES Act, as well as supplemental funding of over $11 million for the state's community health centers.

"Iowa's small rural hospitals, clinics, and community health centers are vital to folks across our state. These essential health care providers faced many challenges before this pandemic hit, and now, more than ever, they need assistance to make ends meet, maintain their staff, and keep serving Iowans," said Senator Joni Ernst. "That's why I've consistently fought hard to get Iowa's rural health providers direct support and assistance and am so pleased that through bipartisan work, more relief is on the way. These folks are on the front lines of COVID-19, and we must make sure they get the support they need. Though our work isn't done here, this is a really important step."

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced Friday that 177 rural acute care general hospitals and Critical Access Hospitals, Rural Health Clinics, and Community Health Centers located throughout Iowa's rural communities will receive funding which Ernst helped secured as part of the bipartisan Phase 3 relief package.

Background:

Ernst has continued to advocate for Iowa's health care community on the front lines throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. She successfully helped include critical funding for the health care community in the bipartisan CARES Act.

After hearing from county hospitals in Iowa, she also called on the Senate to provide public hospitals, many of which are in rural areas, with additional relief through the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP). While the Small Business Administration and Treasury Department have said that some of these county hospitals will be eligible, others still cannot get access to the PPP. As such, Ernst continues her efforts to ensure that all small county or municipal hospitals in Iowa are eligible for the PPP.

In addition, as part of the most recent bipartisan relief package, Ernst supported additional funding for hospitals and health care workers.