Ernst Leads Effort to End Horrific Abuse Against Women and Girls


"Gender-based violence is the most extreme constraint on female empowerment--this obstacle remains the largest global epidemic ahead of women. It seems impossible that a painful practice like female genital mutilation could be allowed to happen in the United States. If we stay silent, more women and young girls will suffer from this egregious injustice," said Senator Blackburn.

"These unspeakable and unforgivable crimes committed against young women must end and should not go unpunished. This resolution recognizes the need to have laws in place to fully eliminate these practices," said Senator Hyde-Smith.

"In modern times, it's almost hard to believe that worldwide 200 million girls and women have suffered this horrific, unnecessary experience. More must be done to end this violation of human rights. I'm proud to join my colleagues in denouncing this heinous practice and calling on the international community to increase efforts to eradicate it," said Senator Loeffler.

"FGM is horrific and it has absolutely no place in any culture or country. Today I join with the Republican women of the Senate in condemning those who perpetrate this practice and standing up for the women and young girls around the world who suffer this abuse," said Senator Fischer.

Background:

The resolution put forward today by Senator Ernst and her colleagues denounces female genital mutilation or cutting as a violation of the human rights of women and girls and urges the international community and the federal government to increase efforts to eliminate the harmful practice. It is endorsed by Independent Women's Forum and AHA Foundation. Full text of the resolution can be found HERE.

This resolution builds off of the Federal Prohibition of Female Genital Mutilation Act of 2019  which Senators Blackburn, Ernst, Hyde-Smith, Capito, and Fischer put forward last year. This bill works to end female genital mutilation and ensure successful future prosecution of those who perpetuate this practice. The Female Prohibition of Female Genital Mutilation Act is endorsed by Concerned Women for America Legislative Action Committee, Independent Women's Forum, and the Rape, Abuse, & Incest National Network.