Ernst, Joined by Sec. Naig, Hosts Telephone Town Hall with Iowa's Farmers, Producers


U.S. Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA), chairman of the Senate Agriculture Subcommittee on Rural Development and Energy, hosted her fifth telephone town hall since the outbreak of COVID-19 today, taking questions from Iowa's farmers and producers. Ernst was joined on the telephone town hall by Iowa's Secretary of Agriculture Mike Naig and State Executive Director at the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Farm Service Agency, Amanda DeJong.

"From our livestock and dairy farmers, to our ethanol and biofuels producers, everyone is feeling the impact of COVID-19. As I continue to listen to Iowans across the state, I've made it a priority to hear from our farmers and producers. Today's telephone town hall allowed me to connect with thousands of folks in our agriculture community and discuss some of the issues top of mind for them -- like the importance of making sure they have access to the assistance we provided to USDA through the Phase 3 relief package," said Senator Joni Ernst.

Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, Senator Ernst has made it a priority to continue listening to and hearing from Iowans across the state, including farmers and producers with Iowa Farm Bureau, Iowa Cattlemen's Association, and many more.

Since helping secure critical provisions for Iowa agriculture in the bipartisan Phase 3 relief package, Ernst has called on the USDA to provide immediate assistance to cattle producers. In addition, Ernst urged USDA to get additional relief to the biofuels industry through the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) -- which was bolstered by the bipartisan Phase 3 relief package. Earlier this week, the Iowa senator called for the Small Business Administration (SBA) to ensure Iowa's farmers, producers, ranchers, and growers have access to the relief they need during COVID-19. And just yesterday, she called on the USDA to provide relief and support specific for the dairy farmers and industry that's been hit hard by the coronavirus.