Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, in March, our country lost a great  statesman and my fellow ``squealer,'' former Senator Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma. A family physician who delivered more than 4,000 babies, he  was known as ``Dr. Tom'' in Oklahoma, but in Washington he was called  ``Dr. No'' because of his fierce opposition to adding more red ink to  the national debt. 

  Having served just 10 years in the Senate before retiring in 2019,  the year I was elected, I never had the honor to serve alongside Dr.  Coburn. Nonetheless, his leadership and his efforts to eliminate  government waste and overreach continues to be an inspiration to me and  to many others. 

  ``If you cannot find waste in any part of the Federal budget,'' he  once commented, ``it can only be for one reason--you haven't looked.''  Many of the outlandish examples he exposed are now what I call  legendary. Take, for example, the shrimp on a treadmill, and of course  there was the ``bridge to nowhere.'' 

  Every Federal agency in Washington feared the notoriety of being  called out in Dr. Coburn's annual report of government excess known as  the waste book. He led the fight that ended congressional earmarks that  were known as pork projects. While others got credit for creating new  government programs, Dr. Coburn took on the thankless job of trying to  unravel the maze of duplicative, overlapping programs and redundant and  inefficient bureaucracy. 

  The law he authored requiring the Government Accountability Office,  or GAO, to identify duplication within Federal programs has saved our  taxpayers more than $260 billion to date. I think the head of GAO said  it best; that this law is ``the gift that keeps on giving, and it will  for a long time.'' This effort is not just saving money; it is making  government more efficient in other important ways. 

  An egregious example found that as a result of Coburn's duplication  law, there are 10 different agencies with 23 different overlapping and  fragmented definitions for sexual violence. If we can't even define the  problem, how are we going to stop it, folks? That is why I am proud to  say that I have joined Senator Ron Johnson's efforts to clarify the  definition of sexual violence and improve data collection so that we  can address this issue head on. 

  Another law Coburn authored with none other than then-Senator Barack  Obama put all Federal expenditures online so that taxpayers could  simply Google to find out how their tax dollars are being spent. Hailed  as the greatest government transparency reform since the Freedom of  Information Act, the public website, USAspending.gov is helping to keep  Washington accountable for how every cent is spent. If you go on the  website today you can find ridiculous examples of binge-buying  bureaucrats who are ringing up tens of billions of dollars of last- minute, unnecessary purchases at the end of a fiscal year, splurging on  unnecessary things like tons of Tater Tots, $4.6 million on crab legs  and lobster, and even a foosball table. When I heard of this outlandish  spending, I embraced my inner Tom Coburn and took action, putting  forward a bill to end Washington's year-end, use-it-or-lose-it spending  sprees. 

  Folks, Tom Coburn was not afraid to work across the aisle to find  compromise without compromising his principles or values. There is no  better example than the friendship he struck up with President Obama.  The two were elected to the Senate the same year, and they were on  opposite sides of nearly every major issue during their time in  Washington. Yet Dr. Coburn would regularly call to offer encouragement  to President Obama and pray for him and his family. The two of them  could even be spotted hugging and laughing together at the State of the  Union Address. 

  At a time when the focus too often is on what separates rather than  unites us, these are relationship goals we should all aspire to achieve  with one another if we hope to tackle the unprecedented problems now  facing our Nation. 

  Our hearts and prayers are with Dr. Coburn's wife Carolyn and his  daughters and grandchildren as they grieve his loss. While he can never  be replaced, we can all take comfort knowing Tom Coburn has made this  world a better place and that the legacy he left behind endures through  many of his staff members as well, such as Roland Foster, who is now on  my staff. The legacy he left behind endures and the crusade he  championed continues. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT