Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. ERNST. Madam President, for months, as our Nation has confronted  this pandemic together, everyone in America--every single one of us-- has been asked to make serious sacrifices, whether that has meant  working overtime in a hospital caring for the afflicted, temporarily  closing a family business, euthanizing hogs and cattle, or forgoing  important life events like a high school prom or a college graduation.  COVID-19 has brought with it very challenging times. 

  While we have missed milestones and time together, Americans across  the country have stepped up to help slow the spread of this virus and  its toll on the lives of our fellow citizens. While we cannot return to  life as usual just yet, we are entering a new phase. Step by step,  State by State, America is safely reopening. 

  In Iowa, Governor Kim Reynolds has led our State with a steady hand  during this critical time. Under Governor Reynolds' thoughtful plan and  guidance from public health officials at the local, State, and Federal  level, Iowa communities and businesses are starting to safely reopen,  and many activities are carefully resuming. Iowans can once again  participate in America's great pastime and play golf. Places of worship  are opening for services while taking smart precautions. And while they  will not be as crowded as they once were, restaurants and bars are  taking the first steps in opening again, as well as are places that we  all grew up going to in Iowa--our amusement parks, racetracks, outdoor  performance venues, movie theaters, and museums--all with important  public health guidelines in mind. 

  All of this is contingent, of course, upon having smaller groups of  people and continuing to practice social distancing--simple precautions  that can make a big difference. 

  While we all yearn for life to return back to how it was a few months  ago, we must be smart about taking the appropriate steps. Certainly, we  want to see our elderly relatives, gather with our family and friends  once again, and  return to work and school. But, folks, the pandemic is not over. Let's  take this one step at a time and keep in mind that while restrictions  are being loosened, they are not eliminated, and there is a good reason  for that. 

  As this process moves forward, Washington can make this transition  more safe and successful. Working in partnership with the  administration, State leaders, and the private sector, we can continue  to increase testing and ensure those who may be infected are following  proper guidelines and getting the care and information they need to  limit the spread of the virus. We need to make sure our essential  workers and others returning to the workforce have the personal  protective equipment--the PPE--necessary to allow America to get back  to work while ensuring the safety of our great workers. 

  In addition, these frontline essential workers should absolutely be  able to keep more of their hard-earned paycheck--something I am working  on closely with the administration and my colleagues. Our small  businesses must be protected from predatory lawsuits so that Iowa's  mom-and-pop shops can continue to provide paychecks to their hard- working employees. 

  Of course, we must continue to support our families--our moms and  dads who are struggling to purchase diapers; our childcare providers  and workers who have continued to look after our kids; our family  caregivers who are helping Iowa seniors and those who are most at risk  during this pandemic--and make sure we are prepared for whatever might  come next. 

  Let's not only focus on the immediate needs but on the long-term  national priority for critical medical supplies and other materials to  be produced right here in the United States of America. We should never  again depend on a foreign nation to protect our citizens, especially  one like the Communist Party of China, which has been continually and  unsurprisingly deceptive about this threat from the very beginning. 

  Folks, while we still have a ways to go before we can return to life  as we know it, we will get through this, and when we do, we will revive  the great economy we have built together and prepare for an even  stronger future together. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT