Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, on Monday we honor the fallen on Memorial  Day. While we traditionally spend this day of remembrance with our  family and friends, things will look a little bit different this year.  Even though we will not have the same services and ceremonies that we  typically take part in, it does not make this day any less important.  Just like every year, on this Memorial Day, let's commemorate the  servicemembers and families who have sacrificed in defense of our  freedom. 

  The freedoms we cherish, which are so often taken for granted, did  not come without a price. For generations, American patriots have  secured our blessings of liberty by willingly laying down their lives  in defense of our great Nation. 

  Every fallen soldier leaves behind a grieving parent, child, sibling,  spouse, or friend. These family members and friends never forget that  knock at the door, the sound of Taps, the loud thunder of the 21-gun  salute, or the touch of a folded flag once laid on a casket. 

  As a combat veteran who served in Operation Iraqi Freedom, I know  that the men and women in uniform who served bravely alongside the  fallen never forget either. I think of Iowans, like Iraq War veteran  Richard Miles, whose picture I proudly display on my desk; Iowa Army  National Guardsman Brent Maher. 

  Iowa National Guardsman James Carney, whose family are dear friends,  just 22 years old, was killed in Afghanistan. Army SGT James ``Jamie''  Skalberg, Jr, died in combat in Afghanistan at just 25 years old,  leaving behind his beautiful son, who was not even a year old when he  lost his father. 

  SGT Joseph Milledge was killed when a roadside bomb exploded near his  unit, as it searched for weapons in Baghdad, and he was just 23. It was  the knock that I gave on his mother's door to tell her that her son  would never be coming back home. 

  Command SMA Marilyn Gabbard, the first woman in the Iowa Army  National Guard to be promoted to the rank of Command Sergeant Major,  was killed in Iraq in a Blackhawk helicopter crash. 

  These stories and many, many more of these men and women of Iowa are  heartbreaking and heroic and the very reason for Memorial Day. 

  For 23 years, I served alongside the best of our Nation, women and  men who risked absolutely everything to preserve our great freedoms.  One of the many ways I pay tribute is through a ruck march. Every  couple of months--that is, until COVID-19--I would gather a group of  people to go on a ruck march. I grab my rucksack, filled with nearly 35  pounds of weight, and march down around the Washington Monument and  back. These marches offer time for us to remember and reflect on the  service and sacrifice of those in our armed services. 

  A couple of years ago, I went on the Bataan Memorial Death March in  White Sands, NM. This is 26 miles. It is a marathon in the desert, with  a 46-pound rucksack--not my typical 35 pounds. Folks, let me tell you,  it was exhausting. My feet were blistered. My legs were swollen and  sore, and my back ached for days after. There were times during that  march when I thought I couldn't keep walking and I was probably  dehydrated, and I just simply wanted to quit. But every minute and  every mile was worth it because we were honoring the lives of the  fallen, those who were on that Bataan death march and others who had  sacrificed family, comfort, health, and, in so many cases, their lives.  The Bataan march really put the meaning behind Memorial Day into focus. 

  While this weekend is a time to reflect on the sacrifice and lives  lost, this entire month is Military Appreciation Month. So I want to  take just a minute to commend our servicemembers. During this pandemic,  our men and women in uniform have fought tirelessly against this  invisible enemy, and they have been doing an outstanding job. 

  For instance, our troops have stepped up to care for patients in  hospitals and created deployable medical units, such as the Air Force  expeditionary medical system, Army combat support hospitals and field  hospitals, and Navy expeditionary medical facilities. Members of our  U.S. Air Force have transported critical supplies around our Nation. 

  And the heroes who are near and dear to my heart, our National  Guardsmen, have been working around the clock to disinfect public  spaces, to hand out food, and to provide transportation and logistic  support. 

  To all of our servicemembers at home and abroad, thank you. And to  their families and loved ones who also make tremendous sacrifices, we  appreciate you and we support you. Because of the ongoing service of  our military men and women, we will defeat this virus. Folks, on this  Memorial Day and during Military Appreciation Month, I pray we take  time out of our lives, we pause, and we remember all of those who have  made the ultimate sacrifice, and the families and the friends and loved  ones whom they left behind. 

  To all of our soldiers, airmen, marines, and sailors who never  returned home, today we honor you. 

  May God bless our troops and their families. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT