Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700450/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, as a combat veteran who deployed to the  Middle East, I serve to protect America, not just then but always. And  I stand strongly with our Commander in Chief as he acts on behalf of  the safety and security of Americans.

The Iranian regime has been threatening, targeting, and taking the  lives of our citizens for 47 years. Yet President Obama gave the regime  billions to enrich uranium and obtain weapons used against our own  servicemembers. And President Biden's appeasement strategy continued to  fuel and fund Iran's proxy terrorism.

Enough is enough.

This weekend, President Trump took decisive action so neither Iran  nor its proxies can ever take another one of our citizen's lives. And  the objective is clear: Ensure no American has to live under the threat  of Iran-backed terror again.

Like every American, I have no desire to see a long, drawn-out war,  but this mission is worthy of being completed.

God bless our servicemembers around the world who are bravely and  selflessly carrying out this noble endeavor.

When I served in Iraq and Kuwait in support of Operation Iraqi  Freedom, each day I put on my boots, I donned my Kevlar, and I stood  shoulder to shoulder with my fellow Iowa National Guardsmen, unsure of  what the day ahead would bring. But I knew it was my responsibility, as  a company commander, to help my men and women stay focused when we were  surrounded by chaos. And that remains my prayer for every single one of  our men and women in uniform who are working to end Iran-backed terror.

Our Nation is still grappling with the news that six courageous  heroes, including those from Des Moines' 103rd Sustainment Command and  young Iowan SGT Declan J. Coady of West Des Moines, were killed in  action.

These young men and women gave their lives in support of a noble  mission: protecting their fellow Americans and keeping our homeland  secure. Our Nation owes them an incredible debt of gratitude. It is one  that can never be repaid.

But as their fellow brothers and sisters in uniform carry out the  mission to ensure we never lose another American to Iran-backed terror,  their sacrifice to protect our Nation is not and will not ever be in  vain.

Every American life is precious, and in Iran's decades-long pursuit  of creating chaos around the globe, too many of our servicemembers have  been killed.

In 1979, militants backed by Iran's regime seized 66 Americans from  the U.S. Embassy in Tehran and held them hostage for 444 days. Eight  U.S. servicemembers were killed attempting to rescue them.

In 1983, Iran-backed Hezbollah terrorists drove a truck bomb into a  Marine barracks in Beirut, killing 220 marines, 18 Navy sailors, and 3  Army soldiers.

In January 2024, a drone launched by Iran-backed Hezbollah killed  three U.S. soldiers at Tower 22 in Jordan. Those soldiers were  engineers from the 718th Engineer Company out of Georgia. It is one of  my former companies.

And no one can forget October 7, 2023, when Iran-backed Hamas  terrorists massacred more than 1,200 men, women, and children-- including nearly 50 Americans--and they took 12 of our U.S. citizens  hostage.

I was in the region that night and immediately went to Israel, where  I witnessed the effects of Iran's brutality up close.

Make no mistake, folks, when Iran's leaders chant ``Death to  America,'' they mean it.

Our adversaries must understand that a single American loss is one  too many and that they will pay dearly for spilling the blood of those  who wear the uniform.

Already, President Trump's ``peace through strength'' efforts are  working. Iran's Supreme Leader and over 40 senior Iranian regime  leaders have been wiped out. Their weapons systems, their navy, and  their nuclear ambitions are being demolished. And our President, Donald  J. Trump, is bringing the region together, united against their common  enemy, Iran.

Since October 7, I have traveled to the Middle East more than 10  times in pursuit of peace, and I have heard firsthand from leaders  across the Middle East for years about their fears of Iran and its  proxies.

While a more peaceful world was always the goal, as long as the  Iranian regime and its proxies existed, it seemed far from reality.

This week, Iran launched sustained attacks at our partners, thinking  they would fracture our relationships in that region. They thought  wrong. Instead, our partners have been brought together. They know who  the real enemy is, and they have told me they stand with the United  States and they support our actions. These are our Arab friends in the  region. For too long, they have also lived under the threat of the  Iranian regime and are ready for a region where peace and prosperity  can finally take hold.

And we know a safer Middle East means a safer world.

Iowans are no strangers to the consequences of the chaos in the  Middle East, which is why I want to bring an end to it.

In December, two Iowa National Guardsman--Staff Sergeants Nate Howard  and Edgar Brian Torres-Tovar--were killed by terrorists in Syria.  Shortly after, in January, I visited the Iowa troops that were  stationed in the region, including the unit that our staff sergeants  came from, and I had one simple but very important message for them:  Their noble mission matters.

The work our men and women are doing overseas is helping keep the  American homeland safe, but now is our opportunity to bring an end to  the decades of chaos--the sooner the better. While the power to declare  war exclusively rests with Congress, the responsibility to defend our  Nation and our homeland is in the hands of our Commander in Chief.

And don't forget, Congress holds the power of the purse. Yet, at this  very moment, the Department of Homeland Security is shut down by Senate  Democrats who are blocking its funding. This is a dangerous time for a  political stunt. We don't know if there are terrorist sleeper cells  waiting to avenge the death of the Ayatollah, or even lone radicals.  Consider, a gunman who killed two in Austin, TX, on Sunday was wearing  a T-shirt featuring an Iranian flag, and a Virginia mosque less than an  hour's drive away from this very Capitol honored the ``martyrdom'' of  the Ayatollah this week.

While I appreciate the gentleman from Virginia's interest in  exercising Congress' war powers, I would urge all of my Democrat  colleagues to get behind those who are at this moment defending our  Nation.

We have already lost too many lives at the hands of Iran, but as long  as the Iranian regime chants ``Death to America,'' the lives of our  citizens will continue to be threatened.