On Call with Iowa Small Businesses, Ernst Answers Questions, Discusses Relief Efforts


U.S. Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA), a member of the Senate Small Business Committee, is continuing to listen to small businesses from every corner and county of the state during COVID-19. Today, Senator Ernst held a virtual town hall meeting with more than 120 Iowa members of the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB).

"Small businesses make up 99% of the businesses in Iowa, and COVID-19 has caused these local employers across our state to face serious and unforeseen challenges. I worked with Democrats and Republicans to pass the Phase 3 relief package, which included the Paycheck Protection Program to aid our small businesses in this time of crisis, and now it's important that we help them access that relief, so they can continue to pay their employees and their bills. Today's conversation was yet another opportunity for me to hear from our small businesses and to understand their needs as we work to provide additional relief," said Senator Ernst.

"Information is vital during this coronavirus crisis. Our small business owners are cash strapped and many are worried they'll have to shut their doors for good. That's why NFIB and Sen. Ernst have been hard at work to arm our Iowa small business owners with the knowledge they need to apply for federal and state loans and grants. Thank you, Sen. Ernst for spending time with our small business owners and providing them with the help they need to make it through this unprecedented crisis," said Matt Everson, Iowa State Director, NFIB.

Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, Senator Ernst has made it a priority to continue listening to and hearing from Iowans across the state, including small business owners. She has held several Q&A sessions with business owners, and just last week, held a telephone town hall focused on small business relief. After hearing from Iowans, Ernst called on the Senate to bolster relief and provide additional funding for the Patient Protection Program