Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Federal Communications Commission Relating to ``Addressing the Homework Gap Through the E-Rate Program''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690896/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-federal-communications-commission-relating-to-addressing-the-homework-gap-through-the-e-rate-program


Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I rise today to seek unanimous consent to  confirm Casey Mulligan, the President's nominee to be the chief counsel  of the Office of Advocacy at the Small Business Administration.

I will make that motion in just a moment, but first, let me explain  why I am doing this. This week is National Small Business Week, a week  to recognize the achievements of our Nation's entrepreneurs.

As chair of the Small Business Committee, I have a front row seat to  the successes and challenges of our small business owners, and I have  the privilege of being a champion for Iowa entrepreneurs.

Our small businesses are more vulnerable to burdensome government  regulations. Over the past few years, the cost of regulations for small  businesses has been out of control. The previous administration created  more than 1,100 final rules costing $1.8 trillion. The Biden  administration's regulatory costs were 600 times higher than that of  the first Trump administration and 3.7 times higher than that of the  Obama administration.

I have been encouraged by President Trump's efforts to freeze and  roll back regulations. SBA Administrator Loeffler and the White House  are working hard to eliminate burdensome and unnecessary regulations,  but to be truly effective, small businesses need a Senate-confirmed  chief counsel to continue this mission.

The Office of Chief Counsel for Advocacy has been vacant, without a  Senate-confirmed occupant for nearly a decade. This key role ensures  small business interests are protected.

Having served as the top Republican on the Small Business Committee  for years now, I truly understand the need for this position to be  filled immediately, and we are fortunate that President Trump nominated  a highly qualified individual for this role.

Dr. Casey Mulligan's unique mix of academic success and real-world  small business experience makes him the best candidate for the job. A  Harvard graduate, Dr. Mulligan received his Ph.D. in economics from the  University of Chicago where he currently serves as an economics  professor.

In addition to his academic role, Dr. Mulligan also owns two small  consulting and economic research businesses. He has also conducted  extensive research on the economic effects of regulation on small  businesses.

At the SBA Office of Advocacy, Dr. Mulligan would serve as a champion  for small businesses nationwide as the Agency undergoes much needed  changes to policy and direction.

Advocacy's role remains true regardless of party, to ensure that a  strong chief counsel stands up for the little guy and warns regulators  when small firms will be harmed.

Dr. Mulligan understands Main Street and the importance of examining  all costs imposed on America's entrepreneurs.

I urge my colleagues to consent to the confirmation of Dr. Mulligan  as chief counsel of the Office of Advocacy at the SBA.

59; that the Senate  vote on the nomination without intervening action or debate; that the  motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table and  that the President be immediately notified of the Senate's action and  the Senate resume legislative session.