Small Business Innovation and Economic Security Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700330/small-business-innovation-and-economic-security-act


Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I rise today as the Senate puts small  business first in America's innovation program and gives them the  certainty they need to build and grow.

For too long, our Nation's seed fund programs, SBIR and STTR, have  been allowed to prioritize a few large companies over truly small  businesses. Until now, these programs received blank checks to squander  tax dollars meant to advance innovation in our national interest and  have not protected taxpayer-funded technologies from foreign influence.

When confronted with this unacceptable status quo, I knew Congress  could work together to find a solution for our truly small businesses.  After working across the aisle and with our small businesses, we now  have the necessary reforms to strengthen America's seed fund while  unleashing small businesses to deliver for taxpayers and our  warfighters.

Together, our bipartisan, bicameral legislation will ensure awardees  safeguard tech against Chinese espionage, hold recipients accountable  to actually producing cutting-edge technologies and capabilities--no  more blank checks--require for the first time an annual limit on  applications to prioritize truly small businesses over large companies  who know how to game the system, establish the first of its kind  strategic breakthrough awards, and, finally, provide taxpayers with  transparency into who receives these awards.

These changes were necessary, and we are taking the time to  absolutely get it right. And, tonight, I am proud the Senate is  unanimously passing these long-overdue updates for innovators.

And at this time I would like to yield the floor to my ranking member  on the Small Business Committee Senator Markey.

Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, notwithstanding rule XXII, I ask unanimous  consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S.  3971, which is at the desk.

Ms. ERNST. I know of no further debate on the bill.