Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, over the last few weeks and months, Iowans  from every corner and county of our State have faced unforeseen  challenges and hardships as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 

  In trying times like these, the American people have always banded  together and have risen to the occasion, and this pandemic is no  different. This has been especially true in Iowa, where I have seen and  heard so many heartwarming stories of Iowans stepping up to help other  Iowans. 

  Take Ann and Megan, for example, two teachers in the Knoxville  Community School District. These two Iowans noticed that some of the  residents at the West Ridge Specialty Care center might need some  additional entertainment due to social distancing. So they started an  Amazon wish list and, with the help of their community, were able to  provide games and other fun items for the residents to use during the  day. 

  Then, there are the hard-working folks at the Iowa Motor Truck  Association, who are helping to provide meals to our truckdrivers all  up and down Interstate 80. 

  And, of course, there are the great men and women of the Iowa  National Guard, who are working around the clock to deliver medical  supplies and materials across the State. 

  It is not just individuals. It is also local Iowa companies and their  workers who are stepping up and helping out. Kent Corporation in  Muscatine has been working closely with local nonprofit partners to  address food insecurity for folks in their community. 

  Partnering with the Salvation Army, United Way, and the Muscatine  Center for Social Action, they are preparing nearly 300 meals every  Wednesday and Thursday to be distributed to families and individuals  who are in need. 

  Folks, while we are facing challenging times, we have also been  reminded of the generosity and charity of the men and women across our  Nation and the tremendous courage and resilience of our workforce.  Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, essential workers in the United  States have continued in their daily jobs to care for and protect  Americans, to produce and deliver food and essential goods, and to  uphold our Nation's critical infrastructure. 

  These men and women--our moms and dads, brothers and sisters--are  putting the livelihoods of their fellow Americans ahead of their own.  Each and every morning, despite the pandemic, they wake up, and they go  to work. 

  In this fight against the invisible enemy, the critical logistics  operators, the supply workers, medical professionals, and the many  others who are on the frontlines responding to coronavirus could not be  more important to our victory. They truly are our heroes. 

  Folks, our nation cannot weather this pandemic without our essential  workforce. They, first and foremost, deserve our gratitude. Today, we  want to say: Thank you. Thank you to our doctors, our nurses, and our  healthcare workers who see firsthand the seriousness of this disease,  yet put their own health and lives at risk to care for those who are  infected. Thank you to our truckdrivers who have driven for thousands  of hours--often back and forth on lonely roads--to keep our economy  running and to deliver the necessities we rely upon and often take for  granted. Thank you to our farmers who continue to work around the clock  to feed and fuel the world. Thank you to our grocers, cashiers, and  retail employees who keep our store shelves stocked and the checkout  lines moving. And thank you to our childcare providers who have  continued to care for our kiddos throughout these tough times. 

  Folks, these frontline workers deserve more than a heartfelt and  well-deserved thank you. They need to know they are appreciated for  their selfless service. That is why I am proposing we give these heroes  a break--a tax holiday--and allow them to keep more of their hard- earned paycheck. 

  Together, with the sacrifice of these essential workers, the spirit  of generosity we have seen across Iowa, and the service of our leaders  at every level of government, we will get through this. The battle  continues, but I know that we can and we will beat COVID-19. Stay safe  and stay strong. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT