Wasteful Spending


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, with spring approaching, the days are  getting longer and temperatures are warming up. Many are hitting the  gym, trying to get that summer bod before heading to the beach,  including some turtles. That is right, your tax dollars actually paid  for a study that put turtles on treadmills. 

  So here we have our turtles on a treadmill. To no one's surprise, it  turns out that turtles are really, really slow. OK. That is what our  tax dollars went to. In fact, this wasteful study found that turtles  moved at nearly the same pace as dead turtles on a treadmill. Aren't  you glad that Washington bureaucrats used your hard-earned dollars to  conduct this study? Good grief, folks. 

  How many of your tax dollars went to this study, exactly? Well,  folks, your guess is actually as good as mine because there is no legal  obligation for most Federal agencies to publicly disclose the price of  government projects, even though the American taxpayers are paying for  them. Folks, this is your money--your money. Shouldn't you have a right  to know how it is being spent? 

  It has been said before, and I surely believe it: Government  functions best when it operates in the open. This is the basis of  Sunshine Week, which begins this Sunday. Sunshine Week is celebrated  every year in March to remind us of just how important it is to have  government transparency, especially when it comes to how our tax  dollars are being spent. 

  Transparency really is fundamental to the principles upon which our  Nation was founded. The people have power to affect the decisions made  by those of us who are elected leaders, and, in turn, Congress has the  authority to hold accountable the millions of unelected Washington  bureaucrats who ultimately write the rules and regulations that impact  nearly every aspect of our lives and decide how our taxpayer dollars  are spent. 

  This year, I have a couple of bright ideas to shine some light on how  Washington is spending your money. Let's talk about those darn  government boondoggles--those Federal projects that are billions of  dollars over budget and years behind schedule. Frankly, we know nothing  about them because the government agencies aren't required to report  this information to you. 

  Well, I have a bill to help shed some light on these costly  monstrosities. My Billion Dollar Boondoggle Act would require an annual  report listing every single taxpayer-funded project that is $1 billion  or more over budget or 5 years or more behind schedule. This will make  it impossible for Washington bureaucrats to continue throwing our tax  dollars into bottomless money pits without being noticed. 

  Unfortunately, it is not just the billions wasted on boondoggles  being kept secret. It is the cost of the Federal projects. So I have  proposed a bill that requires every project supported with Federal  funds to include a pricetag with the amount that is paid by taxpayers.  That way, when your money is being spent to put turtles on a  treadmill--the ones I mentioned to you earlier--you, the taxpayer, can  decide if the price is right. 

  Of course, the waste doesn't stop there. Did you know that Federal  agencies spend over $1.4 billion every year on advertising and public  relations? This includes--you will love this--more than a quarter of a  million dollars for costumed mascots like Sammy Soil and Milkshake the  cow--a quarter of a million dollars. There was nearly $10,000 to  produce a zombie apocalypse survival guide. Yes, folks, I am not  joking. And there was $30,000 for a martian New Year's Eve party and  hundreds of thousands of dollars on tote bags, stress balls, fidget  spinners, and other trinkets. 

  Well, folks, thankfully, the Senate Homeland Security and  Governmental Affairs Committee is voting today on my bill, which forces  agencies to disclose exactly how much they are spending on all of these  government gimmicks. Folks, it is time we bag the swag and end this  unnecessary taxpayer-funded propaganda. 

  With our national debt now exceeding $23 trillion, there is literally  no better time than Sunshine Week to start shedding more light on how  Washington is managing or maybe, in this case, mismanaging your money.  The only reason to keep taxpayers in the dark is that these spending  decisions can't withstand the scrutiny. And, folks, that is exactly why  sunlight is the best disinfectant. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT