Recognizing Empire High School's Softball Team


Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Empire High  School's softball team for winning the 3A State Title.

The Ravens scored a run in the bottom of the eighth inning to defeat  Yuma Catholic 1-0, earning their second straight State title and the  fourth title in the last 10 years.

This victory caps off an amazing season for the Ravens who finished  with an incredible record of 28 wins and only 1 loss.

I congratulate Coach Shannon Woolridge, the players, and everyone who  played a part in this special season. They have made their school and  community incredibly proud.

The Ravens should enjoy this victory they earned. Congratulations to  the Ravens.                 Congratulating Salpointe Women's Tennis Team

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Salpointe's  women's tennis team for winning the Division II State Championship  game.

In a thrilling set of matches, Salpointe defeated Canyon del Oro by a  score of 5-2.

This is the first State championship since 2011 for Coach Theresa  Sperduto. I know it must have meant a lot to be crowned as a champion  once again.

Congratulations to all of the coaches, players, family members, and  everyone who played a part in this special season. They have made their  school and community incredibly proud. Go Lancers.           Congratulating Catalina Foothills Division II Champions

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Catalina  Foothills Falcons boys' tennis team for winning the Division II State  Championship game.

In a thrilling set of matches, the Falcons beat the number two ranked  Notre Dame in a decisive manner by a score of 5-0.

This victory earned Coach Ben Loeb a remarkable milestone, 20 high  school State championships. This State championship marked the Falcons'  10th title in 11 years. Now, that is impressive.

I congratulate and thank Coach Loeb, the players, and everyone who  played a part in this special season. They made their school and  community extremely proud.

I say to the Falcons, enjoy this victory. You earned it.

Congratulating Pusch Ridge Division III Women's Tennis Team

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Pusch Ridge  Christian Academy Lions' women's tennis team for winning the Division  III State championship game.

From starting this season with a loss in Nogales, this remarkable  team overcame adversity and roared back to be crowned champions.

I congratulate Coach Andy Fetsis, all the players, and everybody who  played a part in this special season. They should know that they have  made their school and their community incredibly proud.

I say to the Lions, enjoy this victory. You earned it.            Congratulating Buena High School Colts All-State Title

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Buena High  School Colts relay team on a remarkable achievement, winning the All- State Title in the 4 by 400 relay race.

After securing the Division II last year, they faced off against top  schools from across the State and came out victorious and took the top  honor, adding yet another trophy to their cabinet. What a remarkable  achievement.

I congratulate and thank Coach Thomas; the relay squad, Ricardo  Brooks, Armani Ramirez-Sperle, Vijay Carrier, and Jayden Thomas; and  everyone who played a part in this remarkable season. They have made  their school and the Sierra Vista community incredibly proud.

Congratulations to the Colts. May they enjoy this State championship.  They earned it.