Tiffani Jaseph Named 2026 Arizona Teacher of the Year


Mr. CISCOMANI. Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor of Tiffani  Jaseph, who was honorably named the 2026 Arizona Teacher of the Year.  Tiffani serves as a special education teacher at Copper View Elementary  School in the Sahuarita Unified School District.

Tiffani received her bachelor of arts and masters from the University  of Arizona and began her career in general education, later finding  that her true passion resides in special education. Fifteen years  later, Tiffani has now taught in three Arizona school districts,  providing specially designed instruction in her classroom while also  supporting students' needs in general education.

She emphasizes inclusive, strengths-based instruction tailored to a  variety of learning styles. Before this honor, Tiffani was named the  school's Teacher of the Year and has also been a finalist for District  Teacher of the Year.

The Arizona Teacher of the Year award is the highest State-level  recognition for public school educators. Now, Tiffani will join other  State Teachers of the Year from across the entire country in a year of  professional learning and a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.

Congratulations to Tiffani. I thank her for all she has done to earn  this prestigious award. Arizona's Sixth Congressional District is very  lucky to have her.                 Cochise College Ranked Number One in Arizona

Mr. CISCOMANI. Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor of Cochise  College being ranked the number one community college in Arizona, an  honor that faculty, students, alumni, and all Arizonans should be very  proud of.

Cochise Community College has two campuses and four centers in  Cochise County and is known for its affordable tuition, small class  size, and programs that lead to real-world success. Cochise College  embraces what all colleges should strive to be in this amazing country.

A product of community college myself, I know firsthand that Cochise  College remains committed to helping students create bright futures.  Cochise College provides both university transfer programs for those  wanting to continue education and also offers workforce-ready  certificates designed to prepare graduates for immediate employment in  southern Arizona's growing job market.

I am honored to represent Cochise College in Arizona's Sixth  Congressional District, and I am incredibly proud of their hard work  and commitment to excellence.

Congratulations to President James Perey, the board, the faculty, the  staff, and all the students that make Cochise College what it is today.                  Celebrating Pinal County's 150th Birthday

Mr. CISCOMANI. Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor of Pinal County's  150th birthday. Older than the State of Arizona, Pinal County was  formed from portions of Maricopa and Pima Counties on February 1, 1875.

While mining in the county was the most dominant force back then,  Pinal County's economy has exponentially grown and expanded over time,  but agriculture remains a significant part of the county's economy,  while large-scale farming operations and ag research also prevail.

Pinal County has experienced significant population growth in recent  decades, becoming one of the fastest-growing counties in the entire  country. The county's location, infrastructure, and pro-business  environment are key factors in its expedited growth and in its  development.

The beauty of Pinal County is diverse. With a landscape including  both mountains and desert valleys, Pinal County is home to the Casa  Grande Ruins National Monument, Picacho Peak, and way, way more.

It is an honor to represent Pinal County in Congress. Happy 150th  birthday to Pinal County.