Advancing America First Policies


Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, the last few weeks have been nonstop.  The Trump administration and congressional Republicans have been  advancing legislation and policies that put Americans first.

Just last week President Trump issued an executive order that puts  decisions about our students' education back where it belongs, in the  hands of parents and the States.

As the father of four young boys, I know firsthand that those closest  to educating my children--the teachers, administrators, and special  aides--are the ones who know what they need to get ahead academically  and succeed.

Data shows that our current educational system is failing our  students. Our outcomes are not where they need to be. Reading and math  scores are not where they need to be, et cetera.

We have got plenty to focus on with this particular issue. I am right  in the thick of it. My wife and I are very much in the thick of it. We  could not be more grateful for the support that we have back home with  our teachers. It has been probably one of the most positive things in  our lives as we see those boys progress.

House Republicans are also continuing to assess our education system  this week by advancing the DETERRENT Act, to protect our higher  education institutions from foreign influence by strengthening gift and  contract disclosure requirements and potentially banning contracts from  foreign entities of concern.

I applaud  Michael Baumgartner, a new freshman out of Washington, for  his work on this important bill.

We are also seeking to reverse harmful Biden-era energy regulations  on essential home appliances, including refrigerators and freezers.  Americans deserve the ability to purchase the appliances that best suit  their families' functional and financial needs.

I am grateful to Congresswoman Stephanie Bice and Congressman Craig  Goldman for taking the lead on this issue. I will speak more on these  later.

This week, we are seeing great progress in getting our reconciliation  package to the next step. The efforts seek to serve Americans better by  securing our border, supporting our economy, bolstering domestic energy  production, maintaining a pro-family and pro-growth Tax Code, and much,  much more.

I thank each Member involved in these critical discussions for their  work, and I thank my good friend from California (Mr. LaMalfa) for  being here today to kick us off with his message.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend from  California for his message and for his willingness to always be here.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the message of the  gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Meuser). I think it is actually one of  the most important things to be focusing on right now.

Mr. Speaker, I take a lot of questions from folks back home. Utah is  a State that hits above their weight in academic outcomes. We have  large families. This is a big, big deal for us.

The confusion of why would you dismantle the Department of Education,  I will make sure I do my part, and I have spoken about this to a lot of  constituents back home. One of the key aspects and the things that are  important under title I is making sure that we have underfunded  communities well represented.

My son is on an IEP. He is a 9-year-old in the third grade. He is on  a specialized education plan that meets his needs. My wife  painstakingly got us to the point of making sure that that was the  right scenario for him.

We value the work that gets done here, and we want to see more  resources pushed back to our State, who has largely led this effort. We  have had meetings for our boy to be able to get into the situation  where he is in a thriving third-grade class at a public school and  where he has a little extra attention on things that he does well. He  is reading well above a third-grade level, but he really struggles in  other areas. He is on the autism spectrum.

The attention that our teachers, local administrators, and PTA have  put into our boy, who is the pride of our life, we know that that will  be cared for moving on. If we can move as much of those resources back  into the decisionmakers' hands, we are going to have success here.

Mr. Speaker, I think we are going to look back at this point down the  road and say that this was a key part of why we were able to better  fund schools that are in tough communities, to better fund special  education needs, and to make sure that we are still fulfilling all of  the FAFSA and student loan requirements that we currently do.

Mr. Speaker, let's give this an option. If we are having such bad  outcomes holistically, why not take a look and try to do something  differently. We can't just keep doing the same thing.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman's commentary on that issue,  and I look forward to being a part of this change. I am actually very  confident that, when Utah is given more opportunities in the space of  education as we move more of those resources back to the State level,  we will continue to thrive. I want to be a big part of it. I am sure my  wife will be right there birddogging us to make sure that our son will  have what he needs to also thrive in this environment. I look forward  to that chance.

Mr. Speaker, I have been very encouraged this week to see the House  and the Senate Republicans coming together to deliberate on our  reconciliation package. We are trying to get this timeline going as  quickly as possible. There is an enormous amount of good work that is  going on in every committee with respect to this reconciliation  package.

This is going to be a key factor to making sure that we maintain a  progrowth and profamily tax policy amongst the other aspects of  securing our border, bolstering our economy, supporting domestic energy  production, promoting peace through strength, and making our government  more efficient and effective.

This is the profamily and progrowth tax code that we are developing  and have been developing since 2017, and we want to make sure that we  don't see these provisions expire.

The number of inversions that took place before 2017 and the  repatriation of companies and their operations has been pretty well  underrecognized. When you make progrowth tax policy domestically, you  encourage companies to repatriate those operations and their  intellectual property, and you are able to actually raise revenues.

That is the big thing. If we want to raise the rate on taxes so we  can claim we are raising revenues, if the outcome is to raise revenue,  then every Democrat should be celebrating what took place in 2017.

What we are trying to make sure doesn't happen now is that those more  antiquated international tax policies that encourage companies to put  their intellectual property in Ireland and in other European countries  or in other tax havens across the world, it encourages them to keep it  there or put it there instead of investing back into America.

I wish my Democratic colleagues were more honest on this, because  they know and they see the numbers, too. When you create a competitive  environment, you are able to actually raise that revenue for the U.S.  Companies want to invest here. If they have a competitive tax  environment, they will always choose to be back in America.

Mr. Speaker, I worked very hard to get spots on the Committee on Ways  and Means and Committee on the Budget. It has been an enormous amount  of work getting us to this point, and the lion's share of that work is  still up ahead. I wanted to be on those committees for this very moment  because I knew that 2025 would be a major tax policy year. Known as the  Super Bowl of tax colloquially, I believe that we have a real  opportunity to extend tax policies that benefit hardworking Americans  and that support families.

Let's remember that the child tax credit was $1,000 pre-2017, and  Republicans doubled it without a single Democrat vote in 2017. We are  going to go at this alone, it looks like, again, where we are trying to  avoid the child tax credit from going back down to $1,000 at the end of  this year if we don't get this tax bill done. We want to make sure that  we reestablish as much as we possibly can and moving it forward.

I am one of the key leaders on this particular issue with the Family  First Act and to making sure that we are supporting families and  encouraging that type of positive environment. Strong families will  lead to so much good in our communities. I don't want to demean the  concept of a strong family, but it is one of the core aspects of having  a strong economy.

There is a lot going on now and in the coming months. I am looking  forward to seeing the Senate come together and getting us the  parameters that they would like to see with respect to this tax  package. We are working very close in hand with our Senate Committee on  Finance and Senate leadership to be able to take a look to see what  this reconciliation bill is ultimately going to pan out.

We recognize that it will be a partisan moment back here because we  won't have any support from Democrats on these incredibly important  progrowth and profamily tax policies. That is just the nature of this  place, but we are working very hard to build this out and continue on  the successes that we have had from 2017.

Mr. Speaker, the irony of this place is that all of those tax  provisions could have been repealed in 2021 and 2022, when Democrats  had the White House, House, and Senate. None of them were because  Democrats recognized deep down that doubling the child tax credit,  doubling the standard deduction, encouraging increased wage growth  without the inflation that came from the American Rescue Plan, which we  saw the Democrats enact in 2021, all of that positive economic growth  is actually a very good solution.

I hate that this place ends up being so partisan in these moments of  what we call the trifecta, when one party has the White House, House,  and Senate. It is just the way that it is, but there is so much of this  tax policy that both sides of the aisle share a common vision on.

We did an awesome bipartisan tax bill last year. I wish it would have  been able to survive in the Senate, but it didn't. There is so much  good that will come out of what we are going to extend here.

I shared a lot of this with my newsletter followers yesterday. I feel  like, as congressional Republicans, we have the most momentum now that  we have ever seen regarding our looming debt crisis.

A statistic I shared is that, for several decades, our Federal  revenues have remained at approximately 17 percent of GDP. Over the  last couple of decades, our expenditures have skyrocketed to 26 percent  of GDP. In the early 2000s, our expenditures were approximately 17  percent to 18 percent.

The way I shared it was that I know it is sort of the old adage that  we don't have a revenue problem, but we have a  spending problem. That is just what the data bears out. In years of tax  reform, we have still been able to maintain 17 percent of GDP.

Remember that, in 2017, even though we reduced taxes in multiple  areas, we have what is called broadened the base, which actually helped  bring in more tax revenue. We have continually maintained that 17  percent of GDP, but our spending has gone from about 17 percent to 26  percent over the last 25 years.

You have to look at things with respect to GDP. That is why I always  talk about debt to GDP and how we are at World War II levels while we  have largely been in peacetime. We have to take advantage of this.

This is not going to be easy. This is not going to be overnight. Yet,  with progrowth tax policy, which keeps our economy strong and keeps our  GDP moving in the right direction, we have an opportunity to limit some  of this spending. It is not going to be easy. I never intended for it  to be.

Anytime you add to the budget, it is much easier. Trying to remove  from the budget is much, much more difficult, as anybody could probably  attest. Yet, it is something that has to be done, and I hope that we  can continue to do it in the most thoughtful way possible. We have a  really strong plan.

Our committees have been working on this for months and months to  identify where the best opportunities for savings over the next 10-year  budget cycle are. In doing so, we want to be able to change that  trajectory of, like I said, 26 percent of GDP. It is far too high, and  we have to recognize that data that has been a success for our Nation.

I am thankful to be on these two committees as we work toward a  really difficult needle to thread in getting this policy done, but we  are moving it along.

I thank all of my Senate colleagues who are equally working on this.  This is ultimately why I am back here, is to make sure that this work  is done in the most responsible way possible. As we navigate the  reconciliation process over the next few months, I look forward to  being able to celebrate some significant wins for our American families  and our economy.