Grand Divide


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701983/grand-divide


Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I was struck by a recent interview  that former Senator Ben Sasse gave with Ross Douthat of The New York  Times in which he argued that the future grand divide in human society  will not be over income, class, or gender, but about how we incorporate  technology into our lives.

If artificial intelligence, as many predict, is going to reduce  economic scarcity in the long run, Senator Sasse argued that humanity  will be left with  an abundance of AI-powered services and task masters.

Some will choose to lean into this abundance. While it might result  in greater efficiencies for some, it will also turbocharge the worst  parts of how we use technology. Deep fakes, pornography, identity  theft, placelessness, and social isolation are already rampant in our  society and will only skyrocket in a world of mass-adopted generative  AI.

Others will keep their eyes wide open and adopt technology more  carefully, particularly when it comes to their children.

I recently introduced the AI Children's Toy Safety Act, which draws  upon industry-led research about the dangers of incorporating AI  chatbots in children's toys and mandates an immediate ban on the  manufacturing, sale, importation, or distribution of any toy product in  the United States made with an AI chatbot.

Nearly every AI service provider, such as OpenAI, Google, Perplexity  AI, xAI, and Anthropic, have terms of service that state their products  should not be used by unsupervised children under the age of 13. Yet  these companies have been more than willing to let their product be  licensed by children's toymakers anyway.

This poses serious data privacy challenges for children and risks  locking them into addictive and unpredictable engagement patterns. It  also risks exposing them to explicit content given that these chatbots  have been trained on data generated by and for adults.

To be clear, I am as eager as any elected Republican to unleash the  power of American innovation to win the AI race, cure cancer, and  prevent the Chinese Communist Party from setting the standards for AI  around the world. However, our approach needs to blend nations'  security imperatives with a human-centric ethical framework, a  framework that clearly states that more technological abundance is not  always the same thing as more flourishing.

That is why I am also looking to introducing a House companion bill  to Senator Josh Hawley's GUARD Act, which bans AI companies from  developing romantic companion chatbots for minors and mandates that AI  companies disclose their nonhuman status to all users to prevent minors  from being tricked by artificial displays of empathy or affection.

As commonsense conservatives, we must be honest with Big Tech when  their search to improve the bottom line invites serious ethical  questions about our children's development.                    Honoring the Life of Carlos Olin Godby

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of  Carlos Olin Godby.

Many of us here know him as the best IT administrator Capitol Hill  has ever known, but much more than that, he was a husband, father, and  friend of those who knew him.

It didn't matter the issue or request. Carlos was there ready to lend  a hand at a moment's notice. He was a calm and dependable problem  solver, intelligent, and trustworthy. There was never a problem he  couldn't fix, and if he wasn't sure right then, we knew he would figure  it out. Always before he even told me, he was calling me back with a  solution.

Carlos brought a special light into our offices. He didn't just fix  our IT problems. He asked how we were doing. He asked about our  families, and he showed that he cared personally about those he served  professionally.

He spoke often about his wife, Angela, and his daughter, Adele. They  were truly his pride and joy.

Carlos enjoyed spending time with friends at Mount Vernon Park,  trying to perfect his lawn, listening to all kinds of music, creating  delicious dishes with New Mexico green chile, and rooting for the New  Mexico State Aggies and the Dallas Cowboys.

Our thoughts and prayers are with his loved ones now, especially  Angela and Adele. I believe Carlos is watching over them now and is  still cheering them on. He is proud of everything they are doing.

Carlos served on the Hill for over 30 years. It is impossible to  accurately describe the kind of person he was in just a short speech. I  speak on behalf of my staff, myself, and countless others who were  fortunate enough to cross paths with him. His impact and generous  spirit will outlive him, and we will miss him dearly.