Highlighting Republican Successes in 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699280/highlighting-republican-successes-in-2025


Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I am glad to be joined by my  colleagues in this Conference Special Order. To start us off, I would  like to yield to the gentleman from Utah (Mr. Owens).

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from the  greatest State in the Union, Mr. Owens, for his remarks. I am biased,  of course.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Florida  for his remarks. I feel ready to go out for the second half now, so the  Sun is rising. I wish there was a second half to play.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from the  Commonwealth for his comments.

It is common among Members of Congress, both the House and the  Senate, to be strong on policy. Also, many Members are strong  communicators. It is very rare, however, to get somebody who is so good  at both. The Commonwealth of Kentucky is extremely lucky to have   Andy  Barr representing that amazing State. I thank him for his shared words.

Yes, we know the horses. We get it. There are horses. It is a big  thing down there.

Mr. Speaker, again, I thank my colleagues for being here to share  their perspectives as we look back on some of the significant wins that  we have experienced over the course of the last year. I wanted to  briefly share a little bit about stuff that doesn't get as much  attention.

As a proud father of four boys, we know that family is everything.  Family is at the center of Utah values, and I have dedicated a lot of  effort during my time in Congress to advance pro-family legislation.

I worked on legislation to permanently increase the child tax credit  from $1,000 to $2,000; indexing the CTC--child tax credit--to  inflation; and provide an additional $500 for families through 2028.

We worked to make the adoption tax credit partially refundable up to  $5,000--indexed for inflation--beginning in 2025.

One of the most unique things that we accomplished were the Invest  America accounts, the Trump Accounts. These investment accounts  demonstrate to American youth the power of capitalism and compounding  interest. There is so much more, but that last piece is going to get a  kickoff here next week.

There will be $1,000 seeded to each child born to this country over  the next 4 years. That child will be able to track their investment  account. Usually a person doesn't even start investing until they are  30 years old.

The best estimates are you graduate college. You have a little bit of  student debt. You start a new job. You don't really start contributing  to an IRA until you are 30, maybe even older. A 401(k) starts sometimes  with your first job.

We now have a whole new generation of kids who are starting to invest  in their IRA at age zero. That is 30 extra years of potential  compounding growth that will be an absolute game changer.

Plus, this has garnered an enormous amount of attention from the  philanthropic space where Michael and Susan Dell have announced a  commitment of over $6 billion that will help children ages 1 through 10  in areas that aren't as economically advantaged. That will help those  kids take advantage of this program and also create those accounts to  watch those grow over time. It is a game changer and something we are  really excited about.

Mr. Speaker, we are voting on legislation this week to support  families and pregnant women. We just passed the Supporting Pregnant and  Parenting Women and Families Act, ensuring that young families have  access to prenatal vitamins, formula, and diapers. It also ensures that  TANF dollars can be used to support pregnancy resource centers.

The Pregnant Students' Rights Act provides guidance and resources to  pregnant students so that no student feels forced to choose between her  education and her child.

Last week, I also introduced the SAFE KIDS Act to prevent foreign  adversarial nations from abusing the American surrogacy industry to  obtain U.S. citizenship for their children and traffic infants abroad.  Most of the developed world has already banned international commercial  surrogacy due to the trafficking risks, and this bill is a strong step  in the right direction to prevent bad-faith actors from taking  advantage of U.S. surrogate mothers and the children they bear.

I am proud to champion legislation that directly benefits Utahns and  families across the country. We have strong families. We have strong  communities, and these bills reflect our dedication to supporting them.                           Recognizing Steve Hiatt

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Steve Hiatt,  the recipient of the Hill Air Force Base 2025 Community Wingman Award.

Hill Air Force Base is one of the most important contributors to  northern Utah's economy and livelihood, employing over 23,000 military  and civilian employees. Every year since 2007, they have given one  individual the Community Wingman Award in recognition of their support  for the base and its personnel. This gives the base an opportunity to  recognize the impact that Utahns in the surrounding communities have on  the success of the base.

Few people have supported Hill Air Force Base more than Steve Hiatt.  For nearly a decade, he served the city of Kaysville, Utah, as a city  councilman and a mayor. This is an adjacent community to Hill Air Force  Base. During this time, he ensured that the community fostered a strong  relationship with the base.

After serving in elected office, Steve remained highly integrated in  the Hill community by serving as the vice president of the Utah Defense  Alliance, as air combat command civic leader, and three terms as  honorary commander. In each of these positions, Steve worked directly  with servicemembers and leadership stationed at Hill to better  understand and assist their mission. His work has ensured that Hill  will continue to be a successful and important contributor to our  national defense for years to come.

I am proud to recognize Steve's strong example of service, and I  congratulate him for this will-earned award. I thank him for his  support of Hill Air Force Base and his many contributions to our State  as a councilman, mayor, and community member.