How Republicans Have Delivered for Americans


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699064/how-republicans-have-delivered-for-americans


Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I am glad to be joined by my  colleagues for this Conference Special Order to talk about ways we have  delivered for all Americans through our legislative action, committee  work, and much more.

Mr. Speaker, to start off, I yield to the gentleman from Georgia, Mr.  Buddy Carter.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Georgia  for his comments. I appreciate his thoughts and for articulating much  of that.

Mr. Speaker, last year House Republicans passed the working families  tax cuts. This was a reconciliation bill that included monumental  progrowth and profamily legislation that lowers costs for American  families.

A lot has been said about this. I want to share just a few aspects of  this as we are within 6 months in the rear view of when we accomplished  this. Again, the largest tax increases on American history would have  happened on January 1 of this year had we not completed that, and we  got it done 6 months prior to that crisis. I don't know the last time I  looked at Congress and found something done that far ahead of schedule.  It is usually the last minute.

That matters because that was a reality. That is what we knew was  coming, and we worked hard to accomplish a lot of really key important  progrowth elements: no tax on tips or overtime, an increased child tax  credit, tax relief for seniors, an increased standard deduction  targeted entirely at the middle- and lower-income Americans, investment  in rural America. These are just a few of the reasons Americans will  see significant increases in their upcoming tax returns.

Mr. Speaker, that doesn't even include the provisions that strengthen  small business and encourage investment in American industry.

This year, House Republicans are keeping more hard-earned dollars in  working families' pockets, not with the Washington bureaucracy. The tax  filing season begins next week, and Americans can expect to see some of  the biggest tax refunds in history.

After 4 years of painful inflation, we are cleaning up the economic  mess. Real wages and benefits fell 3.9 percent during the Biden-Harris  administration, and through the Working Families Tax Cuts Act, real  wages are growing faster than prices.

We saw 4.3 percent real GDP growth in the third quarter of 2025. That  is substantial. The average since World War II is 3.1 percent. After  3.8 percent in Q2, we continued to exceed expectations there. Economic  growth is an important economic indicator with a substantial impact on  our annual deficits, and I am confident it will only continue to grow.

Mr. Speaker, 2026 will be about bigger paychecks and lower costs on  everything from healthcare to housing to household goods. We are moving  forward with housing affordability legislation to lower costs and  update financing options. We are streamlining and simplifying  permitting processes to create more jobs, reduce costs, and increase  wages. We are also lowering healthcare costs. In December, the House  passed legislation to cut premiums, expand Choice accounts, provide  more affordable rates to small businesses, and expand PBM transparency  to lower costs of prescription drugs.

Mr. Speaker, 2025 was a big year for my team and for House  Republicans. We passed landmark legislation, and people are going to  see the difference because of it.

I am looking forward to 2026 and continuing to work hard for Utah's  First District.