Reining in Out-Of-Control Prediction Markets


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700939/reining-in-out-of-control-prediction-markets


Mr. MOORE of Utah.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I am glad to be joined by my  colleague this evening. Before I provide my remarks, I yield such time  as he may consume to the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Haridopolos).              Honoring Captain Ted Kimmey, Veteran of the Month

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Florida.  He has a clear passion for his State and the ways that he is going to  support it.

I have taken my young son to Cape Canaveral before, and after going  on a cruise, which we were fortunate to go on, we literally went to the  cape. I think, even after the cruise, Cape Canaveral that afternoon was  one of the most fascinating experiences for him, a unique place.

Utah's First District is actually a leader in space as well, with  Thiokol of olden days, now Northrop Grumman. We do a lot of amazing  work with--I think it is Houston, areas in Florida, Utah, and  Huntsville, Alabama, that are big on this.

Mr. Speaker, again, I thank him for his support and great work.

Mr. Speaker, I thank you today for this time to be able to talk a  little bit about a really important piece of legislation that I have  put forward. It is a proposal for a solution to what I think many have  considered out-of-control prediction markets.

Just hours before the United States military strikes in Iran, more  than 150 accounts made investments of over $1,000 in event contracts  based on the timing of the strikes, with six traders together making  over $1.2 million.

In traditional betting, an individual places a wager on an outcome  with odds set by a bookmaker that determines the winnings. In a  prediction market, a trader buys shares in an outcome of an event.  There are no odds, and share prices fluctuate based on market  responses, allowing investors to turn a profit if they sell high or if  their chosen outcome proves correct.

Our classified military strikes should not provide an opportunity for  bettors to play or profit. Underregulated prediction markets have  exposed America to needless public safety and national security risks  by allowing traders to invest in outcomes related to sensitive matters  like terrorism, assassination, war, or elections.

This nonpartisan issue has spiraled out of control, and Congress  needs to pass legislation to require enforcement.

Congress previously included a subtle provision in the Commodity  Exchange Act that preempts State regulation on betting when it is  offered through event contracts. This loophole has opened a door to  gambling on anything from Taylor Swift's appearance at a Kansas City  Chiefs game to when the United States might launch a strike on Cuba.

Sports betting is illegal in 19 States, but prediction markets, like  Kalshi or  Polymarket, avoid State regulation through this loophole. Rather than  offering betting services, they sell event contracts, a legacy  financial instrument with payouts based on the outcomes of real-world  events.

Again, this is a loophole for a legitimate financial tool that has  existed for decades, maybe even centuries, but they are using this as a  loophole to allow for betting in all States.

In January, one investor netted over $400,000 on Nicolas Maduro's  fall from power, making the timely purchase just before President Trump  announced the deposed leader's capture. Prediction market Kalshi claims  that, legally, this is investing, not gambling.

I introduced H.R. 7840, the bipartisan Event Contract Enforcement  Act, to address these concerns and put an end to reckless event-based  gambling. This bill strengthens existing law, requiring the CFTC to  prohibit event contracts related to terrorism, assassination, war,  gaming, or criminal behavior.

The bill also bans trading on election outcomes and government  activities to protect our elections from manipulation and insulate the  government from insider trading opportunities.

This nonpartisan issue ensures event contracts can continue to serve  in legitimate business interests while also protecting Americans from  risk. I am looking forward to moving it through the legislative  process.