Supporting the Big, Beautiful Bill


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691960/supporting-the-big-beautiful-bill


Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to  address the floor this evening and to give that opportunity to some of  my colleagues also, if their schedule permits.

We don't get enough opportunities to speak to the American people,  and I don't get enough chances to speak to my constituents back home,  particularly from the House floor. I think it is a unique opportunity  that I will get to address a few things this evening.

I want to take a minute just to walk through, big picture, what we  are accomplishing with this reconciliation bill titled the One Big  Beautiful Bill Act, and walk through some of the provisions.

I actually tried my hardest back in my district to let facts rule the  day and not be governed and manipulated by a lot of rhetoric about this  particular type of work.

I am going to take you back, Mr. Speaker, to my first election when I  first decided to run for Congress. It was the end of January 2020. We  had never heard of the term ``COVID'' before. We had seen a tax reform  bill take place at the end of 2017 that people couldn't really wrap  their heads around.

I was working for a consulting firm, and I remember talking to some  of the partners at the firm. I was a principal at the time--actually, I  was probably an engagement manager at the time.

I remember them saying: We are going to see a significant tax  decrease. If this bill goes through, we are going to have a substantial  amount of extra discretionary money. What are we going to do with it?  This is going to be significant.

More so, many of our clients that we served were going to all of a  sudden see some discretionary income that they would now be able to use  and had to figure out what they were going to do.

This wasn't a client of ours, but in the aftermath of that bill, this  is what I understand took place. When they had a corporate tax rate  decrease, they have shown me their books, and the areas that they  prioritized were to increase wages for their frontline workers. They  said every single person at the firm got a pay increase. They grew real  wage growth without massive inflation that takes place sometimes under  a reconciliation bill.

I will point to the American Rescue Plan that took place when  Democrats took control of the White House, House, and Senate. We saw  the worst inflation we have seen in my lifetime under the guise of a  COVID relief package.

That company, which had some tax pressure removed from their books,  went straight to their employees. They created wage growth  opportunities. The other thing was that they had extra discretionary  income to take to their immediate community in which they worked and  bought ambulances for the emergency response in the community.

This is the type of stuff that happened across the country post-2017  when you saw a significant economic boon in the U.S.

Years prior to 2017, you saw a lot of companies decide there were  favorable tax rates elsewhere. Oftentimes, in countries in Europe-- there was a tax provision that was done in 2017 that is called FDII, an  intangible income piece.

You can establish intellectual property overseas at a lower tax rate  than what we were doing here in the U.S. We decided to make our rates  in the U.S. competitive. That provision alone immediately stopped the  term ``corporate inversion,'' where U.S. companies were taking their  revenue to other countries. Instead, they decided that they have a more  favorable rate here, so they will bring it back. Most multinational  companies, most U.S.-based companies, a lot of times foreign companies,  want to be based here.

All we did with that rate was to say that we are going to make that  rate competitive. With that, they repatriated their money back to the  U.S.

When I talk to townhall participants, regular constituent meetings, I  highlight that when you make taxes competitive, you get companies to  reinvest back in the United States, and we then can grow our revenue.

Companies have told us since 2017, even though they got more  favorable,  more fair, and competitive tax rates, they actually spend more money on  their tax revenues to the U.S. Government.

The whole concept behind Republican tax policy is to make taxes  competitive against the OECD, against our allies or our adversaries, to  make sure we repatriate and keep that money in the U.S. and grow our  revenues. That is why, even with tax cuts, we don't see a dip in what  we have gained from revenue.

We can argue all day long, and you can even draw the graph: Should we  be spending a higher percentage of our GDP? Should we be collecting a  higher percentage of our GDP in tax revenues?

Twenty-five years ago, approximately 17 percent of GDP was what we  collected in tax revenues, and at that same time, 17 percent of GDP was  spending. In those 25 years, our spending has gone from 17 percent of  GDP to approximately 26 percent of GDP. That is what our spending has  done.

Our revenue has actually stayed at approximately 17 percent through  Republican and Democratic administrations. That means our revenue has  continued to grow, but it actually stays consistent as a percentage of  our entire GDP. Our spending has grown, up to 26 percent.

That is why you see in a Republican reconciliation bill like we  passed a couple of weeks ago that a significant portion of that bill is  spending cuts, offsets to spending, and revenue increases. Yes, there  are actually tax increases in a Republican bill, but overall, we are  creating a very competitive tax rate that exists.

Companies from 2017 on have reinvested in the U.S. and, at the same  time, have reinvested in their communities, reinvested in their  employees, and have grown their presence. Most of that is set to expire  at the end of this year. If we don't get a tax bill done, then you are  just going to see a significant tax increase across everything.

Mr. Speaker, I will also talk briefly about some of the individual  provisions because it is important to talk about the small business  corporation, S corps, LLCs, all the various different types of  businesses that we run here in the U.S., they all get a competitive tax  rate, keeping them wanting to invest here in America and reinvesting in  their business. If they can reinvest in their business, they can  actually grow overall tax receipts because of the concept of economic  growth.

Mr. Speaker, on the individual side, this is something that my  Democrat colleagues oftentimes overlook. They oftentimes talk about,  oh, this is just some tax giveaway to the billionaires. I have never  seen anybody actually pinpoint and show me where this is targeted  toward giving the billionaires some type of tax relief.

Probably the largest portion of this tax reconciliation bill is what  is called the standard deduction. The standard deduction is taken  advantage of by over 90 percent of Americans. This is what simplifies  our tax code. When you show up to do your taxes for that year, you are  automatically given a dollar figure that you can deduct from your  taxable income.

In 2017, that number was doubled. We said to middle-income filers,  lower-income filers that we want to give you a significant deduction  and we are going to double that standard deduction. It hasn't been done  for a while. We need to increase this to a really healthy amount. That  simply means that individual and married filing jointly can look at  their tax bill and say, we are going to offset our taxable income by  $30,000. In a lot of cases that is a significant benefit to them  because that helps lower their overall tax liability and puts money  directly back in their pocket.

Guess what? It doesn't help the wealthy. The wealthy itemize their  taxes. They will probably have more mortgage interest to write off than  they will that $30,000 standard deduction, if you will. Then all of a  sudden, we see that that makes sense. We can see how the standard  deduction actually affects middle- and lower-income Americans.

Okay. Why in the world do my Democrat colleagues keep repeating this  constant--I think it might have just been something they saw in some  polling that said: It works well if you say this is just tax cuts for  the wealthy.

Let's look at the child tax credit. If you have a child under the age  of 17--prior to 2017, it was $1,000 that you were able to deduct from  your taxable income. Republicans in 2017 doubled it and they set that  amount for 8 years. That is what expires at the end of this year.

If Republicans don't act, that number goes back to $1,000. Anybody  that votes against this bill is saying: I am okay with that number  going back to $1,000. We actually, in this bill, repeat that $2,000  amount per child, but we did something unique. We are going to index it  to inflation. It is something we should always be thinking about doing  in any type of tax policy. We are indexing it to inflation. We actually  added an enhancement to it, so you are able to, for the next 4 years,  take a $2,500 deduction. If you are building a family, if you have  young kids, this is a big expense. We are giving that tax relief to  families so we can continue to grow our next generation.

The unique part is, in 4 years or so when that extra $500 enhancement  is up for renewal, we will have already grown the $2,000 to be at  approximately that level. What we are doing is, we are really doing  right by individuals that are doing the right thing by investing in our  future and raising kids.

Those two things are the biggest items of this entire bill. Then to  go and say it is just some tax giveaway to the wealthy, it just flies  in the face of reality. It might poll well, I guess, but it is  disheartening to see something that I actually believe most, if not  all, Members of Congress believe in a simplified, higher standard  deduction, increased child tax credit, which covers the vast majority  of the cost of this bill.

Then you get to things that actually help individuals that we are  doing with our research and development, helping small businesses be  able to grow and have that discretionary income.

There is just so much here, and I would love to be able to, in long  form, talk a little bit about the specifics because too often these  become one-liners or a tweet here or there that says this or that. We  are being as responsible as you possibly can be by making this bill  deficit neutral.

We will see growth in our economy because of it. We will see historic  decreases in our overall expenditure and spending, and at the same time  have policies that will drive economic growth.

I thank him for his dedication and time investing in me as a member  of his committee, to help bring me up in the ways of doing the right  thing for the right cause in all these things related to tax, spending,  and such.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from the  Permian Basin.

Just to quickly recap, I love the concept that he juxtaposes to  opportunities.

It is interesting that in our political environment, from 2017 to  2021 and 2025, we have seen the White House, House, and Senate flip  completely three times. I think that is a little bit unprecedented. We  mentioned there were times with Reagan where there was a sustained  period of Democratic control of Congress but there were Republicans in  the White House and vice versa.

To flip the White House, House, and Senate three times in the last 8  years is unprecedented. It gives us a unique opportunity, though.

Look at TCJA and ARPA. Look at the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and then go  look at the American Rescue Plan Act. Created wage growth, no  inflation. Those are consistent things that took place from TCJA when  tax reform took place with Republicans.

The American Rescue Plan was stimulus spending masquerading as COVID  relief spending. It was massive amounts of monetary policy added to the  system. There is only one equation, and that is inflation.

Look at the difference between an inflationist and real wage growth.  Those are the two things we have to compare.

This bill basically takes 2017 and says we have seen this work.  Democrats looked at the tax policy in 2017, when they had the White  House, House, and Senate. They said: We like the standard deduction. We  like the increased child tax credit. We like the approach to getting  U.S. companies to reinvest in America. We are not going to touch it.

They had an opportunity to change all the things that they say are so  bad in this bill. They didn't touch any of the core tax policies from  2017 to today. They expire at the end of this year.

Republicans are going to go at it alone. We are going to make sure we  extend this out. We are going to give companies and families some  consistency. All we have to do is juxtapose those two bills--the TCJA  and the American Rescue Plan--and make the decision based on that. That  is as simple as it needs to be.

The gentleman from Texas (Mr. Arrington) likes to say a lot of  things. He talks a lot. He is very verbose. When he mentions my  leadership, I very much appreciate the sentiment. I have been watching  and following him. He is my committee chair and has an extremely strong  leadership in the conference.

I express my appreciation and downplay the fact that he is just  blowing smoke there sometimes when he says it about me.

I would like to get to some real substantive remarks now  with my colleague.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from North  Dakota for her remarks.

I appreciate my colleagues for participating this evening. This is  something historic, and it is something monumental.

As I was talking about at the beginning of my remarks, when I first  ran for Congress in January 2020, the entire conversation of every  single candidate was: How do we go about extending and making permanent  the tax reform that just took place in our country a few years prior  and the juice that it created for our economy and the growth that it  had that was raising the tide of all income levels?

That was the concept, and 4\1/2\ years later, I am sitting here on  the committee particularly regarding the tax policy to be able to bring  it up.

This is a unique and really special time. We are already engaging  with the Senate to make sure this can adhere to and go through the Byrd  rule, all the specifics of making this a reality.

This is an exciting moment. It will be monumental, and it will do so  much good.

I have always said, as I have been involved in congressional  policymaking, that we live in 2-year increments, but every CEO across  the country has to live in 15-year increments. They have to see what is  around the corner, and we are constantly putting people at an impasse  because we just keep dealing with 2-year increments of what their  policies are going to be.

We have to signal what the future holds with respect to tax policy,  and there is nothing that would do more for sustained economic growth  than this bill.

Again, Mr. Speaker, I am grateful for the time this evening and for  my colleagues being here to share the message.