The First 100 Days


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690427/the-first-100-days


Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, again, yesterday marked 100 days  since President Trump took office for the second time. It has been a  whirlwind 100 days, to say the least, as his administration has taken  swift action to reverse many of the Biden-era policies that I believe  brought major challenges to American businesses and families.

From bringing the southwest border crossings to their lowest in  history to ushering in critical private investments to our communities  and boosting job growth, the Trump administration has wasted no time in  reversing many of the wrongs of the last 4 years.

We have much to celebrate and highlight this evening. I appreciate my  colleagues for taking time to reflect on these past 100 days and how  House Republicans are joining the administration to implement a  progrowth, profamily, conservative agenda that will deliver for  Americans across the country.

I yield to the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Rose).

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Tennessee.  I always appreciate his consistent voice and willingness to support  Special Order hour.

Again, there are many wins to focus on, and I can't emphasize this  enough. President Trump was overwhelmingly elected in November to fix  the border. I don't understand why Democrats couldn't see the horrific  approach that they had to it.

It doesn't make any sense to me why they let that get as bad as it  was, when it was fixable. We have seen the lowest numbers in history.  It is common sense. I appreciate the focus on that one fundamental  issue. Again, I thank the gentleman from Tennessee.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from California  for his voice and participation.

Mr. MOORE of Utah.  With his energy  level that he always brings to this place, you will understand why he  is clearly not the least.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from Florida never  disappoints, and I thank him for his remarks.

Mr. Speaker, I will briefly close with some of the comments I have  made before.

President Trump in November, along with congressional majorities--the  House majority stayed in Republican control. The Senate majority  flipped to Republican. It was a clear show that we wanted to move past  some of the policies that have been implemented, or not implemented,  from the previous administration. I am proud as we look out at his  first 100 days.

Again, to reiterate what has taken place with our southern border,  enforcing very commonsense laws such as making sure that our parole  authority is properly done, ending catch and release, and re- implementing the remain in Mexico policy. I think this gets missed from  the conversation quite a bit. It is actually some of the most humane  things we can do.

I still remember the 30-plus immigrants who were basically killed in  the back of that truck in the San Antonio area. The only reason that  that type of thing happens is because the cartels don't care for human  life. The cartels that were running the border over the last 4 years do  not care about the plight of an immigrant searching for a better life  and a unique work opportunity.

They sell them a bill of goods. They literally sell them that bill of  goods by making them pay thousands of dollars in the hope that once  they get them across the border, then everything will be great for  them. Then, they get stuck in a legal system that doesn't benefit them.

The most humane way to do it is to re-implement things like the  remain in Mexico policy. The point I had always tried to continue to  make was that a simple policy change would actually reduce border  crossings significantly. When we do that, we take away the power that  the cartels have. When the cartels are in power, human beings suffer.  There is no other way to look at it.

Customs and Border Protection data from earlier this month show that  Southwest border crossings are the lowest they have been in recorded  history.

Think about that, Mr. Speaker. By the numbers, there were over 7,000  Southwest border crossings in March. That is still a high number, but  over the last 4 years, the monthly average was over 150,000. It is  astonishing.

This is something that has been delivered. I would appreciate any  opportunity to codify this into law. I do not like ruling by executive  order all the time. This is stuff we need to codify.

I hope that we can learn from the good experience with the Laken  Riley Act and how our functioning Republic is supposed to work to get a  piece of legislation done. This one had good, strong bipartisan  support. The President signed it.

I know there is more that we could be doing on that so we don't have  this constant back and forth in the future of our country. We have to  get some predictability with this type of policy. Predictability is  incredibly important, as well.

As I look ahead past the 101st days, I look ahead to one of the most  important things to accomplish going forward, and that is a  reconciliation piece of legislation. This discussion that has been very  prominent here in the beltway is the talk of reconciliation. To put it  in plain terms, this is just making sure that, at the end of this year,  American families don't pay a significant increase in taxes.

In 2017, there was major tax reform done, and I think if you were to  take a look at the specific elements of that bill, Mr. Speaker, you  would find excitement and broad support for almost all of it.

The Republicans in 2017 doubled the standard deduction. Who does the  standard deduction support, and who does it help? It helps lower- and  middle-income Americans, plain and simple. It increased the number of  people who took the standard deduction and gave them the best tax  benefit. It is the wealthy folks who itemize, for the most part. Right  there, we are already targeting middle- and lower-income Americans.

The second piece is doubling the child tax credit. In 2017,  Republicans doubled the child tax credit from $1,000 to $2,000. That is  something that has been incredibly bipartisan. Democrats, in their own  version of reconciliation, have enhanced that, as well.

I lead the Family First Act, which is another enhancement of the  child tax credit, and I am looking forward to, hopefully, getting that  passed through. That is another key win.

There are numerous business provisions that help. Real wage growth,  economic activity, and strong GDP growth are helping.

Mr. Speaker, any time you have the White House, the House, and the  Senate under one party, then people get a little bit chippy. They get a  little bit partisan as we try to get significant pieces of legislation  through. It is not going to be any different this time.

That was the case in 2017. I wasn't here then, but as I was sort of  watching from the sidelines on these types of things, I get it.

Then, in 2021, the Democrats had the White House, the House, and the  Senate. They did the American Rescue Plan and the Inflation Reduction  Act, and they tried to do Build Back Better. Those were incredibly  partisan approaches, which I firmly disagreed with, but that was the  piece that took place at the time.

We have an opportunity going forward for these next few months to be  able to deliver on something that is very important to every American  family, and that is making sure that they have consistency in the tax  code so there is not going to be a massive tax increase on American  families next year. It is something I am proud to be working on, and I  hope that we can celebrate it as a key piece of success as we look past  this first 100 days of the administration. We are 4 months into our  119th Congress, and this is going to be a key piece.

Democrats will say over and over again that this is just a tax break  for the billionaires. Mr. Speaker, when you cap SALT like the  Republicans did, that only hurts wealthier folks. I hate to bring them  that news. I believe it was Bernie Sanders who was criticized by The  Washington Post--again, The Washington Post--by giving three or four  Pinocchios when they say that these tax breaks that Republicans do just  go to benefit the wealthy. That is The Washington Post saying to call  it as it is. These are Pinocchios. These are complete lies that the tax  policies that Republicans put forth actually strengthen and target the  middle- and lower-income Americans.

We will say that over and over again. Unfortunately, my Democratic  colleagues will say this is just going to benefit the billionaires.

I hope that, deep down, they would come to some realization that that  is just a lie. Their own media is saying that it is just a lie. It is  just one of those things that exist back here, and we are probably  going to be dealing with that a lot for the next few months. The  reality is this is good, strong tax policy that is going to benefit  American families and workers.

In addition to some of the successes we have had over the last few  months, this is something we have to be able to lock in and accomplish.  I look forward to being a key part of that as we move forward.