University of Utah Research Park Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698134/university-of-utah-research-park-act


Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, to my colleague and friend from  Minnesota (Mr. Stauber), it is worth actually noting that the area  focus of this bill, the location, is a stone's throw from the very  cauldron that the Miracle on Ice team lit during the 2002 Winter  Olympics. I congratulate the gentleman for getting that bill signed  into law, the Congressional Gold Medal Act for those amazing patriots.

I actually watched that movie with my kids over the weekend and saw  the patriotism start to brew, really an amazing feat. I thank my friend  for that.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, the University of  Utah Research Park Act, which passed unanimously out of the Natural  Resources Committee in September.

This legislation addresses legal uncertainties surrounding the  University of Utah's use of land initially conveyed to the school by  the Bureau of Land Management back in 1968. At that time, the  university requested land on the Fort Douglas Military Reservation for  academic and research use, a request approved and granted by the BLM.  Since then, the university has built a nationally recognized research  park housing over 50 companies and employing nearly 14,000 Utahns.

Research Park has been instrumental in establishing Utah as a leader  in innovation. Last year, I was proud to welcome my colleagues to the  Ways and Means Committee to Research Park for a field hearing to show  them first-hand how Utah continues to lead the way in biotech  innovation.

Unfortunately, after decades of cooperative engagement between the  University of Utah and the Federal Government, there have been  questions as to whether the longstanding activities at Research Park  are consistent with the original land patent under the Recreation and  Public Purposes Act. The University of Utah Research Park Act addresses  these concerns and makes it clear that the school is operating within  the parameters of the law.

With the assurance that the university can continue to operate the  park, they will have increased ability to invest institutional  resources and improve the park without the worry of additional red tape  and regulatory restrictions or, worse, the area reverting back to  Federal control.

My bill will provide the university with needed stability and confirm  the original intent and approval of the land transfer, allowing the  university to plan strategically to meet the needs of its students, the  community, and industry.

I thank Chairman Westerman and my colleagues of the Utah House and  Senate delegation for joining me in this effort to ensure that the  University of Utah's Research Park can continue to serve as a premier  research incubator.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 2876. Go Utes.