Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699571/consolidated-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this as a member of the  Appropriations Committee, as well as of our Subcommittees on Defense  and Homeland Security.

Madam Speaker, I join the vast majority of Americans in condemning  the actions of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. There is brutality  and death in our streets, so-called leaders trashing victims and their  grieving families, warrantless searches, and fear in our own citizens.  I had a State senator in my own district tell me this last week that  she was fearful of going out to talk to her constituents in her  district without her passport.

This is unacceptable. This is un-American, and ICE must be reformed.  Until it is, neither it, nor its parent entity, the Department of  Homeland Security, should be fully funded.

The best way for us to reform ICE is to keep laser focused on ICE  reform, and this measure does exactly that. It gives this  administration and my majority colleagues 10 days to work with us all  to do the right thing. Unless the right thing is done, we should not  fund the Department of Homeland Security

This measure also funds 70 percent of our Federal Government, rather  than shut it down again. I will focus on just a few areas where this is  critical. Let's start with defense, half of our total budget.

It is a time when it is critical to our national security that our  Defense Department be fully operating, be fully focused, be nimble, be  quick, and have the ability to adjust. Yet, we have kept our Defense  Department essentially crippled for 16 months now since the last time  that we funded it in regular order and gave it direction through  funding and oversight. That was fiscal year 2024.

They have been operating on a continuing resolution for 16 months  now, and that cripples national security. That is a national security  risk. No new programs are possible, and procurement is excessively  expensive because it cannot function over multiple years without  effective system-wide modernization. Any military leader will say that  the worst thing going for it right now, at a time when it has to adjust  to the PRC and Russia across a variety of focuses, is that it now needs  full flexibility.

In Financial Services and General Government, this bill funds the  Federal courts. Can we envision a time in our history when it was not  more important that the Federal courts be fully staffed and funded? I  don't think so.

This bill funds Social Security. It enables Social Security to  continue to function for the millions of Americans who depend on it at  a time when Social Security is being crippled by staff cuts.

In Foreign Affairs, this bill provides continued security assistance  to our friends and allies throughout the world. It maintains some  effective projection of presence out there into the world. It funds the  Countering PRC Influence Fund that is so important to us.

In transportation, the Federal Aviation Administration, it funds the  FAA so that our air transportation system can continue to function.

For Federal workers overall, who have borne the brunt of our failure  to appropriate in regular order, it will help millions throughout our  country by assuring them that they can continue without great doubt.

We must pass this measure now.

Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, it must not be, need not be, and will not be  at the expense of ICE reform.

We sacrifice none of that mandate to reform ICE by passing this bill  today.

Finally, I say to our Department of Homeland Security employees out  there who have served us so well through so much difficulty, to the  Federal Emergency Management Agency, Homeland Security Investigations,  Customs and Border Protection, Transportation Security Administration,  they do critical work for us, and we apologize to them that we must  create uncertainty to them for the foreseeable future, but we ask them  to understand that reforming ICE is critical not just to those who are  suffering at the hands of ICE, but it is critical to our country.

They will be paid. They will be paid because this continues their  pay. But because of the uncertainty that they must live with until we  get this resolved, we appreciate their cooperation.