Highlighting the State of Military Infrastructure in Hawaii


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701889/highlighting-the-state-of-military-infrastructure-in-hawaii


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight the critical need to  address seriously aging and increasingly failing physical  infrastructure in Hawaii across all services. This can no longer be  chalked up or explained away as deferred maintenance; it requires  Congressional action considering the Department's negligent  administration and budgeting to address clear risks to personnel  safety, mission readiness, and ultimately our ability to deter and  prevail in the Indo-Pacific.

Hawaii has served as a linchpin of our Nation's presence in the Indo- Pacific since 1875, when King Kalakaua granted the United States the  right to enter Pearl Harbor and establish a coaling and repair station.  Today, Hawaii is the Indo-Pacific home to every service--the Army,  Navy, Marines, Air Force and Space Force--along with a significant  presence of our Nation's intelligence community. It is our Nation's  Indo-Pacific headquarters, hosting U.S. Indo-Pacific Command, U.S.  Pacific Fleet, Pacific Air Forces, U.S. Army Pacific, Marine Corps  Forces Pacific, Special Operations Command Pacific, Space Force Indo- Pacific and the National Security Agency Hawaii. It also has many key  military installations including Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Marine  Corps Base Hawaii, Schofield Barracks, Fort Shafter, the Pacific  Missile Range Facility, Pohakuloa Training Area, and various other  locations. These installations support key operating forces based in  Hawaii, including nuclear attack submarines, surface combatants, an  Army infantry division, F-22s, MV-22s, C-17s, fuel tankers, Apaches, a  Marine Corp regiment, and approximately 60,000 Department of Defense  (DoD) personnel plus families.

This presence requires significant physical infrastructure  investments that are sometimes difficult to maintain. Hawaii's  geographic isolation makes everything from fuel to concrete  significantly more expensive because they must be transported across  thousands of miles of oceans. Our tropical location with buildings on  or close to the ocean is also incredibly stressful on infrastructure.  We face constant exposure to salt-laden air and high humidity, that can  quickly cause metal to rust and lead to shorter lifespans than  identical structures built on the mainland.

Despite generosity from the House Armed Services and Appropriations  Committees in recent years, we must face the hard truth that the  Department is not prioritizing critical repair and maintenance on its  own. A 2023 Congressional Budget Office (CBO) study found that Joint  Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam alone requires almost $5 billion to properly  renovate and modernize--twice that of the next closest Navy base  needing major upgrades. A 2022 CBO study found that U.S. Army Garrison  Hawaii and Fort Bragg essentially tied with a $1.5 billion deferred  maintenance backlog, and a 2024 CBO report noted that Marine Corps Base  Hawaii was among the ``top'' three Marine Corps bases with the worst  backlog of deferred maintenance. Failing to perform such maintenance  will accelerate the degradation of real property and increase the cost  of future renovations and repairs.

The effects of avoiding infrastructure investments for years are now  having real world consequences in Hawaii. For example, our aging waste  water treatment systems at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam and Marine  Corps Base Hawaii have repeatedly spilled raw and insufficiently  treated sewage into our oceans, and power outages and water main breaks  have become all too real occurrences with potentially major impacts on  service members' safety, especially when it affects Tripler Army  Medical Center--the military's largest medical facility in the Indo- Pacific.

For far too long we have also ignored the need for major new  construction. The Marine Corps' three-star command headquarters for the  Indo-Pacific operates in the 1940s era `Aiea Heights Naval Hospital  that lacks sufficient classified spaces and secure connections. Special  Operations Command Pacific, which serves as the functional component  for all special operations missions throughout the Indo-Pacific, has  personnel spread across 19 locations in O`ahu due to facility space  limitations at its primary headquarters at Camp H. M. Smith. Space  Forces Indo-Pacific is operating out of temporary buildings, which are  little more than trailers. The 25th Infantry Division's Headquarters  lacks sufficient Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility spaces  and a modern headquarters facility. Failing to invest in these  headquarters units now will make command and control more difficult in  a time of war.

Further, the modern equipment used by our troops is in desperate need  of new modern buildings to house them. The 3rd Marine Littoral Regiment  does not have a magazine for the new weapons it needs, lacks sufficient  climate-controlled facilities for its modern equipment, and has  insufficient classified workspaces. Army helicopters operate out of  World War II era hangers without modern climate control that often lead  to spare parts being rusted and unusable. The Air Force's runways  and taxiways at Hickam Field have gotten so bad that waivers are  requested for all routine landings, and aircraft stationed in Hawaii  have longer depot periods because there is not even an adequate  aircraft wash facility. Piers throughout Pearl Harbor should have been  fully replaced years ago as many cannot support the cranes needed to  maintain our vessels, and most piers and wharves cannot be used to  refuel our vessels.

Finally, housing remains a major concern for too many. The barracks  at U.S. Army Garrison Hawaii and Marine Corps Base Hawaii do not meet  modern standards, and there is a strong desire from both the military  and State of Hawaii to move more service members back onto base to  alleviate high stress on the civilian housing supply, yet military  housing is essentially full and many older buildings face ongoing  maintenance issues, especially related to air conditioning that leads  to dangerous mold when left unaddressed.

Mr. Speaker, the failure to address these infrastructure issues is  placing our Nation's presence and mission in the Indo-Pacific at risk,  and I ask for your help to address it. Given the depth of the problem,  it will likely take many years and actions to address the challenge,  but some of our first steps can include:

Investing in Critical Conflict-Related Infrastructure. The FY 2026  NDAA conference report mandated a study on the infrastructure  investments required to support potential conflict-related needs in  Hawaii. Congress must carefully review this forthcoming report and act  on recommendations that can prepare Hawaii for any future contingency.

Funding Facilities Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization  (FSRM). Congress has wisely required the military to no longer short- change FSRM accounts. We must ensure this happens over multiple years  and prevent further backsliding.

Support Unfunded Priorities. Far too often the military has been  reluctant to fund projects in Hawaii because they are expensive.  However, many projects make the unfunded priorities list, a sign that  the military needs Congressional help to address critical shortfalls.  When justified and executable, we must authorize these projects.

Reforming Pacific Deterrence Initiative (PDI). Despite the need for  investments to support U.S. military power in the Indo-Pacific, rarely  do Hawaii construction projects carry a PDI ``label.'' The Government  Accountability Office reviewed the DoD's PDI budget and concluded that  the PDI does not consistently reflect department-wide priorities or  requirements and generally presents an inconsistent mix of programs and  funding. We need to reform the PDI budget presentation rules so  readiness projects critical to the Indo-Pacific are properly considered  and funded.

Creating Infrastructure ``Tiger Teams.'' Given workforce shortages in  key public works departments, we need small, specialized, and cross- functional group of high-level experts assembled temporarily to  investigate and develop actionable plans to address our infrastructure  woes in Hawaii. These teams bypass standard slow-moving hierarchies and  create plans for action.

Resolving Joint Infrastructure Issues. Much of the military's  infrastructure in Hawaii has a joint element especially since the  services need to share installations given the limited land available  in our islands. For example, Pohakuloa Training Area is used by all the  services and could use improvement to its airfield and temporary  barracks. However, there are often disagreements over how to move  forward in a joint manner as illustrated by ongoing disagreements over  how to prioritize and fund Air Force infrastructure needs at Joint Base  Pearl Harbor Hickam that have remained unresolved for years. Given the  joint nature of Hawaii's military infrastructure, it needs leadership  from a joint perspective to ensure all interests are considered and  supported.

We must face the hard truth that the status quo for military  infrastructure in Hawaii is unsustainable. We can no longer expect our  service members to project 21st-century power from 20th-century  infrastructure. The fiscal and operational costs of continued neglect  far outweigh the investment required to modernize these aging  facilities. The steps I have proposed today represent a roadmap to  restoring our regional readiness, but I stand ready to work with my  colleagues to ensure the FY 2027 NDAA and appropriations bills provides  the necessary resources to rebuild and protect our Nation's most  critical Indo-Pacific location.