Indigenous Diplomacy and Engagement Act


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge support for my Indigenous  Diplomacy and Engagement Act to ensure that our foreign affairs fully  encompass and incorporate the independent interconnectedness of our  world's indigenous peoples.

The estimated 476 million indigenous peoples spread across all parts  of our world are bound together by a common heritage, common wisdom and  common challenges that transcend often artificial lines of national  sovereignty. To recognize their international status and leverage their  collective knowledge, in 2007 the international community adopted the  United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.

This common history, knowledge and approach, in such key areas as  preservation of unique cultures, sustainable use of our natural  resources, and advancement of health care, offers all of us not only a  wealth of expertise on their own challenges but on those we all face.  To better coordinate focus on indigenous peoples worldwide and engage  internationally on issues important to indigenous peoples, my  Indigenous Diplomacy and Engagement Act would create an Office for  Indigenous Affairs at the Department of State responsible for  coordinating all efforts of the federal government regarding diplomacy  and engagements with international indigenous peoples. The office would  be headed by a Coordinator for Indigenous Affairs, appointed by the  President with the advice and consent of the Senate. The coordinator  will be tasked with establishing a comprehensive international strategy  for promoting diplomacy and engagement with indigenous peoples.

The strategy will be developed in coordination with various federal  departments and agencies as well as an Advisory Commission on  Indigenous Peoples established by the bill. The Commission will consist  of members appointed by the Secretary of State, President Pro Tempore  of the Senate and the Speaker of the House, as well as representatives  from the National Congress of American Indians, Alaska Federation of  Natives and Office of Hawaiian Affairs, the representative entities for  the largest groups of our country's own indigenous peoples. This will  help more directly link our Nation's indigenous peoples with efforts to  build relationship with those in other countries.

This bill would also require our Foreign Service Officers to be  trained on the history and culture of indigenous communities that  reside near their posts of assignment. Our Foreign Service Officers  will often be the primary American officials for interaction with these  communities, and should be well versed in specific indigenous peoples'  issues.

We must not step away from the international stage; rather we should  lead efforts for meaningful engagement where and however we can. This  includes strengthening our relationships and partnerships with  international indigenous peoples to more fully include their special  perspective and connectedness in an inextricably interlinked world.

I strongly urge my colleagues to join with me in passing and enacting  the Indigenous Diplomacy and Engagement Act.