Introduction of the Filipino Veterans Family Reunification Act of 2025


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I rise to today to ask for the House's support  for the Filipino Veterans Family Reunification Act, which I introduced  with my colleague Congresswoman Jen Kiggans of Virginia. It is the  companion version of the bill introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator  Mazie Hirono of Hawaii, along with twelve other Senators.

In 1941, more than 250,000 Filipino soldiers responded to President  Roosevelt's call-to-arms in the Philippines and elsewhere and fought  bravely for the U.S. and our allies during World War II. These soldiers  were promised the opportunity to immigrate to the United States along  with their families. However, after sacrificing for our country, many  returned home from the War only to be denied the benefits promised for  their service. Though many of these veterans became proud U.S.  citizens, our immigrant visa backlog, exacerbated by caps on visas from  the Philippines, have forced many of their family members to wait  decades to come to the United States to join and care for them. This  has effectively prevented these aging veterans from reuniting with  their families.

In October 2017, Congress finally awarded the Filipino veterans of  World War II the Congressional Gold Medal to honor their service to our  country, but we must do more as we promised. Additionally, in 2016, the  U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services created the Filipino World  War II Veterans Parole Program, a temporary administrative fix that  allows these veterans to request parole for their children or siblings.  Under this policy, they can live in the U.S. pending processing of  their permanent resident applications, which may still take years if  not decades. However, as these veterans near the end of their lives,  they deserve the certainty of a non-revocable permanent solution.

The Filipino Veterans Family Reunification Act would address this by  exempting from existing visa caps the visa applications of the children  of Filipino World War II veterans. This would allow them to gain green  cards once their applications are processed and approved, including  careful vetting in line with existing immigration standards. This will  not only assist these veterans in their senior years but also provide a  fitting recognition of their critical service in the War.

I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting these veterans and  helping fulfill our promises to them and their families.