Introduction of Hawaii National Cemetary Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698471/introduction-of-hawaii-national-cemetary-act


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to introduce legislation to build  a new national cemetery in Hawaii. I am joined by my Hawaii colleagues,  Congresswoman Jill Tokuda, and Senator Mazie Hirono, who is introducing  the companion bill in the Senate.

Our Nation has a special responsibility to our veterans. They served  with selfless service, courage and sacrifice to defend our Nation. As a  fitting measure of respect for their service, our federal government  provides a burial benefit for veterans who meet certain criteria. This  benefit is a solemn national recognition of our veterans' service and a  dignified final tribute.

Veterans who qualify for burial benefits have a choice about their  final resting place, including burial in a national cemetery. The  national cemetery in Hawaii is the National Memorial Cemetery of the  Pacific, often referred to as ``Punchbowl.''

Few national cemeteries can compete with the natural beauty and calm  of the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific, which is nestled in a  quiet 100,000-year-old volcanic crater at the foot of the Koolau  Mountains. It's lush green lawns and sprawling banyan and monkeypod  trees offering a serene and natural amphitheater that creates a  peaceful place for solemn remembrance.

With a rich history linking the site to the Native Hawaiian people  and the defense of Honolulu during the Second World War, the cemetery  opened to the public on July 19, 1949, with services for five who lost  their lives in service to our Nation: an unknown serviceman, two  Marines, an Army lieutenant and one civilian--noted war correspondent  Ernie Pyle. Since then, it has become the final resting place for an  estimated 53,000 veterans from World War I, the Second World War, the  Korean War, the Vietnam War and the War on Terror.

Sadly, we have begun to run out of room to bury our Nation's heroes  at the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific. It became essentially  closed to casketed burials in 1991 and will stop accepting cremated  remains by 2036. This is a serious concern for the roughly 115,000  veterans living in Hawaii, some 11% of the state's population.

To maintain equitable access to burial benefits in a national  cemetery for veterans residing in Hawaii, where the next closest  national cemetery is over 2,500 miles way, our Nation must begin the  construction of a new cemetery. The work should start immediately, as  developing a new national cemetery involves many phases, including  community consultation, which can take more than eight years to  complete.

I urge my colleagues to support me in this effort to ensure we can  assure a fitting last resting place in a national cemetery for our  Nation's veterans in Hawaii.