Introduction of the Energy Transitions Initiative Authorization Act


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my Energy  Transitions Initiative Authorization Act to expand resilient and  reliable energy for some of our nation's most vulnerable regions-- isolated and Tribal communities.

Isolated and Tribal communities often share common energy obstacles,  such as limited energy infrastructure, high costs of imported energy  and vulnerability to natural disasters. For example, in my home state  of Hawaii, which ranks as the state with the most expensive power in  the Nation, residential electricity rates average 34 cents per  kilowatt, far exceeding the national average by threefold. We are not  alone in this problem. For example, in Maine the cost of electricity  hovers at 22 cents per kilowatt, coming in at 13 percent higher than  the national average, in part due to its many islands and isolated  communities.

My colleagues and I representing these communities intimately  understand the challenges that isolated and Tribal communities face and  are working to address them. In Hawaii, our state leaders launched a  clean energy initiative in 2008 to aim to use 100 percent renewable  electricity to power our entire state by 2045. We focused on clean  energy, which we can self-sustain, and recognizing that good portions  of our energy come from overseas and potentially adversarial countries,  green energy can also help us advance national security interests. As  for my role in this effort, I have focused on supporting federal  programs that help advance these goals.

These unique energy resilience challenges in remote and Tribal areas  are the focus of the U.S. Department of Energy's Energy Transitions  Initiative Program. Since its inception, this program has partnered  with over 25 Tribal, coastal, remote and island communities across the  Nation to help them secure reliable and affordable energy.

The Energy Transitions Initiative Partnership Program provides  customized technical and financial assistance to community projects  aimed at accessing reliable and affordable power and increasing energy  resilience. Specific community projects include solar power  interconnection, analyzing wind energy potential, conducting wildfire  preparedness, advancing weatherization retrofits and implementing  microgrids and battery storage projects.

The draw of this program is that it doesn't come in and dictate how  communities reach their clean energy goals. It is a partnership program  that values and appreciates the perspective of local and Tribal  communities, actively listening and incorporating community feedback.

In Hawaii, the Energy Transitions Initiative has provided technical  assistance to the City and County of Honolulu to conduct microgrid  location analyses for regional hybrid microgrids and map designs.  Because Hawaii is prone to severe weather conditions that have  previously caused long-duration power outages, our islands have  identified hybrid microgrids as one method to improve resilience.  Microgrids are best suited to areas  prone to prolonged outages during weather events, with clusters of  customers and potential availability of renewable energy sources. The  product of this partnership was a map identifying potential locations  given a set of criteria that stakeholders prioritized in the areas of  criticality, vulnerability and societal impact.

This program helps far more than just Hawaii. For example, it helps  the Aquinnah and Chilmark Tribes in Massachusetts transition to 100  percent renewable energy by 2040 through retrofits, microgrids and  efficiency measures, and Bainbridge Island in Washington analyze the  solar and water power options with a goal of transitioning to 100  percent renewable energy by 2040.

Although this program has helped so many across our great Nation, it  has never been formally codified. Our bill, the Energy Transitions  Initiative Authorization Act, will ensure this program can continue the  technical assistance offered to remote, island and Tribal communities  that is unique and accommodating to their expertise and deep knowledge  of local challenges and solutions.

The bill will authorize $31 million for each fiscal year from 2026 to  2030 to carry out the bill's objectives. No later than 1 year after the  establishment of the bill, the Comptroller General will conduct an  audit of the initiative to ensure proper use of the funds. The audit  will also result in a report with recommendations to improve the  program, which is important because evaluating and improving the  initiative is paramount for its continued progress.

I believe the Energy Transitions Initiative Authorization Act can  further clean energy advancements in our most vulnerable communities. I  urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill and our isolated  and Tribal areas across our Nation.

Mahalo.