Introduction of the Sustainable Budget Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689288/introduction-of-the-sustainable-budget-act


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I rise to focus attention on one of our most  pressing crises: our rapidly deteriorating federal budget, crippled by  unsustainable annual deficits and accelerating overall debt. While most  prefer to deny or explain it away, we all recognize it, and we all must  address it.

Our federal budget operates on principles no different from those of  a business or family budget. Revenues come from taxes and fees, and  expenses from government operations. When revenues exceed expenses, the  government runs a surplus. When expenses exceed revenues, the  government runs a deficit.

The federal budget operates on a fiscal year, meaning surpluses and  deficits are calculated annually. When the government runs a deficit in  any given year, it must borrow money to cover the shortfall. This is  done primarily through issuing government bonds. Additionally, we  borrow from intragovernmental sources such as the Social Security Trust  Fund, which must eventually be repaid in order to fund Social Security  benefits.

We also pay interest on the money we borrow. The total amount  borrowed, largely to cover accumulated net deficits over time,  constitutes our national debt.

Much like a family or business, it is ideal to avoid deficits and  debt. However, some level of debt can be acceptable so long as it is  not chronic, not an excuse for irresponsible spending, and remains  proportionate to our overall budget and our gross domestic product  (GDP).

Sadly, none of these sound budgetary principles has been followed for  a full generation now. The last time the United States had a balanced  budget was in 2001. Since then, we have run deficits every year, and  our total debt and annual interest on that debt have ballooned.

The highest recorded annual deficit was in 2020 during the COVID-19  pandemic, reaching $3.1 trillion. Since then, the deficit has remained  high, with the current year's deficit at approximately $1.9 trillion.  If we continue on this path, the annual deficit is projected to reach  $2.9 trillion by 2034.

Our national debt has reached unprecedented levels as well. In 2004,  the total debt was $7 trillion. By 2014, it had increased to $18  trillion. In 2019, it stood at $23 trillion. Today, our total debt has  surpassed $36 trillion.

Our gross debt-to-GDP ratio is now 124 percent, the highest it has  been since the final years of World War II, when it peaked at 126  percent. If left unaddressed, this ratio is projected to reach 134  percent of GDP by 2034, with total debt climbing to $57 trillion.

Additionally, we are now spending more on interest payments on our  national debt than any other federal program except for Social  Security, so including even defense or Medicare. Interest will rise  from $881 billion in Fiscal Year (FY) 2024 to $1 trillion by FY 2026.

Failing to address our mounting debt and deficits has severe  implications. It crowds out other critical spending in both defense and  non-defense areas; reduces fiscal flexibility especially in times of  crisis; contributes to inflationary pressures; slows economic growth;  increases pressure to raise interest rates; creates national security  risks, particularly as adversaries hold significant portions of our  debt; discourages responsible budgeting practices on an international  scale; and fuels arguments made by our adversaries in particular the  People's Republic of China for replacing the U.S. dollar as the world's  reserve currency.

In a Congress where we often repeat the platitude that our budget  reflects our values, it is disturbing that the main common value  reflected is fiscal unsustainability ranging to irresponsibility. We  need look no further than a mirror for the root cause: our collective  inability to face the music of fiscal responsibility and  sustainability. It is clear that we need additional help to focus our  Nation on the specific issues and collective decision-making required  to stabilize our budget.

To set us on some path to righting our fiscal ship, I have introduced  the Sustainable Budget Act with my colleagues Congressmen Steve Womack,  Scott Peters and Zachary Nunn. Our bill will create a National  Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, similar to other such  commissions past, to serve this function.

The commission would consist of eighteen members split between  Democrats and Republicans, and would be charged with proposing  recommendations designed to achieve a balanced annual federal budget  within ten years and meaningfully improve the long-term federal fiscal  outlook. This commission would also include recommendations to address  the growth in entitlement spending, which we all, regardless of our  views on the issue, know is a key fiscal concern on its current track.

The commission's final recommendations would be due to Congress by no  later than one year after the Commissioners are appointed. If the  proposal is supported by at least twelve members of the committee,  including at least four members of each party, it would receive  expedited consideration in the House and Senate, which would have to  vote on the proposal.

A commission process has been utilized in other times of fiscal  uncertainty and has facilitated some tough, but necessary, discussion.  It has been attempted before in the federal fiscal context through  various commissions such as Simpson-Bowles, which came close to  succeeding in restoring some fiscal discipline in Washington. There is  no reason to conclude that it would not work here, and every reason to  conclude that absent such an approach we will be in far worse shape far  faster than followed previous attempts.

We clearly need help with our collective inability to confront this  reality. My Sustainable Budget Act is at least a start toward a  solution.

I urge this bill's prompt consideration and passage.