Introduction of the Esop Funding for Sba Position Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690133/introduction-of-the-esop-funding-for-sba-position-act-of-2025


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to introduce legislation to  ensure that the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) fully supports  our small businesses establish and maintain employee stock ownership  plans (ESOPs).

ESOPs offer a powerful way to ensure employees become stakeholders  and help run the business they've built. This wealth-generating and  retirement plan approach creates a more engaged and productive  workforce by aligning employee interests with a company's success. This  model promotes a stronger sense of ownership and community and keeps  investment and wealth in local economies, benefiting workers and their  families.

In Hawaii, we've seen firsthand the benefits of ESOPs. Hawaii is home  to the second-oldest ESOP chapter in the Nation, underscoring the  success and importance of employee-owned businesses in our state. From  that humble beginning, the Hawaii Chapter of the ESOP Association now  represents over 45 ESOP companies and professional service providers in  the state, which is a significant number considering our state's size.  These businesses, with the help of ESOPs, have continued to thrive,  contributing to the local economy in ways that benefit families and the  broader community.

Despite this strong record of ESOPs in Hawaii and throughout the  United States, many small businesses face challenges in navigating the  complex process of establishing and maintaining an ESOP. They often  lack expertise in tax considerations, regulatory compliance, stock  valuation, and securing the necessary funding.

There is also a growing concern with the ``Silver Tsunami''--the  impending wave of baby boomer business owners looking for ways to  transfer ownership. As these owners retire, many are considering ESOPs,  but the complexity of setting them up may discourage some from pursuing  this option.

To help overcome these challenges, my ESOP Funding for SBA Position  Act of 2025 will create a position within the SBA to guide small  businesses through the process of setting up ESOPs, providing essential  support on tax considerations, compliance, stock valuation and securing  funding. This new SBA position will provide businesses with the  resources they need to navigate the complexities of employee ownership.

This bipartisan bill, which I have introduced with my colleague  Congressman Robert Bresnahan, will help empower small businesses  nationwide. I urge my colleagues to support this important initiative  that will make employee ownership more accessible, foster stronger  communities and keep business wealth where it belongs--locally.

Mahalo.