Introduction of the Blue Pacific Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693346/introduction-of-the-blue-pacific-act


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my Boosting Long- Term U.S. Engagement in the Pacific (BLUE Pacific) Act, cosponsored by  14 of my colleagues.

Scattered across the three traditional Pacific subregions of  Melanesia, Micronesia and Polynesia are over two dozen jurisdictions  collectively known as the Pacific Islands, including twelve independent  states, countries in free association and territories. Though small in  land area and population, the land plus maritime exclusive economic  zones of all these jurisdictions combined exceed the land areas of  China and Russia combined, comprising a significant part of the vast  Pacific Ocean and our Earth's surface.

In 2019, a number of us came together to create the Congressional  Pacific Islands Caucus, the first such group of Members of Congress  dedicated to this dynamic and diverse part of the world. We believe  that the Pacific Islands region remains critical to our national  security interests in the Indo-Pacific which advises greater U.S.  engagement with this region to advance our shared interests and values,  particularly in the context of growing geopolitical competition and  threats by our shared adversaries to endanger the pursuit of a free and  open Indo-Pacific.

Over the last three Congresses, we have introduced versions of the  BLUE Pacific Act, which would advance a comprehensive, long-term U.S.  strategy in the Pacific Islands region. Much of the previous versions  of the BLUE Pacific Act has been enacted or implemented as a result of  our efforts in previous Congresses, but key provisions remain and are  included in this version, in addition to provisions from other  bipartisan U.S.-Pacific Islands bills introduced in the 118th Congress,  including the Pacific Partnership Act and the Engage the Pacific Act.  It also adds provisions that incorporate various developments in the  Pacific Islands over the last few years, including goals and needs  articulated by the Pacific Islands themselves that are in line with  U.S. interests.

The current version of the BLUE Pacific Act expands U.S. diplomatic  and development presence in the Pacific Islands by recommending that  the administration increase the number of staff working on Pacific  Islands issues and in the region, authorizing the Secretaries of State  and Commerce to hire locally employed staff in the region, establishing  a workforce development program, codifying a media program and more.

It increases U.S. security assistance to address regional maritime  security, transnational crime and law enforcement issues by authorizing  the Secretary of State to provide assistance to build the capacity of  civilian and national security institutions in the region and expanding  existing reports on transnational crime on the Pacific Islands.

The bill deepens bilateral and multilateral trade between the U.S.  and the Pacific Islands by authorizing a trade capacity building  initiative, authorizing the U.S. Trade Representative to work to expand  and diversify trade and directing the Secretary of Commerce to allocate  additionally Foreign Commercial Service Officers to the region.

Further, the BLUE Pacific Act supports regional economic and social  development by providing assistance in multiple sectors such as public  health, education, infrastructure, environmental resilience, digital  connectivity, disaster mitigation and more.

Finally, the bill promotes shared values like freedom of the press,  gender equality and freedom of religion, including by establishing an  interagency committee on engagement with civil society organizations in  the Pacific Islands and authorizing the President to provide assistance  to promote freedom of the press.

These initiatives support the significant strides we have made in  recent years towards fully reengaging the Pacific Islands region across  a range of common values and interests and in response to specific  Pacific Islands' needs. The United States must make clear to the region  that we are a partner they can trust and rely upon in the long term.

For these reasons, I ask that you support our bill. Mahalo.