Recognizing Filipino American History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695943/recognizing-filipino-american-history-month


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, as the Member of Congress with the most  Filipino Americans of any Congressional district nationwide (nearly  200,000), I have been honored since 2019 to co-lead an annual  resolution recognizing October as Filipino American History Month. I  have joined many colleagues in doing so once again to recognize and  celebrate the great contributions of Filipino Americans to our country,  in government and law, music and entertainment, sports, business and  countless other ventures.

The first recorded arrival of Filipinos in the continental United  States took place on October 18, 1587, when the ``Luzones Indios'' came  ashore from the Manila-built galleon Nuestra Senora de Esperanza in  Morro Bay, California. This was followed by the first permanent  Filipino settlement in the United States in St. Malo, Louisiana in  1763.

Since those early beginnings, our Filipino American community has  grown to nearly 5 million people and is the third largest Asian  American and Pacific Islander group in the United States. Many of the  early Filipino immigrants were young men who came to the United States,  most to Hawaii, California, Washington, and Alaska, seeking a better  life.

This first generation of Filipino immigrants are commonly referred to  as the ``Manong generation'' (Ilocano for first-born male). They worked  mostly physically demanding jobs in tough conditions for very little  pay. Over the years, they fought against discrimination, found a way  forward, became respected members of their communities and made a  better future for themselves and their future generations. Several  generations have thrived upon that foundation.

The history of the Fil-Am community in Hawaii is particularly rich  and echoes the national story. In 1906, the first fifteen Sakada  contract laborers arrived in Honolulu from the Philippines aboard the  SS Doric, marking the first sustained immigration into our country and  the humble beginnings of Fil-Ams in Hawaii. By 1919, more than 29,000  Filipinos had traveled to Hawaii to take labor contracts. These first  immigrants, those that followed and the subsequent generations  eventually became trailblazers in politics and government, the  military, business and entrepreneurship, journalism, popular culture,  music and the arts and more.

Our resolution honors the tremendous and increasing contribution of  Filipino Americans to our country in all areas including music, dance,  literature, education, health care, business, literature, journalism,  sports, fashion, politics, government, science, technology, the fine  arts and other fields. I include in the Record the names and  accomplishments of Filipino Americans, again from my Hawaii:

Domingo Los Banos was Hawaii's first Filipino American       school principal and a loyal veteran of the 1st Filipino       Infantry Regiment that fought in the Philippines during World       War II.

Carolina Dizon Wong broke a glass ceiling when she obtained       an M.D. degree and became the first Filipino American to       start a medical practice in Hawaii in 1952.

Peter Aduja became the first Filipino American elected to       public office in the United States when he was elected to the       Hawaii Territorial House of Representatives in 1954.

Larry Ramos became to first Filipino and Asian-American to       win a Grammy Award playing the banjo for the New Christy       Minstrels in 1963.

Benjamin Menor became the first Filipino American to serve       in a state's highest judiciary office as a Justice of the       Hawaii State Supreme Court in 1974.

In 1978 Alfred Laureta became the first Filipino American       to serve as a federal judge, serving in the federal court of       the Northern Mariana Islands.

Ines Cayaban was the first Filipino American graduate of       the School of Public Health, Nursing and Social Work at the       University of Hawaii. She received the prestigious Jefferson       Award in 1986 for her service.

In 1994, Ben Cayetano was elected the Governor of Hawaii,       becoming the first Filipino American governor of a state in       our union.

In 2019, Roy Macaraeg became the first Filipino American to       become a general officer in the history of Hawaii's citizen       soldier ranks.

In Hawaii, we also regularly honor the over 250,000 Filipinos  nationwide who answered the call to protect and defend America and the  Philippines in the Pacific theater. In 2016, President Obama signed  into law the Filipino Veterans of World War II Congressional Gold Medal  Act to bestow Congress's highest honor upon those veterans. With my  colleagues in the House, I have introduced our Filipino Veterans Family  Reunification Act, which seeks to reunite World War II Filipino  soldiers with their children, so that we can honor those living in our  community who fought to protect the free and open Indo-Pacific that we  have today.

Each and all these lives of achievement are but a small sampling of a  broader community that has achieved so much and contributed so much to  the rich fabric of our country. And the story of Filipino Americans is  still in its early chapters.

It is fully appropriate that we again honor our Filipino American  community whose story is a quintessentially American story.