Recognizing Hawaiian History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695915/recognizing-hawaiian-history-month


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, as we commemorate Hawaiian History Month this  September, I want to again express the pride and appreciation of my  Hawaii in the unique history, culture and contributions of the Native  Hawaiian people.

Because of Hawaii's geographic distance from the continental United  States and the general lack of education nationally about Hawaiian  history, many Americans remain unaware that there are over 700,000 now  who identify in whole or in part as Native Hawaiian. Roughly half  continue to reside in their homeland of Hawaii, and I am deeply humbled  to join my Hawaii Congressional delegation colleagues in our kuleana  (responsibility) to represent them and their `ohana (family) everywhere  in Congress.

The Native Hawaiians, also known as Kanaka Maoli, trace their origins  to the extraordinary voyages from their ancestral homeland of Kahiki-- today's Tahiti and Marquesas--hundreds of years before the arrival of  other recognized Pacific peoples in their homelands. By the time of  first Western contact with Captain Cook in 1778, Native Hawaiians had  developed a complete and vibrant culture with their own language,  religion, values and sophisticated systems of governance, agriculture  and navigation.

Yet, like so many other indigenous peoples, post-contact Native  Hawaiians endured marginalization, suppression and loss of their  traditions in their own homelands. While estimates vary, it is believed  that there were more than 300,000 Native Hawaiians prior to the arrival  of Captain Cook, but by 1920, that number had fallen to just under  24,000, on the verge of losing bedrock cultural practices such as hula,  traditional chanting called oli and the Hawaiian language itself due to  mass population loss and laws preventing the teaching of Hawaiian.

But beginning in the 1960s-70s, a cultural renaissance took hold.  Kumu hula (master teachers in the art of hula) like George Na`ope, who  founded the Merrie Monarch Festival, worked tirelessly to preserve and  revive ancient hula traditions. Language advocates like Larry Kimura  launched `Aha Punana Leo preschools to nurture a new generation of  `Olelo Hawaii (Hawaiian language) speakers. The Polynesian Voyaging  Society, through the construction and voyages of the Hokule`a,  reawakened the ancient art of navigation and connected Native Hawaiians  with their voyaging ancestors.

Today, Native Hawaiians continue to embody resilience and leadership.  Their revival across all enriches not only Hawaii but also the entire  Nation, offering a living example of perseverance, identity and  contribution. We see this in the half-century now of traditional  navigation of Nainoa Thompson, the first Hawaiian master navigator in  600 years, the music and cultural leadership of Keali`i Reichel and  Kumu Hula Hinaleimoana Wong-Kalu, the athletic achievements of Max  Holloway and Akebono Taro, and the groundbreaking scientific work of  Dr. Isabella Abbott, the world's foremost expert on Pacific marine  algae.

As we mark Hawaiian History Month. let us honor the Native Hawaiian  people, recognize their unique history and culture, and recommit  ourselves to ensuring that this heritage remains a living, thriving  part of our shared American story.