Saving Nemo Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688918/saving-nemo-act


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge support for my Saving  Natural Ecosystems and Marine Organisms (NEMO) Act to protect the  ornamental reef species living in the fragile and invaluable ecosystems  of our world's endangered coral reefs.

Our oceans, teeming with life and rich biodiversity, depend on the  health of coral reefs, some of the most biologically diverse ecosystems  on Earth. Nearly 25 percent of the ocean's fish rely on coral reefs for  shelter, food and breeding grounds. These reefs and  the species that inhabit them are critical to the balance and vitality  of our oceans.

Unfortunately, coral reefs and the marine life living in them are  under threat due to the high demand for ornamental reef species. This  has resulted in unsustainable and harmful collection practices, such as  overcollection of species, particularly younger specimens; reef- dredging; the use of harmful gill nets, explosives, or poisons; and  excessive mortality of specimens during transit.

These practices not only deplete species populations but also cause  irreversible damage to the coral ecosystems themselves. In some cases,  this damage has led to the extirpation of species from specific areas  and the introduction of invasive species, which further disrupts the  ecological balance. The long-term consequences of these practices are  the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of habitats that are vital  to the health of our oceans.

Many of these harmful collection practices occur in international  waters, particularly in regions such as Southeast Asia, where most of  the world's coral reefs are located. In many of these countries, there  are weak or insufficient regulations to prevent destructive collection  methods. As the largest importer of ornamental reef fish and corals,  the United States bears a significant responsibility in perpetuating  the demand for these species, which drives destructive practices in  coral reef ecosystems worldwide.

We have an opportunity to take decisive action. My Saving NEMO Act  would prohibit the importation into the United States of protected reef  species taken through unsustainable or destructive practices. Going  beyond complementing the Lacey Act, CITES and the Endangered Species  Act, my bill will also fill a critical gap by addressing those species  that, while not endangered, are still collected through methods that  harm marine ecosystems. It also includes a process for delisting a  species if the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce  determine that its collection no longer poses a substantial risk to its  sustainability, providing an incentive for the industry to adopt  responsible practices.

Furthermore, the Saving NEMO Act would support industries that focus  on sustainability and environmentally friendly practices, which is the  future of the industry. In doing so, this bill will ensure that the  aquarium trade evolves in a way that protects our oceans and promotes  long-term ecological balance.

I urge my colleagues to support this critical legislation to help  safeguard our coral reefs and the diverse marine life they support. By  restricting the importation of ornamental reef species collected  through harmful practices, we can protect these vital ecosystems for  future generations.

Mahalo.