Recognizing A Magnanimous Media Mogul: Mr. Byron Allen


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696283/recognizing-a-magnanimous-media-mogul-mr-byron-allen


Mr. MFUME. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an accomplished  media mogul, Mr. Byron Allen, who has embodied the ideals of  persistence, innovation, and integrity throughout his life and career.

Born in Detroit, Michigan, Byron Allen's interest in the  entertainment industry began at a young age when he was first taken to  the NBC Studios in Burbank by his mother, publicist Carolyn Folks, who  was--and still is--Byron's biggest supporter. At the tender age of just  fourteen years old, he was already pitching jokes to show biz titans  Jay Leno and David Letterman.

By 1979, at just eighteen years old, Allen had become the youngest  comedian ever to appear on The Tonight Show. Following this historic  and meteoric ascent in the comedy scene, Byron Allen became a host- correspondent on NBC's reality TV show Real People and secured a  leading role in the 1988 film Case Closed. After both projects wrapped,  Allen hosted The Byron Allen Show, a talk show that ran from 1989 to  1992.

Allen toured as a stand-up comic up until 1993, when he launched his  production firm, CF Entertainment, which originally focused on low-cost  TV programming. The company underwent a name change in 2003, re- emerging as Entertainment Studios, as Allen's extraordinary business  acumen and strategic moves were beginning to differentiate his business  as a premier player in the entertainment industry.

Entertainment Studios, once a small-scale television programming  company in Los Angeles, is now a division of the larger Allen Media  Group, and it has evolved into one of the largest cable network  portfolios in the broadcasting industry, featuring ten, 24-hour HD  television networks. The company has produced and distributed Emmy  Award-winning shows while handling advertising for dozens of television  programs. Its growth has continued through major acquisitions: In 2016,  Allen Media Group acquired The Grio, a digital media leader creating  compelling content for African American audiences. In 2018, Allen Media  Group acquired the universally recognized Weather Channel, one of the  crown jewels of cable television.

Still, Byron Allen's influence extends far beyond his business  triumphs, and he has always worked to give back to his community. The  Allen Media Group is the first African American owned media studio  producing and distributing wide-release motion pictures and content for  all platforms. In pursuit of racial equity in advertising dollars and  channel carriage, he has successfully led lawsuits that secured  settlements with the major corporations McDonalds and Comcast. Allen is  also a noted philanthropist, helping to raise tens of millions of  dollars for charitable causes.

Over the years, Allen has established himself as a prominent Black  entertainment mogul who holds the principle of equity in extremely high  regard. He recognizes the disadvantages that underrepresented  communities face, and he has vigorously advocated for diversity and  inclusion at all levels of his career.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to recognize Byron Allen in the hope of  encapsulating a man who has left a lasting mark on entertainment  without ever straying from his moral undertaking of corporate social  responsibility. Byron Allen is a role model for us all and has led a  trailblazing life dedicated to excellence and the molding of a better,  more equitable future.