Recognizing A Trailblazing Career in Criminal Justice: U.S. Attorney Erek Lawrence Barron


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688210/recognizing-a-trailblazing-career-in-criminal-justice-us-attorney-erek-lawrence-barron


Mr. MFUME. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the outstanding  achievements and historic tenure of Maryland's outgoing United States  Attorney, Erek Lawrence Barron. He is an experienced lawyer, an  accomplished legislator, and a champion of civil rights, and his time  as U.S. Attorney has left the people of Maryland safer and more secure  in their communities, with greater confidence in the integrity of the  justice system.

Mr. Barron earned his Juris Doctor from the prestigious George  Washington University Law School in 1999 and earned admission to the  Maryland Bar that same year. He began his career in public service as  an Assistant State's Attorney in Prince George's County in 2001,  primarily prosecuting violent crimes, before transferring to Baltimore  City in 2004 and continuing in this position until 2006.

The next phase of his career was at the Department of Justice, as a  Trial Attorney in their Criminal Division. There, he focused on  tackling the scourge of organized crime, investigating and prosecuting  figures involved in regional and national gangs.

This law enforcement experience, gained at both the state and federal  level, had Mr. Barron well-prepared for his subsequent role as Counsel  and Special Advisor to then-Senator Joe Biden, serving on the United  States Senate's Judicial Committee's Subcommittee on Crime and Drugs.  Soon after, he was a member of the Justice and Civil Rights Review Team  for President Barack Obama's Presidential Transition Team.

Given his high qualifications and extensive experience, it is no  surprise that in 2014, the good people of Prince George's County,  Maryland elected Mr. Barron to the House of Delegates. In the state  legislature, he prioritized public safety and criminal Justice reform,  co-authoring bipartisan legislation that instituted sweeping  improvements to Maryland's sentencing and corrections systems.

His thoughtfulness and effectiveness as a legislator helped Mr.  Barron win re-election in 2018, and he continued serving in the General  Assembly through October 2021, when the United States Senate confirmed  him as the chief federal law enforcement official in the great state of  Maryland.

When he took his oath of office, Mr. Barron became the first African  American to serve as Maryland's United States Attorney. Despite the  historic nature of his service, Mr. Barron never sought out the  limelight--he focused entirely on doing his job and doing it well,  working closely with state and local law enforcement to implement  crime-fighting strategies that reduced violent crime.

Most importantly, Mr. Barron got results. During his tenure, Maryland  saw homicide rates drop by 41 percent. He established a new Violent and  Organized Crime Section within the office and instructed his  prosecutors to utilize an ``Al Capone'' model of prosecution, using all  available legal means and resources to get repeat offenders off the  streets. He also established a new Civil Rights and Special Victims  Section, a dedicated unit focused on prosecuting hate crimes, civil  rights violations, and crimes committed against our most vulnerable  populations.

Mr. Barron's incredible value to Maryland is exemplified by a case of  federal-local partnership that led to a major crime bust. Ivan Bates,  Baltimore's State's Attorney, approached Mr. Barron for assistance in  getting the federal resources necessary for a wiretap. Mr. Barron  personally lobbied law enforcement leaders and secured those  resources--and after a 6-month operation, 39 people across 4 criminal  networks were arrested, 67 firearms were confiscated, 15 stolen  vehicles were recovered, and more than $350,000 in drug money was  seized. That is the power of an effective partnership.

Now that his term as our United States Attorney has ended, I join  Governor Moore, former Governor Hogan, and law enforcement officials  across our state in thanking Mr. Erek Lawrence Barron for his tireless  efforts to make our streets safer and our communities more secure. I  congratulate him on his many achievements.