Airport Regulatory Relief Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701203/airport-regulatory-relief-act-of-2025


Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 6427) to amend title 49, United States Code, to permit the  use of State highway standards for airfield pavement construction and  improvement under certain circumstances, and for other purposes, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 6427

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Airport Regulatory Relief       Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. USE OF STATE HIGHWAY STANDARDS.

Section 47114(d)(4) of title 49, United States Code, is       amended to read as follows:

``(4) Use of state highway specifications.--

``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall use the highway       specifications of a State for airfield pavement construction       and improvement using funds made available under this       subsection or subsection (c)(1)(D) at nonprimary airports       serving aircraft that do not exceed 60,000 pounds gross       weight if--

``(i) such State provides notice to the Secretary that       nonprimary airports in the State intend to use such highway       specifications; and

``(ii) the Secretary determines that such specifications       will not negatively affect safety.

``(B) Deadline.--The Secretary shall make a determination       described in subparagraph (A)(ii) not later than 6 months       after a State provides notice to the Secretary under       subparagraph (A)(i).

``(C) Extension.--If the Secretary determines that the time       provided under subparagraph (B) is insufficient to make a       determination, the Secretary may extend the determination       period by 6 months, so long as the Secretary--

``(i) notifies the State that provided notice pursuant to       subparagraph (A)(i) of the extension; and

``(ii) provides justification for the extension to such       State.

``(D) Additional extensions.--The Secretary may authorize       additional extensions under subparagraph (C).''.

Mr. TAYLOR.  6427.

Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, H.R. 6427, the Airport Regulatory Relief Act of 2025,  is a commonsense piece of legislation that reduces the burden on States  seeking to use State highway specifications for airfield projects at  nonprimary airports serving smaller aircraft.

Our Nation's small and general aviation airports are vital links for  rural communities, connecting them to essential services, supporting  local jobs, and strengthening the national aviation system.

Under current law, States seeking to use State highway pavement  standards for airfield projects must formally request approval from the  Secretary of Transportation.

This legislation cuts unnecessary red tape by allowing States to  notify the Secretary, rather than navigate a lengthy approval process.  At the same time, the bill preserves safety by maintaining the  requirement that the Secretary determine that such standards will not  negatively affect aviation safety.

By streamlining the process while upholding safety, this legislation  will help deliver airfield improvements faster and more efficiently to  the communities that need them most.

Madam Speaker, I thank Representative Begich for his leadership on  this issue. I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from  Alaska (Mr. Begich), who is the author of this legislation.

Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, nonprimary airports play a vital role in connecting  rural and underserved communities like mine to essential services,  sustaining local jobs, and enabling emergency response capabilities.  Cutting red tape helps reduce project delays, lower construction costs,  and gives communities faster access to modern, safe airfield  infrastructure, allowing limited dollars to stretch further and deliver  greater value to passengers and local economies.

This commonsense measure reduces the burden on smaller airports  seeking to use State highway pavement standards for airfield  construction projects.

Madam Speaker, I was cosponsor of this legislation. I urge support of  this bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.