Authorizing the Use of the Capitol Grounds for the National Peace Officers' Memorial Service and the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701222/authorizing-the-use-of-the-capitol-grounds-for-the-national-peace-officers-memorial-service-and-the-national-honor-guard-and-pipe-band-exhibition


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the  concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 73) authorizing the use of the  Capitol Grounds for the National Peace Officers' Memorial Service and  the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition.

The Clerk read the title of the concurrent resolution.

The text of the concurrent resolution is as follows:                              H. Con. Res. 73

Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate       concurring), That       SECTION 1. USE OF THE CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR NATIONAL PEACE                     OFFICERS' MEMORIAL SERVICE.

(a) In General.--The National Fraternal Order of Police and       its auxiliary shall be permitted to sponsor a public event,       the 45th Annual National Peace Officers' Memorial Service (in       this resolution referred to as the ``Memorial Service''), on       the Capitol Grounds, in order to honor the law enforcement       officers who died in the line of duty during 2025.

(b) Date of Memorial Service.--The Memorial Service shall       be held on May 15, 2026, or on such other date as the Speaker       of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules       and Administration of the Senate jointly designate, with       preparation for the event to begin on May 7, 2026, and       takedown completed on May 17, 2026.       SEC. 2. USE OF THE CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR NATIONAL HONOR GUARD                     AND PIPE BAND EXHIBITION.

(a) In General.--The National Fraternal Order of Police and       its auxiliary shall be permitted to sponsor a public event,       the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition (in this       resolution referred to as the ``Exhibition''), on the Capitol       Grounds, in order to allow law enforcement representatives to       exhibit their ability to demonstrate Honor Guard programs and       provide for a bagpipe exhibition.

(b) Date of Exhibition.--The Exhibition shall be held on       May 14, 2026, or on such other date as the Speaker of the       House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and       Administration of the Senate jointly designate.       SEC. 3. TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

(a) In General.--Under conditions to be prescribed by the       Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board, the       event shall be--

(1) free of admission charge and open to the public; and

(2) arranged not to interfere with the needs of Congress.

(b) Expenses and Liabilities.--The sponsors of the Memorial       Service and Exhibition shall assume full responsibility for       all expenses and liabilities incident to all activities       associated with the events.       SEC. 4. EVENT PREPARATIONS.

Subject to the approval of the Architect of the Capitol,       the sponsors referred to in section 3(b) are authorized to       erect upon the Capitol Grounds such stage, sound       amplification devices, and other related structures and       equipment, as may be required for the Memorial Service and       Exhibition.       SEC. 5. ENFORCEMENT OF RESTRICTIONS.

The Capitol Police Board shall provide for enforcement of       the restrictions contained in section 5104(c) of title 40,       United States Code, concerning sales, advertisements,       displays, and solicitations on the Capitol Grounds, as well       as other restrictions applicable to the Capitol Grounds, in       connection with the events.

Mr. TAYLOR.  Con. Res. 73.

Mr. TAYLOR.

Mr. Speaker, H. Con. Res. 73 authorizes the use of the Capitol  grounds for the 45th Annual National Peace Officers' Memorial event.

I am proud to continue the long tradition of supporting the Fraternal  Order of Police in honoring the law enforcement officers who died in  the line of duty in 2025.

Law enforcement officers across the country put their lives on the  line every day to help keep us safe. There were 17 officers killed in  Ohio in 2025.

Last year, I paid my respects to Deputy Larry Ray Henderson from  Union Township, Ohio, who tragically lost his life in the line of duty.

Larry joined the ranks of those who courageously made the ultimate  sacrifice while protecting our communities. I also recognize Officer  Larry Cox from Chillicothe and Officer Dave Poling who did the same. I  am humbled to honor their legacies today.

We all owe a debt of gratitude to the police officers who continue to  serve despite the risk they face every day.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this resolution, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, I thank Subcommittee Chairman Perry for his  continued leadership on this important piece of legislation. The  memorial service authorized in H. Con. Res. 73 is one we here in  Congress can ensure the men and women who put their lives on the line  every day are honored and that those who have made the ultimate  sacrifice receive the recognition they so justly deserve.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of H. Con. Res. 73, and I yield back the  balance of my time.