Aviation Supply Chain Safety and Security Digitization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701181/aviation-supply-chain-safety-and-security-digitization-act-of-2025


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 6267) to direct the Comptroller General of the United States  to conduct a study on the impediments to digital documentation and  verification in the aviation supply chain, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 6267

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Aviation Supply Chain Safety       and Security Digitization Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. INTEGRITY OF AEROSPACE PARTS DOCUMENTATION.

(a) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States       shall conduct a study on the impediments to the use of       digital documentation and verification in the aviation supply       chain to aid in identifying falsified documentation and       counterfeit parts.

(b) Contents.--In conducting the study under subsection       (a), the Comptroller General shall evaluate the challenges       of--

(1) manufacturers, repairs stations, air carriers, aircraft       lessors, aircraft brokers, parts brokers, and other supply       chain participants to adopting the use of digital authorized       release certificates, including FAA Form 8130-3;

(2) the aviation industry in utilizing digital verification       and authentication tools;

(3) establishing standardized documentation in the aviation       industry; and

(4) transitioning the Federal Aviation Administration       from--

(A) legacy paper-based records to digital documentation;       and

(B) physical to digital signatures.

(c) Report.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit       to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the       House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report containing       the results of the study conducted under subsection (a).

(2) Recommendations.--The Comptroller General shall include       in the report submitted under paragraph (1)--

(A) recommendations on--

(i) ways to encourage each organization in the aviation       industry, regardless of the size of such organization, to       adopt the use of digital forms and authentication tools; and

(ii) how to accelerate the adoption of digital       documentation by the Federal Aviation Administration; and

(B) any other recommendations the Comptroller General       determines appropriate.

(d) Response of Secretary of Transportation.--Not later       than 120 days after submission of the report required under       paragraph (c), the Secretary of Transportation shall respond       to any recommendations in such report directed to the       Department of Transportation or any office of the Department.

Mr. TAYLOR.  on 6267.

Mr. Speaker, the safety of our airspace is and has always been the  Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure's top priority.

That commitment to aviation safety extends down to the raw materials  and components used to manufacture and maintain aircraft that are  operational in the National Airspace System.

Recent reports of bad actors falsifying paperwork, leading to  unapproved parts entering the supply chain, are not only highly  concerning but also underscores the need to authenticate documents and  intercept counterfeit parts.

Unapproved parts and falsified documentation threaten the safety of  our aviation system and the integrity of our supply chain, which we  have worked so diligently to strengthen.

Mr. Speaker, American manufacturers, repair stations, air carriers,  aircraft lessors, aircraft brokers, and parts brokers deserve and need  the tools to easily identify falsified documentation and ensure they  are not buying, selling, or installing counterfeit parts.

H.R. 6267 will identify barriers to tools that can help identify  counterfeit parts, ensuring everyone in the aviation supply chain has  the ability to verify the authenticity of the materials and parts they  purchase.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, I thank Representative Knott from North  Carolina for his leadership on this important issue.

To reiterate, unapproved parts and falsified documentation threaten  the safety of our aviation system and the integrity of our supply chain  which holds it all together.

This legislation will improve aviation safety by identifying barriers  to adopting digital tools to identify the authenticity of materials and  parts in the aviation supply chain.

Furthermore, H.R. 6267, the Aviation Supply Chain Safety and Security  Digitization Act of 2025, will support the Federal Aviation  Administration as they work to digitize legacy paper systems as  required by the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2024.

Mr. Speaker, as a Representative of Ohio, where the Wright brothers  built and designed the very first airplane, I urge support of this  bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.