Congratulating Miss Ohio Olivia Fosson and Miss Ohio's Teen Allison Payton


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize two of southern  Ohio's outstanding young women who have proudly made the Second  Congressional District home to both Miss Ohio and Miss Ohio's Teen:  Olivia Fosson and Allison Payton.

Allison, a Chillicothe native and rising senior at Zane Trace High  School, was crowned Miss Ohio's 2025 Outstanding Teen this past June.

A newcomer to the pageant world, Allison was encouraged to get  involved last year by a friend from her dance studio. She has been a  competitive dancer for 15 years, with tap being her favorite, which she  performed during the competition.

Allison's service initiative focuses on one-to-one mentoring  relationships, a meaningful way to empower and uplift youth in our  communities. Examples like hers inspire students to work hard, serve  those around them, and find ways to give back to their communities.

Just this past weekend, Allison went on to represent Ohio in the 2025  Miss  America's Teen competition, finishing as a semifinalist. Southern Ohio  is so proud of her and will continue cheering her on in her future  endeavors.

Olivia Fosson earned the title of Miss Ohio 2025 in June of this  year. She grew up on a Christmas tree farm in Kitts Hill and made  history as the first Miss Ohio from Lawrence County.

Olivia is proud of her rural and Appalachian roots and hopes to be a  role model for other small-town girls. She is a musical theater  graduate of Oklahoma City University and is currently pursuing a law  degree at The Ohio State University.

Olivia's community service initiative focuses on the importance of  fueling your body and recognizing when you need rest. It is her mission  to share her story so that those struggling with body image issues know  they aren't alone. She hopes to promote sustainable habits and a  positive self-image for the next generation.

Olivia represented our Buckeye State in the Miss America competition  this past weekend, showcasing the best Ohio has to offer and making her  hometown proud.

These programs are a part of the Miss America scholarship  organization, the largest scholarship provider to young women in the  world.

As a father of three girls, I am happy to see young women like  Allison and Olivia setting a great example for girls around them of  confidence, a solid work ethic, and a drive to serve others.

This program is more than just a pageant. It promotes healthy living,  creative expression, and academic achievement, while offering  scholarship opportunities that help young women achieve their  educational dreams. It fosters personal growth, professional  development, and a powerful network of female leaders who are making a  difference in their communities and beyond. Its mission is simple yet  powerful: to prepare great women for the world and the world for great  women.

Southern Ohio is proud of Allison's and Olivia's accomplishments and  the ways they have given back to our Buckeye State communities. We are  cheering them on and can't wait to see what they will achieve in the  years ahead.                         Remembering Matthew Juniper

Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember Matthew Juniper, a  former member of the Wellston Police Department, who tragically passed  away on August 30, 2025, due to an off-duty accident.

Throughout his life, Matthew demonstrated a deep commitment to his  community, serving as a police officer, a former deputy sheriff, and a  volunteer firefighter.

Matthew consistently put his community first and was a beloved member  of the police department. His colleagues described him as a joy to be  around and everything you would want in a police officer.

Beyond his role as a first responder, Matthew was a loving father,  son, and brother who enjoyed the simple pleasures of life: hunting,  fishing, and spending time with family.

Matthew will be fondly remembered by his friends and family, who will  carry him with them in everything they do.

It is people like Matthew who put service above self that make this  country exceptional.

My thoughts and prayers are with Matthew's family. He will never be  forgotten.

Please join me in a moment of silence to recognize Matthew and pray  for his family.