Courthouse Affordability and Space Efficiency Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695378/courthouse-affordability-and-space-efficiency-act-of-2025


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3426) to amend title 40, United States Code, to limit the  construction of new courthouses under certain circumstances, and for  other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3426

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Courthouse Affordability and       Space Efficiency Act of 2025'' or the ``CASE Act''.       SEC. 2. REDUCING COSTS RELATED TO COURTHOUSES.

(a) In General.--Chapter 33 of title 40, United States       Code, as amended by this act, is further amended by adding at       the end the following:       ``Sec. 3320. Reducing costs related to courthouses

``(a) Limitation on New Courthouses.--The Administrator of       General Services may not commence construction of any new       courthouse if--

``(1) construction has not begun on or before the date of       enactment of this section; or

``(2) the design and construction of the new courthouse       fails to comply, at a minimum, with the courtroom sharing       requirements described in subsection (b).

``(b) Courtroom Sharing Requirements Defined.--The term       `courtroom sharing requirements' means--

``(1) in courthouses with 10 or more active district       judges, 2 courtrooms per 3 active district judges, except       such courthouses may contain not less than 9 courtrooms for       active district judges;

``(2) in courthouses with 3 or more bankruptcy judges--

``(A) 1 courtroom per 2 bankruptcy judges;

``(B) 1 courtroom for emergency matters; and

``(C) if there is an odd number of bankruptcy judges, the       number of courtrooms required pursuant to subparagraph (A)       shall be rounded down;

``(3) in courthouses with 3 or more senior district judges,       1 courtroom per 2 senior district judges; and

``(4) in courthouses with 3 or more magistrate judges--

``(A) 1 courtroom per 2 magistrate judges;

``(B) 1 criminal duty courtroom; and

``(C) if there is an odd number of magistrate judges, the       number of courtrooms required pursuant to subparagraph (A)       shall be rounded down.

``(c) United States Courts Design Guide.--Not later than       180 days after the date of enactment of this section, the       Design Guide for courthouses shall be updated to incorporate       courtroom sharing requirements to the maximum extent       practicable.

``(d) Utilization.--If a new courthouse will add capacity       in the inventory of the General Services Administration,       existing space in the same courthouse complex must be fully       utilized or relinquished from the inventory of the General       Services Administration.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 33 of       title 40, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end       the following:  ``3320. Reducing costs related to courthouses.''.

Mr. TAYLOR.  3426, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3426, the CASE Act, limits the size of courthouses,  by directing the General Services Administration, or GSA, to only build  new courthouses that accommodate courtroom sharing.

Specifically, the CASE Act codifies the judiciary's current courtroom  sharing policies for magistrate, senior, and bankruptcy judges.

For large courthouses, the legislation also directs there can only be  two courtrooms for every three district court judges.

The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, on a bipartisan  basis, has conducted oversight of the Federal courthouse construction  program across multiple administrations.

Historically, courthouses have been significantly overbuilt, costing  the American taxpayers billions of dollars to build, operate, and  maintain. In 2010, the GAO, Government Accountability Office, found  that courthouses built from 2000 to 2010 were overbuilt by 3.56 million  square feet, costing an additional $800 million in addition to $51  million annually to operate and maintain.

Despite oversight, and even at one point a moratorium on authorizing  new courthouses, the courts issued an updated courthouse design guide  in 2021 that did just the opposite of consolidating the judiciary's  space.

A GAO review of the updated design guide revealed the changes in the  design guide actually increase space in courthouses by 6 percent and  will cost the taxpayer 12 percent more. The Government Accountability  Office found one of the key driving forces in the overbuilding of  courthouses to be the overprojection of future judges.

Proposals for new courthouses are driven not by building condition,  security, or even the need for more space for current judges, but by  the court's projection of future judges. The court's own methodology  for prioritizing the need for a new courthouse, for example,  relegated security concerns to just 10 percent of a weighted formula,  but in contrast courtrooms and chambers account for 50 percent.

In reality, the courts' projections have been shown to be wrong. As a  result, the taxpayer pays for space that sits vacant.

The CASE Act directs GSA, which builds and owns Federal courthouses,  to only design and build courthouses that strictly comply with  courtroom sharing requirements.

The committee has reported out similar language in the past and a  hearing before the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public  Buildings, and Emergency Management earlier this year on courthouses  reinforced the need for this legislation.

H.R. 3426, as amended, also incorporates reasonable revisions  recommended by the courts.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Shreve) for his  leadership on this legislation and the gentlewoman from D.C. (Ms.  Norton) for working on this bipartisan bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, H.R. 3426 as amended, will rightsize Federal  courthouses, reducing unneeded space and potentially saving the  taxpayer billions of dollars.

The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure passed reforms to  begin the process of rightsizing the Federal Government's real estate  portfolio last Congress. This legislation continues that work of  ensuring a more efficient use of taxpayer resources.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of H.R. 3426, as amended, and I yield  back the balance of my time.