Deporting Fraudsters Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700903/deporting-fraudsters-act-of-2026


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. McClintock for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, the Deporting  Fraudsters Act. As Mr. Harris just said earlier, estimates show that  between $233 billion and $521 billion is lost to fraud each year. These  funds are taxpayer dollars from American workers, intended to go to  Americans who need help getting back on their feet, not to illegal  alien fraudsters who shouldn't even be in our country to begin with.

The massive fraud we have seen in Minnesota and other places around  the country should be a no-brainer. If a person is not an American  citizen while defrauding the American people, they should not be able  to walk freely in this country.

The story that inspired this bill originally came from California  where five foreign nationals were apprehended with over 160 fraudulent  SNAP cards on them. These were non-Americans stealing from the most  vulnerable among us. It needs to end.

Democrats have used American taxpayer dollars to attract and retain  an electoral majority for too long. To my Democratic colleagues, the  bill before us is a binary choice. Do they support the American people,  or do they support illegal immigrants who steal American tax dollars?

Failing to support this bill is betraying the Americans whose  interests Democrats claim to represent. Mr. Speaker, I urge my  colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Raskin for the question.

Mr. Speaker, it was not part of the original text. It was suggested  in Committee. This was in the Judiciary Committee. I wasn't a party to  those conversations. I was consulted about the decision to add that,  and I fully supported it.

Mr. TAYLOR. I am not sure I got what you said there. It requires a  conviction unless there is an admission.

Mr. TAYLOR. In looking back at that, it is probably something I  should have included in the original text. If the person is going to  admit it, they probably should be deported, obviously, if they are  admitting it.

It is something that is, honestly, apparently commonly occurring at  the border as people come in.

Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, in this situation my read of the bill is an  un-withdrawn admission is the same as a guilty verdict. This is a  person who has admitted they have broken the law. Therefore, they sit  in the same position as someone who has been convicted of it, if they  are not even going to say: Oh, no, actually I didn't break the law.  They admitted it. They are deportable.