Expanding Appalachia's Broadband Access Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701251/expanding-appalachias-broadband-access-act


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2474) to require the Comptroller General of the United  States to conduct a study on the capability of the Appalachian Regional  Commission to include low-orbit satellites in broadband projects, and  for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2474

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Expanding Appalachia's       Broadband Access Act''.       SEC. 2 GAO STUDY ON SATELLITE BROADBAND.

(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this section, the Comptroller General of the       United States shall conduct, and submit to Congress the       results thereof, a study on the capability of the Appalachian       Regional Commission to incorporate satellites in broadband       projects.

(b) Requirements.--In conducting the study under subsection       (a), the Comptroller General shall--

(1) review the capacity of satellite broadband services to       be used for business purposes;

(2) evaluate economic development growth in areas that have       used satellite broadband for businesses; and

(3) analyze the cost-effectiveness of implementing       broadband via satellites for economic development.

Mr. TAYLOR.  2474.

Mr. Speaker, I was proud to introduce the Expanding Appalachia's  Broadband Access Act, which directs the Government Accountability  Office to conduct a study on the capability of the Appalachian Regional  Commission to include satellites in its broadband projects.

Currently, the ARC can support targeted broadband projects in  distressed, rural communities to attract businesses and jobs. However,  Appalachia is a vast region, and not all of its communities have access  to fiber optic broadband service, which can be economically isolating  for local businesses.

I represent 13 counties in ARC's service area. The topography  challenges in my district and the rest of Appalachia create unique  challenges for traditional fiber optic broadband.

Satellite broadband, on the other hand, with its far-reaching  capabilities, can enable the delivery of high-speed internet to those  more remote, difficult-to-access communities that do not currently have  fiber optic infrastructure. Expanding access to this modern necessity  will help incentivize the growth of new businesses in the region.

With the potential to leverage this technology for business growth,  ARC funding could go further in addressing economic development  challenges in distressed communities. That is why it is crucial for GAO  to begin studying the ARC's ability to apply this critical technology  to its mission of promoting regional economic growth.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I reserve the balance  of my time.

Mr. Speaker, by directing a study on the Appalachian Regional  Commission's ability to implement satellite broadband projects into its  portfolio, this legislation will help the Appalachian economy continue  to advance and grow.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of H.R. 2474, and I yield back the  balance of my time.