Federal Building Threat Notification Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701148/federal-building-threat-notification-act


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 6481) to direct the Administrator of General Services and  the Director of the Federal Protective Service to establish guidance  relating to emergency communication protocols for public buildings, and  for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 6481

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Federal Building Threat       Notification Act''.       SEC. 2. GUIDANCE FOR BUILDINGS.

(a) Life Safety Events Defined.--In this section, the term       ``life safety events'' means events to which first       responders, including law enforcement, fire and emergency       rescue, and natural disaster experts, deploy.

(b) Guidance.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Administrator of General Services       and the Director of the Federal Protective Service shall       develop and disseminate emergency communication guidance for       building facility security committees to execute in any case       in which life safety events threaten Federal buildings owned       and operated by the Administrator of General Services under       the protection of the Federal Protective Service.

(2) Contents.--The guidance developed under paragraph (1)       shall include best practices and protocols relating to--

(A) standard operating procedures to inform building       tenants of threats to the buildings or occupants of the       buildings; and

(B) instructions for safety practices in response to       threats or a heightened risk to the building and the       occupants of the building.

(c) Security Officials.--The designated official of the       facility security committee for each Federal building that is       owned or operated by the General Services Administration       under the protection of the Federal Protective Service shall       be responsible for implementing the guidance at the       respective building.

(d) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Administrator of General Services       shall electronically submit to Congress a report on the best       practices and protocols implemented under this Act.

Mr. TAYLOR.  6481.

Mr. Speaker, the Federal Building Threat Notification Act directs the  Administrator of General Services and the Director of the Federal  Protective Service to establish guidance on emergency communication  protocols for public buildings.

This legislation was developed after the committee received a report  detailing crime that occurs in and around Federal buildings. The report  detailed that in fiscal year 2024, there were over 3,500 incidents of  crime in and around Federal buildings recorded nationwide.

This data paints a clear picture of the current system in which the  safety of Federal workers and visitors to GSA buildings is not a  guarantee. It is even more critical today, given the heightened  security threats, to ensure there are clear communication protocols for  occupants and visitors to Federal facilities.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public  Buildings, and Emergency Management ranking member, Mr. Stanton, along  with subcommittee chairman, Mr. Perry, for their work on this very  important piece of legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation will ensure that the GSA and FPS  establish standard operating procedures that will help keep agency  tenants better informed when there are threats to the building or its  occupants. This is an important step Congress can take to increase  safety in Federal buildings for both Federal employees and visitors.

I urge support of H.R. 6481, and I yield back the balance of my time.