Joanna Sheaf Celebrates 100th Birthday


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today on the birthday of my wonderful  wife, Charity, to recognize Ms. Joanna Sheaf, who celebrated her 100th  birthday on March 19, 2025.

Born during the Great Depression, Joanna grew up in southern Ohio and  lived with her grandmother as her father traveled, looking for work.  Joanna raised seven sons and one daughter as a hardworking and devoted  single mother, working two jobs to support them and provide for their  needs. With a creative mind and a skill for writing, Joanna authored  multiple poems that were published in the Columbus Dispatch and the  Citizen Journal.

Throughout her life, Joanna has exemplified resilience, grace, and an  unwavering dedication to her family, friends, and community. Her legacy  of kindness, dedication to her family, and wisdom have touched the  lives of many, leaving an enduring impact on all who have had the  privilege of knowing her.

Her example of love, service, and vitality is truly inspiring, and  her community is lucky to call her their own.

I congratulate Joanna on this extraordinary milestone and wish her a  happy 100th birthday.      Congratulating Makennah Craft on Fourth Ohio State Wrestling Title

Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the undefeated  wrestling record of Ms. Makennah Craft of Jackson High School. Makennah  claimed her fourth and final State title on March 8 in the 2025 State  Wrestling Tournament, securing her win by more than 15 points over her  opponent. Makennah has distinguished herself as only the fifth female  wrestler to ever accomplish this feat in Ohio high school wrestling  history.

Jumping into the sport at just 4 years old, Makennah's passion for  wrestling grew over the years. She learned to persevere and overcome  any roadblocks or plateaus she hit during training. Makennah has said  that wrestling made her a tougher person, realizing that the harder she  pushed herself, the more she grew.

Having worked with Makennah since middle school, Coach Brandon Oliver  views her as a shining role model for their school's wrestling program.  He commends her on maintaining a 4.0 grade point average on top of  completing multiple workouts every day.

Southern Ohio looks forward to seeing how Makennah's winning mindset  will continue to serve her as she completes her senior year of high  school and goes on to tackle new challenges.

I congratulate Makennah on her fourth State title. I wish her the  best in her very bright future.    Congratulating Portsmouth High School Girls' Basketball Team on Ohio                           Division V State Title

Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Portsmouth  High School girls' basketball team on winning their school's first-ever  Ohio Division V basketball State championship.

Having dreamt of securing this title since they were in the fifth  grade, the nine athletes on Portsmouth's team navigated their season  with consistency, discipline, and a clear vision. In the championship  game, junior Sienna Allen led all players with 17 points, contributing  to Portsmouth's victory by a score of 53-38 over Creston Norwayne.

With this win, the Trojans became the first Scioto County program to  ever secure the girls' basketball State championship trophy. Head coach  Amy Hughes led the team throughout the season, investing in each player  as they honed their teamwork and athletic skills.

These players' hard work and commitment to excellence is a shining  example to students across Ohio that achieving your dreams is possible  if you put in the hard work and never stop improving.

I am pleased to recognize each hardworking player, supportive parent,  and committed coach who helped make this victory possible. I  congratulate Portsmouth High School as they celebrate this historic  achievement. As always, Go Trojans.