Made in America Jobs Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701164/made-in-america-jobs-act-of-2026


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 7342) to amend the Public Works and Economic Development Act  of 1965 to provide for certain grant eligibility relating to projects  that facilitate the relocation, to the United States, of a source of  employment located outside the United States, and for other purposes,  as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 7342

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Made in America Jobs Act of       2026''.       SEC. 2. GRANTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.

(a) Grants for Public Works and Economic Development.--      Section 201(c) of the Public       Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.       3141(c)) is amended--

(1) in paragraph (7) by striking ``or'' at the end;

(2) in paragraph (8) by striking the period at the end and       inserting a semicolon; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(9) facilitate the relocation, to the United States, of a       source of employment located outside the United States; and

``(10) facilitate the growth of the manufacturing       sector.''.

(b) Grants for Planning and Grants for Administrative       Expenses.--Section 203(a) of the Public Works and Economic       Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3143(a)) is amended by       inserting ``, including planning with respect to projects to       facilitate the relocation, to the United States, of a source       of employment located outside the United States or to       facilitate the growth of the manufacturing sector,'' after       ``economic development planning''.

(c) Grants for Training, Research, and Technical       Assistance.--Section 207(a)(2) of the Public Works and       Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3147(a)(2)) is       amended--

(1) in subparagraph (H) by striking ``and'' at the end;

(2) by redesignating subparagraph (I) as subparagraph (K);       and

(3) by inserting after subparagraph (H) the following:

``(I) activities to facilitate the relocation, to the       United States, of a source of employment located outside the       United States;

``(J) activities to facilitate the growth of the       manufacturing sector; and''.

(d) Grants for Economic Adjustment.--Section 209(a) of the       Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.       3149(a)) is amended by inserting ``projects to facilitate the       relocation, to the United States, of a source of employment       located outside the United States, projects to facilitate the       growth of the manufacturing sector,'' after ``loan fund),''.

Mr. TAYLOR.  7342, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 7342, the Made in America Jobs Act of 2026,  promotes the reshoring of jobs and industry back to the United States.  The Economic Development Administration is the only Federal agency  whose sole priority is to support economic development and growth in  stressed communities nationwide.

The EDA's various funding opportunities, like the Public Works and  Economic Adjustment Assistance program, invest in the development of  local infrastructure to attract businesses and jobs into distressed and  rural communities.

Prioritizing the return of jobs in manufacturing to distressed  communities will not only improve the national economy as a whole, but  it will also help rebuild the job markets in the small towns and  communities that are the backbone of the American economy.

H.R. 7342 advances the President's economic agenda by strengthening  American manufacturing, leveraging existing EDA programs to incentivize  companies to bring production and manufacturing jobs back to the United  States.

Earlier this year, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure  heard testimony from the EDA about how legislation just like this one,  H.R. 7342, will help improve the lives of Americans across the country.

I thank the gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Hurd) for his leadership on  this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.                                          House of Representatives,                                 Committee on Financial Services,                                  Washington, DC, February 27, 2026.      Hon. Sam Graves,      Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Graves: I am writing to you concerning H.R.       7342, the Made in America Jobs Act of 2026. There are certain       provisions in the legislation that fall within the Rule X       jurisdiction of the Committee on Financial Services.

In the interest of permitting your committee to proceed       expeditiously to floor consideration of this important bill,       I am willing to waive this committee's consideration of the       bill. I do so with the understanding that by waiving       consideration of the bill, the Committee on Financial       Services does not waive any future jurisdictional claim over       the subject matters contained in the bill. I also request       that you urge the Speaker to name members of this committee       to any conference committee that may be established to       consider such provisions.

Please place this letter in the committee report on H.R.       7342 and into the Congressional Record during consideration       of this legislation on the House floor. Thank you for the       cooperative spirit in which you have worked regarding this       matter and others between our respective committees.            Sincerely,                                                       French Hill,      Chairman.                                   ____                     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure,                                        House of Representatives,                                  Washington, DC, February 27, 2026.      Hon. French Hill,      Chairman, Committee on Financial Services,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Hill: Thank you for your letter concerning       H.R. 7342, the Made in America Jobs Act of 2026, which the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure ordered       favorably reported on February 11, 2026.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Financial       Services and appreciate your willingness to forgo further       consideration of the bill. I agree that inaction of your       Committee with respect to the bill does not waive any       jurisdiction over the subject matter contained therein.

I am pleased to support your request to name members of the       Committee on Financial Services to any conference committee       to consider such provisions. I will ensure that our exchange       of letters is included in the Congressional Record during       floor consideration of the bill and will include such letters       in the Committee report on H.R. 7342. I appreciate your       cooperation regarding this legislation.            Sincerely,                                                        Sam Graves,                                                          Chairman.

Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to yield 5 minutes to the  gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Hurd).

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 7342 is a vital piece of legislation that will help  to grow the American economy, bring jobs back from overseas, and  strengthen our local communities. This legislation ensures that we are  focusing on supporting the local economies that employ our neighbors  and allow for increased job opportunities.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of H.R. 7342, and I yield back the  balance of my time.