Promises Made, Promises Kept


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694798/promises-made-promises-kept


Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, during the month of August, I spent time  in Ohio's Second Congressional District, talking with countless Ohioans  about their priorities, touring family-owned businesses, and hearing  from local farmers, manufacturers, and defense companies about the  issues most important to them.

The thing I heard from constituents is how grateful they are that the  One Big Beautiful Bill Act will help them stay in business, keep money  in their pockets, and reinvigorate our local economies.

Small business owners operating shops on our Main Streets told me how  the 199A tax credit will help them afford to stay in business so they  can maintain their presence in our communities.

When I went to eat lunch at a local family restaurant, I talked with  the waitresses about how much money they will be able to take home now  that they are not being taxed on their tips.

When I talked with farmers, they expressed how the expanded funding  for agriculture trade programs and investment in crop insurance will  give them peace of mind about staying in business for years to come.

For Will Minshall, a young farmer in Pickaway County, Ohio, whose  family farm is hitting 200 years in operation next year, the increased  death tax exemption means it will be easier for his family to pass the  farm on to him and future generations. With family farms making up 96  percent of all farms in my district, this is huge news for countless  farming families in southern Ohio.

Through the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, President Trump and  Republicans are investing in American manufacturing and American jobs.  I see the direct impact of this through Anduril's up-and-coming  manufacturing facility in southern Ohio, which will provide thousands  of well-paying jobs to Ohioans while keeping America a leader in  aerospace, innovation, and defense manufacturing.

Finally, when touring Valero Energy, I heard excitement about the  future now that President Trump is unleashing the American energy  sector.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act is paving the way for economic  prosperity, and Ohio families are reaping the benefits. I was proud to  support it and will continue advocating for the needs of Buckeye  families in Congress.