Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Chair, I thank Chairman Graves and Chairman Collins  for their hard work on this pragmatic and effective piece of  legislation.

I rise today in support of H.R. 3898, the PERMIT Act, which would cut  red tape within the Clean Water Act's permitting processes. This  legislation will provide much-needed regulatory certainty for America's  farmers, small businesses, manufacturers, home and road builders, and  many other permit holders.

My colleagues across the aisle continue to promote the fallacy that  improving permitting processes comes at the expense of the environment.  Congress can continue to be good stewards of our environment while also  removing regulations and processes that do not protect the environment  but rather create obstacles that prevent economic growth and prosperity  in Ohio and across the country.

Among these provisions, the PERMIT Act makes commonsense reforms to  the Clean Water Act permitting process that will continue to protect  our Nation's water resources. These reforms increase transparency and  provide clarity and consistency for permit holders so they can maintain  compliance with the law and provide reasonable guardrails to prevent  the weaponization of these permitting processes.

In particular, I am proud that my bill, the Confidence in Clean Water  Permits Act, is included in the underlying legislation. My bill  provides reasonable protections for National Pollutant Discharge  Elimination System permit holders against frivolous lawsuits if they  are acting in good faith and within the scope of their permits. Permit  holders who are in compliance with these permits, and who often provide  well-paying jobs to Americans, should not be punished with frivolous  lawsuits when they comply with the terms of their permits.

I encourage my colleagues to vote in favor of the PERMIT Act to  provide regulatory relief and certainty under the Clean Water Act for  businesses in Ohio and across the Nation.