Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protecting Access for Hunters and Anglers Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Deporting Fraudsters Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Bill to Outlaw Wounding of Official Working Animals Act of and Relating to Consideration of Motions to Suspend the Rules


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700840/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-protecting-access-for-hunters-and-anglers-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-deporting-fraudsters-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-bill-to-outlaw-wounding-of-official-working-animals-act-of-and-relating-to-consideration-of-motions-to-suspend-the-rules


Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I thank Chairwoman Foxx for yielding the  time.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of this rule which provides  consideration of my bill, the Deporting Fraudsters Act.

A few weeks ago during the State of the Union Address, Democrats  confirmed to the American people who they really are and whom they  really work for. When President Trump asked Congress to stand and  reaffirm the fundamental principle that the first duty of the American  Government is to protect American citizens and not illegal aliens,  every single Democrat remained seated, every single one.

Now, Madam Speaker, with this bill, we have the chance to see who  will stand with criminal illegal aliens and against the American  people.

This bill should be common sense: Any person who defrauds the United  States or steals money from Americans who need it most should not be  able to walk freely in this country.

This seeks to fix the numerous examples of criminal aliens stealing  Social Security benefits or cloning SNAP cards and not facing any  immigration consequences. It is time for that to change.

This bill in front of us, the Deporting Fraudsters Act, will make it  explicitly clear, Madam Speaker, that if you are not a citizen and you  are defrauding law-abiding Americans, then you should be deported.

Again, it should be common sense. It is a privilege to live in this  country, and our laws should reflect that.

To the American people: You should remember this vote. You should  remember that those who vote against this bill are voting to support  illegal alien fraudsters over the American people.

To the elderly couple who has paid into Social Security their entire  life, or to the working mother who is just trying to get by for her  children but needs some assistance, this should be an eye-opening vote.

That is because this vote provides a binary choice: Either they  support the American people and their benefits, or they support illegal  alien fraudsters.

Madam Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to vote ``yes'' to support  this bill.