Recognizing Brandan Holliday


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697701/recognizing-brandan-holliday


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Master Sergeant  Brandan Holliday.

Brandan recently returned home from deployment, serving with the  332nd Expeditionary Security Forces Squadron in southwest Asia. While  on deployment, Master Sergeant Holliday served as a night-shift flight  chief, leading over 56 security forces members for U.S. Central  Command.

Master Sergeant Holliday's home unit is the 121st Security Forces  Squadron based at Rickenbacker Air National Guard Base. He also serves  his community as a law enforcement officer, as an emergency management  specialist for the Kettering Police Department, and as a part-time  sergeant and deputy sheriff for the Aberdeen Police Department and  Adams County Sheriff's Office, respectively.

In total, Master Sergeant Holliday has 12 years of experience in the  Armed Forces and over 15 years of law enforcement experience. Upon  returning home from his recent deployment, Master Sergeant Holliday was  awarded the Meritorious Service Medal in recognition of his outstanding  leadership.

What makes America exceptional are men and women like Brandan  Holliday, the quiet heroes who put their lives on the line in defense  of our freedoms. This country is forever indebted to our servicemembers  and their families, who sacrifice so much to preserve our experiment in  self-government.

All of America thanks Master Sergeant Holliday.    Recognizing University of Cincinnati Clermont Women's Volleyball Team

Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the University of  Cincinnati Clermont women's volleyball team. The Cougars defeated Kent  State Tuscarawas to win the United States Collegiate Athletic  Association Division II championship. This is UC Clermont volleyball  team's second title in its history. What makes this title even sweeter  is that Kent State knocked the Cougars out of the playoff tournament  last year.

UC Clermont dominated the playoffs, thanks to their tireless work  ethic and family culture. Ending the season 23-4, the Cougars secured  the top tournament seed and rode the momentum to the national  championship.

Multiple Cougars were named to the all-tournament team, showcasing  the amazing work the coaches and support staff do to develop these  young women into star players. Winning titles is truly a joint effort  between players, coaches, and parents. It takes teamwork to achieve  great things, and that is something I hope the girls carry with them  for the rest of their lives.

All of southern Ohio is proud of the Cougar volleyball team. I look  forward to their continued success.