Recognizing Carl and Nancy Schneider


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699834/recognizing-carl-and-nancy-schneider


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Carl and Nancy  Schneider.

Carl and Nancy taught music in southern Ohio for 43 years before  retiring at the end of the 2025 school year, leaving an indelible mark  on the arts in Ohio's Second Congressional District.

Carl served as the band director at West Union High School, the choir  director at Manchester briefly, and later as music supervisor across  the whole school district. Carl built West Union's marching band from  the ground up, starting out with only 13 students and ultimately taking  the program to the State and national level. He led musicals,  ensembles, and challenged students to become the best they could be.

Having taught at several schools and across all grade levels, Nancy  touched the lives of countless elementary students and gave them the  skills and encouragement needed to pursue their love of music. Beyond  the classroom, Nancy is an amazing musician herself, serving as the  pianist for her church and previously performing at county festivals.  In retirement, she is looking forward to spending time with her first  grandchild and continuing to stay involved in music at schools across  southern Ohio.

Teachers like Carl and Nancy Schneider represent the best America has  to offer. They are the quiet heroes who made a difference in the lives  of countless students. Our educators deserve the highest level of  respect and should be recognized for the amazing work they do.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Carl and Nancy on their retirement, and I  thank them for their service to our young people.              Recognizing the Waverly High School Marching Band

Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Waverly High  School marching band. The Waverly band recently had the opportunity to  travel to Hawaii and play in the Pearl Harbor Memorial Day Parade. This  parade is an annual event that honors veterans, survivors of the Pearl  Harbor attack, and the men and women who actively serve in our  incredible Armed Forces.

As part of the ceremonies, the Waverly band played on the dock of the  USS Missouri, which is an Iowa-class battleship used by the Navy in the  1940s. More than 140 members of the Waverly community participated in  this trip, including students, parents, and support staff.

This opportunity was particularly special because of the deep  military roots in many of the band members' families. We are forever  grateful for those who serve in our Armed Forces and the millions of  Americans who fought in World War II to preserve our freedoms.

I thank the Waverly High School band for the great lengths they went  to in order to honor our Nation's heroes.             Recognizing the Clermont County Chamber of Commerce

Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Clermont  County Chamber of Commerce. The Clermont Chamber recently earned a  five-star accreditation from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for its  positive impact on the community.

Ohio's Second Congressional District has been ground zero for  problems facing rural America. For too long, communities like the ones  I represent have been forgotten about at the Federal level. However,  thanks to the work of community organizations like the Clermont County  Chamber, Ohio's Second Congressional District is making a comeback. The  Clermont Chamber is an integral part of local economic development  projects and supports businesses of all sizes. Their work is helping to  build a community where Ohioans can achieve the American Dream.

Economic development remains one of my top priorities in Congress,  and I look forward to continuing to work with the Clermont County  Chamber on projects that make a difference in southern Ohio.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the Clermont Chamber on their commendable  achievement.