Report on State of Real Estate Portfolio of Gsa


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701235/report-on-state-of-real-estate-portfolio-of-gsa


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 6480) to direct the Administrator of General Services to  submit a report to Congress on the state of the real estate portfolio  of the Public Building Service, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 6480

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. REPORT ON STATE OF REAL ESTATE PORTFOLIO OF GSA.

(a) In General.--Not later than January 31 of each year,       the Administrator of General Services shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and       Public Works of the Senate a report on the state of the real       estate portfolio of the Public Building Service for the       previous calendar year.

(b) Contents.--The report under subsection (a) shall       include, with respect to the real estate portfolio of the       Public Building Service--

(1) the number of leases signed;

(2) the number of leases terminated;

(3) the total number of leased spaces;

(4) the amount of square footage leased;

(5) the amount of square footage occupied;

(6) the amount of vacant leased space;

(7) the number of buildings owned;

(8) top customers by square feet and annual rent;

(9) completed new construction, major repair and alteration       projects;

(10) financial indicators that measure and analyze space       utilization, operating costs per square foot, cost-avoidance       due to building disposals and lease terminations, and       deferred maintenance liabilities;

(11) which, if any, Federal buildings were disposed of by       the Office of Real Property Disposition of the General       Services Administration; and

(12) General Services Administration and tenant agency       plans for relocating Federal agencies housed in federally       owned space that the General Services Administration plans to       dispose of and leased space that the General Services       Administration has not renewed, including how the relocations       will be paid for and whether or not the agency tenant       requested the relocations.

Mr. TAYLOR.  6480.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 6480 directs the Administrator of General Services  to submit a report to Congress on the state of the real estate  portfolio of GSA's Public Buildings Service.

I thank the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings,  and Emergency Management ranking member, Mr. Stanton, along with the  subcommittee chairman, Mr. Perry, for their work on this legislation.

H.R. 6480 improves transparency and supports congressional oversight  of the GSA's real estate portfolio by directing the GSA to begin  reissuing its state of the portfolio report. The GSA used to produce a  state of the portfolio report that contained critical and useful  information each year.

The report provided the taxpayer and Congress with a clear accounting  of the GSA's real estate holdings, including a breakdown of costs and  liabilities and updates on deferred maintenance.

Since the GSA stopped issuing this report nearly one decade ago, the  information has become less accessible. This bill will ensure that the  GSA reissues these reports to improve congressional oversight and  ensure that  the GSA is accountable to the American taxpayer.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation will increase transparency of GSA's  real estate holdings and ensure there is greater accountability to the  American taxpayer for the management of our Federal real estate  portfolio.

I urge support of H.R. 6480, and I yield back the balance of my time.