Smart Space Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701150/smart-space-act-of-2026


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 7388) to direct the Administrator of General Services to  convene consultation meetings to identify alternative financing  solutions for the construction of new public buildings that will reduce  costs to the Federal Government, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 7388

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Smart Space Act of 2026''.       SEC. 2. PROJECT RECOMMENDATIONS.

(a) Meetings and Consultations.--Not later than 90 days       after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of       General Services shall convene consultation meetings to       identify alternative financing solutions for the construction       or renovation of public buildings, or necessary work to       prepare such buildings for disposal that will reduce costs to       the Federal Government.

(b) Meetings.--In convening consultation meetings under       subsection (a), the Administrator shall include--

(1) experts related to private commercial real estate;

(2) experts related to Federal real estate; and

(3) if available, State, including the District of       Columbia, real estate experts experienced with leveraging       private financing for public buildings and facilities.

(c) Report and Recommendations.--Not later than 120 days       after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator       shall submit to the President--

(1) recommendations on types of public-private partnerships       and alternative financing methods best suited for meeting the       public building needs of the Federal Government; and

(2) a list of recommended projects related to public       buildings for which such methods should be used with details       on which methods and types of public-private partnerships are       recommended for each project.

(d) Recommended Project List.--In submitting a list of       recommended projects under subsection (c)(2), the       Administrator shall submit projects that the Administrator       determines--

(1) serve core missions of the Federal Government for which       maintaining the functions in federally owned space over the       long-term is critical;

(2) will result in either consolidations or relocations of       Federal departments or agencies out of costly, inefficient,       and underutilized space that the Administrator intends to       sell or dispose of once vacated; and

(3) with respect to standard office space, will result in       meeting a minimum building utilization of 60 percent or       greater as defined in section 2302 of the Thomas R. Carper       Water Resources Development Act of 2024 (40 U.S.C. 584 note).

(e) Transparency.--

(1) Report.--The Administrator shall submit the report       under subsection (c) to the Committee on Transportation and       Infrastructure in the House and the Committee on Environment       and Public Works in the Senate and make such report publicly       available on the website of the General Services       Administration.

(2) Timeline.--The Administrator of General Services shall       maintain on the website of the General Services       Administration information on the process under this Act,       including any timelines and milestones.

(3) Delays.--The Administrator shall report directly to the       President and Congress any delays with respect to the timing       and milestones described in paragraph (2).

(4) Meetings.--Meetings pursuant to subsection (a) shall be       noticed and open to the public and shall not be subject to       chapter 10 of title 5, United States Code.

(f) Definitions.--In this Act:

(1) Alternative financing; public-private partnership.--The       terms ``alternative financing'' and ``public-private       partnership'' may include--

(A) agreements that reflect an obligation by a non-Federal       entity to design, build, finance, operate, and maintain an       asset, or a combination thereof; and

(B) a ground-lease to a non-Federal party with a subsequent       lease back of the improvements.

(2) Public building.--The term ``public building'' has the       meaning given such term in section 3301 of title 40, United       States Code.

Mr. TAYLOR.  7388, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 7388, the Smart Space Act of 2026, directs the  Administrator of General Services to consult with real estate experts  on how alternative financing and public-private partnerships can be  used for public building projects to reduce costs to the taxpayer.

Last year, the Thomas R. Carper Water Resources Development Act of  2024 was signed into law. That legislation included significant public  buildings reforms that have the potential to save billions of dollars  for taxpayers.

As the GSA and other executive agencies have implemented these  reforms to reduce costly space, a key challenge agencies have faced is  funding activities that may be needed before buildings can be sold and  agencies relocated to less expensive space.

In addition, recent hearings held by the Committee on Transportation  and Infrastructure, as well as reports by the Government Accountability  Office and the Public Buildings Reform Board, have revealed billions of  dollars in liabilities associated with our owned real estate assets due  to deferred maintenance accumulated over the years.

We need to identify new funding solutions to these problems that  don't rely on increasing taxpayer dollars for the space consolidation  efforts.

The Smart Space Act of 2026 directs the GSA, in consultation with  real estate experts, to recommend alternative financing solutions and  provide a list of projects for which those solutions would make sense.  This will provide the President and Congress with information on viable  options to address the challenge of acquiring the capital needed to  prepare buildings for sale and reduce the liability to the taxpayer.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Burlison) for  his leadership on this important issue.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, this legislation will help identify  alternative financing solutions for real estate projects, thereby  reducing costs and liabilities to taxpayers.

H.R. 7388 is a commonsense solution that ensures agencies can  continue to responsibly reduce the Federal real estate portfolio.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of H.R. 7388, and I yield back the  balance of my time.