Supersonic Aviation Modernization Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701200/supersonic-aviation-modernization-act


Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3410) to allow for the operation of civil supersonic flight  in the national airspace system under certain conditions, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3410

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Supersonic Aviation       Modernization Act''.       SEC. 2. ALLOWING FOR THE OPERATION OF CIVIL SUPERSONIC                     FLIGHT.

(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this section, the Administrator of the Federal       Aviation Administration shall issue or revise such       regulations, such as section 91.817 of part 14, Code of       Federal Regulations, as are necessary to allow for the       operation of civil aircraft (as defined in section 40102(16)       of title 49, United States Code) without special       authorization within the national airspace system at a Mach       number greater than 1 so long as the aircraft is operated in       such a manner that no sonic boom reaches the ground in the       United States.

(b) Compliance With Noise Standards.--Not later than April       1, 2027, the Administrator shall issue a final rule       establishing noise standards under part 36 of title 14, Code       of Federal Regulations, requiring civil aircraft granted       authority to operate pursuant to subsection (a) not to exceed       the most recent takeoff and landing noise levels required for       subsonic aircraft currently in operation on the date of       enactment.

(c) Periodic Review.--In issuing the final rule issued       under subsection (b), the Administrator shall further specify       a process for periodic review and update of the rule to       reflect future advances in aircraft noise reduction       technology and relevant regulatory changes, as determined by       the Administrator.

Mr. TAYLOR.  3410.

Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, H.R. 3410, the Supersonic Aviation Modernization Act,  or the SAM Act, lays the preliminary framework for a return to civil  supersonic aircraft operations in the United States.

The SAM Act directs the administrator of the Federal Aviation  Administration to issue or revise current regulations that are outdated  and, in some cases, to create an artificial speed limit that hampers  American innovation.

Despite these restrictions, engine technology has continued to mature  and successfully demonstrate that it is feasible to conduct supersonic  operations in the National Airspace System  without generating a sonic boom that reaches the ground.

Furthermore, the SAM Act builds on key work done in the FAA  Reauthorization Act of 2024 to usher in a new age of American  innovation in the skies.

President Trump's executive order titled: ``Leading the World in  Supersonic Flight'' documented the importance of American leadership in  this reemerging sector of aviation.

To that end, the time is now. Let's come together and support  American business and innovation.

Madam Speaker, I urge support for this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, in closing, I thank Aviation Subcommittee Chairman  Representative Nehls for his leadership on this issue.

A return of civil supersonic operations within the National Airspace  System will reimagine how Americans travel and commute, opening new  possibilities for people and commerce to traverse this great Nation.

Think of the possibilities: DC to Los Angeles in just 2 hours. While  this may seem far-fetched, it is closer to reality than many would  believe. In fact, several U.S. airlines already have preorders of  supersonic jets.

To reiterate, the SAM Act will revise current outdated regulations  and place the United States in a prime position to be the global leader  in civil supersonic technologies.

Madam Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.