Wildfire Aerial Response Safety Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701174/wildfire-aerial-response-safety-act


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 6618) to require the Administrator of the Federal Aviation  Administration to conduct a study on drone incursions on wildfire  suppression, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 6618

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Wildfire Aerial Response       Safety Act''.       SEC. 2. STUDY ON DRONE INCURSIONS ON WILDFIRE SUPPRESSION.

(a) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Counter-UASsystem; unmanned aircraft system.--The terms       ``counter-UAS system'' and ``unmanned aircraft system'' have       the meanings given such terms in section 44801 of title 49,       United States Code.

(2) Unmanned aircraft system incursion.--The term       ``unmanned aircraft system incursion'' means the operation of       an unmanned aircraft system within any airspace for which the       Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration has       issued a temporary flight restriction because of a wildfire.

(b) Study Required.--The Administrator of the Federal       Aviation Administration, in consultation with the Secretary       of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture, acting       through the Chief of the Forest Service, shall conduct a       study on the effects of unmanned aircraft system incursions       on wildfire suppression with respect to land managed by the       Department of the Interior or the Department of Agriculture.

(c) Study Contents.--In conducting the study required under       subsection (b), the Administrator shall--

(1) determine, for each of the 5 most recent calendar       years--

(A) the number of occurrences in which a unmanned aircraft       system incursion has interfered with wildfire suppression;       and

(B) the estimated effect of each occurrence described in       subparagraph (A) on--

(i) the length of time required to achieve complete       suppression;

(ii) any associated delay in the fielding of aerial       firefighting response units; and

(iii) the amounts expended by the Federal Government; and

(2) evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of--

(A) the dissemination of educational materials relating to       the effects of unmanned aircraft system incursions on       wildfire suppression operations; and

(B) the deployment of approved counter-UAS systems by       authorized entities as a means to detect, mitigate, and       prevent unmanned aircraft system incursions during such       operations.

(d) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the       Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, the Committee on       Appropriations, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Natural       Resources, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee       on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives a report describing--

(1) the findings of the study required under subsection       (b); and

(2) any recommendations relating to those findings.

Mr. TAYLOR.  6618.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support this bipartisan, commonsense  legislation that requires the Federal Aviation Administration, in  coordination with its Federal partners, to conduct a study and produce  a report on the effects of unmanned aircraft system incursions on  wildfire suppression efforts.

Federal, State, and local responses to wildfires are incredibly  dynamic and require sanitized airspace to ensure rapid response and,  ultimately, the effectiveness of an operation. The study and report  required in the legislation will produce valuable recommendations that  ensure that lawmakers have the necessary information and facts to craft  informed policy.

Furthermore, the study will assess the delays of wildfire suppression  efforts associated with unlawful UAS incursions and identify the  taxpayer resources expended as a result of the incursions.

We witnessed the negative effects that UAS incursions can have on  wildfire aerial responses last January during the Pacific Palisades  fires when an unauthorized UAS, flying within a temporary flight  restriction, struck the wing of a fixed-wing Super Scooper aircraft,  endangering the life of the pilot and causing more than $65,000 in  damage.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers.

Mr. Speaker, in the unfortunate event of a wildfire, once that spark  is ignited, the only thing that matters is extinguishing the flames as  quickly as possible to protect our neighbors, forests, and properties.

We owe all aerial firefighters a great debt of gratitude. In the  event of a wildfire, personally, I like for them to be focused on the  task at hand rather than worrying about and avoiding unauthorized UAS  flying within a Temporary Flight Restriction.

To reiterate, this commonsense study will produce valuable  recommendations and ensure lawmakers have the information and facts to  craft informed policy.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.