Recognizing and Thanking Joanne Horn


Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to recognize and thank an  extraordinary public servant, Joanne Horn, who has retired after  decades of faithful service to the people of Pennsylvania's 11th  Congressional District.

Joanne has been a valued member of my staff since 2017, and before  that, she served for 20 years working for Congressman Joe Pitts. For  nearly three  decades, Joanne has been a steady, compassionate presence for  constituents across the 11th District who needed help navigating  Washington's vast alphabet soup of agencies and departments.

We did some calculation, and during her time in my office alone, not  counting her time with Congressman Pitts, Joanne helped more than 7,500  individuals and secured over $46.8 million in savings and benefits that  were rightfully owed to the people we serve.

Those numbers only tell part of the story. Joanne always helped  seniors with Social Security, families navigating economic assistance  during COVID, veterans, and countless others who felt overwhelmed and  unheard until Joanne stepped in.

She didn't just do what we call casework. She actually changed lives.  Joanne treated every constituent with dignity, persistence, and care,  and she never gave up on someone who needed help.

There is truly no one quite like Joanne Horn. Our office, district,  and Commonwealth are better because of her service, and we are deeply  grateful as she begins this next chapter.                 Celebrating a Century of Root's Country Market

Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to congratulate and recognize  Root's Country Market on their 100th anniversary.

Root's Country Market is a farmer's market and auction based in  Manheim, Pennsylvania. The market's history stretches back to 1925 when  it was founded by A.W. Root as a poultry auction.

Since then, Root's has expanded to include homegrown produce,  handmade goods, and a flea market, the last of which was acquired in  2005.

Today, there are 250 stands in Root's Country Market, 180 stands at  Root's Old Mill Flea Market across the street, and two auctions. Root's  operates every Tuesday year-round and sees up to 10,000 visitors each  week.

While seeing tremendous growth in the century since its founding, the  market has stayed true to its roots. Root's remains family-owned and is  currently led by fifth-generation market master Emily Longenecker  Rineer.

What began as a poultry auction one century ago has become a staple  of Lancaster County's heritage. As Root's Country Market celebrates 100  years in business, I thank the family and their stand holders for  making our community a vibrant place.

Congratulations to the Root's Country Market, and I wish them another  century of success.    Congratulating Constituents Named 2025-2026 Pennsylvania FFA Officers

Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to congratulate and recognize  the three individuals from Pennsylvania's 11th Congressional District  who were installed as 2025-2026 State officers for the Pennsylvania  FFA: State President Sarah Firestone, State Vice President Sally  Bollinger, and State Secretary Leah Flinchbaugh.

Having emerged from a rigorous nomination and election process, a  total of seven State officers were chosen to lead the Pennsylvania FFA  this year. Three of the seven individuals belong to chapters in  Pennsylvania's 11th Congressional District.

Sarah Firestone, the new president, is a member of the Garden Spot  FFA Chapter and a graduate of Lampeter-Strasburg High School. The new  vice president, Sally Bollinger, is a member of the Cloister FFA  Chapter and is a graduate of Ephrata High School. The new secretary,  Leah Flinchbaugh, is a member of the Eastern York FFA Chapter and a  graduate of Eastern York High School.

Agriculture is crucial to Lancaster and York Counties, and the newly  elected officers have demonstrated both passion for and knowledge of  our local community.

I commend Sarah Firestone, Sally Bollinger, and Leah Flinchbaugh for  their leadership in the Pennsylvania FFA. As they settle into their new  roles and prepare for bright futures ahead, I wish them continued  success in all of their endeavors.