Saluting the Service of Command Sergeant Major Angela Wilson


Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to recognize the  extraordinary career of Command Sergeant Major Angela Wilson, U.S.  Army, Retired. Throughout her life, she has dedicated herself to her  country, fellow heroes, and neighbors. I am proud to present her with  the Congressional Veteran Commendation.

CSM Wilson's 30 years of service in the U.S. Army exemplify strength,  compassion, and duty. CSM Wilson was and continues to be a trailblazer.  Selected in 1996, she served as the first-ever female Command Sergeant  Major in the Military Police Corps. Then in 2004, she became the first  female Command Sergeant Major to lead a Combat Brigade, the 89th  Military Police Brigade, into a combat zone.

Throughout her service, CSM Wilson demonstrated true and unwavering  commitment to her fellow soldiers and the civilians she protected. She  served in various locations, including Taegu, Korea, Fort Lewis,  Guantanamo Bay, Iraq in Operation Iraqi Freedom, and served her last  assignment at Fort Cavazos. Her extraordinary service has been  recognized with more than 20 military medals, awards, and  commendations, including the Legion of Merit and Bronze Star.

CSM Wilson's service on and off duty reflects the true meaning of  ``Soldier for Life''. After retirement, she worked as an elementary  school teacher in KISD for 20 years, chaired the Harker Heights Parks  and Recreation Committee for 12 years, and coached youth soccer for  over a decade. Her selfless work has positively impacted the lives of  countless young people. Today, she continues to serve as a Wounded  Warrior member and volunteer and has been a member of the Fort Hood  Retiree Council for the last five years.

CSM Wilson's life stands as a model of selfless and genuine care for  those around her. Her fearless dedication, devotion to service  above herself, and trailblazer spirit make her a worthy recipient of a  Congressional Veteran Commendation.