Saluting the Service of Master Sergeant Duane C. Bygum, Jr.


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689326/saluting-the-service-of-master-sergeant-duane-c-bygum-jr


Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to award Master Sergeant  Duane C. Bygum, Jr., USMC and USAF, Retired, with a Congressional  Veteran Commendation. His unwavering commitment to our country and  community is a shining example of honor and duty.

During his 32 years of military service, MSgt Bygum served in both  the U.S. Marine Corps and the U.S. Air Force in various roles including  Law Enforcement, Security Operation, and Emergency Management. During  his four years in the Marine Corps, he served as an Infantry Corporal  in Subic Bay, Philippines.

Upon transitioning to the Air Force, MSgt Bygum served under the  Secretary of the Air Force Director, Security, Counterintelligence and  Special Program Oversight (SAF/AAZ). There he implemented the first  Biometric Identification Fingerprint System, significantly enhancing  the use of technology to expedite time-critical and sensitive data for  the Department of Defense and the Air Force.

Throughout his service, MSgt Bygum participated in Operation Northern  Watch and Operation Enduring Freedom, and supported recovery efforts  following the 9/11 attacks. He was awarded over 30 Military medals,  awards and commendations including the Meritorious Service Medal.

After retiring from active service, MSgt Bygum's duty to his fellow  servicemembers and community did not end. He currently serves as an  Associate Professor of Homeland Security and Emergency Management at  National University. Additionally, he helped establish the Disaster  Recovery International Military Mentorship Program, which provides  transitioning veterans with training, mentorship, resume writing  assistance, job placement, and skill-building opportunities, helping  them smoothly transition into private and governmental sectors.

MSgt Bygum's unwavering dedication and service to his Nation  exemplify why he deserves this honor. I commend his remarkable  contributions and extend my best wishes for his continued success as a  steadfast advocate for our service members and veterans.