Saluting the Service of Colonel Terry Wilson


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689389/saluting-the-service-of-colonel-terry-wilson


Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to recognize and salute  a great Texan, Representative Terry Wilson, U.S. Army, Retired, with a  Congressional Veteran Commendation. His life and career reflect hard  work and selfless service to his nation and Central Texas

Enlisting in the Army after graduating from high school, COL Wilson  honorably served on Active Duty for 29 years and the Texas National  Guard for 3 years. During his career, he courageously served our nation  in both Iraq and Afghanistan. His exemplary service earned him numerous  awards and accolades, including the Bronze Star, Legion of Merit,  Defense Meritorious Service Medal and Army Commendation Medal, among  many others. He is a graduate of the U.S. Army War College, Ranger  School, Airborne School and Pathfinder School.

After his retirement, COL Wilson's dedication to his community did  not waiver. He now serves as the Texas State Representative for House  District 20. As Chairman of the House Committee on Defense & Veterans'  Affairs, he fights tirelessly for our brave servicemembers and  leverages his expertise as an Army Acquisitions Officer to deliver  critical capabilities to our warfighters. He is also a champion for  expanding vocational education for all students, ensuring they are job-  or college-ready upon graduation.

COL Wilson continues to lead with strength, integrity, and dedication  for the betterment of his community. Aside from his role as State  Representative, he strives to support the next generation, serving as  an Assistant Scout Master and regularly speaking to students and  working on special projects.

I am honored to join COL Wilson's fiends and family in celebrating  his outstanding achievements. His commitment to selfless service makes  him a deeply respected and honorable recipient of the Congressional  Veteran Commendation.