Saluting the Service of Major General Patrick Hamilton


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689353/saluting-the-service-of-major-general-patrick-hamilton


Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to salute the  extraordinary career of Major General Patrick Hamilton, U.S. Army,  Retired, with a Congressional Veteran Commendation. His service to both  the Army and  his Nation exemplifies our Nation's altruistic spirit.

MG Hamilton served honorably in Armor and Cavalry units in the Texas  Army National Guard for 35 years. He served full time in operational  assignments including Director of the Joint Staff, Chief of Staff to  the Adjutant General of Texas, and the Texas Army National Guard  Director of Operations.

In 2000, MG Hamilton served with the 49th Armored Division in Bosnia- Herzegovina as the Current Operations Officer. He later deployed to  Afghanistan where he served as the Red Team Leader for the Commanding  General. Additionally in 2017, he served as the Joint Task Force  Commanding General for Hurricane Harvey military response, commanding  18,000 troops supporting evacuation and aid operations.

From 2018 to 2021, MG Hamilton served as the Commanding General of  the 36th Infantry Division, where he commanded soldiers in nine  countries across the Middle East as part of Task Force Spartan, under  Operation Spartan Shield.

MG Hamilton's retirement did not end his service. He continues to  train National Guard Division Commanders and staffs. In addition, he  serves on the Board of Directors for the Central Texas YMCA and the  Board of Governors of the Central Texas Community Foundation. For his  extraordinary efforts during and after service he was awarded the 2023  Lieutenant General Raymond S. McLain Medal.

I am honored to join MG Hamilton's friends and family in celebrating  his outstanding achievements. His commitment to selfless service makes  him a deeply respected and honorable recipient of the Congressional  Veteran Commendation.