Saluting the Service of Lieutenant Colonel Spencer Hutson Smith


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689308/saluting-the-service-of-lieutenant-colonel-spencer-hutson-smith


Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it is with great pride and honor  that I present Lieutenant Colonel Spencer Hutson Smith, U.S. Marine  Corps (Ret.), with a Congressional Veteran Commendation. His life and  career are a testament to his exceptional character and unwavering  commitment to service.

On active duty from 1973 to 1997, Lt. Col. Smith served in various  locations around the globe, including Quantico, London, Brussels, Hong  Kong, Australia, and Turkey. In 1990, Lt, Col. Smith was deployed to  Kuwait in support of Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm He played a  critical role in contingency operations in Beirut, Lebanon, where he  developed essential emergency plans. Notably, Lt. Col. Smith served on  Marine Helicopter Squadron One responsible for Executive Transport for  President Ronald Reagan and was the Marine One Command Pilot for  President George H.W. Bush. His dedication earned him numerous  prestigious awards, including the Presidential Service Badge and the  Navy and Marine Corps Parachutist Insignia.

After retiring from the Marine Corps, Lt. Col. Smith continued to  serve his community with the same passion. He served for six years as  the Mayor of Harker Heights, following 14 years of work in Harker  Heights city government. His contributions also extended to the Greater  Killeen and Harker Heights Chambers of Commerce and as a tri-county  soccer official. His leadership extends to his faith community as well,  where he has held the title of deacon at Temple Bible Church since  2007, following a decade of service as a deacon at First Baptist Church  of Killeen.

I join Lt. Col. Smith's family, friends, and colleagues in saluting  his honorable contributions to our Nation and to Texas. He is a  deserving recipient of the Congressional Veteran Commendation and a  deeply valued member of our community.