Critical Mineral Dominance Act


Mrs. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Huffman for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose H.R. 4090. This bill hands the mining  industry the power to gut its own regulations. It directs the Secretary  of the Interior to expedite and approve any mine that the  administration deems a priority, and it tells the Department of the  Interior and the Forest Service to identify any public lands that  should be a priority for mining, without any public input or Tribal  consultation.

In the eyes of this administration mineral dominance means mining  above all else--above protection of our public lands, above the people  who will live with toxic pollution, and above the local communities'  interests.

My home State of Arizona is all too familiar with the harms left  behind from an unregulated mining industry. Over a century of mining  left polluted waters, poisoned land, and generations of families  feeling the health impacts, including my own. Tribal nations had their  lands stolen and sacred sites desecrated by the mining industry.

Some may argue that the mining industry is different now and that our  regulations are in need of change. I agree that we are in need of  modernization, but H.R. 4090 is a move in the wrong direction.

We need only look at the notorious track records of mining companies  abroad to see what disaster will look like in the United States.

BHP, one of the world's largest foreign mining companies and one of  the co-owners of the proposed Resolution Copper mine in Arizona, was  responsible for the disastrous collapse of a Brazilian tailings dam  that killed 19 people and spilled tons of toxic waste into a major  river in 2015. This disaster has been called Brazil's worst  environmental disaster.

Rio Tinto, the other co-owner of Resolution Copper, blew up a 46,000- year-old sacred aboriginal site in Australia in 2020.

Now, just upstream from Phoenix, Arizona, BHP and Rio Tinto are  pushing to destroy Oak Flat, a sacred site for multiple Apache Tribes  that is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, to build  the Resolution Copper mine. This is a mine that would create one of the  largest toxic tailings dams and ponds in the world.

Does that sound like an industry ready to responsibly regulate  itself?

Through the Save Oak Flat from Foreign Mining Act, I seek to reverse  the giveaway of publicly owned land and the natural resources beneath  it to this foreign mining conglomerate. It is clear that we have to  reaffirm that decisions about mining on public lands must respect  Tribal nations, local communities, and public health. Tribes and local  communities most impacted by mining deserve more say, not less, in the  future of their lands and waters.

This bill is about making it easier for foreign entities to extract  and take away America's resources and leave the pollution to forever  scar the land. We must fight back. We must listen, and we must be the  advocates and fighters that we were sent here to be. We must protect  our public lands for future generations.

Mr. Speaker, I urge strong opposition to H.R. 4090.