Welcoming the Honorable Adelita S. Grijalva to the House of Representatives


Mrs. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague and friend,  Congressman Stanton, for that kind introduction and to the entire  Democratic delegation from Arizona and the delegation that stood here  with me that has supported me throughout this process.

I rise today, the proud granddaughter of a bracero, a hardworking  Mexican immigrant who came to this country for a better life, and I  stand as the proud daughter of a U.S. Congressman, a man who spent his  entire life fighting for justice, equity, and dignity for the most  vulnerable.

From working as a vaquero to serving in Congress in just a single  generation, that is the promise of this country. That is the America I  want to raise my three beautiful children in--Adelina, Raul, and  Joaquin. They, along with my amazing husband, Sol, and my wonderful  Mama Ramona are here with me today.

``Thank you for your support and your love.''

``Muchas gracias por su apoyo y tu amor.''

Thank you to ``the people,'' ``la gente'' of southern Arizona for  making history, electing me as the first Latina, the first Chicana from  Arizona to ever go to Congress.

(English translation of the statement made in Spanish is as follows:)

``This is a historic moment for our community. It is an honor to be  the first Latina to represent Arizona in Congress. Let me assure you,  while I am the first, I will not be the last.''

``Este momento es historico para nuestra comunidad. Es un honor ser  la primera latina en representar Arizona en el Congreso, y les aseguro  que aunque soy la primera, no sere la ultima.''

Mrs. GRIJALVA. While we celebrate this moment, today our American  promise is under serious threat. Basic freedoms are under attack.  Healthcare premiums are skyrocketing. Babies are being ripped away from  their parents by masked agents. We can and must do better.

What is most concerning is not what this administration has done, but  what the majority in this body has failed to do: Hold Trump accountable  as the coequal branch of government that we are.

It has been 50 days since the people of Arizona's Seventh  Congressional District elected me to represent them; 50  days that over 800,000 Arizonans have been left without access to the  basic services that every constituent deserves.

This is an abuse of power. One individual should not be able to  unilaterally obstruct the swearing in of a duly elected Member of  Congress for political reasons.

Our democracy only works when everyone has a voice. This includes the  millions of people across the country who have experienced violence and  exploitation, including Liz Stein and Jessica Michaels, both survivors  of Jeffrey Epstein's abuse. They are here in the gallery with us this  evening. I thank them for being here.

Just this morning, House Democrats released more emails showing that  Trump knew more about Epstein's abuses than he previously acknowledged.  It is past time for Congress to restore its role as a check and balance  on this administration and fight for we, the American people.

We need to fight for our immigrant communities and veterans. We need  to stand up for our public schools, children, and educators. We need to  respect Tribal sovereignty and our environment. We need to stand up for  LGBTQ+ rights because that is what the American people expect us to do,  fight for them.

That is why I will sign the discharge petition right now to release  the Epstein files, because justice cannot wait another day.

``Forward my people. Thank you very much.''

``Adelante mi gente. Muchas gracias.''