Congratulating Lieutenant General Robert A. Rasch, Jr.


Mr. STRONG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Lieutenant  General Robert A. Rasch, Jr., as he concludes 36 years of exceptional  and faithful service to the United States of America.

Throughout his tenure, General Rasch has embodied the spirit of a  soldier, inspiring those who have served with and under his leadership.

Born in Germany, where his father was stationed with Army Special  Forces, General Rasch's connection to the military began early in life.  He graduated from the University of Georgia and followed his father's  footsteps, joining the Army as a second lieutenant in 1989.

His military journey also led him to his wife, Shawndell Mann, a  fellow soldier he met while in Alaska. Together, they have two  accomplished children: Darby, an emergency physician, and Michael, who  continues the family legacy as an infantry captain. Their family  continues to grow with the expected arrival of their first grandchild  in October.

Throughout his career, General Rasch served in various capacities,  including key roles within the acquisition and systems automation  corps. He led as the project manager for the Army's Integrated Battle  Command System and later as the military deputy to the commanding  general of the Army Aviation and Missile Command.

In 2017, he earned his first star as a deputy program executive  officer at PEO Missiles and Space. His second star came in 2019 when he  took over the PEO role. He is credited as a primary driver for the  modernization and integration of fires within the Army.

He earned his third and final star in 2022, becoming the director of  the Army's Rapid Capability and Critical Technologies Office, more  affectionately known as RCCTO.

In this role, he has overseen the rapid prototyping and fielding of  several key  programs, including the mid-range capability program, Army directed  energy systems, and the long-range hypersonic weapon as a first-of-its- kind capability.

General Rasch served in both Desert Storm and the global war on  terrorism. Over his 36 years of service, he has earned numerous awards,  including the Army's Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit,  and the Combat Infantryman Badge. He is also a Ranger-qualified  soldier, holding the prestigious Ranger Tab.

General Rasch's leadership and mentorship will be missed by many,  especially those at Redstone Arsenal in Alabama's Fifth Congressional  District. Those who served with him describe him as exactly the kind of  leader that soldiers trust and are willing to follow into battle. This  Nation is grateful for his service and is better because of it. We  salute General Robert A. Rasch, Jr.                       U.S. Space Command Headquarters

Mr. STRONG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on an issue of  historic importance for our Nation's security and for the people of  north Alabama: the decision to base the United States Space Command  headquarters at Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama.

For more than 60 years, our community has been at the heart of the  American space story. North Alabama has been at the forefront of  innovation, from the rockets that carried our astronauts to the Moon,  to the systems that now protect our homeland and our warfighters. We  have earned the nickname ``The Rocket City'' because innovation and  national defense are in our DNA.

Space Command is charged with ensuring America's superiority in the  most demanding, contested domain of the future. To protect the United  States, we need a headquarters located where talent, research, and  mission readiness intersect. With the support of President Trump, it  has been decided that Huntsville is that place.

Redstone Arsenal is a hub for missile defense, with unmatched  infrastructure and mission synergy. Our workforce brings together  military expertise, leading civilian aerospace professionals, and a  pipeline of scientists and engineers. This is not just about geography.  It is about capability, efficiency, and effectiveness.

This decision is not about partisan politics. It is about national  security. It is about ensuring that our brave men and women in uniform  have every advantage. We must be the most lethal force this world has  ever seen.

Huntsville offers facilities and partnerships needed for immediate  mission success and long-term capability to grow and sustain the  Command well into the future. North Alabama demonstrates that  patriotism, technical excellence, and innovation exist together. North  Alabama is ready. America will be stronger because of it. Our time is  now.