Congratulating Lieutenant General Sean A. Gainey on His Retirement


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701582/congratulating-lieutenant-general-sean-a-gainey-on-his-retirement


Mr. STRONG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a distinguished  leader, Lieutenant General Sean A. Gainey, as he concludes a remarkable  career of service to our Nation. For the past several years, it has  been our state's distinct honor to host him at Redstone Arsenal in  Huntsville, where he has served as the Commanding General of the U.S.  Army Space and Missile Defense Command.

Since his commission as an Air Defense Artillery officer in 1990,  General Gainey has been a pillar of our Nation's defense. His career  has taken him from a platoon leader in Germany to the highest echelons  of military leadership. He has commanded the 94th Army Air and Missile  Defense Command in Hawaii and the 108th Air Defense Artillery Brigade  at Fort Bragg. He has also served with distinction in critical roles at  the Pentagon, including as the first Director of the Joint Counter-UAS  Office. Furthermore, his service in Operations Iraqi Freedom, Enduring  Freedom, and Southern Watch are a testament to his unwavering  commitment.

His strategic vision and deep expertise have been instrumental in  shaping our Nation's air and missile defense posture for the modern  era. His unwavering commitment to the mission and to his soldiers has  left an indelible mark on the United States Army.

As General Gainey retires, we in Alabama are particularly proud of  his most recent service as the Commanding General of the Army Space and  Missile Defense Command at Redstone Arsenal. His leadership has been  critical to our national security and a source of great pride for our  state.

On behalf of a grateful Nation and the people of Alabama, I want to  extend my deepest gratitude to General Gainey and his family, who have  served alongside him with unwavering support and sacrifice. We wish him  a long, healthy, and well-deserved retirement.