Defending American Property Abroad Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701480/defending-american-property-abroad-act-of-2026


Mr. STRONG. Mr. Speaker, the question is: Do we support President  Trump with this authority? Absolutely, we do.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 7084, the Defending  American Property Abroad Act of 2026.

This legislation makes it clear: The United States will not stand for  unlawful harassment campaigns against American companies and American  workers.

For over 35 years, Vulcan Materials Company, based in Alabama, has  lawfully owned and operated a limestone quarry in Mexico. Yet, since  2018, the Mexican Government has unlawfully restricted Vulcan's  operations and wrongfully targeted them through coercion and  intimidation.

In 2022, the Mexican President attempted to seize the property. When  Vulcan refused to surrender, Mexico retaliated by issuing shutdown  orders.

No American company should be pressured into accepting a fire-sale  takeover or punished for standing up for its lawful rights. Vulcan  followed the law, held up its end of the deal, and operated  transparently. What they received in return was their property stolen  and seized by the Mexican Government.

These actions have essentially left the only deepwater port on the  Yucatan Peninsula--owned, constructed, and operated for years by  Vulcan--and the surrounding land open for sale to our adversaries. This  is unbelievable.

The Defending American Property Abroad Act gives the United States  the tools to push back against foreign countries and trading partners  when our companies are unlawfully targeted and harassed.

America owes Mexico nothing. This is about fairness and  accountability. The United States will no longer sit by and allow  foreign nations to profit from stolen American property.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 7084. I thank  Congressman Pfluger for his leadership in advancing this important  legislation.