Pay Our Homeland Defenders Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701356/pay-our-homeland-defenders-act


Mr. STRONG. Mr. Speaker, did I just hear the Member say ``fair, just,  and humane''?

The Democrats allowed 15 million illegal aliens to enter into this  country under the last administration, and now they don't want to fund  Homeland Security. Connect the dots. They are begging for chaos.

As a member of both the Appropriations Committee and the Homeland  Security Committee, I rise today in strong support of the Pay Our  Homeland Defenders Act, to ensure that our frontline personnel are paid  and that our Nation is secure.

While I stand here, the men and women who protect our borders, secure  our airports, patrol our coastlines, and respond to disasters are being  asked to do their jobs without certainty and stability. In many cases,  they are being asked to do it without pay, all because Democrats want  to block the deportation of violent criminals who are here illegally.

This is unacceptable. Our Nation faces growing and rapidly evolving  threats. We are confronting increasingly aggressive adversaries who  have built a global network of proxies, terrorist organizations, and  illicit financing operations designed to target the United States and  our allies.

On top of that, transnational criminal groups and emerging  technologies are being exploited by bad actors to conduct surveillance,  smuggle contraband, and enable criminal activity. These are not distant  threats. They are real threats, and they demand a fully functional  Department of Homeland Security to confront these threats.

America will soon host the World Cup, the Olympic Games, and our  Nation's 250th anniversary, events that will bring millions of visitors  and place unprecedented demands on our security infrastructure. Yet,  right now, airports across the country are seeing a surge in TSO  callouts.

Mr. STRONG. Just yesterday, during a Homeland Security Committee  hearing, the TSA Acting Administrator warned that newly hired screeners  will not be trained in time for the 2026 World Cup because of staffing  shortages. This alarms every single one of us because it means that we  are knowingly walking toward a major international event without the  staffing necessary to secure it.