Research Security and Accountability in Dhs Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688737/research-security-and-accountability-in-dhs-act


Mr. STRONG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 901,  the Research Security and Accountability in DHS Act.

I understand how important new technologies are in saving lives and  protecting the American homeland as threats and challenges evolve.

Whether the Department of Homeland Security is working to prevent a  terrorist act, inhibiting drug traffic at the southwest border, or  responding to a life-threatening natural disaster, DHS relies heavily  on research and development projects to enhance its operational  effectiveness.

The critical role that R&D projects and new technologies play in  helping protect our homeland cannot be understated. It is no secret  that Federal R&D projects are a target for foreign theft, espionage,  and influence.

It is our responsibility to safeguard them from malicious actors and  prevent the unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, sensitive  information.

This is why I reintroduced H.R. 901, the Research Security and  Accountability in DHS Act. This legislation requires the Science and  Technology Directorate to develop a process that safeguards sensitive  information in R&D projects across all components of the Department.

Both the Trump and Biden administrations have made Federal research  security a priority by issuing executive orders and Federal research  security guidance for government agencies like DHS to follow.

Despite this, S&T has not demonstrated how it will protect its $461  million worth of R&D projects from unauthorized access.

Every taxpayer dollar spent on R&D to improve our national security  should be safeguarded from foreign and domestic bad actors who seek to  do us harm.

This is why H.R. 901 also requires GAO to submit a report on how DHS  has complied with existing Federal guidance to safeguard these R&D  projects.

I thank Chairman Green and all the members who have supported this  legislation.

By passing this commonsense bill and protecting sensitive R&D  projects throughout the Department, we will improve the effectiveness  of DHS' mission, the safety of our Nation's law enforcers, and,  ultimately, our national security.

I urge all Members to join me in supporting this vital piece of  legislation to better safeguard DHS and the American people.