Strategic Homeland Intelligence and Enforcement Legislation to Defend Against the Ccp Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688749/strategic-homeland-intelligence-and-enforcement-legislation-to-defend-against-the-ccp-act


Mr. STRONG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my legislation,  H.R. 708, the SHIELD Against CCP Act.

I thank Chairman Green and each of the Members who have joined me in  introducing this bill.

There is no question that the Chinese Communist Party poses a clear  and present threat to both the security and democracy of the United  States of America.

As detailed in DHS' 2025 Homeland Threat Assessment, the Chinese  Government poses a wide array of dangers to our Nation. These threats  span across various sectors, including public safety, border and  immigration, critical infrastructure, and economic security.

Threats of this nature undermine our global competitiveness and  national security, and in some cases, impose a significant financial  burden on our economy. It is absolutely essential that the Department  of Homeland Security take decisive action to address these complex  threats both at home and abroad.

This is why I have reintroduced H.R. 708, the SHIELD Against CCP Act.  This legislation requires DHS to establish a dedicated working group  focused on countering the threats posed by the CCP to our Homeland  Security. Specifically, it requires them to examine, assess, and report  on DHS' efforts to address these threats.

To ensure accountability, my bill also mandates that DHS provide an  annual report to Congress, allowing us to monitor and evaluate the  effectiveness of their efforts.

As Members of Congress, it is our solemn duty to ensure the safety  and well-being of our great Nation. We cannot afford to ignore the  increased aggression and influence of China on the global stage.

In the 118th Congress, I was honored to have the backing of my  colleagues in advancing this legislation through the House. I now urge  all Members to join me once again in supporting the SHIELD Against CCP  Act to protect our national security and safeguard our interests.