-9999


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I compliment the minority leader for  coming forth and saying what the Senate has agreed to do, which is to  force the Epstein files to be released, which must be backed up by the  force of law because we know that the administration failed to release  half of the paperwork--some 3 million pages. We know that they blocked  out whole pages in order to disguise, apparently, the protection of  powerful men they don't want drawn into this discussion.

Then they proceeded to not redact the names of victims, as the law  required. Let us not forget what this entire Epstein scandal is about.  It is about powerful, wealthy men grooming, abusing, and raping young  women and men. That is what it is about.

I cannot understand for the life of me why the Republican leadership  just objected for us to seek enforcement of the law that we passed  unanimously here. Why is the Republican leadership protecting powerful  men? Why are they protecting the administration allowing 3 million  pages to be held on to? Why are they allowing page, after page, after  page to be blacked out to protect those powerful men? Why will they not  respond to the fact that when these files were released, they did  exactly the opposite of the law and failed to redact information about  the victims, revictimizing so many?

This is 1,000 percent unacceptable, and it is unacceptable to our  values as a nation, our values which talk about equal justice under  law. That is why, by unanimous consent, we said those files must be  released. But it is meaningless if the administration simply chooses  not to comply and then my Republican leadership colleagues proceed to  block the ability to enforce what the Senate agreed to pursue:  accountability, justice for the victims, transparency over this  horrific scandal.

Mr. President, I hope my Republican colleagues will reconsider their  objection because what they have just done is wrong, morally wrong and  wrong under the values of equal justice under law, wrong under the  values of justice for those who have been victimized, wrong under the  value of accountability for the perpetrators.