Anniversary of January 6


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, it was this time of the evening 5 years  ago that the Senate had returned here to this Chamber and then gone  back across to the House of Representatives to continue counting the  ballots from each State, the ballots for the electors, the electoral  college, the number of which would determine who would be the next  President of the United States.

It is steeped in tradition. It is a complicated system because we  don't have a direct election for a President, and it involves these  beautiful boxes that would be displayed here on the Senate desk. They  have the official statements and envelopes from all the secretaries of  state across the country saying: We are validating that this is the  slate from our State elections.

And then when the counting would begin in the House, we would parade  over to the House of Representatives, and the ballots would start to be  opened, one State and then another. And it was that evening when we  started with the alphabet, beginning with the As, and when we came to  the third State starting with an A, Arizona, there was an objection to  validation of the slate.

And it is at that moment that we journeyed back from the House of  Representatives here, and those beautiful wooden boxes with straps and  buckles were replaced on the table here before the dais of the Senate.  And then as we were in that moment of preparing to debate whether or  not we would agree or disagree with the acceptance of the slate of  electors from Arizona, that is when all hell broke loose. That is when  rioters stormed the Senate steps, beat up the police officers, pushed  through, and came into the Capitol seeking to stop the peaceful  transfer of power, a moment none of us ever expected to witness in our  lifetime.

In the course of that riot, more than 170 police officers were  injured, and as a consequence of that day, five police officers died.

I would never believe it if I was reading a book, a novel, a fiction  story about the Senate that rioters would storm the Capitol. I would  never believe that this Chamber would be taken over by those rioters,  that their fierce assault with flag poles and fire extinguishers and  all sorts of handcrafted weapons would result in the death of a group  of officers and more than 170 being injured. But it happened.

The end of that day was a good story because we returned to this  Chamber, and we re-paraded over to the House and continued the counting  and proceeded to establish who would be the next President of the  United States of America.

But it feels particularly important today to honor those who defended  this Capitol. It was certainly not within their frame of reference the  degree to which that riot would be ginned up. Ginned up are the words  of our then-sitting, outgoing President, President Trump, who wanted to  interrupt the counting of the ballots, so he could continue to be  President, break this chain of peaceful transition that had existed for  200-plus years.

It really was not within the frame of reference of any of us; it was  outside the box of what we considered possible, what happened this  evening 5 years ago. This is why earlier today, I was shocked to read  that the plaque that we had passed a law to commemorate the service of  the officers, that that plaque had been cast in bronze, but never  actually displayed as required by the law that we adopted in 2022.

Here we are on the 5-year anniversary, and we have never put up this  plaque. I have the plaque right here. It is incredibly elegant, a  picture of the Capitol, and it says:

``On behalf of a grateful Congress, this plaque honors the       extraordinary individuals who bravely protected and defended       this symbol''--

The Capitol.       ``this symbol of democracy on January 6, 2021. Their heroism       will never be forgotten.''

And yet this plaque is forgotten--stuffed into a room, out of sight,  never mounted.

How can that possibly be the case? We passed a law that this would be  displayed. So, well, this is the night to fix that. This is the night  to come, draft a simple resolution, and say: We here in the Senate,  Democrats and Republicans together, want to see this plaque up on a  wall.

Our leadership on both sides has already agreed to put up the plaque,  but to do so in the course as required by the 2022 law requires some  agreement from down the hall in the House of Representatives that, for  whatever reason, hasn't been secured. But we can at least get it placed  up here on the second floor of the Senate, the floor where we sat 5  years ago, the floor where the House sat 5 years ago. The Chambers are  on this floor where we had the ballots from the States across the  country that contained the electoral college slates.

So I drafted a resolution, and I wanted to be able to get unanimous  consent tonight, but I also want it to be bipartisan. And it turns out  that sometimes the gears here move more slowly, even on simple tasks,  than one would like. But instead of asking for unanimous consent on  this resolution tonight, instead, I am going to work with a colleague  across the aisle, a colleague, a Republican from North Carolina, Thom  Tillis, who came here earlier today with the same sentiment in his  heart that I have in my heart that this plaque needs to be up, needs to  be up in the hallway here on the second floor.

And pending resolution of agreement with the House on where it should  be, we can put it up here.

So I will read you the resolution, and here it is:

Directing the Architect of the Capitol to prominently       display in a publicly accessible location on the second floor       of the Senate wing of the United States Capitol, a plaque       honoring the members of law enforcement responding on January       6, 2021, until the plaque can be placed in its permanent       location; whereas, the United States owes its deepest       gratitude to these officers of the United States Capitol       Police and the Metropolitan Police Department of the District       of Colombia, as well as officers from other Federal, State,       and local law enforcement agencies and protective entities       who valiantly protected the United States Capitol, Members of       Congress, and staff on January 6, 2021; whereas, section 214       of division 1 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2022       directed that a plaque be placed on the western front of the       United States Capitol to honor the extraordinary individuals       who bravely protected and defended this symbol of democracy,       the United States Capitol, on January 6, 2021; and whereas       their heroism should never be forgotten, now therefore be it       resolved that the Architect of the Capitol shall prominently       display the plaque authorized by section 214 of division 1 of       the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2022 in a publicly       accessible location on the second floor of the Senate wing of       the United States Capitol until such time as the plaque can       be placed at a permanent location on the western front of the       United States Capitol.

So my colleague from North Carolina Senator Tillis and I are carrying  this sentiment in our heart; that here on the fifth anniversary, in  which so many officers sacrificed so much, sustaining injuries, five  sustaining death as a result of what transpired here, this plaque needs  to go up, and it needs to go up this week.

But tonight, I am not asking unanimous consent because I want  colleagues on both sides of the aisle to be able to do what is  appropriate in the U.S. Senate, to be familiar with this, so that they  can willingly--and, hopefully, enthusiastically--agree that this will  be done.

Let not this representation of our appreciation of the sacrifice of  the Capitol Police and other police departments--Federal, State, and  local--that came to the defense of this Capitol, let this symbol of our  appreciation not sit, stuffed into a back room, but be prominently  displayed here on the second floor of the Senate wing of the Capitol  because their heroism must never be forgotten.