Cloture Motion


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I missed the conversation on the floor--

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you, and thank you to my colleague from Oklahoma.

The issue we are addressing needs to be addressed. The nomination  process is entirely broken. People are sick and tired of bringing their  expertise to the Senate and basically being an automaton in a  nomination factory. So that is why there is great sympathy for us  working together to resolve this.

I put forward a somewhat different version of the world from my  colleague from Oklahoma and said: Let's do a block of time where  multiple people can be debated simultaneously. That alone speeds things  up by six to eight times because it is not 2 hours or 120 minutes per  nominee. Let's create a motion where we go directly to that block of  time, and because of the block of time, you don't have to have cloture  on it in order to vote. Let's speed up how we hold those votes.

I felt we could get to wiping out the backlog through some of the  agreements that were done before August and by accelerated  consideration and preserve the ability to vote on each nominee.

I had concerns about the en bloc because I think we have a  constitutional responsibility, if there is a bad apple, to weigh in on  that and be accountable to our constituents on whether we favor or  disfavor that individual. So I proposed an amendment.

I do appreciate my colleague working to arrange to have a vote on  that amendment that said 10 Members in the minority, or minority- majority, could sign a petition to have someone pulled out of a group  of 15 if they felt that person merited more scrutiny or presented  particular problems.

I heard about kind of the distrust that that might be used to  dismantle an entire block of 15, so I am open to modifications of that  that could address that. But I was one of the people who said, as  written initially, I couldn't vote for unanimous consent to just adopt  it. But to consider it on this floor--yes, I can vote for it to be  considered on this floor because that is what we should be doing. We  should be bringing rules ideas to this floor to be wrestled with in  order to make this Chamber work better.

And so I appreciate that the plan wasn't to just try to get UC on the  proposal but to get UC to consider it. Why shouldn't we all agree to  that? So I am not sure where the reservation is, the holdout. I have  heard that there are folks who like the idea of a supernova nuclear  option and therefore want to blow up normal consideration of a standing  order, of a new proposal standing order.

But I just--I guess, having missed the presentation, if I missed it,  from the majority leader, I would say maybe we should take an hour and  try to resolve that or adopt what my colleague has said, to iron out  the details over the weekend--because it is a big deal. It is a big  deal to go nuclear. It is a big deal to adopt a new idea that hadn't  been widely circulated until the last few days.

So I cast my heart and my vote with the idea of let's try to figure  this out.

I thank the President.

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, would my colleague yield for a question?