Jeffrey Epstein


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, just minutes ago, I was outside and was  running up the steps to the Senate Chamber in order to cast a vote on  the issue before the Senate, and the issue before the Senate was  whether or not we would pass a bill to release the Epstein files.

As you run up those stairs, if you look back over your shoulder, you  see there, carved into the facade of the U.S. Supreme Court, the four  words: ``Equal Justice Under Law.''

Equal justice under law, what does that mean to us who grow up in  America? It means that nobody is above the law--not a politician, not a  celebrity, not a billionaire, no one.

Now, we certainly know that this vision to which we aspire--equal  justice under the law--has not been fully accomplished, but we wrestle  to move closer to that vision, to realize that vision. And today we had  a chance as the  U.S. Senate to move significant strides in the direction of saying: No  one is above the law.

The legislation that was considered was an amendment form of a  proposal that I had drafted to say, ``Release the Epstein files,'' and  my copilot Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico saying, ``Release the Epstein  files.''

And, indeed, many Members on both sides have believed in this vision  of transparency and accountability. Why? Well, because they value those  words that are carved above the pillars of the Supreme Court: ``Equal  Justice Under Law.'' They cherish that value in their heart that we  aspire toward a vision where everyone is accountable.

Plus, in this particular case involving Jeffrey Epstein, every single  one of us, all 100 Senators, know that Jeffrey Epstein was a monster, a  monster who groomed and abused underage children, a monster who  trafficked girls to rich and powerful men, a monster who destroyed the  lives of hundreds of young women.

As I speak, the U.S. Department of Justice has files detailing the  names of those connected to Mr. Jeffrey Epstein. It has been widely  reported that in May our Attorney General Pam Bondi informed President  Trump that his name appears in the Epstein files.

But, to be clear, just because a name is listed in the Epstein files  doesn't mean that that person was a collaborator in abusing young  women. There may be lots of names in that file related to just casual  acquaintances or people met on trips. Who knows? But some of those  names in that file may well shine light on people who abuse young  women. So let's bring it to light.

If we believe in that vision of equal justice under law, if we  believe in accountability for all, then release the files. Let the  chips fall where they may. It is the right thing to do.

Everyone involved in assisting Jeffrey Epstein in running an  international trafficking organization or involved in directly  purchasing access to young women through Jeffrey Epstein or directly  abusing young women proffered by Jeffrey Epstein--every single person,  let the chips fall where they may. No matter how rich the person is, no  matter if they held office in the past, no matter if they aspire to  office in the future or sit in an office right now, no matter how  famous or not famous they might be--let the chips fall where they may.  That is the vision of equal justice under the law.

Everyone involved in Mr. Epstein's crimes must be brought to light  and must be held accountable.

My colleague from Oregon Senator Ron Wyden and the Senate Finance  Committee have been investigating Mr. Epstein's financial network for  the last 3 years. The Biden administration fully cooperated with the  Senate investigators on that case. The Finance Committee staff went to  the Treasury Department to see the Epstein files and suspicious  activity reports.

Democrats understood that this was an ongoing investigation. We  applauded the Biden administration for cooperating, and that was the  right course.

But now we are under a different administration. Instead of  cooperating, the Trump administration is obstructing. The Trump  administration, Attorney General Bondi are refusing to cooperate, and  they are refusing to investigate further. They are simply saying two  words: ``Case closed.''

Case closed? When they have their hands on information potentially  regarding dozens or hundreds of individuals who abused young women?

So today we had a chance to vote on whether the case is closed. We  have before us an amendment which said: Deliver the files. Create the  force of law, deliver the files. And 51 Senators in this body, I am  ashamed to say, said: Hell no. We want them kept secret. We want to  protect the perpetrators. Why? Because the man in the Oval Office, Mr.  Trump, told us he wants us to protect those files, does not want them  public.

On July 17, the Wall Street Journal reported on a letter allegedly  written by Trump to Epstein as part of a birthday book for his 50th  birthday in 2003. The letter is signed at the bottom ``Donald.'' It  features a drawing of a woman's body with very suggestive text.

I debated putting that letter up. There is a chart of it in the door  behind me. But it has already been made public. The public has seen it.  I find it a profoundly offensive letter.

And as I passed by a stack of newspapers today, I saw a series of  examples of Donald Trump's signature because Trump has said to the  world, ``That is not my signature.'' But, of course, the experts say  that is not true.

The birthday book contains another photo of Mr. Epstein holding an  oversized novelty check from D.J. Trump for $22,500. What is that check  for? Underneath the photo taken in the 1990s, a handwritten note says:

Jeffrey showing early talents with money and women! Sells       ``fully depreciated''--

And then there is a name of a woman who has been blocked out.

to Donald Trump for $22,500.

I don't know if a woman was sold to Donald Trump for $22,500. I don't  know what it means to call a woman ``fully depreciated.'' I don't know  if it was just kind of a brazen joke between a couple of very powerful  men, but it is certainly not a funny joke. It certainly implies and  suggests a camaraderie in the idea that young women are for sale.

On July 15, House Speaker   Mike Johnson told CNN:

We should put everything out there and let the people       decide it.

Well, actions are more powerful than words. The words were:

We should put everything out there.

The action was he adjourned the House of Representatives early for  August recess to avoid voting on releasing the files.

Well, the House is back in session now. So I call on Speaker   Mike  Johnson to stand up for the principle carved above those pillars on the  Supreme Court: ``Equal Justice Under Law.'' Hold a vote in the House of  Representatives on release of the files.

The leader of the Senate told FOX News:

I'm always a believer in transparency--I think more is       always better.

Today we voted on transparency, and the vote from across the aisle  was: Case closed. No transparency. No accountability.

I certainly agree with the sentiment it is time to put everything out  there. The American people have been clear. They want these files  released because they still treasure the idea that possibly powerful  people in this Chamber actually believe in the principles that we were  raised on here in the United States of America of equal justice under  law; that nobody is above the law, still cherish that little seed of  hope that maybe when we have a vote in this Chamber, 100 Senators will  say: Hell yes. But today they were crushed because the majority said:  Hell no. Seal the file. Protect the President. Protect the powerful. To  hell with justice for the victims, the young women who were so  impacted, devastated, by the activities of Jeffrey Epstein and his  associates.

The American people know better. They demand transparency. They  demand accountability. They demand justice. The victims demand  transparency. The victims demand accountability, and the victims demand  justice.

And we had a chance to deliver it today, and we failed them.

My bill, which was introduced as the amendment by Senator Schumer,  requires the Attorney General to release all materials and records  related to Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell, including the flight  and travel records, the names of individuals, the names of businesses  and nonprofits and other organizations, any immunity deals, any  nonprosecution agreements, any plea bargains, any settlements, internal  Department of Justice communications about decisions to charge or not  charge those involved, all communications about attempts to conceal  information or documents, and any documentation related to Mr.  Epstein's detention or death.

It makes one exception, and that exception is deleting the names of  the victims involved. They should only be named if they choose to come  forward.

Let me quote from what this bill requires:

No record should be withheld, delayed, or redacted on the       basis of any of the following: embarrassment, reputational       harm, or political sensitivity, including any government       official, public figure, or foreign dignitary.

But it will redact names of the victims and underage witnesses,  including  their personally identifiable information, depictions of their abuse,  or information that would jeopardize an active Federal investigation or  national security.

This was carefully crafted with the insights of law enforcement to  hold people accountable and redact only what was necessary to protect  either an ongoing investigation or to protect the victims.

We had a chance to do the right thing today and 49 Senators said do  the right thing and 51 said no and tabled this bill. I hope my  colleagues who voted to table the bill today will search their hearts  and come back and say: Bring it up again because I want to be on the  right side. I want to be on the right side of the principle. I want to  be on the right side of the victims. I want to deliver on that little  seed of hope that somehow, when push comes to shove, some powerful men  in this Chamber will hold other powerful men accountable.

On behalf of every citizen who shares that vision across our country,  who believes in the words carved above the Supreme Court, I and others  will continue to press for accountability, for transparency, for  justice. May it be so that we reconsider and 100 Senators team up  together to say ``hell, yes'' on those core principles we cherish as  Americans.