Motion to Discharge--S.J. Res. 59


Mr. MERKLEY. I appreciate the comments of my colleague from  California and particularly appreciate that my colleague from Virginia  Senator Kaine has proposed this War Powers Resolution, a resolution  that reaffirms a basic principle: The decisions of war and peace belong  under our Constitution to Congress, not to the President.

But on June 21, President Trump ordered strikes on three Iranian  nuclear facilities. There was no congressional authorization. There was  no debate in this Chamber. There was no vote in this Chamber. The  President made a unilateral decision that risked bringing the United  States into another extended war in the Middle East.

That is not how our Founders designed our Nation through the  architecture of the Constitution. In fact, each Member here swore an  oath to uphold that Constitution that places the responsibility for  declaring war upon this body, not upon the individual who sits in the  Oval Office. To be sure, the President, as Commander in Chief, has the  responsibility to protect the Nation from an imminent threat. But in  this case, there was not an imminent threat.

First, according to our own intelligence, Iran was not pursuing a  nuclear weapon. Second, even though Iran possessed a significant amount  of 60-  percent-enriched uranium--more than the 3 percent to 5 percent that is  utilized for civilian energy--it was still not enriched to the level to  build a bomb. It would have had to be enriched to 90 percent. It would  have had to be converted to metallic form. It would have had to be  arranged with an extensive system of explosives that compress it in  order to start a chain reaction. That is a very difficult engineering  feat. Third, prior to the U.S. strikes, Israel's Foreign Minister said  Israel's attacks had already set back Iran's nuclear weapon program for  at least 2 to 3 years.

So let's be clear, the threat was not imminent. It was not a  situation where there was no time for the President to observe the  Constitution, to honor the Constitution, to seek an authorization for  the use of military force from the Congress of the United States.

The administration, instead, acted precipitously, putting American  lives at risk, including the over 40,000 U.S. troops in the region, as  well as diplomats and American civilians stationed or visiting the  Middle East.

Wars are easy to start, but they are often hard to end, and the  consequences can be enormous. Look, for example, at the cost of the  wars in Afghanistan and in Iraq: more than 7,000 deaths of American men  and women serving in uniform, more than 50,000 serious injuries--often  life-altering injuries--to America's sons and daughters serving in  uniform, more than $8 trillion of American treasure spent.

That is why the Founders said the consequences of conflict, of  entering into war, are so significant they must never be entrusted to a  single person, not even the person who sits in the Oval Office. That is  why they wrote the Constitution, placing the responsibility for that  here where it can be wrestled with; where it can be debated; where  different perspectives can be brought to bear; where experts can be  interviewed; and all can be taken into account in making such an  important decision for our Nation.

From where we are right now, two things need to happen: First,  Congress needs to reassert its constitutional authority over matters of  war and peace; second, we need to double down on diplomacy to secure a  lasting peace.

And a lasting peace includes at least three elements: Iran does not  develop a nuclear weapon; second, Iran stops funding militias across  the region; and, third, Iran's economy is freed up to prosper. Those  are the three elements that need to be addressed.

Let me begin, first, by addressing in some greater detail Congress's  need to reassert its constitutional authority. On ``Meet the Press'' on  Sunday, Senator Lindsey Graham said:

You can't have 535 Commanders in Chief.

He is exactly right. And that is why the Founders designed the  Constitution with a separation of powers. Congress has the  responsibility to decide if we go to war, and then the President  commands our military to go to war.

Article I gives Congress the power to declare a war and article II  gives the President the power to be the Commander in Chief to execute  the war. Senator Kaine's War Powers Resolution says hostilities in Iran  must be explicitly authorized by Congress, but that does not, in any  way, prevent the United States from defending itself from an imminent  attack should that need arise.

This is a privileged resolution, meaning that we will have the  opportunity to wrestle with it. And we will be voting on whether to do  so later today.

This resolution is urgently needed. We are already in the throes of a  slide into an authoritarian state. Our President has been ignoring the  Constitution or violating the Constitution by violating the rule of law  that applies to the executive branch; by ignoring or suppressing or  circumventing due process, the very issue that protects all of us from  an overbearing Executive. In fact, it is the defender of our freedom;  third, stiff-arming the courts; and, fourth, seizing Congress's power  of the purse.

And then just this week, it was reported that Trump will limit  intelligence sharing with Congress, another brazen attempt to  centralize powers in the executive in a strongman Presidency.

With this resolution, Senator Kaine's resolution, Congress can  reassert its constitutional authority as a coequal branch of  government. It can stop this President from seizing even more  dangerously unaccountable power.

In addition to Congress taking this action, there is an urgent need  for diplomacy in order to secure a lasting peace in the Middle East.  That lasting peace includes the three elements that I mentioned: that  Iran does not have the path to developing a nuclear weapon; that it  stops funding militias across the region; and that Iran's economy is  freed up to prosper. They can reenter international commerce.

It is already clear that diplomacy is not just essential but that it  is effective. In 2015, the United States helped negotiate the Joint  Comprehensive Plan of Action, better known as the Iran nuclear deal,  which blocked all paths for Iran to acquire a nuclear weapon. It  blocked the plutonium path; it blocked the uranium path; it blocked the  covert path.

That deal was so important for global security that it involved the  United States, Russia, China, the United Kingdom, and France, all  working together to create that framework in partnership with Iran. And  Iran accepted massive inspections and oversight from the International  Atomic Energy Agency to make sure that you not only had an act of  trust, but lots of acts of verification. The deal worked. Iran was not  developing a nuclear weapon. Instead, they dismantled their plutonium- based Arak heavy water reactor. They agreed not to enrich uranium  beyond 6.7 percent, and they didn't do so. They shipped all of their  more highly enriched uranium out of the country--some 25,000 pounds--to  be stored abroad.

But 3 years later, President Trump tore up that agreement. He did so  over the objections of his own national security officials; over the  objection of his Secretary of Defense General Jim Mattis; over the  objection of his Secretary of State Rex Tillerson; over the objection  of his National Security Advisor General McMaster; and over the  objection of his Chief of Staff General John Kelly.

Had President Trump, in his first administration, not torn up that  agreement, we would be celebrating Iran's tenth anniversary under the  nuclear deal with no path to a nuclear weapon. By ripping up the Iran  nuclear deal, Trump opened the pathway for Iran to enrich beyond 3.67  percent, leading to the concerns that prompted Israel to attack Iran's  nuclear facilities and that led Prime Minister Netanyahu to ask  President Trump to use our planes and our abilities to bomb Isfahan,  Natanz, and Fordo.

To create an enduring agreement now that stops Iran from having a  path to a nuclear weapon, restrictions like those that were in the Iran  nuclear deal back in 2015 have to be recreated. And, in fact, we  learned over the last few days how diplomats from President Trump's  team have been working on this, were in conversation with Iran before  Israel's attack to create such an arrangement. In fact, they continued  those conversations even as bombs were dropping.

We have to succeed to put in place a permanent, detailed, enforceable  plan for peace which Iran agrees to, that stops funding for militias  outside Iran and blocks all those paths to a nuclear weapon.

Colleagues, we wouldn't be here today discussing this if President  Trump hadn't torn up the first agreement that was working against the  advice of his entire foreign affairs and security staff. That is what  happens when you scoff at diplomacy--diplomacy that works, agreements  that worked--and unleash events in the world that lead to circumstances  that realized themselves this year in 2025.

The decision to strike Iran without authorization from Congress was  wrong because there wasn't the imminent threat and, thus, there was  time to go through the process of seeking authorization for the use of  military force necessitated by our Constitution.

Wars are easy to start, but they are hard to end, and that is why the  Founders wanted us to debate them before the American people. We must  reassert Congress's congressional authority. We must double down on  diplomacy to secure long-term peace. We cannot allow our servicemembers  in uniform to be sent to war if we are not even willing to debate and  vote on that war.

I urge my colleagues to support this resolution.