Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Proposed Export of


Mr. MERKLEY. Following the attacks on October 7, 2023, Israel had  every right to go after Hamas, but how they do so matters.  Indiscriminate bombing with massive casualties, women and children, is  horrific, completely unacceptable. Blocking food and medicine with the  goal of inducing starvation is horrific and unacceptable. And that is  true under any religious or moral code.

Let me tell you about a few children the AP reported on a couple  weeks ago.

Four children who starved to death, ranging from 4 months old to 2  years old--picture that little child in your arm, their legs and arms  just a twig, their ribs showing every indentation, and then, finally,  their body, as it goes through malnutrition, starts to consume itself,  and they died of gastric arrest. Their stomach's ability to absorb  nutrition shut down, and they died. The hospital they were at, the  Patient's Friends Hospital, had run out of emergency nutrition  supplies.

There are supplies that are specially designed for malnutrition among  children. There are high-calorie biscuits and a high-calorie peanut  paste enriched with milk powder that often goes by the name Plumpy'Nut.  It is designed to help children. It has a long shelf life. It doesn't  have to be refrigerated. To help save them from severe acute  malnutrition, couldn't we have enough such assistance that no child  would be starving to death in Gaza?

Organizations across Gaza have been running out of these supplies.  UNICEF warned that their locations are running out. In fact, they said  they would run out of this high-nutrition assistance for children 2  weeks from now.

Doctors working with malnourished children are saying the wards are  quiet. And if you have been around a ward of children, you know that  they are not quiet. But why are these children quiet? Because they  don't have the energy to cry.

Noura has an 11-month-old son. He is deeply malnourished. He is  missing his major developmental milestones, and she says:

My son is supposed to be drinking formula milk, but there       is none . . . [and] I am barely able to breastfeed him; my       milk had almost dried up because I'm also not eating well.

And, in fact, Noura is in better condition than many other mothers  because many mothers across Gaza were unable to breastfeed at all  because of their own malnourishment.

Samah, another mother, relays that her family was driven from their  home by air strikes--certainly true for almost every family in Gaza.  And she says:

I am pregnant, but I have not eaten anything since       yesterday.

Dr. Mohammed Fadlalla of Doctors Without Borders says the Gaza  ``health  system is overwhelmed, and it's collapsing.'' And a Doctors Without  Borders report says that doctors and nurses are doing their best with  dwindling supplies amidst ``near-daily mass casualty incidents'' and  that their clinics report treating ``hundreds of people injured at food  distribution sites and ongoing attacks in Gaza,'' while doctors and  nurses are working day after day, shift after shift, without eating  themselves.

The suffering is unimaginable. I have called for international  reporters to be allowed in so we could all see exactly what is  happening. I have called for Members of Congress to be allowed in to  bear witness to what is happening. But the Netanyahu government has  said no reporters, no Members of Congress.

More than 60,000 Palestinians have been killed, widely reported, but  understand this: 18,500 of them were children. According to a reporting  by Associated Press, more than 80 children have died from malnutrition- related causes. And for every child who dies of malnutrition, there are  thousands more in deep trouble.

UNICEF, in a July 25 report, said 320,000 children are at risk of  acute malnutrition with thousands already suffering from severe  malnutrition, the deadliest form.

This headline from the Washington Post, ``60,000 Gazans have been  killed. 18,500 were children. These are their names.'' That was in  today's paper. Take a look at it, colleagues. Take a look at the pages  of microscopic names, all children. And every name here on this poster,  a child who is less than a year old.

These are not just numbers. These are individuals, beloved by their  family. Children who are dying. Children who are deeply malnourished.

Let me read you a couple names to remind us all of the fact that  these are individuals, just like you are an individual, just like I am  an individual, my friends, my colleagues:

Anisa Ali, Diaa Saleh Mousa, Basel Abu Jaser, Malak Abu       Saif, Wael Assaf, Sama Darwish.

All these children, almost 1,000 of them, under the age of 1. They  never got a chance to pursue their dreams. They were cut down by  bombing and by malnutrition.

The IPC, the world's leading hunger monitor, published a report on  Tuesday, and I have that report here. Let me hold it up. This report,  it says:

The worst-case scenario of famine is [currently] playing       out in the Gaza strip.

``The worst case.'' The World Food Programme reports that hunger in  Gaza has reached ``astonishing levels of desperation, [and] a third of  the population is not eating for multiple days in a row.''

But what do we hear from the head man, the leader in Israel,  Netanyahu? He says, on Sunday, this past Sunday:

There is no starvation in Gaza.

Let me be clear. That is a lie. The world knows it is a lie. We know  that it is a lie. Donald Trump knows that it is a lie. President Trump  said on Monday:

Some of those kids--that's real starvation stuff, I see it,       and you can't fake that.

The use of food and water and medicine as a weapon of war against  civilians--including against children, the ill, the elderly, the  women--it is unacceptable. It is unacceptable under international law.  It is unacceptable under any religious or moral code.

I have much more to share on this topic, many more facts I would like  to present, but I want to make sure that my colleague, my colleague  from Maryland Senator Chris Van Hollen gets an opportunity to share his  thoughts.

We have called on addressing starvation, the lack of food, going way  back to January of last year, 19 months ago. We called on the Biden  administration; we called on the Trump administration.

He has been a leader, understanding and reporting so many facts to  help the rest of us understand what is going on.

I will be voting against any weapon of war provided to Israel until  every child and every woman has adequate nutrition in Gaza.

Mr. President, I yield to my colleague.