Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Gas-Fired Instantaneous Water Heaters''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''; and Providing for Consideration of H. Con. Res. Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688099/providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-consumer-gas-fired-instantaneous-water-heaters-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-waste-emissions-charge-for-petroleum-and-natural-gas-systems-procedures-for-facilitating-compliance-including-netting-and-exemptions-and-providing-for-consideration-of-h-con-res-concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Mr. GRAY. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise today conflicted about what is happening in our  government and across the country. Like many Americans, I find myself  frustrated with government that doesn't work, lines that are too long,  services that are too hard to navigate, and roads that don't get fixed.

This shouldn't be a partisan issue. All of us here today should be in  favor of making our government work better and strengthening programs  that our constituents rely upon. In fact, some of my Republican  colleagues, led by Congressman Tony Gonzales, wrote in a letter to  Speaker Johnson that the proposed cuts to Medicaid within this budget  would have serious consequences, particularly in rural and  Hispanic communities where hospitals and nursing homes are already  struggling to keep their doors open.

One of those communities where hospitals are struggling to stay open  is mine in California's Central Valley. Over 450,000 people in my  congressional district rely on Medicaid for their health coverage. The  Central Valley is also experiencing a healthcare shortage, forcing  people to drive across the country, across county lines, across the  State, waiting for hours to see a provider.

These proposed cuts to Medicaid only stand to worsen the crisis.  Let's be clear. These cuts wouldn't just impact individuals covered by  Medicaid. In my congressional district, 59 percent of individuals are  covered by California's Medicaid program. That means that doctors and  hospitals in my district rely on Medicaid for nearly two-thirds of  their revenue. Without that revenue, these providers would not be able  to keep their doors open. In fact, Madam Speaker, there is an entire  county I represent with a population of 162,000 people who have no  hospital at all to go to because it had to close.

I submitted an amendment to this resolution to ask a simple question.  Is it such a priority to fund tax cuts for individuals with over $1  billion in net worth that we would enact devastating cuts to healthcare  for rural and low-income communities?

This proposal would steal from the poor to give to the rich. Even if  my colleagues don't think that is a problem, Madam Speaker, this  literally makes healthcare coverage worse for every single person  living in rural America. I have spent the majority of my career in  public service, working to make healthcare better, both more accessible  and more affordable. This proposed budget does the opposite.

My amendment to the proposed budget would prevent consideration of  any legislation that would result in cuts to Medicaid in order to  provide such tax cuts. Unfortunately, that amendment was blocked from  consideration by members of the Rules Committee last night.

To my Republican colleagues who agreed that we must protect Medicaid,  I hope they will join me in support of this amendment should I have the  opportunity to offer it here.

Madam Speaker, this is my commonsense solution to honor the trust our  constituents put in us when they sent us to Congress. I urge my  colleagues to oppose the previous question and support this amendment.