Recognizing the University of California, Merced


Mr. GRAY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the University of  California, Merced, as it celebrates 20 years of firsts.

The University of California Board of Regents, working to meet long- term enrollment demand in the San Joaquin Valley and increase access to  the UC system, selected the Merced site in 1995 for the system's 10th  campus.

The first undergraduate class arrived in the fall of 2005, officially  marking the campus's opening. In 2009, UC Merced celebrated its first  full graduating class with First Lady Michelle Obama delivering the  commencement address. The University received its initial regional  accreditation from WSCUC in 2011, and in 2015, UC Merced is the  youngest university to earn national recognition for community  engagement with a Carnegie Research Classification.

UC Merced was the first public research university in the Nation to  reach verified operational carbon neutrality in 2018, and in 2020,  completed its ``UC Merced 2020 Project'' which was the largest social- infrastructure public-private partnership in U.S. higher education at  the time. This project doubled the campus footprint, adding new  classrooms, research labs, housing, student wellness facilities,  recreation and more. Eleven UC Merced 2020 project buildings earned  LEED platinum certifications.

The first-ever comprehensive campaign ``Boldly Forward'' in 2022  raised funds to support UC Merced's first medical education building to  support the new Bachelor of Science to Medical Doctorate pathway,  developed in partnership with UC San Francisco and UCSF-Fresno.

Two years later, the UC Board of Regents held their first-ever full  meeting at UC Merced, and UC Merced was accepted into NCAA Division II  to elevate and enhance intercollegiate athletics and the student  experience.

Today, UC Merced is the only university in California's Central  Valley to attain the Carnegie Classification R1: Very High Research  Activity, cementing its role as a driver of discovery, talent and  economic mobility. As the first American research university founding  in the 21st century, UC Merced continues to be a top-100 research  university and the fastest-growing public university in the Nation,  supporting high achieving and dedicated students from the underserved  Central Valley and throughout California.

Please join me in honoring UC Merced as it continues its journey  toward many more firsts.