Recognizing Jay Varney's Retirement


Mr. GRAY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Jay Varney, Madera  County's Chief Administrator, for his service and accomplishments as he  retires after four decades of public service.

Mr. Varney earned his Master of Science degree in Criminology from  Fresno State and his Bachelor of Science degree in Resource Development  from Michigan State University.

He went on to serve with the Dallas Police Department and the  Lansing, Michigan, Police Department before becoming Police Chief and  then City Administrator for the City of Chowchilla, California.

In 2014, Mr. Varney came to Madera and was elected to serve as the  Madera County Sheriff. In 2020, the Madera County Board of Supervisors  appointed Mr. Varney as County Administrative Officer, overseeing 25  county departments and a half-billion-dollar budget.

COVID hit almost as soon as he was hired, and Mr. Varney found  himself navigating Madera County through one of the most challenging  times in recent history. He played a vital role in helping Madera  County survive and thrive through COVID. Thanks to his hard work,  Madera County played an important part in the reopening of Madera  Community Hospital.

Under Mr. Varney's direction and guidance, Madera County has seen  significant growth in revenue, housing and business. Capital  improvements flourished under his watch with the Madera County Justice  Center as well as Fire Station No. 3 and the upgrading of Fire Station  No. 11 through a cooperative, grant-funded project with North Fork  Mono. He also oversaw Madera County's continuing expansion along  Highway 41 with the Riverstone and Tesoro Viejo developments.

Mr. Varney was instrumental in establishing the Sheriff's Foundation,  which has raised more than a half-million dollars. The Sheriffs  Foundation has secured vital search-and-rescue equipment like the  county's Cessna 172 aircraft, giving law enforcement a better view from  above, and the Screamer Seats first responders attach to helicopters,  which has already saved one stranded hiker's life. The Sheriffs  Foundation also helped create and build the county's K9 unit. Every dog  on the road in Madera County today has been provided by funding from  the Sheriffs Foundation.

Please join me in honoring Jay Varney for his dedication, commitment  and public service for more than 42 years to the people of Madera  County.