Recognizing First Responders in Laurel County, Kentucky


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692791/recognizing-first-responders-in-laurel-county-kentucky


Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  heroic efforts of first responders in London and Laurel County who  swiftly responded to rescue individuals after a deadly EF-4 tornado  ripped through our region, leaving behind a 55-mile trail of  destruction through three counties.

The violent storm took the lives of 19 individuals, 17 of whom were  in Laurel County. Had it not been for the rapid response and  coordination between police, fire, medical professionals, and good  Samaritans, the loss of life would undoubtedly be higher. Within 24  hours, every life had been accounted for, despite the mass destruction.  Heroic stories of rescues and make-shift tourniquets in the field have  flooded our news sources, giving our entire Commonwealth a renewed  sense of hope and confidence in those who serve and protect us here at  home. Every department responded, along with support from the Kentucky  National Guard and other emergency teams from across the state. Local  churches and schools were opened in the early hours after the storm to  give tornado survivors a safe place to shelter and recover. In the days  following the storm, law enforcement officers from every department  provided extra security for tornado survivors, holding ruthless looters  accountable, setting up posts at disaster recovery centers and securing  temporary housing locations with extra patrols.

The local first responders have gone above and beyond the call of  duty throughout the rescue and recovery efforts, providing additional  assistance to families in need of food, supplies, medicine and much  more. It has become much more than emergency operations in London,  Kentucky, this has been a mission of hope for a community that braved a  harrowing disaster.

I salute every first responder and unsung hero who bravely responded  to this disaster, including: London Police Department, Laurel County  Sheriffs Office, London Fire Department, London Public Works, London/ Laurel County Rescue Squad, Kentucky State Police Post 11, Bush  Volunteer Fire Department, Campground Volunteer Fire Department,  Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department, East Bernstadt Volunteer Fire  Department, Keavy Volunteer Fire Department, Laurel County Fire  Department, Lily Volunteer Department, McWhorter Volunteer Department,  West Knox Volunteer Fire Department, Bald Rock Volunteer Fire  Department, Laurel County Road Department, Kentucky Transportation  Cabinet District 11, Saint Joseph Hospital, Ambulance Inc. of Laurel  County, Laurel County Schools Police, London Laurel 911 Center, Phi Air  Medical Team and the AirEvac Medical Team.

The people of southern and eastern Kentucky have proven to be  resilient through every storm and I have the utmost confidence that we  will fully recover and rebuild once again.