Tribute in Memory of Tony Sloan


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689657/tribute-in-memory-of-tony-sloan


Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the memory  of Tony Sloan, a founding father of tourism and excellent marina  operations on Lake Cumberland in southern Kentucky, and on Dale Hollow  Lake in Tennessee.

Tony was baptized into lake life at an early age, working as a  teenager in 1952 at his father's dock, Grider Hill, one of the first  docks on the newly formed Lake Cumberland. After 60 years in the marina  business, the Sloan family sold Grider Hill Dock in 2007, however,  Tony's passion for Lake Cumberland was far from gone. While the sun set  on his family-owned marina, a new dream was soon born to bring a  historic plan to life for a new marina at Rowena.

Tony came to me with a vision--to bring world-class recreational  facilities to Lake Cumberland. After a decade of strategic planning and  investments, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers awarded a lease site for  Tony Sloan and his business partner, Tom Allen, to build a new  commercial marina on Lake Cumberland, the first in over 60 years. When  Marina at Rowena opened in 2017, Tony revived the storied life of  Rowena, a once-bustling community located along the banks of the  Cumberland River. In the early 1900's, the Steamboat Rowena transported  goods and people from Nashville, Tennessee to Burnside, Kentucky,  making routine stops at Rowena Landing. It is here that the Army Corps  reserved a site for future recreational development in their master  plan for Lake Cumberland in 1949. Thanks to Tony's vision for that  site, the Marina at Rowena is the premiere modern-day landing, bringing  the same hustle and bustle to the area that was seen a century before.  Today, you can read the stories of Rowena and a riverside homeowner's  daughter named Ena, who rowed people across the river in the 1800's,  inspiring the community's name. Tony was adamant about preserving  Rowena's story and bringing it back to life through photographs and a  timeline, now displayed along the walls of the new marina.

You could not find anyone more passionate about lake life than Tony  Sloan. He enjoyed inviting families and friends to the dock for a good  fish fry and ice cream, while watching folks water ski and jump waves  with tubes, cruisers and pontoons. Tony was proud to  host champion speedboats to race across our iconic waterway, showcasing  the lake's natural beauty for all, far and wide. In fact, he loved life  on the lake so much that he co-owned several other marinas, including  Conley Bottom Resort in Wayne County for many years, and Sunset Marina  and Resort on Dale Hollow Lake in Tennessee, which he took immense  pride in. At every marina location, he raised the bar for exceptional  management and operations, most recently earning the Army Corps' Clean  Marina Award in 2022 at Rowena. In my humble opinion, one would be  hard-pressed to find a better steward of Lake Cumberland than Tony  Sloan--a friend to all.

While the lake was Tony's lifeblood, it paled in comparison to his  adoration of his wife, Lola (Dyer) ``Bettye'' Sloan, with whom he  celebrated more than 60 years of marriage. To know Tony Sloan was to  love him. He was one of my closest friends and trusted advisors, a  loyal supporter, and one of the best storytellers of any fisherman I  have ever met. My wife Cynthia and I share our heartfelt condolences  with the entire Sloan family, Tony's longtime business partner Tom  Allen, and his countless lakeside friends.