Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. HUSTED. Mr. President, as we approach the March for Life, an  annual celebration of life held in cities across America, I want to  share what choosing life means to me and, for the many others who share  my similar story, what it means to them.

When my birth mother became pregnant with me, she faced an incredibly  difficult choice--a choice that I know thousands of women across our  Nation are facing even as I speak today. Her husband had passed away,  and she was already raising two young boys. After starting a new  relationship, she found herself pregnant with me. Money was tight. She  had little support. And she soon found herself being pressured to have  an abortion.

Over the years, I have reflected on just how tough and courageous  that decision must have been for her. I always try to think about what  it would have been like to have been in her shoes and how difficult  that must have been. Fortunately, she chose life and the path of  adoption for me, which was just an amazing blessing.

After a brief stay in foster care, I received the greatest blessing  of my life. I was adopted by my loving parents, Jim and Judy Husted.

I spoke with my mom and dad last night. My dad is amazing, and he is  about to turn 88 years old. He and my mom have always given me the gift  of unconditional love--the greatest gift any parent could give to their  child.

I share my story because I want women to know this: You are not  alone. Others have walked the road that you are on, if you find  yourself pregnant and without the support you need--you think you  need--to make it, and there is a grateful child, one day, who will,  hopefully, tell you that.

You don't have to walk that road by yourself. There is support out  there for you. In Ohio alone, women have access to nearly 200 pregnancy  help centers and maternity homes that serve expectant mothers. I have  visited many of them. They want you to go see them, if you are in need,  if you are scared, if you need someone to talk to. They are there to  help, not to pressure, not to judge but to provide love, care, and  support. Many of the women who staff these pregnancy resource centers  have faced the very same challenges that you are facing right now.

I know that my birth mother somehow found her way to Catholic Social  Services and had that support. I hope, if you are struggling and you  feel that aloneness out there, that you know there are people out there  who want to help and that you won't feel alone. I know being alone in a  tough situation is the worst thing that you could possibly feel, but  there are people out there who want to help you.

So, as we prepare for another March for Life this year, I hope we can  remember a few simple truths.

First, the March for Life reminds the country that this cause is  ever-present; that laws may change but that culture only changes when  people are willing to stand up publicly and peacefully for the cause of  life.

Second, unborn children cannot march. They cannot vote. They cannot  advocate for themselves. They rely on you to do that. So thank you for  continuing to be a voice for them.

And, third, the pro-life movement is not just about opposing  abortion. It is about supporting mothers, families, and children with  real help and real hope. The March for Life shines the national  spotlight on that lifesaving work that people at pregnancy resource  centers and places like that are doing across our country every single  day.

So, as I reflect on my own good fortune and the courageous strength  of my birth mother and the gratitude I have for my mom and dad, who  adopted me and gave me a great life--full of love, full of support--and  as we prepare for the March for Life, I hope that we will remember  those sacrifices, will remember the challenges, and do all we can to  support those expectant mothers and the children of our Nation.

Thank you for the opportunity to share my story, and may God bless  America.