Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Miles City Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''


Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, in the final days of President Biden's  administration, he quickly and quietly issued a rule that had massive  impacts on Montana's economy. This happened after the election. Biden's  BLM issued an amendment to the Miles City Resource Management Plan that  prohibited all new coal development in Eastern Montana. It shuts it  down. This means that the BLM prohibited all new coal leasing in the  Powder River Basin. By the way, that is the home of the largest coal  reserves in the United States.

They did this despite strong opposition from local counties in  Montana and local elected officials--in fact, the entire Montana  congressional delegation and the Governor of Montana himself, Greg  Gianforte. In fact, Governor Gianforte specifically requested that the  BLM Director withdraw that proposed amendment during the BLM's official  ``Governor's consistency review,'' and Biden's BLM ignored him. When  the Governor submitted an official appeal to Biden's BLM Director, our  Governor was rebuffed.

This lack of respect for Montana's local and statewide elected  officials cannot be ignored and will not be ignored, and it is going to  get changed and reversed today with the passage of this CRA.

Let's be clear as to what this resource management plan amendment is  and what we are doing today with this Congressional Review Act.

The RMPA is an attack on Montana jobs. It is an attack on Montana  communities. It is an attack on Montana's energy production. It is an  attack on Montana's economy. What today's resolution does is it rolls  back officially Biden's war on Montana coal, and it does not affect the  underlying resource management plan.

What we are doing today is we are disapproving Biden's ill-conceived  amendment and nothing else. This CRA does not prohibit the BLM from  issuing a new amendment. This CRA simply prohibits a new administration  from issuing a substantially similar coal amendment. In this case, that  means they can't permanently prohibit any new coal development.

Today, you may hear from the other side of the aisle that the sky is  falling. That is absolutely not true. What we are doing today is  righting a wrong--something the Biden administration slipped in after  the election.

We are grateful that we were paying attention, and we are going to  right this wrong--a midnight Biden rule that was issued without the  support from the State of Montana. Talk about Federal bureaucratic  overreach.

Taking this action this day, today, will lead to more Montana jobs,  more Montana energy, and, by the way, more Montana tax revenue to  support K-through-12 education and stronger communities in eastern  Montana.

I urge my colleagues to, again, like we did last night with the  procedural vote, support, with this final vote, Montana jobs, Montana  communities, and to vote yes on its passage.                            Vote on H.J. Res. 104