Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697811/disinterment-of-remains-of-fernando-v-cota-from-fort-sam-houston-national-cemetery-texas


Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I rise also today in full support of the  National Defense Authorization Act. This bill delivers exactly what  America has needed: bombs and bullets from America for America.

It also does something very important to me as chairman of the  Foreign Affairs Committee. It rebuilds American foreign policy.

What does it do on that front? The NDAA reauthorizes three parts of  the State Department's biggest branches: political affairs, management,  and public affairs.

Now, in the past, less than 15 percent of the State Department has  been authorized. This takes that number to about 40 percent, and we are  ready to do more work on that front as we move into the next year.

This NDAA also modernizes the Development Finance Corporation so that  America, not China, can set the pace for global investment. It expands  our loan program from $60 billion to $205 billion. That is a really big  deal to get America out there on the world stage.

Also, with this NDAA, as many know, we are repealing sanctions on  Syria that were placed there because of Bashar al-Assad and the torture  of his people. We are giving Syria a chance to chart a post-Assad  future. We do that while also holding the new government accountable  for its actions and giving the White House the flexibility that the  White House needs to reimpose sanctions if the President views it  necessary to do so.

Finally, as was mentioned already and very importantly, we are  scrapping the old 1991 and 2002 Iraq war authorizations. We are taking  the State Department from a place that was an unaccountable liberal  slush fund in many cases to a place that has true accountability, where  the dollars that go through that place will not simply be burned, which  is what was happening in the past. I thank everybody for their work to  create a better State Department.