Economic Espionage Prevention Act


Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1486) to impose sanctions with respect to economic or  industrial espionage by foreign adversarial companies, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1486

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Economic Espionage       Prevention Act''.       SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

Congress finds the following:

(1) On March 14, 2024, the Department of State notified       Congress of the following:

(A) People's Republic of China exports of semiconductors to       Russia have increased substantially since Russia's full-scale       invasion of Ukraine.

(B) In the second half of 2023, China exported between       $25,000,000 and $50,000,000 in additional semiconductors to       Russia every month relative to pre-invasion levels.

(C) During the same period, China also exported between       $50,000,000 and $100,000,000 in additional exports to Russia       every month to known transshipment hubs.

(D) These exports include both Chinese and United States-      branded semiconductors (integrated circuits), according to       analysis of commercially available trade data by the Bureau       of Industry and Security of the Department of Commerce, and       are almost certainly supporting Russia's military       capabilities based on Ukrainian analysis of recovered Russian       weapons.

(E) Because of the prevalence of United States       manufacturing equipment in global semiconductor supply       chains, nearly all chips produced worldwide, including in the       People's Republic of China, are subject to United States       export controls if destined for Russia or Belarus.

(F) All advanced semiconductors described on the Commerce       Control List have been subject to a license requirement if       destined to an entity in Russia since its further invasion of       Ukraine.

(2) On April 3, 2024, Deputy Secretary of State, Kurt       Campbell, said ``I think we have assessed, over the course of       the last couple of months that Russia has almost completely       reconstituted militarily. And after the initial setbacks on       the battlefield delivered to them by a brave and hearty group       in Ukraine, with the support of China in particular, dual use       capabilities and a variety of other efforts, industrial and       commercial, Russia has retooled and now poses a threat to       Ukraine . . . But not just to Ukraine, its new found       capabilities pose a longer term challenge to stability in       Europe and threatens NATO allies.''.       SEC. 3. REPORT.

(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in       coordination with the heads of relevant Federal departments       and agencies, as appropriate, shall submit to the appropriate       congressional committees, a written report that contains the       following:

(1) An analysis and description of the extent to which any       foreign person who is a citizen of the People's Republic of       China or an entity organized under the laws of the People's       Republic of China, or any foreign person or entity controlled       by or operating at the direction of the Government of the       People's Republic of China--

(A) is knowingly a material source of critical components       necessary for the manufacture of weapons, vehicles, and other       military equipment by the defense industrial base of the       Russian Federation;

(B) has knowingly delivered critical components to or       entered into any agreement relating to the sale or delivery       of critical components with any entity operating in the       defense or intelligence sectors of the Government of the       Russian Federation;

(C) has knowingly delivered critical components to or       entered into any agreement relating to the sale or delivery       of critical components with any country or entity with which       the defense or intelligence sectors of the Government of       Russian Federation are cooperating in support of Russia's war       against Ukraine; or

(D) has knowingly delivered critical components to or       entered into any agreement relating to the sale or delivery       of critical components with a foreign person that knowingly       and directly provides these components to the defense or       intelligence sectors of the Government of the Russian       Federation.

(2) The extent to which--

(A) any foreign person that is a citizen of the People's       Republic of China or an entity organized under the laws of       the People's Republic of China has knowingly engaged, on or       after the date of the enactment of this Act, in transactions       with a person that is part of, or operates on behalf of, the       defense or intelligence sectors of the Government of the       Russian Federation;

(B) any foreign person identified pursuant to subparagraph       (A) has engaged in transactions which would constitute a       significant transaction with persons that have been       sanctioned for being part of, or operating on behalf of, the       defense or intelligence sectors of the Government of the       Russian Federation; or

(C) any foreign person identified pursuant to subparagraph       (A) has been subjected to sanctions imposed pursuant to       sections 231 and 235 of the Countering America's Adversaries       Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9525 and 9529).

(b) Form and Availability.--

(1) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be       submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified       annex.

(2) Availability.--The unclassified portion of the report       required by subsection (a) may also be made available to the       public.       SEC. 4. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO ECONOMIC OR                     INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE BY FOREIGN ADVERSARY                     ENTITIES.

(a) In General.--On and after the date that is 30 days       after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President       (a) may impose the sanctions described in subsection (c)       against any of the foreign persons described in subsection       (b).

(b) Foreign Persons Described.--A foreign person is       described in this subsection if the President determines on       or after the date of the enactment of this Act that the       person is a foreign adversary entity that knowingly engages       in--

(1) economic or industrial espionage with respect to trade       secrets or proprietary information owned by United States       persons;

(2) the provision of material support or services to a       foreign adversaries' military, intelligence, or other       national security entities; or

(3) the violation of United States export control laws.

(c) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions that may be imposed       with respect to a foreign person under subsection (b) are the       following:

(1) Property blocking.--The exercise of all powers granted       to the President by the International Emergency Economic       Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent necessary       to block and prohibit all transactions in property and       interests in property of the foreign person if such property       and interests in property are in the United States, come       within the United States, or are or come within the       possession or control of a United States person.

(2) Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole.--

(A) Visas, admission, or parole.--An alien described in       subsection (b) is--

(i) inadmissible to the United States;

(ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other documentation to       enter the United States; and

(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into       the United States or to receive any other benefit under the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).

(B) Current visas revoked.--

(i) In general.--An alien described in subsection (b) is       subject to revocation of any visa or other entry       documentation regardless of when the visa or other entry       documentation is or was issued.

(ii) Immediate effect.--A revocation under clause (i) shall       take effect immediately and automatically cancel any other       valid visa or entry documentation that is in the alien's       possession.

(d) Exceptions.--

(1) Exception for intelligence activities.--Sanctions under       this section shall not apply to any activity subject to the       reporting requirements under title V of the National Security       Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) or any authorized       intelligence activities of the United States.

(2) Exception to comply with international obligations.--      Sanctions under subsection (c)(2) shall not apply with       respect to the admission of an alien if admitting or paroling       the alien into the United States is necessary to permit the       United States to comply with--

(A) the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United       Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered       into force November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and       the United States; or

(B) other applicable international obligations.

(3) Exception to carry out or assist law enforcement       activities.--Sanctions under subsection (c)(2) shall not       apply with respect to an alien if admitting or paroling the       alien into the United States is necessary to carry out or       assist law enforcement activity in the United States.

(e) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of       sanctions under this section with respect to a foreign person       for renewable periods of not more than 180 days each if the       President determines and submits to the appropriate       congressional committees a report that contains a       determination of the President that such a waiver is in the       national security interests of the United States.

(f) Implementation; Penalties.--

(1) Implementation.--The President may exercise the       authorities provided to the President under sections 203 and       205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50       U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to the extent necessary to carry out       this section.

(2) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to       violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of       subsection (a) or any regulation, license, or order issued to       carry out that subsection shall be subject to the penalties       set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the       International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705)       to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act       described in subsection (a) of that section.

(3) Procedures and guidelines for sanctions.--The President       shall establish procedures and guidelines for the       implementation and enforcement of sanctions imposed under       this section.

(4) Annual report.--

(A) Unless the exception in subparagraph (B) applies, not       later than one year after the date of the enactment of this       Act, and for each of the 5 years thereafter, the President       shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a       report on any notable developments regarding economic or       industrial espionage activities by foreign persons.

(B) The President shall not be required to submit the       annual report described by subparagraph (A) if the President       has imposed sanctions as authorized under this section within       the previous calendar year.

(g) Rule of Construction.--For purposes of this section, a       transaction shall not be construed to include participation       in an international standards-setting body or the activities       of such a body.       SEC. 5. IMPORTATION OF GOODS EXCEPTION.

(a) In General.--The authorities and requirements to impose       sanctions under this Act shall not include the authority or a       requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.

(b) Good Defined.--In this section, the term ``good'' means       any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply,       or manufactured product, including inspection and test       equipment, and excluding technical data.       SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term       ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--

(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of       Representatives; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.

(2) Economic or industrial espionage.--The term ``economic       or industrial espionage'' has the meaning given that term in       section 1637(d) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck''       McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year       2015.

(3) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means any       person that is not a United States person.

(4) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to       conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has       actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the       circumstance, or the result.

(5) Own, proprietary information, and trade secret.--The       terms ``own'', ``proprietary information'', and ``trade       secret'' have the meanings given those terms in section       1637(d) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon       National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (50       U.S.C. 1708(d)).

(6) Person.--The term ``person'' means an individual or       entity.

(7) United states person.--The term ``United States       person'' means--

(A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted       for permanent residence to the United States; or

(B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States       or any jurisdiction within the United States, including a       foreign branch of such an entity.

(8) Foreign adversary.--The term ``foreign adversary''       means the countries listed in section 7.4 of title 15, Code       of Federal Regulations.

Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support for H.R. 1486, the Economic  Espionage Prevention Act, introduced by my colleague from Georgia (Mr.  McCormick).

The Chinese Communist Party is working to undermine America's  interests around the world and is the global supplier of America's  adversaries.

As President Trump and his administration are working tirelessly to  finally bring an end to the war in Ukraine, the CCP continues to stoke  global chaos by providing massive amounts of industrial and economic  support to Russia.

In fact, our State Department assessed that in the second half of  2023 alone, China supported the transfer of nearly $300 million worth  of semiconductors to Russia, including for use in missiles and drones.

The CCP's actions are blatant violations of U.S. export controls and  detrimental to our ongoing peace efforts. China's economic and  industrial support for Russia is a critical lifeline for the Russian  military.

This is why it is critical that Congress pass the Economic Espionage  Prevention Act. This bill would provide important sanction authorities  for cutting off the CCP's illegal and industrial supply chains to  America's adversaries. Enhancing U.S. export control enforcement with  economic sanctions will help shut down China's massive support for  Russia's defense industrial base.

This bill also enhances Congress' visibility into this illicit supply  chain by requiring the State Department to issue a report identifying  these individuals and entities that are supporting the Russian defense  industrial base.

The CCP is relentlessly undermining President Trump's efforts to  bring an end to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The Chinese companies  illegally supplying Russia in violation of U.S. export controls must be  subjected to the full weight of our sanctions regime. The bill ensures  that the CCP and the world understand that supplying America's  adversaries comes with a very severe cost.

House of Representatives,                                      Committee on the Judiciary,                                        Washington, DC, May 1, 2025.      Hon. Brian Mast,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Mast: I write regarding H.R. 1486, the       Economic Espionage Prevention Act. Provisions of this bill       fall within the Judiciary Committee's Rule X jurisdiction,       and I appreciate that you consulted with us on those       provisions. The Judiciary Committee agrees that it shall be       discharged from further consideration of the bill so that it       may proceed expeditiously to the House floor.

The Committee takes this action with the understanding that       forgoing further consideration of this measure does not in       any way alter the Committee's jurisdiction or waive any       future jurisdictional claim over these provisions or their       subject matter. We also reserve the right to seek appointment       of an appropriate number of conferees in the event of a       conference with the Senate involving this measure or similar       legislation.

I ask that you please insert this letter in the       Congressional Record during consideration of H.R. 1486 on the       House floor. I appreciate the cooperative manner in which our       committees have worked on this matter, and I look forward to       working collaboratively in       the future on matters of shared jurisdiction. Thank you for       your attention to this matter.            Sincerely,                                                        Jim Jordan,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                    Committee on Foreign Affairs,                                        Washington, DC, May 1, 2025.      Hon. Jim Jordan,      Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Jordan: Thank you for consulting with the       Committee on Foreign Affairs and agreeing to be discharged       from further consideration of H.R. 1486, the Economic       Espionage Prevention Act, so that the measure may proceed       expeditiously to the House floor.

I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure       does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of       your committee or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives       on this measure or similar legislation in the future. I would       support your effort to seek appointments of any appropriate       number of conferees from your committee to any House-Senate       conference of this legislation.

I will submit the exchange of letters to be published in       the Congressional Record. I appreciate your cooperation       regarding this legislation and look forward to continuing to       work together on matters of shared jurisdiction during this       Congress.            Sincerely,                                                     Brian J. Mast,                            Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs.

Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  Georgia (Mr. McCormick), the sponsor of this legislation.

Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, in closing, I again thank Representative McCormick for  his bill, as well as Select Committee on the CCP Chairman Moolenaar and  Representatives Baumgartner and Lawler for their work to bring this  bill to the floor to ensure that we finally end China's support for  Russia's defense industrial base.

It is a great piece of legislation, and I urge all Members to support  H.R. 1486.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.