Falun Gong Protection Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690648/falun-gong-protection-act


Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1540) to provide for the imposition of sanctions with  respect to forced organ harvesting within the People's Republic of  China, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1540

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Falun Gong Protection Act''.       SEC. 2. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

It is the policy of the United States to--

(1) avoid any cooperation with the PRC in the organ       transplantation field while the Chinese Communist Party       remains in power;

(2) take appropriate measures, including using relevant       sanctions authorities, to coerce the Chinese Communist Party       to end any state-sponsored organ harvesting campaign; and

(3) work with allies, partners, and multilateral       institutions to highlight China's persecution of Falun Gong       and coordinate closely with the international community on       targeted sanctions and visa restrictions.       SEC. 3. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FORCED ORGAN                     HARVESTING WITHIN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF                     CHINA.

(a) Imposition of Sanctions.--The President shall impose       the sanctions described in subsection (c) with respect to       each foreign person included in the most recent list       submitted pursuant to subsection (b).

(b) List of Persons.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the       appropriate congressional committees a list of foreign       persons who the President determines to have knowingly and       directly engaged in or facilitated the involuntary harvesting       of organs within the People's Republic of China.

(2) Updates of lists.--The President shall submit to the       appropriate congressional committees an updated list under       paragraph (1)--

(A) as new information becomes available;

(B) not later than one year after the date of the enactment       of this Act; and

(C) annually thereafter until the date of termination under       subsection (h).

(3) Form.--The list required by paragraph (1) shall be       submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified       annex.

(c) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this       subsection are the following:

(1) Blocking of property.--The President shall exercise all       of the powers granted to the President by the International       Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)       (except that the requirements of section 202 of such Act (50       U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply) to the extent necessary to       block and prohibit all transactions in property and interests       in property of the person if such property and interests in       property are in the United States, come within the United       States, or are or come within the possession or control of a       United States person.

(2) Inadmissibility of certain individuals.--

(A) Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole.--A       foreign person included in the most recent list submitted       pursuant to subsection (b) is--

(i) inadmissible to the United States;

(ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other documentation to       enter the United States; and

(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into       the United States or to receive any other benefit under the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).

(B) Current visas revoked.--A foreign person described in       subparagraph (A) is also subject to the following:

(i) Revocation of any visa or other entry documentation       regardless of when the visa or other entry documentation is       or was issued.

(ii) A revocation under clause (i) shall take effect       immediately and automatically cancel any other valid visa or       entry documentation that is in the foreign person's       possession.

(3) Exception.--Sanctions under paragraph (2) shall not       apply to an alien if admitting or paroling the alien into the       United States is necessary to permit the United States to       comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the       United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and       entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United       Nations and the United States, or other applicable       international obligations of the United States.

(d) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in subsections       (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency       Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person       who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or       causes a violation of regulations promulgated to carry out       subsection (a) to the same extent that such penalties apply       to a person who commits an unlawful act described in section       206(a) of that Act.

(e) Exception To Comply With National Security.--The       following activities shall be exempt from sanctions under       this section:

(1) Activities subject to the reporting requirements under       title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091       et seq.).

(2) Any authorized intelligence or law enforcement       activities of the United States.

(f) Exception Relating to Provision of Humanitarian       Assistance.--Sanctions under this section may not be imposed       with respect to transactions or the facilitation of       transactions for--

(1) the sale of agricultural commodities, food, or       medicine;

(2) the provision of vital humanitarian assistance;

(3) financial transactions relating to humanitarian       assistance or for humanitarian purposes; or

(4) transporting goods or services that are necessary to       carry out operations relating to humanitarian assistance or       humanitarian purposes.

(g) Waiver Authority.--

(1) Waiver.--The President may, on a case by case basis,       waive the imposition of any sanction under this section if       the President determines such waiver is in the vital national       security interest of the United States.

(2) Reports.--Not later than 120 days after the date on       which the President submits the list under subsection (b),       and every 120 days thereafter until the date of termination       under subsection (h), the President shall submit to the       appropriate congressional committees a report on the extent       to which the President has used the waiver authority under       paragraph (1) during the period covered by that report.

(h) Sunset.--The authority to impose sanctions under this       section shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after the       date of the enactment of this Act.       SEC. 4. REPORT.

(a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in       consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services       and the Director of the National Institutes of Health, shall       submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report       on the organ transplant policies and practices of the       People's Republic of China.

(b) Matters To Be Included.--The report required under       subsection (a) shall include--

(1) a summary of de jure and de facto policies toward organ       transplantation in the PRC, including with respect to       prisoners of conscience (including Falun Gong) and other       prisoners;

(2)(A) the number of organ transplants that are known to       occur or are estimated to occur on an annual basis in the       PRC;

(B) the number of known or estimated voluntary organ donors       in the PRC;

(C) an assessment of the sources of organs for transplant       in the PRC; and

(D) an assessment of the time, in days, that it takes to       procure an organ for transplant within the Chinese medical       system and an assessment of whether such timetable is       possible based on the number of known or estimated organ       donors in the PRC;

(3) a list of all United States grants over the past ten       years that have supported research on organ transplantation       in the PRC or in collaboration between a Chinese and a United       States entity; and

(4) a determination as to whether the persecution of Falun       Gong practitioners within the People's Republic of China       constitutes an ``atrocity'' (as such term is defined in       section 6 of the Elie Wiesel Genocide and Atrocities       Prevention Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-441; 22 U.S.C. 2656       note)).

(c) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall       be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a       classified annex.       SEC. 5. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS.

(a) In General.--The authorities and requirements to impose       sanctions authorized under this Act shall not include the       authority or requirement to impose sanctions on the       importation of goods.

(b) Good Defined.--In this section, the term ``good'' means       any article, natural or man-made substance, material, supply       or manufactured product, including inspection and test       equipment, and excluding technical data.       SEC. 6. APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES DEFINED.

In this Act, the term ``appropriate congressional       committees'' means--

(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of       Representatives; and

(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.

Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1540, Mr. Perry's  Falun Gong Protection Act.

For decades, the House of Representatives has been raising alarms  about organ harvesting perpetrated by the Chinese Communist Party. We  spoke about it earlier.

As United Nations human rights experts stated in 2021: ``Forced organ  harvesting in China appears to be targeting specific ethnic,  linguistic, or religious minorities held in detention, often without  being [informed of] the reasons for their arrest or provided arrest  warrants.''

Among those most frequently reported as targets are Falun Gong  practitioners and Uyghur Muslims in the Xinjiang Province. These  detainees, often imprisoned for their beliefs, are subjected to medical  procedures that other prisoners are not: blood draws, organ  examinations, and ultrasound scans. These are not for their health.  These results are then entered into a database, turning them into a  human inventory for a state-run organ harvesting system.

This is barbaric. These crimes, these abuses by the Chinese Communist  Party, must end. I think we can all agree that they have to come to an  end.

The legislation before us today, the Falun Gong Protection Act, takes  long-overdue action to confront this horror. It directs the U.S.  Government to identify and publicly name individuals and entities  involved in forced organ harvesting in China. It imposes targeted  sanctions under the Global Magnitsky Act, including visa bans and asset  freezes, against those responsible. It strengthens reporting  requirements for the State Department, ensuring that U.S. foreign  policy fully accounts for the scope of organ trafficking abuses.

Madam Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.                                           House of Representatives,                                      Committee on the Judiciary,                                        Washington, DC, May 1, 2025.      Hon. Brian Mast,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Mast: I write regarding H.R. 1540, the Falun       Gong Protection Act. Provisions of this bill fall within the       Judiciary Committee's Rule X jurisdiction, and I appreciate       that you consulted with us on those provisions. The Judiciary       Committee agrees that it shall be discharged from further       consideration of the bill so that it may proceed       expeditiously to the House floor.

The Committee takes this action with the understanding that       forgoing further consideration of this measure does not in       any way alter the Committee's jurisdiction or waive any       future jurisdictional claim over these provisions or their       subject matter. We also reserve the right to seek appointment       of an appropriate number of conferees in the event of a       conference with the Senate involving this measure or similar       legislation.

I ask that you please insert this letter in the       Congressional Record during consideration of H.R. 1540 on the       House floor. I appreciate the cooperative manner in which our       committees have worked on this matter, and I look forward to       working collaboratively in the future on matters of shared       jurisdiction. Thank you for your attention to this matter.            Sincerely,                                                        Jim Jordan,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                    Committee on Foreign Affairs,                                        Washington, DC, May 1, 2025.      Hon. Jim Jordan,      Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Jordan: Thank you for consulting with the       Committee on Foreign Affairs and agreeing to be discharged       from further consideration of H.R. 1540, the Falun Gong       Protection Act, so that the measure may proceed expeditiously       to the House floor.

I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure       does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of       your committee or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives       on this measure or similar legislation in the future. I would       support your effort to seek appointments of any appropriate       number of conferees from your committee to any House-Senate       conference of this legislation.

I will submit the exchange of letters to be published in       the Congressional Record. I appreciate your cooperation       regarding this legislation and look forward to continuing to       work together on matters of shared jurisdiction during this       Congress.            Sincerely,                                                     Brian J. Mast,                            Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs.

Mr. Speaker, this bill signals that the United States will not  tolerate the use of state violence to extract profit from the bodies of  the persecuted.

I thank my friend, the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Perry), along  with his bipartisan cosponsors for their leadership on this critical  human rights issue.

Mr. Speaker, I urge strong support of this legislation, and I yield  back the balance of my time.