Medal of Sacrifice Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699504/medal-of-sacrifice-act-of-2025


Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I sincerely thank my colleagues on both sides  of the aisle for their work on this piece of legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, H.R. 3497, the Medal  of Sacrifice Act. Its purpose is singular. It is of the highest  importance to honor fallen law enforcement officers and first  responders.

This bill, this medal, came to be in this way on November 21, 2024,  because my community lost three Palm Beach County Sheriff's deputies in  one moment: Deputy Ralph ``Butch'' Waller, Deputy Ignacio ``Dan'' Diaz,  and Deputy Luis Paez. They were three motorcycle officers, all killed.

At their memorial service to honor them, President Trump, myself, and  a few of our friends, Eric and Dan, we were having a conversation that  there is no medal which is awarded posthumously to law enforcement  officers and first responders killed in the line of duty directly from  the Office of President and on behalf of a grateful nation. Out of this  horrific tragedy, the medal of sacrifice was born.

Six months later, I had the profound honor of standing alongside  President Trump in the Oval Office as he presented the first medals of  sacrifice to the families of those three fallen Palm Beach County  Sheriff's Deputies that were lost on that day, three lions of our  community.

These men gave their lives in service each and every day. In the end,  they gave the last breath in their lungs and the last beat of their  heart as so many of our law enforcement and first responders across our  country do each year.

There is not a recognition that can ever bring them back. There is  not an award that could ever repay their sacrifice. What we can do is  ensure that their courage and their service and their legacies are  recognized by the highest office of our land, the Office of President.

The medal of sacrifice will ensure that when a family member, a  spouse, a son, a daughter, or a department, that when they reflect on  the end of watch for their friend or their hero or their loved one,  they will know that it is the whole of America that remembers with  them.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to send a clear message to the  families who have given so much, suspend the rules, and pass the Medal  of Sacrifice Act.