Reaffirming Iran Remains the Largest State Sponsor of Terrorism


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700433/reaffirming-iran-remains-the-largest-state-sponsor-of-terrorism


Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  resolution (H. Res. 1099) reaffirming Iran remains the largest state  sponsor of terrorism.

The Clerk read the title of the resolution.

The text of the resolution is as follows:                                H. Res. 1099

Whereas the Islamic Republic of Iran remains the world's       largest state sponsor of terrorism and provides substantial       financial and military support to groups including Hezbollah,       Hamas, and the Houthis;

Whereas the Islamic Republic of Iran poses a direct and       persistent threat to the United States and is responsible for       the deaths of hundreds of American citizens;

Whereas, according to the Pentagon, Iranian backed proxy       militias are responsible for the deaths of at least 603       United States servicemembers in Iraq, roughly 1 in every 6       American combat fatalities in Iraq from 2003 through 2011;

Whereas the Iranian regime is responsible for executing       dozens of assassination plots targeting American citizens and       serving government officials on United States soil;

Whereas Tehran continues to harbor a network of senior al-      Qaeda leaders, providing them with sanctuary space to       fundraise in support of its fighters;

Whereas, in January 2024, United States servicemembers,       Sergeant William Jerome Rivers, Specialist Kennedy Ladon       Sanders, and Specialist Breonna Alexsondria Moffett were       killed in an Iranian backed proxy attack on Tower 22 in       Jordan;

Whereas the regime's refusal to abandon its nuclear program       and related missile and conventional weapons activities       further resulted in the reimposition of 6 United Nations       Security Council Resolutions targeting the Iranian regime in       September 2025; and

Whereas, according to the Director General of the       International Atomic Energy Agency, Rafael Grossi, Iran has       amassed a large stockpile of enriched uranium and continues       to block access to undeclared sites in Iran affiliated with       their ``big, ambitious nuclear program'': Now, therefore, be       it

Resolved, That the House of Representatives declares it is       the policy of the United States that Iran continues to be the       largest state sponsor of terrorism.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution is very simple. It is reaffirming that  Iran remains the largest state sponsor of terrorism.

Why is Iran the largest state sponsor of terrorism? Why is that  something that is said? Why must we reaffirm this?

It is because they have spent the last 47 years targeting and  attacking the United States of America every single chance that they  have.

In April of 2025, Houthi terrorists attacked the USS Harry Truman,  causing a U.S. fighter jet to sink into the ocean.

In June of 2025, Iran-backed militias attacked at least three U.S.  bases in Syria and two bases in Iraq.

In January of 2024, Iran-backed Hezbollah terrorists killed three  U.S. servicemembers and wounded more than 40 more in a drone attack  against tower 22 at a military base in Jordan.

Before that, Iran-backed militias wounded three U.S. servicemembers  in an attack at Erbil Air Base in Iraq.

Before that, Iran-backed Hamas terrorists killed 46 Americans and  kidnapped at least 12 Americans in the October 7 massacre.

Just prior to that, President Biden unfroze $6 billion of Iranian  assets. That doesn't make them the largest state sponsor of terrorism,  but I just thought it is an interesting point to put into the timeline.

Before that, an Iranian drone attack killed an American contractor  and wounded five U.S. servicemembers and another contractor in a drone  strike on a coalition base in Syria.

Before that, an IRGC captain orchestrated the killing of an American  citizen in Baghdad.

Before that, an Iranian rocket attack killed an American citizen in  Iraqi Kurdistan.

Before that, Iran-backed militias wounded two U.S. servicemembers in  a series of rocket and drone attacks against U.S. Forces in Iraq and  Syria.

Before that, an Iran-backed militia fired a rocket at coalition  forces in Erbil, Iraq, wounding a U.S. servicemember and four U.S.  civilian contractors.

Before that, Iran-backed Hezbollah terrorists killed an American  civilian contractor and wounded several U.S. servicemembers in a rocket  attack at K-1 Air Base, Kirkuk, Iraq.

Before that, Iran held 10 U.S. Navy sailors at gunpoint, on their  knees, on the deck of an Iranian boat.

Before that, Iran-backed Hamas terrorists killed an American citizen  and his wife in a drive-by shooting.

Before that, Iran-backed Hamas terrorists killed two American  citizens serving in the IDF.

The list goes on and on, Mr. Speaker, pages and pages of Iran killing  Americans.

I thank my colleague across the aisle for the agreement that we have  on this. To quote my colleague just now: There is no dispute that Iran  remains the largest state sponsor of terror.

He may not expect me to agree on this, but I would also agree with  him on this point: There is absolutely nothing that this resolution is  going to do to protect any American or any American servicemember, nor  any previous piece of paper, strongly worded letter, or anything else  that this body has done that has been successful in protecting America  from the largest state sponsor of terror. It is only two actions:  number one, President Trump putting Qasem Soleimani into about five  separate pieces on the side of an Iraqi tarmac; and, number two, the  actions that President Trump has taken in this operation to destroy  every single piece of Iranian military hardware that can reach out and  touch an American or has reached out and touched an American. Those are  the only two things that will protect America from this imminent,  ongoing, and undisputed threat.

Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Brian  Mast for yielding me time. I am grateful to support the resolution of  Chairman Brian Mast.

Mr. Speaker, over the weekend, the world watched President Donald  Trump take courageous action against the murderous regime in Tehran;  eliminating Khamenei with senior Iranian regime leaders, the architect  of decades of terror, repression, and aggression, killing thousands of  Americans and allies over the years. The removal of this brutal  dictator marks a pivotal moment in the long struggle against a regime  that has destabilized the Middle East and threatened global security  for more than four decades, repressing the great people of Iran.

Additionally, with the removal of the Syrian dictator Assad, who has  fled to Moscow, appropriately, to be with war criminal Putin, we now  have a new government in Syria with Ahmed al-Sharaa. With that  government, President Donald Trump is leading a bipartisan effort to  give Syria a chance and give the Middle East a chance for peace and  prosperity. Again, it is bipartisan, working together.

My appreciation of the courageous decision by President Donald Trump  to remove the dictatorship in Tehran is personal. I have four sons who  have served overseas facing the Iranian IEDs, drones, snipers, and  missile attacks. Alan served in Iraq field artillery with cross-country  convoys, receiving a Combat Action Badge. Add was a Navy doctor in  Bagdad. Julian was a signal officer in Egypt with Bright Star, and  Hunter served as an engineer for a year in Afghanistan.

The American people have never forgotten the crimes of the Iranian  regime. From the 1979 seizure of the embassy in Tehran and the  disgusting hostage crisis that led to 52 Americans being captive for  444 days, freed by President Ronald Reagan, to decades of sponsoring  terrorism through puppets such as Hezbollah, Hamas, and Houthis,  Iranian leadership has consistently chosen mass murder over peace and  prosperity.

President Trump is sending a clear message that those who threaten  the United States, our partners, and allies will ultimately be held  accountable even after 47 years.

While this operation marks a historic strategic victory, it also  comes at a solemn cost. Six brave American servicemembers have lost  their lives, with many wounded. We mourn their sacrifice. These men and  women stood on the front lines of freedom to destroy the Iranian  missile threat, sinking the Iranian navy, and by permanently ending the  Iranian nuclear capability.

As the Iranian people look to the future, the American people will  stand with the Iranian people for freedom, peace, and prosperity.

Today, we honor the courage of our troops, reaffirm our commitment to  our allies, and recognize the leadership of President Donald Trump in  confronting a maniacal regime. America remains vigilant, resolute, and  committed to defending freedom wherever it is threatened.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, it is Florida day. I yield an additional 3  minutes to the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Fine).

Mr. Speaker, I am going to respond to some of these comments as well.  My colleague has said things that we agree on: Iran is a bad actor, and  Iran is a state sponsor of terror. He said that there is no dispute  about these things.

My colleague has also said that he will vote for the upcoming War  Powers Resolution. There is not a resolution that is coming before us  that gives the President any authority or authorizes the military to  defend the United States of America in any way, shape, or form against  that threat that there is no dispute about, that bad actor, as it was  characterized, that state sponsor of terror that everybody agrees on.

There is no War Powers Resolution coming that says: Go out there, and  under these parameters, defend the United States of America.

President Trump is utilizing his Article II authority, his  constitutional Article II authority, to defend the United States of  America against that imminent threat that we agree upon.

What my colleagues ask is that the President do nothing to defend the  United States of America.

My colleague talked about this resolution that outlines all of these  historical actions and that we affirm Iran is the largest state sponsor  of terror. It does nothing. He acknowledges he has voted on resolutions  just like that many times. That is true. Nothing has happened until we  have President Trump willing to utilize his Article II authority to  defend the United States of America against an imminent threat.

Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of this resolution affirming that Iran is  the largest state sponsor of terror. Apparently, many of our colleagues  have forgotten that they have voted on that, have forgotten that that  is the case, have forgotten that that is the enemy that comes against  us, and have forgotten that they pose that imminent threat against us  every single day utilizing every single opportunity that they can to  attack Americans.

I will close with this, Mr. Speaker: I thank President Trump for the  first time avenging every single American who has been killed by the  hand of Iran. That was not the purpose of this operation, but it is the  purpose of my personal thanks.

Thank you, President Trump, for avenging every servicemember who was  killed by the hand of Iran, every contractor, every civilian who has  been harmed throughout the Middle East, and every person wrongfully  detained.

For every single person killed by that hand of Iran, I thank you,  President Trump, for finally stepping up and defending the United  States of America.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.