Removal of the Use of United States Forces for Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela


Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to the order of the House of January  21, 2026, I call up the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 68) to  direct the removal of United States Armed Forces from Venezuela that  have not been authorized by Congress, and ask for its immediate  consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the concurrent resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to say this twice, once for each of my  colleagues over here managing, Representative Meeks and Representative  McGovern: There are no troops in Venezuela.

Let me say it one more time for you all: There are no troops in  Venezuela.

Mr. Speaker, neither of my colleagues bothered to say anything about  what their bill they are bringing forward actually does. They didn't  say a word about it. Let's quote their own bill for them, since they  clearly don't want to talk about it.

They want to ``remove U.S. Forces from hostilities in Venezuela.''  That is what the bill says. Anybody can go and read it, black ink,  white paper. Let's get straight to the point.

The U.S. is not at war with Venezuela. I know they all predicted  there was going to be some forever protracted war, but we were never at  war with Venezuela. There are no boots on the ground. Democrats are  asking us to vote on a resolution about a situation that literally does  not exist.

We do not have anybody there in Venezuela fighting. There are no  tanks on the ground in Caracas. There are no snipers in the tree line.  It doesn't exist. Again, we are not at war.

Maybe they are conferring about that right now. Let me confer with my  colleagues a minute.

Are we at war?

I confirmed with my staff we are not at war.

Are there any troops on the ground?

I confirmed with my staff also there are no troops on the ground.

Mr. Speaker, they should confer with their staff. I see them doing  that.

Their Senate Democrat colleagues tried to bring this exact same  resolution to the floor of the Senate, but even the Senate was smart  enough to pull it because they didn't want to be embarrassed. Let's say  it again. We are not at war.

Most of the Democrats predicted that we were going to be in some  forever war. Which, again, by the way, they said after the strike  hitting the Iranian nuclear facilities, their nuclear infrastructure,  they all said we were going to be in a forever war. We weren't.

Then they said the same thing years ago when President Trump killed  Qasem Soleimani. We were going to be in this forever protracted war.  Guess what. We weren't. We haven't been, not for one moment since then.

My Democratic colleagues are batting zero in predicting forever wars.  Operation Absolute Resolve was a law enforcement action to bring  Nicolas Maduro, an indicted narcoterrorist with a $50 million bounty,  to justice. President Trump finished the job.

Thank you, President Trump, for finishing the job.

It was literally over before breakfast. I have been in war. I can  tell you that an operation that is over before breakfast is not a war.

The Department of War--let me say this again--is not engaged in any  hostilities within the Venezuelan territory or with the Venezuelan  military. They are not in tank battles. There are no tactical  operations centers there. There are no convoys. There are no U.S. mess  halls over there. There are no field hospitals. There are no trenches  with infantry soldiers shooting at each other. We were not even there  long enough for soldiers to heat up an MRE.

That is what we eat in the field in the military, guys.

Yet, just to give you a level of peace of mind because you are  curious about this, Secretary Rubio confirmed in his letter last week  that no U.S. Armed Forces are in Venezuela. He also confirmed that,  should there be any military operations that would put our forces into  hostilities with Venezuela, that the administration will provide the  appropriate notifications to Congress; he literally said this in his  letter.

What is this really about, this resolution that you all refused to  even say a word about in your opening statements? It is about spite. It  is about the fact that you don't want President Trump to arrest Maduro,  and you will condemn him no matter what he does, even though he brought  Maduro to justice with possibly the most successful law enforcement  operation in history.

Your hypocrisy is clear, as you chant and you lead your no kings  protests, but when it comes to taking down a dictator, you crawl into a  corner. You curl up, and you start to cry about it.

This is about your base having protests to free Maduro. This is about  appeasing your far-left friends. Now, whether my colleagues want to  admit it or not, the world is a safer place because President Trump had  the backbone and the stones to do what nobody else would: bring Nicolas  Maduro to justice.

Let me say this as affirmatively as possible: If anybody votes  ``yes'' on this War Powers Resolution that my colleagues didn't want to  describe, they are stupid. Because, again, there is nobody at war and  there are no forces in hostilities in Venezuela. It would be like them  calling me today to take a pie out of the oven that we all ate a month  ago.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, before I yield to my friend, I will say that  this will probably be the only apology that they will get out of me  today: I apologize for talking about the resolution and the text of the  resolution that they still refuse to talk about. They are not willing  to do that.

Mr. Speaker, there it was again, a forever war. President Trump has  never brought America into a forever war. Any operation he has  conducted is pretty much done before breakfast, just like Venezuela.

I think my Democrat colleagues can't wrap their heads around that  something can be about more than one thing at a time. It can be about  Maduro and his lawlessness. It can be about drugs. It can be about the  people of Venezuela. It can also be about making sure sanctioned oil  doesn't flow around the globe. It can be about more than one thing.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, again, my Democrat colleagues are not speaking  about the words of the resolution, the basic grammar. It says: Remove  forces from hostilities. There are no forces in Venezuela. They can't  just make up words. I know they like to do that. They like to say  plural pronouns can be used on one person and things like that, but  they can't just make up grammar. Write the bill right if you want to do  it.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, it is always a laughable argument when  Democrats try to say the President is enriching himself.

Just as one example, in this case you don't see him collecting a $50  million bounty for bringing in Nicolas Maduro, a bounty that the  previous administration agreed with, because he is never in it for the  money. He is in it for America every single time.

I would encourage them to talk to their colleague, Ms. Wasserman  Schultz, and ask her if things are better or worse for Venezuelans  today than they were under Maduro.

Mr. MAST. My colleague is still not talking about the six lines of  the resolution that says to remove forces from Venezuela. They are not  talking about it because there are no forces in Venezuela.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I remind my colleague that President Trump has  yet to start any war in either administration. His fight every day is  protect the American homeland, protect the people of the United States  of America, and he has done a damn good job.

Mr. MAST. The President never explained it to me. Maybe he was just  trying to make room for Maduro and his wife.

Let me answer some of the questions that my colleagues put up.

Why did President Trump take Maduro? It was to protect the homeland  of the United States of America, as he has done with action after  action after action. It is the same reason that two Presidents put a  warrant, a bounty, on Nicolas Maduro--not just President Trump, but  also President Biden. That is why Nicolas Maduro was snatched up,  because of his poisoning of the people of the United States of America.

Again, something can be true and also be true about another action  and another action and another action. It was because of the bounty. It  was because of the warrant. It was because of the drugs that he was  bringing to the United States of America. It was because of his  partnership with China, Iran, and Russia, to be their foothold in the  Western Hemisphere for their nefarious activities. It was because of  the illegal shipments of oil that they were moving on Russian ships to  China that were coming out of Venezuela. It was because of a lot of  things that this took place.

Does the President have a plan for the future? He does, 100 percent:  free and fair elections, freedom for the people of Venezuela. Ask the  people of Venezuela if that is what they want. Ask the people of  Venezuela if they are better today than they were before  President Trump snatched up Maduro. They will tell you they are. They  are more free today, and they are hoping for more and more freedom each  and every day.

President Trump has brought hope to our homeland by protecting this  homeland that has been ignored for so long. He has brought hope to so  many others around the globe, the people of Venezuela, people across  the Middle East, people across Europe, people in place after place  because of his actions.

He is the peace President. He has proven it over and over again. He  has never been the President of forever wars. He has yet to create one.  He has only worked in limited operations that protect the homeland of  the United States of America and done the best job of it in the history  of the United States of America.