Solidify Iran Sanctions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690688/solidify-iran-sanctions-act-of-2025


Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1800) to repeal the sunset provision of the Iran Sanctions Act of  1996, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1800

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Solidify Iran Sanctions Act       of 2025''.       SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

Congress makes the following findings:

(1) The Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50       U.S.C. 1701 note) requires the imposition of sanctions with       respect to Iran's illicit weapons programs, conventional       weapons and ballistic missile development, and support for       terrorism, including Iran's Revolutionary Guards Corps.

(2) The Government of Iran has acquired destabilizing       conventional weapons systems from the Russian Federation and       other malign actors, and is funneling weapons and financial       support to its terrorist proxies throughout the Middle East,       threatening allies and partners of the United States, such as       Israel.       SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

It is the policy of the United States to fully implement       and enforce the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-      172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).       SEC. 4. REPEAL OF SUNSET.

Section 13 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law       104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended--

(1) in the section heading, by striking ``; sunset'';

(2) by striking ``(a) Effective Date.--''; and

(3) by striking subsection (b).

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1800, the Solidify Iran  Sanctions Act of 2025.

The Iran Sanctions Act was enacted back in 1996. For 29 years, this  law has acted as the cornerstone of U.S. efforts to address the Iran  regime's malign influence. From its support to terrorist proxies to its  dangerous nuclear program, the impact of the regime's provocative  actions continues to be felt far and wide.

These sanctions are more important now than ever. As this  administration pursues a last-ditch effort to address the threat posed  by Iran's nuclear program diplomatically, these sanctions continue to  provide much-needed leverage to address the full range of Iran's malign  activity. They are a vital and necessary tool not only to deny Iran all  paths to a nuclear weapon and to cut off its enrichment capabilities  but also to counter Iran's malign influence abroad, including its  ongoing support to terrorist proxies like the Houthis.

What we see across the region and beyond is that the threat Iran  poses to the United States and our partners and allies is becoming more  and more entrenched. We need a policy response that is durable and  shows that we are committed, day in and day out, to choking off any  financial support to Iran's malign activities.

That is why, today, the House is considering the Solidify Iran  Sanctions Act, which would eliminate the upcoming 2026 sunset from the  Iran Sanctions Act.

We need to send Iran a clear and simple message. They cannot wait out  our sanctions. Our sanctions will not expire on some arbitrary date.  The only way to make U.S. sanctions go away is to stop the sanctionable  conduct and not threaten the United States' national security interests  or our allies, period.

The fact that we are considering this bill under suspension of rules  is hugely significant. It shows that eliminating this sunset is not a  partisan issue. Republicans and Democrats agree that we need durable,  long-lasting, and long-term pressure on Iran.

On October 7, the world witnessed the horror of Iran-backed terrorism  as Hamas brutally murdered over 1,200 innocent people in Israel.

Iran has been sponsoring Hamas for years. They were sponsoring  terrorists on the battlefield that I and many of our colleagues  participated in, just as it has been sponsoring Hezbollah and the  Houthis to attack Israel just over this past weekend, amassing  ballistic missiles, building armed drones, and expanding its nuclear  weapon program at an alarming rate.

The Iran threat is wide-ranging and multifaceted, and the Iran  Sanctions Act is the foundation of our tools to combat this threat. We  know this threat isn't going away anytime soon, so let's stop fooling  ourselves that a sunset makes any sense on these provisions.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in bringing our statutes  in line with the strategic reality on the ground.