Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695244/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. MAST. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to this amendment I am  going to say for procedural reasons, but there are procedures that are  important here. The ranking member should know this.

As members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, we have sole  jurisdiction over powers of war. What goes on abroad with war is not  flippant activity. It affects the lives of soldiers, sailors, marines,  and airmen that are stationed abroad in Europe, Asia, Latin America,  and the Middle East. While I agree with a lot of the comments that the  ranking member just made about reasons to say there should be sunsets  on AUMF--and I didn't hear everything that my colleague Mr. Meeks said,  but I am sure undoubtedly we have agreement on why there should be  sunsets on these things--it cannot be done without bringing in the  CENTCOM commander and this commander and this commander and this  commander and saying: What are your thoughts on this? What effects does  this have on our ability to react or deploy? What effects does this  have on those downrange in counterterrorism operations as we speak?  What needs to be put back in place in order for us to not be afoul of  something that we are doing right now?

These are questions that were not asked, and the answers were not  given. This goes beyond just our generals in the Pentagon. It goes to  our Secretaries. It goes to others. They are absolutely questions that  I am committed to asking and questions that I am committed to finding  the answers to and in a timely way. I consider it to be vitally  important.

Again, we have, I think, probably large agreement on reasons to  sunset things, but it should not be done in the absence of doing  something of this gravity in the proper way.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.