Taiwan Assurance Implementation Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690686/taiwan-assurance-implementation-act


Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1512) to amend the Taiwan Assurance Act of 2020 to require  periodic reviews and updated reports relating to the Department of  State's Taiwan Guidelines, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1512

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Taiwan Assurance       Implementation Act''.       SEC. 2. INCREASED REPORTING REGARDING DEPARTMENT OF STATE                     TAIWAN GUIDELINES.

Section 315 of the Taiwan Assurance Act of 2020 (subtitle B       of title III of division FF of Public Law 116-260; 134 Stat.       3100) is amended--

(1) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ``and any successor       document or related document that includes guidance on       relations with Taiwan'' after ``memorandum''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

``(d) Periodic Reviews and Updated Reports.--

``(1) In general.--For as long as the Department of State       maintains guidance that governs relations with Taiwan as       described in subsection (a), the Secretary of State shall--

``(A) not less than every five years, conduct a review of       the Department of State's guidance that governs relations       with Taiwan, including the periodic memorandum entitled,       `Guidelines on Relations with Taiwan' and related documents,       and reissue such guidance to executive branch departments and       agencies; and

``(B) not later than 90 days after completing a review       required by paragraph (1)(A), submit an updated report to the       Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the       Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

``(2) Matters to be included.--The updated reports required       under paragraph (1)(B) shall include--

``(A) all the information required under subsection (c);       and

``(B) a description of how the updated guidance meets the       goals and objectives described in subsection (b).''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my colleague, Mrs. Wagner,  and in support of the Taiwan Assurance Implementation Act. This bill  reaffirms and strengthens the United States' commitment to Taiwan, one  of our most important democratic partners in the Indo-Pacific.

Taiwan is under growing pressure from an increasingly aggressive  Chinese Communist Party. Xi Jinping has made no secret of his  intentions. Folding Taiwan into the People's Republic of China is  central to his vision of national rejuvenation. He has made it clear he  is willing to use force to make that happen.

The warning signs are in plain view. China is ramping up aerial  incursions, conducting illegal exercises that simulate a blockade  around Taiwan, threatening sanctions against Taiwanese industries, and  relentlessly targeting Taipei with economic and political intimidation.

If we are serious about countering the CCP's ambition to displace the  United States as a global leader, then we have to act with clarity and  conviction. That starts with standing firm alongside Taiwan. We need to  deepen our economic security and diplomatic cooperation with Taiwan and  do so transparently and without apology.

Unfortunately, under the Biden administration, the State Department  too often handcuffed U.S.-Taiwan engagement by clinging to outdated,  self-imposed restrictions and bureaucratic red tape, weakening a vital  partnership at a time when unity and strength are urgently needed. That  is unacceptable.

The Taiwan Assurance Act passed with bipartisan support in 2020, but  the stakes are even higher today. That is why this bill updates and  strengthens the original law, ensuring that U.S. policy toward Taiwan  reflects today's strategic reality, not yesterday's hesitations.

By removing self-imposed limitations on how we engage with Taiwan, we  send a clear message to Beijing: The United States stands with free  nations, and we will not be bullied into silence.

Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, Taiwan is not just a partner. It is a front line for  democracy, and how we treat our friends in times of pressure defines  our credibility around the globe.

If we are serious about countering the CCP, we have to pass this  piece of legislation.

Madam Speaker, I urge all Members to vote for H.R. 1512, and I yield  back the balance of my time.