Taiwan International Solidarity Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690676/taiwan-international-solidarity-act


Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 2416) to amend the Taiwan Allies International Protection and  Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI) Act of 2019 to provide that the United  States, as a member of any international organizations, should oppose  any attempts by the People's Republic of China to resolve Taiwan's  status by distorting the decisions, language, policies, or procedures  of the organization, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2416

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Taiwan International       Solidarity Act''.       SEC. 2. CLARIFICATION REGARDING UNITED NATIONS GENERAL                     ASSEMBLY RESOLUTION 2758 (XXVI).

Subsection (a) of section 2 of the Taiwan Allies       International Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI)       Act of 2019 (Public Law 116-135) (relating to diplomatic       relations with Taiwan) is amended by adding at the end the       following new paragraphs:

``(10) United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2758       (XXVI) established the representatives of the Government of       the People's Republic of China as the only lawful       representatives of China to the United Nations. The       resolution did not address the issue of representation of       Taiwan and its people in the United Nations or any related       organizations, nor did the resolution take a position on the       relationship between the People's Republic of China and       Taiwan or include any statement pertaining to Taiwan's       sovereignty.

``(11) The United States opposes any initiative that seeks       to change Taiwan's status without the consent of the       people.''.       SEC. 3. UNITED STATES ADVOCACY FOR INTERNATIONAL                     ORGANIZATIONS TO RESIST THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC                     OF CHINA'S EFFORTS TO DISTORT THE ``ONE CHINA''                     POSITION.

Section 4 of the Taiwan Allies International Protection and       Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI) Act of 2019 (relating to the       policy of the United States regarding Taiwan's participation       in international organizations) is amended--

(1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' after the       semicolon at the end;

(2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and       inserting ``; and''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

``(5) to instruct, as appropriate, representatives of the       United States Government in all organizations described in       paragraph (1) to use the voice, vote, and influence of the       United States to advocate such organizations to resist the       People's Republic of China's efforts to distort the       decisions, language, policies, or procedures of such       organizations regarding Taiwan.''.       SEC. 4. OPPOSING THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA'S EFFORTS TO                     UNDERMINE TAIWAN'S TIES AND PARTNERSHIPS                     INTERNATIONALLY.

Subsection (a) of section 5 of the Taiwan Allies       International Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI)       Act of 2019 (relating to strengthening ties with Taiwan) is       amended--

(1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' after the       semicolon at the end;

(2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and       inserting ``; and''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

``(5) encourage, as appropriate, United States allies and       partners to oppose the People's Republic of China's efforts       to undermine Taiwan's official diplomatic relationships and       its partnerships with countries with which it does not       maintain diplomatic relations.''.       SEC. 5. REPORT ON THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA'S ATTEMPTS                     TO PROMOTE ITS ``ONE CHINA'' POSITION.

(a) In General.--Subsection (b) of section 5 of the Taiwan       Allies International Protection and Enhancement Initiative       (TAIPEI) Act of 2019 (relating to strengthening ties with       Taiwan) is amended by inserting before the period at the end       the following: ``, as well as information relating to any       prior or ongoing attempts by the People's Republic of China       to undermine Taiwan's membership or observer status in all       organizations described in section (4)(1) and Taiwan's ties       and relationships with other countries in accordance with       subsection (a) of this section''.

(b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a)       shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act       and apply beginning with the first report required under       subsection (b) of section 5 of the Taiwan Allies       International Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI)       Act of 2019, as amended by subsection (a), that is required       after such date.

Mr. Speaker, Taiwan is not just a friend. Taiwan is a self-governing  democracy, a critical economic partner, and a responsible global  stakeholder. It deserves to be seen and heard and not erased or  silenced.

When the United States shows leadership, we know that others follow.  We must lead now before the Chinese Communist Party permanently  rewrites international norms.

I thank Mr. Connolly for his work on this piece of legislation. I  miss seeing my friend here. As much as we have differences on many  things--and we have had many intense arguments back and forth--I  wouldn't want to argue with anybody else. I miss seeing him here.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.