Congressional Field Hearing on Haitian Tps Termination


Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, on January 20, 2026, I convened a  Congressional Field Hearing in my district on Haitian TPS Termination.  Senator Markey and Representative Moulton also participated along with  community stakeholders. I include in the Record my opening remarks:

Thank you to Jubilee--we are so appreciative of their       partnership in providing this space for us today. I want to       also thank tech. I want to thank security, and everyone else.       I think it's very apropos on the wake of the many faith       events that we have been at celebrating the life and legacy       of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., to invoke one of my favorite       adages, which is, when you pray--and we have been doing a lot       of that, and I certainly do that as a woman of faith myself--      move your feet. And so, I will continue to pray and to move       my feet, to steward every tool available to me in the work of       resistance, the actualization of justice and the furthering       of progress--using the power of my congressional letterhead,       using the power of my pen as a lawmaker, using the power of       my platform, using the power of convening, which is what       brings us here today.

I also do want to take a moment to acknowledge the       indefatigable efforts of my staff that I call the A team who       make great personal sacrifices and labor in love on behalf of       the Massachusetts Seventh every single day, which includes       majority of parts Boston, Cambridge, all of Somerville,       Randolph, Everett, Chelsea and Milton, can we please just       thank my staff?

Then, of course, I wish to thank all of you and a partner       in good to the left of me. I thank Senator Markey for his       collaborative partnership today in this Congressional field       hearing. I proudly serve as the Co-Chair of the House Haiti       Caucus, a caucus that had been dissolved that I worked       actively to reassemble, not knowing what was on the horizon.       And so it is in that role--as the Congresswoman for the       Massachusetts Seventh and as the Co-Chair of the House Haiti       Caucus--that we arrive here today.

Reviving the Haiti caucus was a significant priority for       me, because my district represents the third largest Haitian       diaspora in the country. More than 77,000 Haitians call the       Commonwealth their home. Our Haitian neighbors are attorneys,       nurses, social workers, chefs, artists, teachers, pastors,       and elected officials--and so much more. Their contributions       are an integral part of our community, culture and economy.       And the island of Haiti, which is only a short distance from       Florida, must be recognized as an important ally to the       United States' national security interests.

On a personal note, I credit the people of Haiti,       especially as we are coming off of celebrating independence,       for teaching me my earliest lessons in the work of       resistance. So today, on the one year anniversary--feels much       longer--on the one year anniversary of this cruel and hostile       administration, we are doing the work of resistance like we       did one year ago today. We are here in community, listening       to the people closest to the pain.

Today's hearing is an opportunity to examine the necessity       of extending TPS for Haiti. For those unaware, Temporary       Protected Status, or TPS, is an immigration designation in       recognition of a country facing conflict, disaster or       extraordinary conditions, TPS has received bipartisan support       for over 30 years as a program. With this status, Haitians       have been able to live and work in the United States, whether       they came to the US in 2010 after the catastrophic       earthquake, or more recently, following the assassination of       the President and the rise in gang violence. Which I must       acknowledge the trafficking of guns from the United States       contributes to.

The people of Haiti are our neighbors, and have helped       build our communities into loving, joyful, and safe places       where everyone can thrive. Now, Massachusetts (I do think       these numbers are important), has about 45,000 Haitian TPS       holders. So it is in the interest of the integrity of this       Massachusetts Seventh and the Commonwealth and our economy       and all that keeps our families and our neighborhoods whole.       Everyone who calls the Commonwealth Home, who calls the       Massachusetts Seventh home, who calls the city of Boston       home, should be invested in this fight.

Lives and livelihoods are at risk. If Donald Trump and his       anti-immigrant crusade are successful, more than 350,000       Haitian nationals will lose their legal status on February       3rd. I want everyone to know that this Congresswoman is       fighting tooth and nail to stop this from happening. Since       being elected to Congress, I've stood shoulder to shoulder       with our immigrant neighbors. Together, we have helped       immigrate new arrivals to the Commonwealth by making sure       kids are enrolled in school, adults can find work, and       families are healthy.

In Washington, DC, I've urged Democratic and Republican       Presidents alike--Democrat and Republican Presidents alike--      to support Haiti. To support Haiti and its efforts to build       the nation, to support a Democratic transition, one that is       led by Haitian civil society. And just this month, I voted to       pass legislation to strengthen Haiti trade relations and to       support its economy. Despite these efforts, we know there is       much more work to do, and I'll not stop fighting, and I'm       grateful to all those who are in that fight with me, who have       been my teachers in this movement.

I look forward to hearing from the esteemed panelists on       the importance of protecting TPS status and supporting the       people of Haiti.

For the full video of the hearing, visit https://pressley.house.gov/ 2026/01/20/video-pressley-  markey-holdfield-hearing-on-tps-for-haiti- express-solidarity-with-mass-haitian- community/.