Fighting Dhs Immigration Raids


Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Ramirez for  yielding. I appreciate her leadership.

It is so important that we do not allow the hostile acts of this  administration to be normalized. We have to condemn, resist, and reject  them at every turn.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of the targeted and the  marginalized, on behalf of our immigrant siblings who have had their  bodies assaulted, who have had their lives disrupted, who have had  their families separated, who have had their humanity erased and their  dignity denied, the men, women, and children who have been ripped from  our communities, thrown into cold cells, and shipped off to countries  many have never known.

The Trump administration would have you believe that they are  pursuing hardened criminals. Yet, according to ICE's own data, 85  percent of the people detained in Massachusetts, my home State, have no  criminal record.

Rogue, masked Federal agents are violating people's civil rights,  glorified bullies masquerading as public servants. They terrorize our  communities in the name of so-called law and order, while detaining and  deporting our neighbors without due process.

That hypocrisy is not a coincidence. It is a deliberate, resounding  message from an administration that believes that following the  Constitution is a mere suggestion.

My office has documented hundreds of cases marked by excessive force,  racial profiling, and the unlawful arrest of legal residents.

Just last month, rogue Federal agents descended on the Allston  neighborhood in Massachusetts' Seventh District, a diverse community  that is home to small businesses and music venues that are welcoming to  all. These Federal agents targeted a local car wash to harass and  abduct hardworking community members. Among them were five women who  were never afforded the chance to show their work permits and a 67- year-old man who had disappeared for 3 days without access to his  medication.

Families waited in anguish to hear from their loved ones, many of  whom reported not having enough to eat and being unable to shower-- cruel, callous, inhumane, and unlawful.

In these trying times, I am not defeated. I am fortified and resolved  to fight back. The only way to beat a dictator is with defiance.  Together, we will protect our communities and defend our immigrant  neighbors and their families.