President Trump is A Threat to Our Republic


Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Green for yielding and for his  moral clarity and always for his leadership, especially during these  deeply consequential times.

Mr. Speaker, every parent hopes that no harm, heartbreak, or hardship  finds their child. We want our children, especially when they are  babies, to know safety, warmth, full bellies, and a peaceful slumber.

When they are young, especially during the fall and winter months in  the throes of cold and flu season, little ones carry raspy coughs and  runny noses home from the playground. Dads  tuck their little ones in at night under a warm blanket hoping they  will sleep okay.

They hold their babies to their chest and listen for the threat of  labored breathing, wondering if they will have to make an ER run in the  middle of the night. They whisper a prayer every parent of every faith  knows: I hope my baby is okay.

But for parents in Gaza as the weather turns, heavy rainfall and  freezing temperatures present new threats. Palestinian families have  endured a genocidal campaign for years. Their homes have been reduced  to rubble. Many have no warm jacket to wrap their child in or a dry  blanket to tuck them under, and still they whisper the same prayer: I  hope my baby is okay.

Mr. Speaker, in Gaza, children have been murdered as U.S. bombs  deployed by the Israeli Army have rained down on civilians. Children  have been murdered by sniper fire and starvation. Every one of those  more than 20,000 children murdered was someone's whole world.

Since the cease-fire was declared, the media and the world have  shifted their gaze, but families in Gaza still live under constant  threat: of violence, of the elements, of starvation.

Earlier this year, my colleagues, Congresswoman Pettersen and Senator  Gallego, and I led over 100 Members of Congress in urging the State  Department to immediately surge humanitarian aid and ready-to-feed  infant formula to families in Gaza to save lives.

In a written response, the State Department expressed concern about  the crisis, but words without action are not only empty, they are  deadly.

We have doubled down on our cause and demand the State Department  send Members of Congress a weekly update on exactly how much aid is  entering Gaza and reaching desperate families.

However, Mr. Speaker, aid alone is not enough, especially not for our  children who have suffered injuries, especially not for children with  disabilities and complex medical conditions. Medical evacuation is a  critical aspect of lifesaving humanitarian work, and right now over  16,500 people are waiting to be medically evacuated from Gaza for  essential treatment.

I recently heard from a mother named Hadeel. Seven months ago, her 6- year-old son died while awaiting medical evacuation. He suffered from a  kidney condition, and the decimated medical system in Gaza could not  provide him the care he needed to survive.

Now her daughter, Lana, who suffers from the same kidney condition,  is on the wait list for medical evacuation. Each day that goes by  without adequate treatment, Lana's life is in danger.

Hadeel is no different from the parent in Boston who clutches their  child in their arms and listens for labored breathing as they ride out  the flu. Just like that parent, she would do anything for her baby.  Just like that parent, she whispers a prayer: I hope they will be okay.  Every child deserves to live and thrive.

In the timeless words of James Baldwin: ``The children are always  ours, every single one of them, all over the globe; and I am beginning  to suspect that whoever is incapable of recognizing this may be  incapable of morality.''

Mr. Speaker, the United States of America built, bought, and sold the  bombs that killed Palestinians throughout this horrific genocidal  campaign carried out by the Israeli military.

The United States of America once claimed to be a moral and just  authority, but today all the globe sees is the blood on the hands of  this Nation.

It is not too late to appeal to our better angels, to act with  urgency to save lives, to support medical evacuations, to surge baby  formula and aid, to chart a path forward to save lives. Every child is  someone's whole world. Every life is a universe, and our destinies are  tied.

Ms. PRESSLEY. It would be an honor.