-9999


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I am here today to honor a remarkable  diplomat and dear friend, Ambassador Kevin Rudd, as he prepares to  leave his post as Australian Ambassador to the United States.

I first got to know Kevin and his wife Therese over a decade ago. But  now, more recently, as chairman and now vice chairman of the Senate  Select Committee on Intelligence, I have had the pleasure of working  with Ambassador Rudd on some of the most pressing challenges of our  time.

With his departure, we are going to bid farewell to a statesman whose  tenure has strengthened the bonds between Australia and the United  States and upheld the values we share.

From the day Ambassador Rudd arrived in Washington on March 2023, he  proved to be a driving force in advancing our mutual national  interests. During his accomplished career in the Australian Parliament  and as Prime Minister, he understood the importance of engaging  Congress, steadying the Australian relationships through changes in  administrations.

And in 3 years, he delivered enduring and positive outcomes for  Americans and Australians alike. Ambassador Rudd spearheaded  Australia's push to advance the landmark AUKUS security pact, expanding  the broad bipartisan support and securing the endorsements of both  President Biden and President Trump and advancing investment in  limitation strategies both here in the United States and back in his  home in Australia.

He negotiated a critical minerals agreement that is already spurring  new mining and processing projects to benefit both our countries.

He also spearheaded a cutting-edge tech partnership that is unlocking  billions of dollars in bilateral investments, including for AI and  quantum technology.

Ambassador Rudd's leadership strengthened Australia's security and  our shared security alliance for decades to come. Thanks, in part, to  his efforts, our governments, our Armed Forces, our intelligence  services, our private sectors, and industries are working together more  closely than ever, ensuring that our alliance forged on the  battlefields of the last century remains unbreakable in this century.

Under Kevin's tenure, the United States-Australia partnership has  never been stronger. He understands that our alliance isn't just an old  friendship to be maintained; it is a living bond to be continually  strengthened. He built personal relationships across the whole  political spectrum in working with Democrats and Republicans and across  two very different Presidential administrations to keep this alliance  with Australia above the partisan fray. Kevin demonstrated that no  matter Democrat or Republican control, or whether it is Labor or  Liberal in Canberra, our alliance is the alliance of values and vision  that transcends politics. That is an extraordinary legacy to leave in  government.

As someone who spends a lot of time thinking about China policy, I  don't think there is anyone that is more informed or who has, frankly,  written more scholarly articles on the intentions of President Xi in  China than Kevin Rudd. Kevin Rudd is a scholar on China and a fluent  Mandarin speaker. He puts that expertise to work each day. He reminds  me, at times, that I am supposed to address him as ``Dr. Rudd.''

Kevin has been a voice of principled leadership in pushing back  against unnecessary coercive tactics by the PRC. He understands, from  Australia's own experience, that we must not allow the PRC to act as a  bully either in the Indo-Pacific region or around the globe. Kevin saw  how China's attempts at coercive economic diplomacy against Australia  backfired a few years back when its allies and partners, including the  United States, rallied around Australia and declared such coercion  unacceptable.

Kevin carried that leadership into his ambassadorship, and he often  reminded many of us in the Senate of a key lesson: When pushing back  against an adversary, it is best to do so ``in the company of friends''  rather than alone.

There is also a popular African proverb: ``If you want to go fast go  alone; if you want to go far, go together.'' Ambassador Rudd understood  that resisting coercion and deterring aggression requires building  capacity among our nations, as through AUKUS and the Quad partnership.  Whether in shaping Indo-Pacific strategy, in helping to refocus and  strengthen the indispensable Five Eyes intelligence partnership, or in  speaking out on foundational international norms, he made sure that  Australia and the United States stood shoulder to shoulder against  intimidation.

Beyond policy achievements and strategic vision, Kevin Rudd is one of  the sharpest minds on the diplomatic stage. Few can match his knowledge  of history or his analytical depth on international affairs. That is  why I hate to see him leave this post, but he is not going far. He is  going to return to the Asia Society that he will head up in the United  States--although, with a number of his kids and grandkids being in  Australia, I know he will be going back and forth between our two  nations. The fact that  he will continue to play a policy role will be important for both of  our nations and for all of us who care about maintaining democratic  values. I know that his passion for public service, his commitment to  internationalism, and his insightful analysis are ending here after his  time in Washington.

In closing, on behalf of my colleagues in the Senate, I extend my  profound thanks to Ambassador Rudd. I thank him for his steadfast  service, for the wisdom he has shared, and for the friendship he has  offered. The bonds between our two nations are stronger because of his  work. I wish him and Therese every success and happiness in the journey  to come.