Destroying Unnecessary, Misaligned, and Prohibitive Red Tape Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697348/destroying-unnecessary-misaligned-and-prohibitive-red-tape-act


Mr. WALKINSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill.  Codifying the so-called Red Tape Hotline, an anonymous inbox, the  contents of which, as the ranking member articulated, we know virtually  nothing about, will do nothing to help small businesses.

While the majority is busy claiming to fight bureaucracy by creating  new bureaucracy, they are ignoring the real crisis small businesses are  begging us to address: the looming lapse of the enhanced premium tax  credits.

I know this because I have met with small business owners in my  district, like Rachel Rozner, who is the owner of the Elden Tea Shop in  Reston, not far from here, a five-person business that is exactly the  kind of Main Street business that the majority claims to champion.

As she told me, Rachel's business depends on the tax credits. Her tea  shop is not an exception. It is the norm. Nearly half of all adults  with ACA marketplace coverage are small business owners, small business  employees, or self-employed. In many cases, the Affordable Care Act and  the enhanced premium tax credits have given them the freedom to start  their small business, but the Republican attacks on healthcare will  force small businesses to close.

Nationally, 22 million Americans, including millions of small  business owners, will see premium hikes averaging 114 percent. Some of  their premiums will double, triple, or even quadruple. These are  middle-class workers. These are employees of small businesses. These  are small business owners, the people keeping our local economies  alive.

Republicans keep telling us they are the party of entrepreneurs, but  you can't be the party of entrepreneurs while you are driving up their  healthcare costs and driving them out of business.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill.