Recognizing Cornerstones Ceo Kerrie Wilson on the Occasion of Her Retirement


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697126/recognizing-cornerstones-ceo-kerrie-wilson-on-the-occasion-of-her-retirement


Mr. WALKINSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Ms. Kerrie  Wilson on her upcoming retirement after nearly 25 years of dedicated  service as the CEO of Cornerstones in Reston, Virginia. Cornerstones is  a nonprofit organization that has provided Northern Virginia families  and individuals with support, advocacy, and empowerment through  critical services for over 55 years.

Founded in 1970 as Reston Interfaith, Cornerstones began as an  advocacy group focusing on affordable housing needs in the Reston  community and has now grown into a comprehensive service organization  that serves and supports approximately 26,000 individuals throughout  Fairfax County annually. The services available through Cornerstones  have expanded significantly under the exceptional leadership of Kerrie  Wilson and today encompass housing assistance, food assistance,  financial assistance, childcare, youth services, community and family  strengthening, and several community resource centers throughout the  district.

Ms. Wilson became CEO of Cornerstones in 2001 after a distinguished  career at the American Cancer Society, where she focused on cancer  prevention for medically underserved communities and ultimately served  as the organization's national vice president for government relations.  During her tenure at Cornerstones, she has guided the nonprofit through  a period of remarkable growth and strengthened its role as an  indispensable resource for our region.

Her leadership has been defined by a deep commitment to social  justice, equity, and collaboration. She played an instrumental role in  expanding access to affordable housing, advancing supportive services,  and forging strategic partnerships that empower individuals and  families toward long-term stability. In 2023, Cornerstones extended its  reach with the opening of the Free from Hunger Center, a 10,000-square- foot facility that strengthens food distribution networks throughout  the region.

Ms. Wilson's many contributions to public service have been  recognized throughout her career, including receiving the Katherine  Hanley Public Service Award for her extraordinary impact on Fairfax  County and her dedication to improving the lives of others, and  Leadership Fairfax's Non-Profit Leadership Award for her tireless  commitment to strengthening the region's non-profit sector.

Mr. Speaker, Kerrie Wilson's retirement marks the culmination of  nearly a quarter-century of visionary leadership that has transformed  and strengthened an institution central to the well-being of our  region. I ask my colleagues to join me in thanking Ms. Kerrie Wilson  for her years of devoted service and wishing her a joyful, fulfilling,  and well-earned retirement.