Recognizing Nova Parks Executive Director Paul Gilbert on the Occasion of His Retirement


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697129/recognizing-nova-parks-executive-director-paul-gilbert-on-the-occasion-of-his-retirement


Mr. WALKINSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend Mr. Paul Gilbert  on his upcoming retirement after two decades of extraordinary  leadership as Executive Director of NOVA Parks. Mr. Gilbert has  transformed our park system into a vibrant, inclusive network of  outdoor spaces that serve more than 2 million residents across Northern  Virginia. His dedicated service to our region is worth celebrating and  commemorating.

Mr. Gilbert became Executive Director of NOVA Parks in 2005 after  serving many years on the NOVA Parks Board. During his tenure as  Executive Director, Mr. Gilbert remained steadfastly dedicated to  public service in land acquisition, conservation, and management.

Under Mr. Gilbert's visionary leadership, NOVA Parks completed 22  major land-acquisition transactions totaling over 1,800 acres of  parkland, 15 new parks, and 3 expanded parks. These acquisitions  increased access to nature, preserved precious habitat, and elevated  the quality of life in our region.

A hallmark of Mr. Gilbert's career has been his commitment to telling  the untold stories of Northern Virginia. Under his guidance, NOVA Parks  made significant efforts to illuminate the forgotten stories of the  many communities that helped shape Fairfax County. Mr. Gilbert's vision  ensured that NOVA Parks was not only protecting natural landscapes but  also honoring the diverse communities and stories that helped shape  Northern Virginia.

Mr. Gilbert's many contributions to public service have been  recognized throughout his career, including receiving the Outstanding  Contribution to Outdoor Recreation award from the Virginia Department  of Conservation & Recreation and the Land Manager of the Year award  from the Mid-Atlantic Mountain Bike Enthusiasts. Along with his  tremendous service to NOVA Parks, Mr. Gilbert has also dedicated his  time as an Executive-in-Residence for George Mason University's  Recreation Management Program, Chairman of the Board of Visit Fairfax,  and a member of the Board for The Community Foundation for Northern  Virginia.

Mr. Speaker, Paul Gilbert's decades of vision, leadership, and  dedication to our parks system will benefit our region for generations  to come. I ask my colleagues to join me in thanking Mr. Gilbert for his  years of dedicated service and wishing him a joyful and well-earned  retirement.