Recognizing the First Baptist Church of Merrifield on Their 155th Anniversary


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696034/recognizing-the-first-baptist-church-of-merrifield-on-their-155th-anniversary


Mr. WALKINSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the First Baptist  Church of Merrifield on the occasion of the 155th anniversary of its  sanctuary. For more than a century and a half, First Baptist Church of  Merrifield has served as a cornerstone of faith, service, and community  for the Northern Virginia region. First Baptist Church of Merrifield  was started in a log cabin between 1871 to 1872. FBCM had then branched  out and began worshipping on property owned by Mr. Robert Bradley of  Merrifield. In 1891, the property was purchased from him by church  Trustees: John E. Coates, Joshua Ball, and Joshua Pearson for the sum  of five dollars. FBCM is a church formed from strong community family  ties and has remained steadfastly community focused since.

FBCM remains a vital part of our district today by partnering with  neighbors and local organizations to fulfill local needs through  service projects, food and supply drives, youth programs, and many  other community-centered initiatives. Through these efforts, FBCM  continues to foster a spirit of faith, service, collaboration, and  compassion throughout our district.

Over the past 155 years, FBCM has been led by 13 pastors and 2  interim pastors. Each one contributing to the growth of FBCM and  leaving behind their own unique legacy of service. A few of those  contributions include: the establishment of the Golden Ages Senior  Saints Ministry, the construction of the Merrifield Child Development  Center, the recovery of the original church bell, the creation of a  youth mentoring program with Luther Jackson Middle School, the  development of a tutoring outreach program targeting local students,  and much more. FBCM and its congregation lead by faith and example in  our community.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in commending First  Baptist Church of Merrifield for its efforts to better the Northern  Virginia region. Achieving 155 years of ministry is a milestone worth  celebrating. It is a privilege to work alongside this great  congregation in the community, and I wish them continued success  through faith, family, and service.