Recognizing Omicron Kappa Kappa Chapter of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Inc. for its Achievement Week and Honorees


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697131/recognizing-omicron-kappa-kappa-chapter-of-omega-psi-phi-fraternity-inc-for-its-achievement-week-and-honorees


Mr. WALKINSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Omicron  Kappa Kappa Chapter of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Inc. for its  Achievement Week and Honorees.

Since 1925, Achievement Week has been an annual, internationally  mandated program of the Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Inc. The purpose of  the program is to inspire race, pride, and public appreciation of the  Negro's potential. Chapters celebrate their communities and engage the  public through exhibits, activities, meetings and forums in schools,  churches, and public halls.

The fraternity's 2025 International Achievement Week is from November  10, 2025, to November 17, 2025. This year's Achievement Week theme is  ``Impactful Service Through Intentional Friendship.''

The Omicron Kappa Kappa (OKK) Chapter of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity,  Inc. received its graduate chapter charter on December 14, 1996, and  serves primarily the Fairfax, Herndon, and Reston, Virginia areas.

The fraternity's Annual Achievement Week Awards Luncheon serves as an  opportunity to recognize our youth and members of the community for  their contributions to the chapter and the community over the past  year.

I include in the Record the following OKK awards recipients:

Trailblazer Award: Lieutenant General (Retired) R. Scott       Dingle, U.S. Army

Trailblazer Award: The Honorable Robert R. Rigsby,       Associate Judge, District of Columbia Superior Court and       Colonel (Retired), Judge Advocate, U.S. Army Reserves

High School Essay Contest First Place Winner: Gabriella E.       Celestine, James W. Robinson, Jr. Secondary School

Brigadier General Charles Young Military Leadership Award:       Major Justin Brown, Engineer, U.S. Army Reserves

Citizen of the Year Award: Dr. Mamie Parker, PhD

Dr. Ronald E. McNair Award for Excellence in Aerospace and       the Arts: Imani C.O. Nzekwe, Thomas A. Edison High School

Dr. Charles R. Drew Award for Excellence in Medical       Research: Hernan Bekele, Carter G. Woodson High School

Dr. Ernest Everett Just Award for Excellence in Biology:       Shreya Soni and Peyton Tran, South County High School

Dr. Oscar James Cooper, M.D., Award for Excellence in       Biomedical and Health Sciences: Chloe Giglio, McLean High       School

Professor Frank Coleman Award for Excellence in Physics and       Astronomy: Leona Agyepong, Lake Braddock Secondary School

Dr. Edgar Amos Love Award for Excellence in Biomedical       Engineering: Aaryasinh Vaghela and Rishik Puli, Basis       Independence School

Charles ``Chuck'' Smith Award for Excellence in Computer       Science and Mathematics: Eamon O'Leary, South Lakes High       School

Founders Lifetime Achievement Award: Dr. Dennis Humphrey,       PhD

Omega Man of the Year: Sanford Crenshaw

Superior Service Award: Brian Bond

Service Pins: Gerald Hamilton, 55 Years; Howard Foard Jr.,       50 Years; Gerald Curry, 45 Years; Robert Drummer, 40 Years;       Julius Reynolds, 40 years; Earl Smith Jr., 40 Years; Shun       Williams, 40 Years; Michael Craghead, 35 Years; Michael       Kennebrew, 25 Years; Joseph Nelson, 25 Years.

Basileus Bricks: Michael Welch, Chairman, Charles Drew       Blood Drive; Sanford Crenshaw, Vice Basileus; Vince Jones,       Vice Chairman, Charles Drew Blood Drive; Zachary Canady,       Keeper of Records and Seal; Jeremiah Davis, Chairman,       Fatherhood and Mentoring Initiative

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in congratulating the men  of Omega Psi Phi, Inc. and the honorees for this year's Achievement  Week.