Recognizing October As National Spine Health Awareness Month


Mr. WALKINSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask that my colleagues  join me in recognizing October as National Spine Health Awareness  Month.

In the U.S., 100 million people suffer from neck or back conditions  every year according to the CDC. Back pain is the number one cause of  missed workdays, the leading cause of job-related disability and pain  in the U.S., and the most common non-cancer related reason for an  opioid prescription in the U.S. In addition, those with back and neck  pain are four times more likely to become clinically depressed.

The National Spine Health Foundation, located in my district in  Reston, Virginia, is the only national patient-centered non-profit  dedicated to helping patients overcome debilitating spinal conditions  and take back their lives. For over two decades, the Foundation has  increased its commitment to and has developed award winning patient  education, advocacy, and research work to give patients the tools they  need to make informed decisions about their spine health and navigate  their own treatment journeys with confidence.

To further address the complex challenges of spinal health, the  Foundation has created four specialized task forces led by experts in  their fields.

The Opioid Task Force which has advanced research on minimizing  opioid use while still optimizing pain relief.

The Bone Health Task Force promotes bone health screening protocols,  research, and public education.

The Military & Veterans Task Force works to ensure that service  members and veterans receive advanced, appropriate spine care.

Finally, the Motion Preservation Task Force ensures patients and  providers have access to lifechanging motion-preserving procedures,  focusing on artificial disc replacement.

The Foundation continues to be strongly committed to spine health  research. Patient reported outcomes have long been part of fabric of  NSHF since its inception. As they are deeply invested in supporting  evidence-based healthcare decisionmaking, it is important to be part of  the process of creating the evidence. Their cloud-based research tool  called `Spine-online' enables them to conduct multi-center studies and  partner with research teams both in the U.S. and internationally.  Active studies are currently occurring on robotic surgery, enhanced  surgical recovery, augmented reality, a genetic basis for personalized  spine treatments, stem cell therapy, and more.

Mr. Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me in recognizing the  importance of good spinal health and thanking the NSHF and the  healthcare providers who help spine and neck patients, not just in  October, but all year long.