Maritime Supply Chain Security Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692198/maritime-supply-chain-security-act


Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2390, the Maritime Supply Chain Security Act, takes  a critical step toward strengthening our port infrastructure and  national security by expanding the eligible use of the port  infrastructure development program to include the replacement of  Chinese port hardware and software, most notably Chinese cranes and the  software used to operate them.

As we all know, our country's ports serve an absolutely critical role  in our national supply chain, moving millions of tons of goods each  year, facilitating trade, which supports American businesses and  consumers across the country. Any disruption to these supply chains  results in increased costs for American families and shortages of  essential goods, just as we witnessed during and after the outbreak of  COVID.

For economic and national security reasons, we must ensure our  maritime infrastructure is not only state of the art and efficient but  also secure from foreign threats.

Unfortunately, too many of our Nation's largest ports rely on ship- to-shore cranes manufactured by Chinese state-owned companies with  Chinese-owned software. Reports indicate the software used in these  cranes can be exploited for espionage, potentially transmitting  sensitive data such as the location and movement of cargo back to  Communist China. This information could easily be used to disrupt  trade, track shipments of military equipment, or gain intelligence on  U.S. supply chains, among many other concerns.

The port infrastructure development program, a competitive grant  program administered by the Maritime Administration, can help address  these concerns. Therefore, my bill, the Maritime Supply Chain Security  Act, provides a clear directive allowing funds from this competitive  grant program to be used to replace these Chinese-manufactured cranes  and their associated software.

Taking this step is not just about upgrading infrastructure, it is  about protecting our economy, safeguarding national security, and  ensuring American ports remain under American control.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this very important  piece of legislation.