Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688526/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-national-emission-standards-for-hazardous-air-pollutants-rubber-tire-manufacturing


Mr. ROUZER. Madam Speaker, I thank my friend, the Chairman, for  yielding me the time.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.J. Res. 61, which would  repeal the Biden-Harris EPA's rule amending National Emission Standards  on the domestic rubber tire manufacturing industry.

This rule would impact 11 facilities in nine States, including 1 in  my district in Fayetteville, North Carolina, which has been  manufacturing tires since the 1960s, produces 20,000 tires a day for  passenger vehicles and light-duty trucks, and employs 2,300 of my  constituents.

Fayetteville plays a major role in the State's industrial economy,  and its manufacturing sector provides significant economic  opportunities for my constituents, including our area's veterans from  Fort Bragg. These 11 facilities have supported the American worker for  decades while complying with all environmental regulations.

In 2020, the EPA ruled that these facilities were already operating  under the accepted threshold and had established a margin of safety to  protect public health. This rule, issued by the previous  administration, would do just the opposite, actually. It would increase  CO2 emissions by requiring facilities to install additional  costly technologies that will increase energy consumption.

Beyond that economic harm, the rule would prove costly to  manufacturers, affecting workers' wages and the expansion of the  domestic tire manufacturing industry.

The per-company cost to comply with this rule would be four times  what EPA has suggested: 100 million in capital costs and $20 million in  other annual costs.

Madam Speaker, this regulation must be rescinded. We must reinstate  common sense. Rubber tire manufacturing facilities have complied with  the existing standards, and keeping this rule in place would bring  economic harm and no benefit for anyone, including my constituents.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this  resolution.