Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695245/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. ROUZER. Madam Chair, I rise in support of my amendment to include  the Lumbee Fairness Act in the bill before us today, providing the  Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina the full Federal recognition they have  been unfairly denied for decades.

Throughout recorded history, the Lumbee Tribe, comprised of nearly  60,000 members, has called southeastern North Carolina home. Despite  their long history and cohesive culture, the Lumbee have never had  access to the same Federal benefits enjoyed by every other federally  recognized Tribes.

During what is referred to as the termination era, Congress passed  the Lumbee Act of 1956 recognizing the Tribe yet denying them the  Federal rights and protections afforded to other federally recognized  Tribes.

Beginning in 1978, the Federal Government began rectifying the damage  done during this era. Since then, Congress has stepped in, reversed its  previous actions, and recognized 23 Tribes through legislation  reestablishing their relationship with the Federal Government.

Legislation to rectify this for the Lumbee Tribe has been introduced  in Congress more than 30 times with broad bipartisan support. In the  past two Congresses, in fact, the House passed this legislation under  suspension, most recently on December 17, 2024.

Outside of Congress, the Lumbee Fairness Act has the support of 236  Tribes across the country that have repeatedly cited the unfair  treatment of the Tribe under the 1956 Lumbee Act.

Today, Congress can take a major step forward to end the unfair and  unjust treatment of the Lumbee Tribe once and for all.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from North  Carolina (Mr. Harris).

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for  yielding me time.

For far too long, the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina has been  wrongfully denied full Federal recognition, but today is a chance to  make it right.

With over 55,000 individuals, the Lumbee people are a core part of my  district and the great State of North Carolina. I am honored to be  their advocate in Washington.

I know firsthand that they are salt-of-the-earth, hardworking  patriots who deserve access to Federal services like their Tribal  counterparts.

We must take legislative action to fix this problem and amend the  1956 law that currently prohibits this access.

Last Congress, Members across the aisle, as has already been  mentioned, overwhelmingly voted to restore these rights to the Lumbee  Tribe, but there wasn't time for the bill to clear the Senate. Today is  our opportunity to get this crucial issue finally across the finish  line. A vote today for the Lumbee people will fix a historic injustice,  and I urge support of this amendment.

Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from North  Carolina (Mr. McDowell).

Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from North  Carolina (Mr. Moore).

Mr. MOORE of North Carolina. Mr. Chair, we are not here today to  recognize the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina. The Lumbee Tribe was  already recognized by the United States Congress in 1956.

We are, however, here today to right a wrong, to end the termination  era of Indian policy, and to take the Lumbee out of the legal limbo  that they have been in for almost 70 years. It is the job of this  Congress to right the wrongs of the past.

During the early 1900s, the Lumbee had numerous Indian agents sent by  the U.S. Government go to the homelands, study them, collect data, and  determine if they are, in fact, Indian. Each time the Indian agents  returned to the District of Columbia, they reported back that these  were indeed Indian people. They were Indian people who had survived  disease, warfare, and colonization.

I know the Lumbee personally. They are a resilient, strong, and proud  people. The Lumbee have served this country in every branch of the  military. They contribute to our society. The Lumbee have a strong  faith in God. They are good friends who value education, hard work, and  community.

I am proud to stand with the Lumbee and urge this body to vote today  to end a decades-long wrong.

Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.