Recognizing Linda Culver's Retirement


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692691/recognizing-linda-culvers-retirement


Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker. I rise today to recognize my long-time  employee, Linda Culver, as she prepares to retire at the end of June.

I've often said that a really good staff makes a decent Member of  Congress--and throughout my time in office, I've been fortunate to have  outstanding individuals like Linda by my side.

Linda began working in my Twin Falls office on the very first day we  opened our doors. From that day forward, she has been a steady,  dedicated presence--not only for me and my team but for the people of  Idaho.

Many people do not recognize what congressional offices can do for  them, but with Linda's presence in Idaho, she worked tirelessly to help  Idahoans where she could and serve their needs. Linda trained under one  of the best caseworkers in Idaho and not only carried on that legacy  but enhanced it. She  never cut corners when it came to constituent service.

As my Casework Director, she instilled the same standard across my  team. One of the things I'm most proud of during my time in Congress is  the high level of service we've provided to Idahoans--and Linda played  a key role in making that happen. Federal government agencies are often  difficult and complex to navigate. However, Linda's ability to cut  through the red tape made her an invaluable resource and help to many.

Linda's public service did not stop at casework. She created mobile  district office hours so Idahoans--especially those living in small,  rural areas--could meet with my staff, ask questions, and find out how  we can help when problems arise.

She also created an event known as the ``Funders Fair,'' a one-stop  shop where federal agencies and organizations came together to help  Idahoans learn about and apply for available grants.

Additionally, Linda has remained actively involved with Idaho's  military and veterans. She took it upon herself to create Service  Academy Days for the entire Idaho Delegation--an event for Idaho's high  school students to learn about our Nation's military academies. This  tradition has lasted for nearly 30 years. She also put together the  Veterans History Project, a Library of Congress project that collects,  preserves and makes accessible firsthand the recollections of veterans  who served during World War I through more recent conflicts and  peacekeeping missions.

From helping tens of thousands of Idahoans navigate complex federal  issues to personally attending meetings and events across the district  to supporting veterans, Linda has been far more than an asset--she has  been family. As she enters retirement, Linda will enjoy some well- deserved time with her husband, their dogs Koda and Tessa, and their  children and grandchildren.

I will miss Linda, the rest of my staff will miss Linda, and so will  the Idahoans that she so faithfully served for the last two decades.

Mr. Speaker, I offer my sincere gratitude to Linda's husband, Brent,  for sharing his amazing wife with Team Simpson for all these years. I  ask my colleagues to join me in thanking and honoring Linda Culver for  her decades of outstanding public service to the people of Idaho and  this great Nation.