Recognizing Chobani's Military Appreciation Efforts


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690811/recognizing-chobanis-military-appreciation-efforts


Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Military Appreciation  Month. Throughout the month of May, Americans nationwide acknowledge  and honor the dedication of the brave men and women who have served  this Nation.

Idaho is home to over 115,000 veterans and 8,700 service members. I  am deeply grateful for the heroes who protect our freedom and am proud  to support our military families and veterans in our great state.

Military Appreciation Month can be honored in various ways, such as  through parades, tributes, flying the American flag, or simply  expressing gratitude to veterans for their sacrifices. Regardless of  how Americans choose to observe this important month, we stand united  in our deep appreciation for our servicemembers, veterans, and their  families for their sacrifices.

Chobani, an American food company that has its main manufacturing  facility in Twin Falls, Idaho, is honoring our military servicemembers  through facilitating connections between Blue Star Families, Mountain  Home Airforce Base, and Chobani military employees.

The collaborative efforts among these groups have strengthened  military families, created new relationships, and better supported  those who serve us.

Throughout the years, Chobani has done incredible work to support  families in the Magic Valley and throughout our country. This month,  Chobani has taken the initiative to empower military families in Idaho  and nationwide, an effort that shows pride and support for our Nation.

America would not be what it is today without those who risked their  lives for the greater good. Our service members and their families have  sacrificed so much for our Nation.

Mr. Speaker, as we take time this month to recognize those who have  served and continue to serve this great country, I ask my colleagues to  join me in honoring Chobani's military appreciation efforts. God bless  our Armed Forces.