Recognizing Amy Sorensen As She Prepares for Retirement


Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize my longtime  employee, Amy Sorensen, as she prepares to retire at the end of August.

I have often said that a really good staff makes a decent Member of  Congress--and throughout my time in office, I've been fortunate to have  outstanding individuals like Amy by my side.

Amy began working in my Idaho Falls office on the very first day we  opened our doors. From that day forward, she has been a steady,  dedicated presence--not only for me and my team but for the people of  Idaho.

Many people do not recognize what congressional offices can do for  them, but with Amy's presence in Idaho, she worked tirelessly to help  Idahoans where she could and serve their needs. One of the things I'm  most proud of during my time in Congress is the high level of service  we've provided to Idahoans--and Amy played a key role in making that  happen.

Federal government agencies are often difficult and complex to  navigate. However, Amy's ability to cut through the red tape made her  an invaluable resource and help to many throughout the state.

Amy was also a great team builder. She created the Simpson Staff  Spotlight. It is a fun survey that highlights a staff member or intern,  so we all get to know each other better--something everyone on the team  enjoys receiving.

From helping tens of thousands of Idahoans navigate complex federal  issues to personally attending meetings and events across the district  to supporting veterans, Amy has been far more than an asset--she has  been family.

Mr. Speaker, I am excited for Amy as she enters the next chapter in  her life and am extremely grateful to her husband, and former staff  member, Josh, for sharing Amy with us for all these years. I also want  to recognize Josh and Amy's incredible children; Sam, Sydney, Jane,  Henry, and Lucy. They were all born while Amy worked for me, and it has  been a great joy to watch them grow up.

I ask my colleagues to join me in thanking and honoring Amy Sorensen  for her decades of outstanding public service to the people of Idaho  and this great Nation.