Congratulating Memphis Central High School Jazz Band


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691133/congratulating-memphis-central-high-school-jazz-band


Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Memphis  Central High School Jazz Band and Band Director Ollie Liddell for  winning First Place Honors at the 30th Annual ``Essentially Ellington  Competition and Festival'' at Lincoln Center in New York City on  Sunday, May 11. The band was one of 127 that applied this year,  competing with bands from all over the world including Japan and Spain,  and was one of the 30 bands--some trained at music magnet schools or  with private tutors--invited to New York. The Central High students  advanced to the semifinal level where 10 were selected and then was one  of the top three bands to play. Dr. Liddell has been the band's  director for the past 13 years, often spending 12-hour days in the band  room to give students the practice time they need--especially since  many can't play in their apartment complexes or transport heavy  instruments home. Overall, the band won the Best Band honors and awards  for outstanding trumpet section, outstanding trombone section,  outstanding rhythm section, outstanding alto saxophone soloist for  student Jackson Hankins, outstanding trumpet soloist for Kingston  Grandberry and outstanding trombone soloist for Marqese Cobb. The  Memphis Central Jazz Band was selected to compete at ``Essentially  Ellington'' in 2020 and 2021, but the competition was held virtually,  so the students did not have the opportunity to travel to New York. In  an interview with The Daily Memphian columnist Geoff Calkins in  January, Liddell explained that many of his students arrive at the band  room with no prior knowledge of jazz. He added: ``The City of Memphis  is why I do what I do.'' Over the years, the numbers in the Central  jazz band jumped from about 80 to the current 187. The festival in New  York concluded with a concert at the Metropolitan Opera House featuring  the top student ensembles and the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra  directed by Wynton Marsalis. Memphis is home to many talented  musicians, and Central's band members have now earned international  recognition--a testament to the hard work of the students and Dr.  Liddell.