Congratulating Fire Chief Gina Sweat on Her Retirement


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696576/congratulating-fire-chief-gina-sweat-on-her-retirement


Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend the outstanding  public service performed by Memphis' first female Fire Chief, Gina  Sweat, who retired last month after more than 33 years with the  department. Ms. Sweat joined the Memphis Fire Department in May of  1992, one of two women in her recruiting class of 84, after receiving a  bachelor of business administration in 1988 from Freed-Hardeman  University in Henderson, Tennessee, where she played collegiate  basketball. After joining the department, she continued her education  by receiving a bachelor's of professional studies in fire  administration in 2000 and a master's of professional studies in  strategic leadership in 2013 from the University of Memphis. She rose  through the ranks as a driver, lieutenant, battalion chief and division  chief, deputy chief of logistics and deputy director until she was  appointed Fire Chief by former Mayor Jim Strickland on January 1, 2016.  In interviews through the years Chief Sweat said she learned to ``over- prepare'' for each new assignment. As chief, she undertook initiatives  to improve the Insurance Services Office, made multi-million dollar  renovations of the 911 Communications Center, the Office of Emergency  Management building and built three new state-of-the-art fire stations  and a new fire administration building. Chief Sweat's tenure also saw  the department expand into responding to medical emergencies. It also  included the Covid epidemic period when the fire department was the  lead local agency conducting vaccinations. In my contacts with Chief  Sweat, she was always pleasant. She was easy to communicate with and  she certainly had a professional demeanor, which inspired my belief  that the Fire Department was in good hands. Sweat had ``the most  appropriate name for the job'' joked a local columnist, and her tenure  as chief led to significant advances. I wish her well in retirement.