Recognizing the Importance of Libya's Return to Stability


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697384/recognizing-the-importance-of-libyas-return-to-stability


Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to include in the Record the following  article titled Libya Has a Deal for Trump That Could Reshape Africa and  Europe by Tom O'Connor of Newsweek on how important it is for Libya to  return to stability:

As a divided Libya lies between two deepening crises in       Africa and the porous southern flank of Europe,       representatives of the       nation's internationally recognized government told Newsweek       they were looking to President Donald Trump to strike a deal       that could have profound effects across two continents.

The appeal from the Tripoli-based Government of National       Unity that controls much of Libya's northwest involves       seeking U.S. support in pressuring countries--namely Russia,       the United Arab Emirates and Egypt--accused of aiding the       rival Government of National Stability that controls much of       the rest of the nation, including Libya's second city of       Benghazi, and is backed by the military support of       influential Libyan National Army chief Field Marshall Khalifa       Haftar.

In exchange, the Government of National Unity envisions       boosting business and investment ties--particularly regarding       Libya's vast reserves of oil--with an administration known       for its deal-based transactional foreign policy. The Libyan       authorities also aim to solidify security ties that may       bolster NATO's position in the Mediterranean, curb the free       flow of fighters and arms to conflicts raging in the       neighboring Sahel region and Sudan while also easing the       large-scale migration of African refugees to Europe.

``We would like to have the involvement of United States.       And, especially with this government, they are always looking       for deals, there are a lot of deals that we can do, and we       keep mutual interests,'' Mahmoud Ahmed Alftise, economic       adviser to Government of National Unity Prime Minister Abdul-      Hamid Dbeibah, told Newsweek. ``Of course, we have our       sovereignties, but we would like to have a good friend, a       strong friend.''

``We would like to have a friend's mutual interest, so we       can go ahead and move, so people have their prosperities.''       Alftise said, ``because the Libyan people are really       suffering from this regional interference in Libya.''                               Libya's Fracture

The roots of Libya's schism can be traced back to a 2011       rebellion against longtime leader Muammar al-Qaddafi.       Qaddafi, who had ruled the nation since seizing power in a       1969 coup against the monarchy and later adopted the titles       of ``brotherly leader'' and ``King of Kings'' of Africa, had       for decades molded a seemingly invincible cult of personality       bolstered by grand infrastructure projects and iron-fisted       suppression of dissent until widespread unrest swelled around       the Arab Spring movement.

As Qaddafi's forces attempted to extinguish the uprising,       NATO intervened directly with a crushing air campaign in       support of the rebels, leading to the Libyan leader's       downfall and ultimate slaying at the hands of opposition       fighters.

Libya's initial post-Qaddafi steps appeared hopeful as the       temporary National Transitional Council handed the reigns to       the elected General National Congress in 2012, marking the       nation's first-ever peaceful transfer of power. But new       elections held in 2014 produced the first major crisis as       political feuds and opposing interpretations of the nascent       constitution led to the establishment of the House of       Representatives to rival the General National Congress as       Libya's legislative body.

Haftar, a former close Qaddafi confidant and commander who       fled to the U.S. in the 1990s to begin orchestrating efforts       to oust his ex-ally, emerged as a powerful military figure in       support of the House of Representatives. As head of the       Libyan National Army, he declared a military operation       against the General National Congress, and Libya thus       devolved into a second civil war, this time with no clear       victor.

The conflict continued for six years until a 2020 ceasefire       that once again inspired cautious optimism toward a political       solution, with the establishment of the Government of       National Unity as the new Tripoli-based authority aimed at       unifying the nation. But the House of Representatives       rejected the Government of National Unity's mandate the       following year, leading to the creation of the Government of       National Stability in the east and entrenching the dual power       system that continues to divide Libya to this day.

Sporadic clashes also persist, sometimes among internal       factions of the two major governments that claim legitimate       authority in Libya, such as occurred between military and       militia units in Tripoli in May. Without a mutually agreed       framework for Libya's unification and a United Nations road       map left sidelined, both parties remain locked in their feud,       though Alftise argued the Government of National Unity       remained more open to a negotiated solution.

``Our government is more flexible, there are even some       thoughts that maybe we can merge the two governments in order       to have an election, and then we will have, of course,       parliamentary elections, and then we have a presidential       election, or maybe together,'' Alftise said.

``But what happened is the House of Representatives is       under the control of Mr. Haftar,'' he added. ``They cannot       say something that he does not like.''                               Foreign Intrigue

While a return to large-scale fighting has thus far been       avoided, fears loom over such a scenario plunging the country       into another period of civil strife. Alftise suggested the       decision of peace and war may ultimately be influenced by the       whims of foreign powers, who have increasingly spread their       influence in Libya.

For the Government of National Unity, this includes Turkey,       which deployed personnel and drones among other assets to aid       the Tripoli-based administration against the Libyan National       Army's advances in 2020. Ankara's role is defended by the       Government of National Unity as a necessary bulwark against       the presence of Russia's Wagner Group private military       company--largely since rebranded and reorganized under the       Russian Defense Ministry as the Africa Corps--among the ranks       of Haftar's forces.

Ibrahim Sahad, a member of Libya's High Council of State       that succeeded the General National Congress in 2016, stated       that Russian personnel had established ``three or four air       force bases in Libya,'' including in ``very sensitive       areas,'' such as the central district of Jufra, Benghazi's       Benina International Airport and in Tobruk, where the       Government of National Stability and Libyan National Army are       headquartered. He warned such maneuvers should raise alarms       in Europe and the U.S., though warnings have thus far gone       unheeded.

``When we talk about the Russian presence and involvement,       I see there is lack of sensitivities from the American side       with that regard, as if it is something we can live with,''       Sahad told Newsweek. ``No we cannot live with that.

``And even the future, not for us, also for the West, for       NATO,'' he added. ``Libya used to be the flank of NATO.''

And elsewhere on the continent itself, he predicted that       inaction on Russia's projection of influence through the       deployment of personnel in regions like the Sahel could       precipitate a broader geopolitical shift for Africa at a time       when many nations have already abandoned ties with Europe.

``The Russian presence in Libya is not only controlling       Libya. No, they are controlling Africa,'' Sahad said. ``They       are sending troops to other African countries, and they want       to be in control of them. And if this continues, if we allow       that to continue, they will find one time that Africa will       come to the other side.''

The Kremlin's interest in Libya is deep-rooted as NATO's       intervention prompted a severe backlash from Russian       President Vladimir Putin. who went on to double down on back       for another Soviet-era ally facing an Arab Spring revolt,       Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Assad's downfall at the       hands of an Islamist-led rebel offensive last year has       reportedly been followed by an uptick in contacts with       Haftar, who met Putin in May at Russia's 80th anniversary       World War II Victory Day parade.

It's not just Moscow or even adversaries of Washington that       the Government of National Unity suspects of seeking a       lasting piece of Libya. Sahad argued that the United Arab       Emirates had thrown its weight behind Haftar in a bid for       port access and other shares of the country.

``The UAE has this sickness of wanting to control harbors.       They came to buy New York Harbor one time,'' Sahad said.       ``The control of the Libyan harbors, some of them is to be       part of the Libyan oil industry, and to be part of the       financial sector, especially the banks, and there are other       things, and I have no doubt that they have this ambition, and       I have no doubt that Haftar agrees with that.''

Egypt, too, has expressed its ambitions to stake control       over parts of eastern Libya, according to Sahad, who cited       Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi's 2020 remarks       calling any attack by the Government of National Unity's       forces against the Government of National Stability-held       coastal city of Sirte a ``red line'' that would result in       direct Egyptian military intervention.

Russia and the UAE have rejected allegations that they       provided direct support for the Libyan National Army during       its westward offensives, while Egypt has framed its stance as       necessary for maintaining security along its border with       Libya.

Still, Sahad argued that addressing runaway foreign       influence was key to unlocking progress on other fronts,       including reconciling the split nature of Libya's governance       and paving the way for U.S. investment in Libya's resource       industry.

``If we put an end to this interference, our situation will       be better,'' Sahad said. ``Maybe it will be easier for us to       reach an agreement and unify the institutions. A lot of       things could happen by then. But with this interference we       have, we have real big problems in that regard. The U.S. can       help a lot.''

``Another sphere is our oil industry faces a lot of       problems because of a lack of experts,'' he added. ``The       American companies started the oil industry in the 50s, now       we have a lot of fields not explored yet. I think United       States companies have a big interest there. And it's not only       oil, we have other minerals.''

To address the growing presence of foreign actors, Sahad       called on the U.S. to crack down on the nations suspected of       playing destabilizing roles in Libya. While he said he was       encouraged by moves such as the Libyan Stabilization Act that       passed the House of Representatives in 2021 but was never       signed into law, he argued he has not ``seen any real effort       from either this administration, nor the administration       before, to put some pressure on the United Arab Emirates or       Egypt to stop their interference in Libya.''

Attention to foreign influence in Libya has also sparked       some acknowledgment within the Government of National Unity       regarding Turkey's growing role, particularly after Ankara       began fostering closer dialogue with the House of       Representatives as part of what Turkish President Recep       Tayyip Erdogan referred to in August as a step in line with       his       nation's ``multidimensional diplomatic efforts.''

``Of course, the Turks always like to have some existence       in the area, because they feel they are a power in the area.       And nowadays they are,'' Alftise said. ``They were, of       course, in the Ottoman Empire, and now they are trying to       have a new history there.''                         At the Crossroads of Crises

Risks posed by Libya's fractured state and the presence of       foreign actors are compounded by instability in neighboring       nations--some of which can be traced back to the initial       shock of Qaddafi's sudden downfall and the subsequent vacuum       of power.

The collapse of Libya in 2011 sparked a major influx of       arms and fighters through the Sahel, with ethnic Tuareg       fighters who once fought on both sides of the Libyan Civil       War staging a 2012 uprising in Mali. This was followed by an       explosion of Islamist insurgency, including groups linked to       Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State, that is spreading across the       region today.

To the southeast, Haftar's troops have been accused of       aiding the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces against the       Sudanese Armed Forces in the civil war that first erupted-in       Sudan in 2021. The Government of National Unity has further       alleged that Haftar supported the Rapid Support Forces with       fuel transfers backed by the United Arab Emirates, though UAE       officials have repeatedly rejected direct involvement in       Sudan's civil war.

The conflict in Sudan is considered to be the world's worst       humanitarian crisis today, driving millions of people out of       the large African nation. Many of these refugees from Sudan       and others fleeing conflicts and harsh conditions elsewhere       in Africa find their way to Libya, taking advantage of the       country's disunity and unpatrolled borders to embark on a       treacherous trip across the Mediterranean to Europe.

Nearly 60,000 people survived the journey and another 1,500       are known to have perished in 2025 alone, according to the       European Union's Frontex border security agency, which       identifies Libya as the primary departure point. The total       number of those who fled from Libya by sea since 2011 is       believed to at least be in the hundreds of thousands, with       potentially more unreported.

``Europe has a big problem with the immigrants who come       with ships,'' Sahad said. ``Why do we have these immigrants?       Because we could not control the borders, our southern       borders. We cannot control them. We need help in that regard.       We need technology.''

``We cannot control the vast borders in the south, but with       technology, you can, and Europe is not giving us that help,''       he added.

Yet there's hope Washington may be able to step in here, as       Sahad believes this is another thing the United States can       help us with,'' and do so with a promise of reciprocal       benefits.

``We're not saying that we are demanding or asking, but       also Libya will give the United States the energy, and we       will give their states the stability of that region,'' Sahad       said. ``If Libya is stable, then there are big advantages for       Northern Africa, for Africa.''

Alftise reiterated this point, arguing that, while the       Government of National Unity has so far been able to keep the       threat of Islamist militant resurgence in the west at bay,       the lack of control over the southern border and growing       jihadi infiltration of nations such as Mali, Burkina Faso and       Niger meant U.S. support was necessary not only for       safeguarding Libya, but far beyond as well.

``It's not only for the sake of Libya,'' Alftise said,       ``it's the sake of Africa and the sake of southern Europe.''                                 Unity First

As the 15th anniversary of the uprising that toppled       Qaddafi nears in February, uncertainty prevails over the       nation of roughly 7.5 million people once considered one of       the richest nations in Africa that has still yet to rebound       from its pre-2011 economic performance.

Alftise said that ``there is still a big hope that things       will be okay,'' though he acknowledged a wave of nostalgia       for Qaddafi's rule, fueled largely by social media and       foreign outlets. In response, he said, ``we're trying to tell       the people that era has more bad things than good things.''

And while the cautious calm that continues to hold has       produced some positive growth in the economy and social       development in recent years, so much potential is hindered by       the stillunwavering splitAnd while the cautious calm that       continues to hold has produced some positive growth in the       economy and social development in recent years, so much       potential is hindered by the still-unwavering split between       the opposing governments.

In the east, Haftar continues to entrench his position,       promoting at least two of his sons, Saddam and Khalid, to       senior military positions and a third, Belqasim, as his top       political adviser. Critics accuse of him emulating Qaddafi in       his dynastic tendencies and strongman persona that       overshadows Government of National Stability Prime Minister       Osama Hammad.

In the west, Dbeibah faces not only the rival government in       Tobruk and its foreign backers but also a complex array of       internal factions, including Islamist forces who seek to push       their own vision of Libya in backing the Government of       National Unity. His leverage is further challenged by       incessant clashes over Libya's oil and gas infrastructure, a       backbone of the national economy that has been sapped by the       dual power rivalry and rampant fuel smuggling.

Nevertheless, Dbeibah's administration continues to enjoy       international recognition and his outreach to the White House       has not gone unnoticed. Trump's senior adviser on Africa       affairs, Massad Boulos, traveled to Tripoli in July to hold       talks with Dbeibah that reportedly included a Libyan offer to       forge a $70 billion economic partnership with the U.S.

But Libya has also caught the eye of the administration on       another matter often tied to Trump's diplomatic efforts in       the Middle East and North Africa. In April, Trump's special       envoy to theMidiile East, Steve Witkoff, named Libya as among       six nations that could potentially join the Abraham Accords,       a series of agreements through which the United Arab       Emirates, Bahrain, Sudan and Morocco established diplomatic       ties with Israel in late 2020 and early 2021.

The deals marked the first Arab-Israeli normalization pacts       since those struck by Egypt in 1979 and Jordan in 1994, save       for Mauritania's short-lived recognition offered in 1999 and       rescinded amid a war in Gaza a decade later. Like the rest of       the Arab world and many Muslim nations, Libya has never       recognized Israel and has consistently expressed support for       Palestinians, once constituting a major source of Palestinian       militia funds and arms throughout the Qaddafi era.

Even years from Qaddafi's ouster, the Israeli-Palestinian       issue remains a sensitive one for Libya. Both Alftise and       Sahad said unifying and stabilizing the nation remained the       first order of business before such decisions could be taken.

``The important thing for us at the moment is to revive       Libya as a as a country with a civil government, with       democracy, so we can have our country in a sovereign       situation, and it could take whatever decisions built on,       one, the sovereignty of the nation, and, two, the agreement       of the people, because that's democracy,'' Sahad said. ``So,       this is what we are facing.''