Recognizing Dr. James R. Downing


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700382/recognizing-dr-james-r-downing


Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the pioneering  children's cancer researcher Dr. James R. Downing, the President and  CEO of the St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, who is  stepping down from twelve years in that role to return to the  laboratory. As CEO, he has led a $12.9 billion commitment to accelerate  research and treatments of catastrophic pediatric diseases. His own  laboratory research has focused on the genetic basis of cancers. As  CEO, he was instrumental in creating the Pediatric Cancer Genome  Project, a genetic sequencing effort to discover why childhood cancers  arise, spread and resist treatment.

As the leader of St. Jude, he has been a driving force behind  improving survival rates of cancer and other catastrophic diseases  internationally by creating a global alliance of over 400 health care  institutions assuring children around the world have access to the best  and most-advanced therapies and care. Overseeing the management of the  St. Jude, Dr. Downing has been recognized for its outstanding workplace  culture and for being a forward-thinking workplace for diversity and  for women. Dr. Downing has received numerous honors, including election  to the National Academy of Medicine and the American Academy of Arts  and Sciences, as well as receiving the Memorial Sloan Kettering Prize,  the E. Donnall Thomas Lecture and Prize from the American Society of  Hematology, and the Pediatric Oncology Award from the American Society  of Clinical Oncology. Dr. Downing received his undergraduate and  medical degrees from the University of Michigan. He joined St. Jude in  1986 after training in anatomic pathology at Washington University in  St. Louis and a fellowship in hematopathology at the University of  Florida at Gainesville. In 2016, he was named to the Blue Ribbon Panel  of then-Vice President Joe Biden's National Cancer Moonshot Initiative.  In 2013, he was a finalist for Time magazine's list of the World's Most  Influential People. He is a co-author on numerous medical journal  articles on childhood cancers and treatment.

While we await the naming of his successor as CEO this summer, I wish  Dr. Downing well as he returns to the laboratory at St. Jude and hope  that he continues to make significant progress in finding preventions,  treatments, and cures for cancer, which will benefit millions of people  around the world.