America Deserves President Trump


Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend President  Donald Trump for the executive actions he has taken to secure our  southern border. Thanks to his leadership, illegal crossings have  dropped to the lowest level we have seen in decades. Our communities  have suffered for too long under Joe Biden's failed open-border  policies.

Crime has surged, fentanyl has poured in, and American jobs have been  undermined. Biden's refusal to enforce our immigration laws created a  national security crisis, but now with President Trump back in office,  we are witnessing the power of real enforcement.

His executive actions are restoring order, protecting American  families, and putting our country first. Biden let chaos reign while  Trump is bringing security back to our borders.

We must never allow radical left policies to threaten our Nation's  safety again. America deserves a leader who enforces the law, defends  our borders, and stands up for its citizens, and that leader is Donald  Trump.                   Republicans Stand Up for Women and Girls

Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I should be standing here today  celebrating the Senate's passage of the Protection of Women and Girls  in Sports Act, a bill that simply ensures fairness and common sense in  athletics. Instead, Senate Democrats made their priorities clear. Mr.  Speaker, 45 Senate Democrats voted against protecting women's sports,  45 Senate Democrats voted against keeping women's spaces safe, and 45  Democrats voted against protecting women.

Despite the fact that 80 percent of Americans agree that men do not  belong in women's sports, Senate Democrats still chose to ignore  reality and put our daughters at risk.

This isn't about politics. This is about fairness, safety, and  protecting the integrity of women's sports. This is about a level  playing field. If it wasn't obvious before, now it is. Republicans are  the party that stands for women. We are the party that defends their  right to compete on a level playing field, and while Democrats try to  erase the very definition of womanhood, we will never back down. They  can slow us down, but they will not stop us. We will keep fighting  until every woman and girl in this country has the protections they  deserve.

America's daughters deserve better than what Senate Democrats did  last night.