Critical Infrastructure Manufacturing Feasibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690289/critical-infrastructure-manufacturing-feasibility-act


Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chair Bilirakis for yielding.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1721, the Critical  Infrastructure Manufacturing Feasibility Act. This bipartisan  legislation that I co-lead with Representative Schrier directs the  Secretary of Commerce to conduct a comprehensive study examining the  feasibility of manufacturing critical infrastructure products here in  the United States.

At a time when we have a President who is going to make good on the  promise to onshore manufacturing and have a resurgence of manufacturing  in the United States, there is nothing more important we can do than to  reauthorize the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and pass H.R. 1721.

The challenges we face regarding our supply chains and manufacturing  capabilities have been brought into sharp focus in recent years. We  cannot continue to allow foreign competitors, particularly China and  the Chinese Communist Party, to control our supply chains and create  economic vulnerabilities.

Consider our infrastructure and emerging technologies. We have seen  how foreign control of critical minerals needed for solar panels and  battery production has created bottlenecks in our renewable energy  transition and also in the manufacturing of vehicles.

Similarly, the components required for data centers that power our  artificial intelligence, or augmented intelligence capabilities, are  largely manufactured overseas, creating significant vulnerabilities in  these strategically important sectors.

These examples demonstrate with painful clarity that our Nation's  critical infrastructure, spanning 16 designated sectors including  energy, communications, transportation, healthcare, military, and more,  cannot be dependent on foreign supply chains.

This bill takes a measured, data-driven approach to addressing these  vulnerabilities. Within one 1 year of enactment, the Secretary of  Commerce would be required to identify high-demand critical  infrastructure with manufacturing constraints, do a cost-benefit  analysis of domestic production, and determine the feasibility of such  production.

By supporting this bill, we are taking an important step toward  rebuilding American manufacturing capability in strategic sectors. We  are creating a roadmap for revitalizing rural communities that have  been sidelined for far too long while critical infrastructure  components are manufactured overseas.

This legislation not only shields America from global supply chain  disruptions but also identifies which rural areas are well positioned  to become manufacturing hubs.

The strength of our Nation is enhanced when the materials used in our  critical infrastructure and the products Americans purchase are  produced domestically and American made. When manufacturing happens on  American soil, we retain the innovation, the intellectual property, the  economic benefits, and the long-term prosperity that comes with it in  rebuilding the middle class.

I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense, bipartisan measure  to strengthen America's critical infrastructure, create opportunities  for American workers, and enhance our economic security.