Raising Awareness of World Suicide Prevention Day


Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to raise awareness of  World Suicide Prevention Day on September 10. Suicide remains a  critical issue, affecting individuals and communities worldwide.

Mr. Speaker, 2025's World Suicide Prevention Day is focusing on  changing the narrative on suicide by shifting from a culture of silence  and stigma to one of encouraging open and honest conversations to help  provide support to prevent suicide.

The suicide rate among veterans, especially those aged 18 to 34,  remains stubbornly high. As a veteran myself, I have championed the No  Wrong Door for Veterans Act and several other bills to help strengthen  suicide prevention for veterans. I have also reintroduced the  Corrections Officer Blake Schwarz Suicide Prevention Act, legislation  aimed at providing critical mental health support for corrections  officers around the country.

I will continue to advocate for policies that break the stigma around  suicide and advocate for brain health awareness and suicide prevention.

As a young college student, I actually was one of the people on a  suicide hotline, so I know how tenuous it is and that people need  support and help.

This day reminds us that every life has value and every person  deserves support. Let us work together to remind those who are  struggling that they are not alone and that help is always within  reach.                             Honoring LaVern Harvey

Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of  LaVern ``Vern'' Harvey.

Vern passed away on August 8 at age 81 with his family by his side.  Vern was born and raised in Iowa and attended the University of Iowa  where he got a bachelor's degree in economics.

In 1996, he married his wife, Christine Bullington, and entered the  United States Army. Vern served as a helicopter pilot in Vietnam. He  received many accolades for his service and was later discharged as a  captain in 1970.

For over 50 years, Vern called Bettendorf home.

Vern managed two businesses, Harvey Homes and Kirkwood Investors  Realty, where he contributed greatly to the community by building  affordable homes.

Vern went on to serve three terms as an Iowa State House  representative for district 779. As a fellow veteran, I understand  Vern's services, sacrifices, and commitment to our Nation.

Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Christine; his children,  Mitchell and Megan; and the rest of his family.

Vern was unwaveringly kind. He was a wonderful husband, father, and  grandfather and committed to the betterment of Iowa, Bettendorf, and  our Nation.        Recognizing His All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew

Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize His All- Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, who is the spiritual leader  and the ``primus inter pares''; ``first among equals'' of Greek  Orthodox Christianity worldwide, a church of over 300 million people.

His All-Holiness is visiting the United States to receive the  Templeton Prize, the world's most prestigious award in religion and  science.

I congratulate His All-Holiness on this amazing achievement. I know  people in Iowa are extending that congratulations, and I welcome him to  the United States.