Support for the Orphan Drug Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691696/support-for-the-orphan-drug-act


Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  importance of the Orphan Drug Act in driving rare disease therapy  clinical research in my district at the University  of Iowa. As a physician, a legislator, and a member of the Rare Disease  Congressional Caucus, I have seen firsthand the life-changing impact  that medical innovation can have on patients battling rare diseases.  Iowa's first congressional district is home to clinical trials for  several rare diseases that lack a Food and Drug Administration (FDA)- approved therapy, including Becker muscular dystrophy, Gaucher disease  type 3, and limb girdle muscular dystrophy. For these patients, and the  millions of Americans suffering from rare diseases, scientific  advancements represent more than just medical progress--they offer hope  where none previously existed.

That hope would not be possible without the Orphan Drug Act, which  has served as the foundation for rare disease drug development for over  four decades. The Orphan Drug Act's most critical incentive is orphan  drug exclusivity, which is a seven-year period of market exclusivity.  This incentive ensures that innovators willing to take the  extraordinary risk of developing a first-in-class treatment for a  complex condition affecting a small patient population are  appropriately rewarded.

For many rare diseases, the first FDA-approved treatment is a  lifeline. These therapies often require years of research, billions in  investment, and considerable perseverance to bring these medicines to  patients. Without a strong and reliable exclusivity framework, these  treatments simply would not exist. Congress intended orphan exclusivity  to serve as ``a marketplace-oriented solution that provide incentives  for private enterprise to develop orphan drugs.'' FDA established  regulations that aimed to protect this critical economic incentive  while also encouraging continued innovation for a rare disease by  allowing a follow-on product that is the same drug for the same use to  break orphan exclusivity if it demonstrates greater efficacy, greater  safety, or a ``major contribution to patient care'' relative to the  original orphan drug. Congress codified these regulations in 2017.

Congress has long recognized that the ``major contribution care''  prong of the ``clinical superiority'' standard is meant to be a high  bar. We did not intend for minor modifications such as changes in  dosing frequency or formulation to erode the exclusivity protections of  the first innovator drug unless such modifications result in a  significant clinical benefit in treating the underlying conditions. If  we allow marginal improvements rather than true clinical advancements  to justify breaking orphan exclusivity, we undermine the very incentive  that encourages companies to develop first-in-class therapies in the  first place. The FDA has a clear precedent for maintaining a high bar  for clinical superiority determinations. If we lower the bar for  breaking orphan exclusivity, especially for ``major contribution to  patient care,'' we will undermine the future of rare disease drug  development.

Lowering the bar will deter investment in first-in-class therapies by  reducing the certainty that companies will be able to benefit from the  exclusivity protections Congress intended. Lowering the bar will create  regulatory uncertainty, leading to litigation, market instability, and  hesitation from investors who fund rare disease innovation. Lowering  the bar will set a dangerous precedent for copycat products with few  modifications, encouraging incremental changes rather than bold  scientific advancements. Lowering the bar will hurt patients most of  all, delaying or discouraging the development of a first-ever therapy  for the nearly 10,000 rare diseases that still lack an FDA-approved  treatment.

As a physician, I know that true medical breakthroughs require bold  investment, sustained commitment, and regulatory certainty. As a  legislator, I am committed to preserving the integrity of the Orphan  Drug Act and ensuring that it continues to drive life-changing  treatments for patients. FDA must apply the law a Congress intended and  not allow minor modifications to erode exclusivity protections that  serve as the foundation for rare disease innovation. Today, I am  calling on my fellow members of the Rare Disease Congressional Caucus  to stand together to protect the value of the incentives established in  the Orphan Drug Act.