2027 Presidential Budget Request Will Make Life Harder


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702040/2027-presidential-budget-request-will-make-life-harder


Ms. BROWN. Mr. Speaker, the convicted felon in the White House is not  an honest man, but when he rebranded the Department of Defense as the  Department of War, for once, for once, he told the truth because war is  what we have. War is what he wants, and war is what he is asking the  American people to pay for.

President Trump's budget requests $1.5 trillion in taxpayer money for  the Department of War--$1.5 trillion, a $440 billion increase. Who pays  the extra $440 billion? Not the billionaires who just got tax cuts, not  Elon, not the Trump family, not White House insiders cashing in on  trades ahead of market-moving announcements, no. Trump's war machine  will be paid for by working people, just like his tax cuts for  billionaires were paid for by working people.

In the last year, Trump has made the largest cuts to Medicaid and the  Affordable Care Act in history and the largest cut to food assistance  in history, all to make the richest Americans richer and the biggest  corporations bigger.

This time, it is not tax cuts but war he wants.

What ATM is the President tapping again to pay for it?

It is the working men and women of this country.

How does the President propose paying for more war?

I am glad you asked, Mr. Speaker. It is with cuts to heating  assistance, with cuts to housing, with cuts to education and job  training, and even cuts to programs that provide food for women,  infants, and children, all to pay for wars that the American people  don't want.

What is the agenda?

It is to cut healthcare to fund war, cut food to fund war, cut  housing and heating programs to fund war, and cut maternal health to  fund war. He wants to cut more, take more, and sacrifice more.

And for what?

It is for war. Wars the American people do not want. That is not just  grossly irresponsible, it is gross and immoral.

Mr. Speaker, I don't know who is winning Trump's war with Iran, but I  can tell you who is losing the war: Everyday people in America. It is  hardworking people seeing prices rise even more, people trying to  afford healthcare, to buy a home, and to make ends meet. Working people  can't afford Trump's reckless wars, and they can't afford this  horrendous budget.

We owe it to them to reject this abomination.