Protecting Education for Children with Disabilities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698947/protecting-education-for-children-with-disabilities


Ms. BROWN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, Congresswoman Hayes, for  hosting this Special Order Hour and for her leadership on this critical  issue.

Mr. Speaker, 50 years ago Congress passed the Individuals With  Disabilities Education Act, or IDEA, because America rejected exclusion  and finally recognized a simple truth: Every child,  regardless of ability, deserves to learn, grow, and succeed.

Yet, today, that promise is under attack. Disabled students are more  vulnerable than ever, facing threats to their funding, their services,  and the Federal protections that make equal education possible.

At the same time, this administration is laying off the very civil  servants whose job it is to protect those children and enforce the law.  When you cut special education funding, cut the Department of  Education, and cut the staff, no one can speak out for the children who  need these programs the most--children like my nephew RJ, who was born  premature and has dealt with developmental delays all his life. His  condition requires special care and attention. He didn't choose to be  disabled or to have additional needs, but he is made in God's image,  and he deserves every opportunity to reach his full potential.

Because of programs established by IDEA, children like RJ can access  the same educational assistance and support that other students enjoy.  I think that is a good thing. I think that is what should make America  America, but this White House disagrees.

The Trump administration believes that the rights and opportunities  available to students like RJ can and should be limited. They have spun  abandoning programs as efficiency and told us that they are cutting  waste and saving you money.

What it really is and what it really costs is paid for by underserved  students and their families, because without the protections and  funding provided by IDEA, more students are left behind. Without  federally supported services that help with early detection, children  are less able to navigate a world that wasn't built for them.

IDEA doesn't provide special treatment. It provides children with  fair and inclusive treatment, and it doesn't waste Federal resources.  It breaks through the barriers that children with disabilities face and  levels the playing field.

Today, that lifeline for children with disabilities is under threat.  In my own State, nearly one in five students have disabilities. That is  more than a quarter million children in Ohio who rely on IDEA programs  to get the education they need and deserve.

I have one question today: How exactly does gutting special education  programs and staffing make America great? It doesn't. We should be  strengthening IDEA, not weakening it. We should be protecting civil  rights, not gutting them. We should be recommitting our promise to  every child, not pulling out the rug.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, a true champion in the education  space, for the leadership she has demonstrated on this critical and,  yes, personal issue to me.