Stories From Home: the Human Cost of Expiring Healthcare Tax Credits


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696766/stories-from-home-the-human-cost-of-expiring-healthcare-tax-credits


Ms. BROWN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for leading tonight's  Special Order hour. I thank my colleagues in the CBC for standing up  for this fight.

The fight to protect healthcare is another reminder of why I am so  proud to be part of the Congressional Black Caucus. The members I serve  with are truly the conscience of the Congress.

Since January 20, 2025, we have not given 1 inch to this cruel,  callous, chaotic, and corrupt White House. The truth is, the  communities we represent, including my hometown of Cleveland, cannot  afford Trump's agenda. Working people cannot afford Trump's agenda, and  Black America cannot afford Trump's agenda.

There is an expression: When America catches a cold, Black America  gets the flu. I would argue it is more like COVID before the vaccine.

We can't afford the tariffs. We can't afford the bailouts. We can't  afford the tax giveaways to the Mar-a-Lago guest list. We can't afford  the largest cuts to Medicaid and to the Affordable Care Act in this  Nation's history.

Let's be clear about what is happening. We are living through a  reverse Robin Hood story in America.

It hasn't always been this way. Because of the work of President  Obama, President Biden, and Democrats in Congress, the Black uninsured  rate fell to historic lows last year. That is right. We went from 20  percent of Black Americans being uninsured to just 10 percent.

It is not just Black Americans or people living in cities who have  benefited. In fact, some of the Whitest and most rural parts of America  rely on the Affordable Care Act the most, including a lot of farmers in  my State of Ohio.

There were a lot of gaps in the old system. There were a lot of holes  in the safety net. If Trump has his way, there are going to be a lot  more holes in the net and a lot more people without healthcare-- millions more, to be exact.

Mr. Speaker, 38,000 people in my district are facing huge healthcare  cost increases because of Trump's ACA cuts. The average cost increase  is $700 per person per year. A lot of families will have to pay  thousands more. Their voices should be heard, and we are uplifting  their voices.

Here is what Talia from Cleveland shared with my office: ``I logged  into healthcare.gov to renew my plan for next year, and my monthly  premium multiplied by a factor of four. It is currently set to be four  times as much for health insurance as it was this year. I didn't go  ahead and enroll yet because I am hoping Congress gets their heads in  the game to do what is right. I am not making any more money this year  than I did last year. My income is the same. Rent is going to increase.  Gas is increasing. Groceries are increasing. Utility bills are  increasing--and now my healthcare, too. It is becoming impossible to  survive in this country.''

Mr. Speaker, I completely agree with Talia. To my colleagues across  the aisle, I implore you to stop protecting the powerful. Stop serving  the wealthy. Start listening to the people.

Truly, it is time for Congress to get their heads in the game. I  thank Talia for sharing her story, and I want to assure her we will not  give up on this fight.

It is time we work together to cancel the cuts, lower the costs, and  protect healthcare for all Americans.