Technical Sergeant Alma Gladys Minter Post Office Building


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701632/technical-sergeant-alma-gladys-minter-post-office-building


Ms. BROWN. Madam Speaker, I am very proud to see this legislation on  the floor today, and I appreciate the support of both the ranking  member and chair of the Oversight Committee.

This bill is about recognition, recognition that is a long time  coming, recognition not just for one individual but an entire unit, and  recognition for a group of Black women who have gone into history as  the Six Triple Eight, the first and only all-Black Women's Army Corps  unit to serve overseas in World War II.

Tech Sergeant Alma Gladys Minter of Cleveland, Ohio, was one of those  women. My bill would rename the Collinwood neighborhood Post Office in  Cleveland in her honor.

In 1945, Sergeant Minter and more than 800 women were deployed to  clear a backlog of 17 million pieces of mail for American troops in  Europe. That is right, 17 million pieces of mail. The Army thought it  would take 6 months to deliver. They finished the job in under 90 days.  Therefore, it is hard to think of anything more fitting than naming a  post office after Tech Sergeant Minter. When no one else could, she  delivered the mail, and she did it ahead of schedule.

Sergeant Minter's work kept servicemembers connected to home and  lifted morale at a critical moment in the war, but when the Six Triple  Eight came home, they didn't receive the recognition they deserved.  Sadly, Sergeant Minter and so many of her colleagues passed away before  that could be rectified, but it is never too late to do the right  thing. Renaming the post office after Sergeant Minter is a way to say  thank you, to keep the story of the Six Triple Eight alive, and to  right past wrongs.

This legislation is supported by 13 members of the Ohio delegation,  Republicans and Democrats, and passed the Oversight Committee  unanimously.

Over the past year, my office has been honored to get to know the  Minter family and to help amplify her story. Naming the post office in  honor of Tech Sergeant Minter is a way to ensure her legacy and the  legacy of Six Triple Eight lives on in the hearts of the community she  called home.