Trump's First 100 Days


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690635/trumps-first-100-days


Ms. BROWN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from California, (Ms.  Kamlager-Dove), my dear friend and colleague for leading our CBC  Special Order hour this evening.

Mr. Speaker, I really appreciate Ms. Kamlager-Dove's voice in  Congress, from the way she fights for her constituents in Los Angeles,  to her work on the Judiciary Committee. She is such a strong advocate.

On the Oversight Committee, we are doing similar work, trying to  provide the American people with some amount of transparency and  accountability because we have a President who doesn't think that the  rules apply to him.

Here we are tonight to talk about Trump's first 100 days.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage people watching--shout out to my mom and  dad. I know we have at least two viewers tonight. For the others, I  encourage them to check out Congresswoman Kamlager-Dove's social media  series titled ``Is This Stuff Legal?''

She is doing a great job breaking down how this has been a lawless  White House from day one, and the truth is time and time again what  this administration has been doing has not been legal.

In fact, in Trump's first 100 days, more than 220 lawsuits were filed  directly challenging his agenda. Federal judges have issued over 130  court orders blocking or pausing those actions. If we do the math,  Trump is being sued more than twice a day, and he is losing in court  more than once a day.

They have tried to fire Federal workers without cause, detain and  deport people without due process, freeze and deny congressionally  appropriated funds, and seize sensitive taxpayer information through  the Treasury and Social Security.

This is why Trump's White House is now ignoring Federal courts and  openly ignoring the Constitution. He doesn't have a mandate. He doesn't  have the votes in Congress, and he doesn't have a legal agenda, so he  wants to ignore the law.

We should not be surprised by this. Trump said he was going to be a  dictator on day one. He told us this is what he was going to do. I  personally don't know of any dictators who stop being a dictator on  their own.

We have got to fight back, and we have got to fight back in Congress,  in the courts, and in the community.

My constituents in Cleveland and people across the country are  counting on us to stand up, fight back, and use every tool we have to  oppose this agenda because this has been 100 days of chaos, cruelty,  and cuts.

The Trump administration has broken the economy, broken the law, and  broken our alliances.

In just 100 days, this White House has shrunk the economy, raised  prices, and put us on track for a recession.

Now, President Biden handed him the strongest economy in the world,  and Trump is running it into the ground, which really isn't surprising  because this is a man who could not make money running a casino; not to  mention the fact that he filed bankruptcy six times.

The disastrous policies of this White House are hurting the entire  country, absent a few of his billionaire buddies, of course, but it is  the people that many of us represent that are the most at risk.

This is a White House that constantly diminishes and dismisses Black  achievement; a White House that blames anything and everything on  diversity, equity, and inclusion; a White House that is trying to  defund our public safety programs and our police; a White House that is  trying to defund our schools, and a White House that has rolled back  Federal antidiscrimination policies that have been on the books since  1965--that is right--since 1965.

In his first week, President Trump revoked the ``Equal Employment  Opportunity'' executive order that prohibited racial discrimination for  Federal contractors.

Let's be clear: They aren't hiding this agenda to make discrimination  legal again.

That is why I filed legislation to restore those policies, and I am  proud to have had over 60 cosponsors in the House, including many of my  colleagues here this evening.

Mr. Speaker, it has been a disastrous 100 days, but I feel the worst  is yet to come.

This week, the Republican-led committees are working on Trump's  Republican rip-off, a plan to take from our constituents so that they  can give to the ultrawealthy and the very well-connected. We are  talking about healthcare and taking away Medicaid coverage. We are  talking about nutrition and taking away SNAP benefits from families and  so much more, because the budget they voted for called for $880 billion  in cuts to Medicaid and $230 billion in cuts to SNAP.

Here is the reality: 21 percent of my district is living below the  poverty line and 30 percent of children are in poverty. I represent  280,000 people on Medicaid, 160,000 people on SNAP. These aren't just  numbers; these are real people. Sadly, this White House isn't listening  to them, so it is up to us to amplify their voices tonight, today, and  every day.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend, Congresswoman Kamlager-Dove, for  leading this Special Order hour.