Cloture Motion


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695668/cloture-motion


Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President:

I would do anything for my country.

If an epitaph were ever written to the ``greatest generation,'' that  would be it:

I would do anything for my country.

These words were spoken by one of the remaining heroes from that  selfless age. He celebrates his 100th birthday this week, and on this  momentous occasion, we owe him thanks for his service.

There he is. His story is powerful. His example is certainly worth  following.

At the end of 1941, a teenage attendant was knocked down when an air  compressor knocked him off his feet. He was working at Hoosier Pete  filling station in Indianapolis. That blast broke windows, it tore off  the roof of a room, and it cracked a wall, but it could not keep Clyde  Milligan down.

Shortly after the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor, the minor explosion  at that station was forgotten, but Clyde was on his feet at a military  recruiting station. What was under his feet demonstrated his devotion  to this country and his belief in it at a ripe age. You see, Clyde was  16 years old, and he was a sophomore at Ben Davis High School outside  Indianapolis. The legal enlistment age at the time was 18, but Clyde  could not tell a lie. Nothing was going to stop him from fighting for  America, though, so before Clyde walked into that recruiting office, he  wrote the No. 18 on the sole of his shoe, and when the recruiting  officer asked him if he were over 18, Clyde, of course, said yes.

As a staff sergeant, Clyde guarded the beaches in Virginia and  Maryland. That was a dangerous duty, as those beaches were vulnerable  to U-boats. This assignment was made sufferable, he said, by the dances  that were held at the camp, but those evenings and any other comforts  were soon just faded memories by the time Clyde deployed to the South  Pacific.

He was a soldier for the 111th Infantry Regiment. He crossed the  Marshall Islands, leading a squadron during the allied invasion of  Kwajalein. Clyde and his men helped secure American control of that  island and destroyed a link in the Japanese defensive perimeter.

For his valor, Clyde was awarded numerous honors. The one he was the  most proud of was the Combat Infantryman Badge. That was a few years  into a young man's life, a long time ago, like so many of the boys who  were asked to and did the impossible: storming the beaches of Normandy,  liberating concentration camps, and island-hopping across the Pacific.

When the war ended, Clyde returned back home. This Hoosier boy  married. He was wed for many years to his late wife Marie. He worked  for and then owned a small business. He dedicated himself to his  community and his church. He is still spending his energy to this day  on behalf of New Hope Christian Church in Whitestown, IN.

Although the war had interrupted his education, in the 1990s, Clyde-- representing his fellow World War II veterans who had left school to  join the fight--Clyde was awarded an honorary high school diploma.

Clyde, you can see, has lived the American dream.

Like so many soldiers, he seldom speaks about his service during the  war; he seldom references the sacrifices. He has said in the past that  he witnessed things while serving in the South Pacific that no teenager  should ever see. What he shared about his service, I am told, was his  sense of duty, his commitment to the men he led, and his respect for  those he fought under.

Whether he will admit it or not--I suspect the answer is no--Clyde  Milligan is one of our best. You might even call him a hero--a hero for  the way he answered his country's call in a time of peril and for the  way he has lived his life since the war ended--a life guided by faith,  full of achievements and friendships, and, as the Bible says, years.

There have been many great generations of Americans dating back to  our founding, and I trust there will be many more. The patriotism and  humility of one inspires the next. So let's continue to cherish and  honor our ``greatest generation'' and the greatest of our generation.  Let's inspire this generation and the generations that follow by  recognizing these standout citizens--some of them citizen warriors who  helped us win World War II--so that when future Americans are called to  greatness, they, too, in Clyde Milligan's words, will do anything for  their country.

On this monumental birthday, we all--from the U.S. Senate back to his  church in Whitestown--send him our best wishes and enduring thanks.