Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, last week, I traveled around the great  State of Indiana on my RESTART tour. 

  I visited small businesses up and down the State--eight cities, in  fact--where we have seen so many Hoosiers adversely impacted by this  pandemic. Like many other States, Indiana is starting to open up our  economy, and I know so many Hoosiers welcome that. Our Governor, Eric  Holcomb, has been implementing a five-stage plan for safely reopening  Indiana's economy. 

  The cities on my tour have businesses that are in various stages of  reopening. Restaurants like Catablu Grille in Fort Wayne, Arni's in  Lafayette, and Woody's Library in Carmel are open at 50-percent  capacity right now. The nonprofit Terre Haute Children's Museum remains  closed, unfortunately, and is struggling to pay its employees. I  visited Zimmer Biomet Hibbard, which is a medical device company in  Valparaiso. I enjoyed the tour and visiting with the employees, but I  discovered that its sales had dropped 95 percent in March. Fortunately,  it received a Paycheck Protection Program loan, and that enabled it to  keep all 23 of its employees on the payroll. 

  It is clear that we need to continue evaluating additional relief  measures for small businesses and Indiana's nonprofits. My RESTART Act  is a viable approach to help keep our hardest hit businesses and  nonprofits going. The RESTART Act is a bipartisan measure I introduced  with Senator Bennet. The effort here is to build upon the success of  the Paycheck Protection Program. We have seen that more than 74,000  Hoosier businesses have benefited from PPP, with loans totaling nearly  $9.4 billion in the State of Indiana. Just for context, that is an  average loan of about $130,000. These are for small businesses like  those that we see up and down our State. 

  The Paycheck Protection Program requires funds to be spent in just 8  weeks, but most restaurants, gyms, boutiques, and so many other  businesses were not permitted to be open during part or all of that 8- week period. So the first part of the RESTART Act merely extends the  timeframe to 16 weeks for our Nation's hardest hit businesses. 

  Secondly, we know that the PPP was meant to be a bridge to reopening  the economy, but many small businesses have much longer bridges to  cross. That is why our new RESTART Program would provide loans that  would cover up to 6 months of payroll and fixed operating expenses.  That is just for those businesses that have taken a substantial revenue  hit during this coronavirus pandemic. My RESTART initiative would  provide needed funds with the flexibility for employers to pay bills  and to implement social distancing measures, like with those Plexiglas  dividers I have seen at so many businesses. Most importantly, it would  bring employees back to work, which is exactly where they want to be. 

  Over the last several weeks, I have spoken to more than 22,000  Hoosiers by using Zoom teleconferencing capabilities, having conference  calls, and other means. I have to say I am truly inspired by the way  Hoosiers have come together to help one another during this pandemic.  Everyone has done his part. Hoosiers want to work, and business owners  are eager to pay them.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT