Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. YOUNG. Memorial Day. If you travel door to door in neighborhoods  across this country, all Americans will agree that this day is special.  It is a day to honor the men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice  on behalf of our country. Thanks to their heroism, we have our freedom,  our strong democracy, and our country's greatness. For their  contributions, we owe them a debt we can never repay. 

  It was 152 years ago that our 16th President, Abraham Lincoln,  enacted the first national Memorial Day. It was a day meant to honor  the valiant soldiers who fought in the Civil War, and today we still  heed Abraham Lincoln's timeless words:  

       Bind up the nation's wounds to care for him who shall have       borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan.  

  To me, Memorial Day is a day to reflect--reflect on the Hoosiers and  other great Americans we have lost to causes greater than their own. 

  This day honors Alec, LCpl Alec Terwiske of Dubois, IN, a fellow U.S.  marine. Alec lost his life in the line of service in Afghanistan in  2012, and I proudly wear his memorial bracelet around my wrist as a  reminder of that sacrifice. 

  This day honors James, CPL James Bethel Gresham from Evansville, IN.  He is in the history books for being among the first American soldiers  to give their lives in the line of duty during World War I. 

  This day honors Charles, SGT Charles G. Ruble of Parker City, IN, who  was killed in Europe during World War II in 1944. His remains were  recently identified and returned to the United States, and in March, he  was buried with full military honors at Arlington National Cemetery. 

  This day honors Christopher. Just 2 weeks ago, we lost SGT  Christopher Wesley Curry. Only 23 years old, this Hoosier soldier from  Terre Haute, IN, was stationed in Iraq. Those who knew Christopher  said:        

       Sgt. Curry's incessant optimism was the hallmark of his       personality and often provided respite for others during       times of stress. His honesty, lightheartedness, and wit will       always be remembered by his brothers in arms.  

  To those who are not here today because they made the ultimate  sacrifice for our Nation, we humbly say thank you. Their legacy lives  on in the hearts of every American. 

  God bless America. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT