MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, growing up, my dad used to tell me on a  regular basis: ``You should never speak up unless you can improve upon  the silence.'' I tried to take that to heart in my personal life and in  my professional life. 

  Today I feel like I can improve upon the silence. I have a deep  conviction that the U.S. Senate is not living up to the expectations of  the American people. The American people deserve a U.S. Senate as good  as the American people. They deserve a U.S. Senate that is responsive  when they need government most. 

  I suppose it is fashionable these days to use so many of our  institutions in society to elevate ourselves. Well, folks, this  institution--this institution--its credibility is at stake. The  American people need this institution to function. 

  I was a U.S. marine after graduating from college, and I never saw a  war. I never saw a national emergency or a major crisis. I am very  straightforward about that, but I have to say, I was ready for a war. I  was prepared for that big day when the United States of America really,  really needed me, and I made sure all of my marines were prepared. We  were prepared to do our duty when it mattered most. 

  As it relates to this pandemic, I have to say that the American  people are ready. Look around. It makes you proud.  

  Are we not a unified people? Are we a Tribal people? There is a lot  of conversation about that among political circles. Spend some time in  my neighborhood. Spend some time back home in Indiana right now. Maybe  it took some separation, some social distancing. Maybe it took some  time away from work, some time away from social gatherings. Maybe it  took cancellation, unfortunately, of March Madness, the NCAA  tournament, to remind us all that we are deeply connected with one  another. And we long for those connections, regardless of political  philosophy and regardless of the fact that we have an election going  on. That is not what is real important to regular people. 

  Americans are coming together. They are ready for this emergency, and  this is, indeed, an emergency. Make no mistake, look across the country  at all the National Guards who are being mobilized. 

  This is an emergency that people in my home State have been  responding to favorably. The Senate needs to as well. Folks in my  neighborhood are putting bags of groceries on people's doorsteps who  are unable to go out and get groceries themselves. I know this from my  own family. They are calling senior citizens they know who they think  are probably lonely at this time. They are coming together. 

  Back in Evansville, one of my friends, J.P., who is a business owner  and very active in the community, and I were on the phone the other  day. I think, like other Members, I have had countless phone calls in  the last week or so with businessowners, not-for-profit leaders,  healthcare providers, and rank-and-file citizens. This active citizen,  this community leader, J.P. in Evansville, says that he was on the  phone with the mayor, local business leaders, local healthcare leaders,  and a bunch of others from Southern Indiana, and they were all on the  same page. They have figured out how to come together, how to solve  local problems together. They were all ready to tackle this because  they sensed what we should all sense: The sooner you can tackle these  challenges, the sooner the pain will end, and the sooner we will reduce  anxiety among our neighbors. They are all determined to work together.  In fact, he said he had not seen such unity within the community of  Evansville, IN, since 9/11. It says a lot. 

  Well, the Senate must be ready. This package, the CARES Act, was  negotiated in a bipartisan way--two Democrats, two Republicans, in  consultation with each of the varying working groups. They put together  a package. It all came together, and it was introduced. It was all  bipartisan until it came time to vote on a procedural vote yesterday 

  You know, this virus may seem to many small because it has impacted a  small percentage of our population directly, but I have to say that its  impact is growing rapidly. The longer it takes us to come together, the  more damage that is going to be done. This is an emergency. 

  It is time, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, to take yes  for an answer and not play games. 

  So what does this bill do? It is nothing controversial. It provides  additional assistance for healthcare needs. This is a pandemic. We need  more masks. We need more PPEs. Our hospitals are swamped. They can't  conduct elective surgeries anymore. Their finances are out of whack. We  need to help them out. 

  What else does it do? It helps individual Americans. Folks are  resource-constrained right now. They can't go to work. So 1,200 bucks,  at least for starters, per American; $2,400 per married couple; and an  additional $500 if you have dependents--that is really going to make a  difference in Hoosiers' lives. 

  We need to make sure that people have lives to go back to once we get  through this, as well, and that is why this legislation is designed to  provide much needed liquidity for these businesses. They still have  debts to pay. They still have debts. They want to make payroll. 

  I can't tell you--I mean, I have talked to so many small businessmen  in tears. I have talked to leaders of our largest corporations as well.  I will tell you, I talked to a lady who didn't think things looked real  good. We didn't really have a whole lot of time to respond to this.  Meeting payroll, paying for rent, paying your leases, paying for  mortgages, these are the essentials, folks. 

  And this is not 2008. That was a horrible crisis. But we are coming  off of the best economy, arguably, in five decades. And because the  economy was so good, people were optimistic about the future. And  through no fault of their own, businessmen did sort of the rational  thing. They invested in the future, the property, the plant, and the  equipment that is required to grow. They were working on taking market  share. All of those who believe in the free enterprise system can  associate ourselves with what they were trying to accomplish. 

  But 2008 was a little different. The economy was lethargic. The  bottom fell out of the economy. In sort of an ironic twist, when the  economy is down, people are paying down their debts. They are  bolstering that balance sheet. They are maintaining some liquid assets  in anticipation of further tough times. We don't have that benefit  right now. We can measure the prospects of our employers in days. For  many of them, it is too late. 

  The U.S. Senate needs to treat this like an emergency because it is  an emergency. 

  So what else does this legislation do? Well, there is a category--let  me just group it together. Let me call it, incontrovertibly, emergency  funding. There is $20 billion for veterans' healthcare; $11 billion for  vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics, and other preparedness needs,  masks, gloves, and ventilators; $75 billion for hospitals; $4.5 billion  for the Centers for Disease Control; $12 billion for America's military  as it helps respond to this pandemic, and so on. That is what the bill  is all about. That is what we are fighting about. 

  So what happened? How did things go off track? Well, it may surprise  some folks, but I have a very positive relationship with the Democratic  leader. We just happen to have a lot of principled disagreements. And  at the very end of a bipartisan process, when he and other Members of  his caucus try and insert provisions pertaining to the Green New Deal  and other far-left priorities into this package, then, that, of course,  disrupts our emergency response. 

  So now we have Speaker Pelosi, seemingly, hijacking the process. That  is right. She is over in the House of Representatives. She is not even  part of this body, and her folks are all home. The House isn't in  session, but Speaker Pelosi wanted to remain relevant. She decided she  wanted to get some TV time, I suppose, and so her proposal involves  federalizing voting. We can have an honest debate about whether it is  appropriate to federalize the voting system, to mandate early voting,  or same-day voter registration. That is something that should be  debated in the U.S. Senate because I know it is a priority for so many  of my colleagues. 

  Again, there are elements of the Green New Deal. We can debate  whether or not there has to be a full offset of airline emissions by  2025 some other time. We can debate whether or not greenhouse gas  statistics for individual flights should be widely available. Let's  work on that separately after we help the American people. Let's not  work on pet priorities. We can debate permanent paid leave--permanent  paid leave granted by the Federal Government some other time. This is a  pandemic. It is an economic emergency, a public health emergency. The  American people want a response. They don't want us to focus on this  right now. 

  I made a lot of phone calls in recent days back home. None of this is  possible without the wherewithal, without the hard work of sturdy  Americans, and without great American innovation, none of the resources  that are required to actually sustain our government, to feed our  families. People need places to work. 

  Here is what is happening in Indiana, a little snapshot. The RV  industry, the global headquarters of the recreational vehicle industry,  is in Elkhart, IN. We are seeing RV companies temporarily shutting down  in Indiana, and I know we are seeing it across the country. 

  The hotel industry, today, the two largest hotels in Indianapolis had  to shut their doors. I am not just talking about buildings shutting  their doors;  this closure is going to mean the loss of employment for about 780  full-time workers. Think of all of the family members who depend on  those workers. This is an emergency. 

  The auto industry--Hoosiers proudly manufacture the components for  the auto industry. They assemble those components into finished  automobiles. That industry has been brought to a halt on account of  this unique crisis, and the worst, we hear, is yet to come. 

  Airlines, they are feeling the most immediate impact. I flew the  other day from my home in the Indianapolis area. I flew out of the  airport to Washington, DC. It wasn't a chartered flight. I was the only  passenger. I was the only passenger on the aircraft. We know that is  not a sustainable business model when you are paying for the fuel, you  have a pilot, a copilot, a flight attendant, and me. This is an  emergency. St. Elmo Steak House is one restaurant of the restaurants  across Indiana that have had to close their doors. St. Elmo just had to  do it. It is the first time it has had to do it since 1902. They were  even able to keep their doors open in the midst of the 1918 flu  pandemic.  

  This is bad. This is an emergency. The Senate needs to act. 

  We have Sanjay Patel. He is the president of an Indianapolis-based  company, and he and my team spoke recently. He said that he had to lay  off at least 100 workers just last week, with another 150 layoffs  likely this week. These are families. These are individuals who take  pride in their work. They want to go back to work. 

  Here is what Sanjay said:  

       We're thinking of closing a few of them here--it's just       deteriorating every day. It was worse last night than the       night before, and it was worse the night before than 2 days       ago. It's just deteriorating and I think it's just a matter       of time [until] we close down.  

  It is an emergency. It is not time for Nancy Pelosi's priorities. It  is time for the American people's priorities. 

  We have a baking shop with locations in Carmel and Indianapolis that  had to lay some workers off. Their owner said:  

       My heart goes out to my Cake Bake family, whom I was forced       to lay off during this horrible virus. I am working with my       banks, my insurance company, my accountant and the government       to try and create some sort of relief support for my team. I       am doing everything in my power to help all 170 of them. All       tips received at both of our bakery counters will be divided       and shared with our servers. Hoping to get through this       difficult time together, coming out on the other end with the       safety and health for our families.  

  I heard from a small optometry practice in North Vernon. They have 12  employees. The owner says:  

       We simply don't have the cash to fund their wages while       they are off work. I am saving what cash I have to pay them,       their vacation and personal day time. We are in trouble and       need help.  

  This isn't somebody who is used to asking for help. This is the time  to give them help. Let's not allow this legislation to be hijacked.  Let's live up to the high standards of the American people. At this  difficult moment, let's come together like we did in 9/11, like our  country has so consistently when the chips are really down. 

  Let's all take part in this effort. I encourage all of my  constituents and anyone else around the country to encourage your  Senators--Republicans and Democrats alike. Stand up. Speak out. Send  emails. Tell your neighbors. 

  It is time for this body to move. It is time for us to deal with this  crisis once and for all. We will make America great again from the  bottom up. It doesn't have to take that long. We can bounce back, but  the longer we wait, the harder it will be. Let's do our jobs. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT