Pence, Young Honor 75th Anniversary of Battle of Iwo Jima at Indiana War Memorial


U.S. Representative Greg Pence (R-IN-06) and U.S. Senator Todd Young (R-Ind.) recognized the 75th anniversary of the Battle of Iwo Jima at the Indiana War Memorial on Friday, February 21st. Congressman Pence and Senator Young were joined by World War II veteran Wayne Saucerman, who served in the Battle of Iwo Jima. On this day seventy-five years ago, U.S. Marines claimed Mount Suribachi during the battle of Iwo Jima and raised the American flag at its summit.

 

Congressman Pence and Senator Young, both Marine Corps veterans, introduced a resolution to honor the 75th anniversary of the historic battle in February.

 

"Our fearless Marines showed unwavering courage 75 years ago at Iwo Jima. I had the solemn experience of going to Iwo Jima when I was deployed as a Marine years ago, and it was an honor to pay tribute to that fateful battle at the Indiana War Memorial," said Congressman Pence. "God bless our men and women in uniform for their unrelenting bravery, including Wayne Saucerman, a WW2 Iwo Jima veteran who we were privileged to have join us at the ceremony."

 

"Today we remember and honor those who served, fought, and died during the battle of Iwo Jima. As one of the bloodiest battles in the history of the Marine Corps, the sacrifices of those Marines and Sailors saved the lives of 24,000 crewmen and changed the tide of World War II in the Pacific," said Senator Young. "Throughout my time at the Naval Academy, and as an officer in the Marine Corps, I gained a deep appreciation for those brave heroes, including midshipman Jim Baize who joined us for today's event. Marines like Jim are an example of the patriotism, loyalty, bravery, and leadership that we should all aspire to." 

 

Wednesday marked the 75th anniversary of the start of the battle of Iwo Jima. Iwo Jima still stands as one of the bloodiest battles in the history of the Marine Corps. On February 19, 1945 three Marine divisions landed on Iwo Jima supported by hundreds of ships off shore. In the ensuing 36-day battle, the United States would suffer more than 26,000 casualties, of whom 6,800 were killed in action. The sacrifice of the Marines and Sailors on Iwo Jima is evident by the 27 Medals of Honor awarded during the battle, more than any other battle in the history of the United States.

 

Next month, Congressman Pence will be joining a Congressional Delegation to Iwo Jima where he will participate in a formal ceremony to mark the 75th anniversary together with other leaders from the United States and Japan.