Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from West Virginia. It  is such a delight to serve with her and hear the stories of so many  great Americans from across the country who are stepping up during this  time of need. 

  We are passing through a painful period. I think it is safe to say  that it is one we never imagined we would live through. It is one I  know we will never forget. It is not only the infected that this  pandemic has hurt, for the coronavirus is robbing so many Americans of  their ability to earn a living. It is taking away businesses they  worked for decades to build. New anxieties are everywhere, and routines  are upended. Our children are wondering when they will see their  friends again and why their graduations were canceled. It is difficult  not to feel hopeless or even afraid during times like these. 

  Congress, I know, is sending every necessary support to workers and  employers and is sending much needed supplies to medical professionals  and hospitals. We are also removing redtape to help our economy  withstand this virus and speed medical innovations to treat and to,  eventually, cure people. Yet, although our government--a government of  the people--is sending relief and will continue to do so, it is really  our citizens who are leading the fight outside of government. 

  We are showing a spirit that is uniquely Hoosier and, I dare say,  uniquely American. Together, we are doing our parts, and, together, we  will pass through this. We see the spirit in the incredible heroism of  our healthcare workers and our caregivers. We owe them so much. They  have been asked to bear the greatest burden, and they have answered  that burden. In so doing, they are sacrificing their own safety and  coming to the rescue where medicine cannot.  

  We have seen it, too, in the bravery from those in what we have  deemed our essential industries. We know they were essential long  before this crisis, but it took this crisis, it seems, to really  amplify that fact. 

  We have seen it in the actions of rank-and-file Hoosiers. You know,  across my great State, there are countless acts of courage and  compassion, Hoosiers who leave groceries on neighbors' doorsteps or who  print off 3-D masks, even something as simple as to call an old friend.  Maybe they live on their own, and they just need a word, a word so they  will not feel lonely. 

  In Floyd County, a florist I know dropped off azaleas at homes around  the area. The accompanying notes read: ``During this time of darkness,  we hope to bring you a little light.'' I can say these little lights  are growing across our State in this otherwise dark time. 

  U.S. marines are taught to confront problems with creative thinking;  we like to say to adapt, to improvise, and to overcome. Similarly, when  Hoosiers face tough situations, they roll up their sleeves, and they  ask: How can I help? When Americans combine our innovative spirit with  service to others, we can meet any moment, including the one we are in  now. In just recent weeks, I have spoken to more than 22,000 Hoosiers,  and I have been moved by the stories of compassion and generosity I  have heard. I thought I would share a sampling of those with you today. 

  I heard from Maria with Sowing the Seed. Now, Sowing the Seed began  as a ministry, but it has grown into much more than that. In fact, it  is a massive community project in Vincennes. They are sewing masks for  those in nursing homes, seniors, the immunocompromised, and others  during these challenging times. 

  Twila, with Sure Clean, Inc., told me about their efforts to sanitize  over 4,000 masks. 

  Willie and I connected from Jennings County. Willie is helping out  his fellow veterans. He is delivering food, mowing grass, doing  wellness checks--doing his part. 

  Sean and Ben with Olio--a startup in Indiana--are helping hospitals  across the Hoosier State to coordinate patient care and reduce the  further spread of this virus. 

  Darrell, with Lifeline Youth Ministries, is making food boxes for  kids in Elkhart, and he has provided hundreds of meals already. 

  I also spoke with Crossroads Distillery, Huber's Starlight  Distillery, and French Lick Winery, which have completely revamped  their operations and are now producing and distributing hand sanitizer. 

  The list of those who are asking how they can help and who are  finding innovative ways to do so is, frankly, too long to recite here.  This fight against the coronavirus has catalyzed our American can-do  spirit. Problem solvers across this great Nation are taking the  initiative, and to them, we say thank you. 

  Let us move forward, intent that we and future generations might draw  energy from this moment forever, and let us resolve to find new ways to  be better citizens by using our God-given talents to serve others. The  days ahead will not be easy, but we will endure them. The clouds will  part, and when they do, we will care for those who have been hurt. We  will rebuild what we have lost, and we will do it with the same spirit  with which we are now fighting this virus. 

  Thank you 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT