Young Statement on Coronavirus National Emergency Declaration


U.S. Senator Todd Young (R-Ind.) today issued the following statement regarding the President's national emergency declaration to free up more federal aid for state and local governments to respond to the coronavirus outbreak:

 

"The President's national emergency declaration is welcome news to help to contain the spread of coronavirus. This will free up additional funding and resources to help states like Indiana immediately respond to this public health emergency. I will continue working with our federal, state, and local leaders to ensure our state is prepared and Hoosiers are safe," said Senator Young.

 

Yesterday, Senator Young joined a bipartisan group of Senators to introduce the Coronavirus Worker Relief Act, which would provide immediate assistance to workers who are ill, or caring for sick loved ones, so that they can take time off from work without the threat of financial harm. This temporary relief would help workers comply with public health guidance and safeguard the health of their families and our communities. Last week, Senator Young voted to pass  $7.7 billion in emergency funding to help states combat the virus. Resources freed up by the national emergency declaration would supplement this funding.

 

Additional background:

Since 2017, Senator Young has been taking steps to help prepare for a global health crisis like the current coronavirus pandemic.In June 2017, Senator Young convened a panel of experts to examine the World Health Organization's (WHO) preparedness for the next global pandemic. He was joined by two experts on the issue: Dr. David Nabarro, a Special Adviser to the United Nations Secretary-General; and Dr. Rebecca Katz, an Associate Professor and Co-Director at Georgetown's Center for Global Health Science and Security. More here. Senator Young is a member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) Commission on Strengthening America's Health Security.  In November 2019, Senator Young was a contributor to the commission's report,  "Ending the Cycle of Crisis and Complacency in U.S. Global Health Security."In 2019, the Senate passed and the President signed into law the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act with my support.In January 2020, Senator Young sent a bipartisan letter to the World Health Organization urging them to declare the coronavirus an emergency.