Young and Warner Resolution to Honor 75th Anniversary of Iwo Jima


U.S. Senators Todd Young (R-Ind.) and Mark Warner (D-Va.) today introduced a Joint Resolution to honor the 75th Anniversary of the Battle for Iwo Jima during World War II. The resolution recognizes the gallantry and heroism demonstrated 75 years ago during the victory that was led by the United States Marine Corps over Imperial Japan on the island of Iwo Jima. A companion resolution was introduced in House by U.S. Representatives Greg Pence (R-IN-06), Pete Visclosky (D-IN-01), and Ken Calvert (R-CA-42).

 

"Iwo Jima is hallowed ground for me, my fellow Marines, and all those who lost loved ones in the battle. This resolution helps to recognize those who gave their lives in Iwo Jima seventy-five years ago," said Senator Young. "The resolution also calls upon Americans to honor these veterans and reaffirm the deep bonds of friendship between the United States and Japan that have developed over the seventy-five years since we were at war."

 

"As we mark 75 years since the battle of Iwo Jima, I'm reminded of the many servicemen who sacrificed so much for our nation. Many of these individuals, including my father -- a Marine Corporal at Iwo Jima -- witnessed their fellow servicemen lose their lives in defense of our freedoms. This resolution is a tribute to the resilience of the Greatest Generation and the courage of those who fought in the 36-day battle," said Senator Warner.

 

"As a Beirut Veteran, I understand that our first duty is to remember. The 75th anniversary of the Battle for Iwo Jima is a time to remember and honor the relentless courage of our men and women in uniform. Our Marines took Iwo Jima at a heavy cost, but their bravery made possible the Allied Victory in World War II. It is one of the deadliest days in Marine Corps history, and those heroes will never be forgotten," said Congressman Pence. "I had the solemn experience of going to Iwo Jima when I was deployed as a Marine. I am honored to return this year with the Commandant of the Marine Corps to remember the nearly 7,000 Marines who made the ultimate sacrifice at the Battle for Iwo Jima."

 

The Senate resolution was cosponsored by Senators Chris Coons (D-Del.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Rand Paul (R-Ky.), Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Richard Blumenthal (D- Conn.), Martha McSally (R-Ariz.), Joe Manchin (D- W.Va.), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Mitt Romney (R- Utah), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Kelly Loeffler (R-Ga.), Josh Hawley (R- Mo.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Doug Jones (D-Ala.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), and Cory Gardner (R-Colo.).