Young Applauds Double Track Northwest Indiana Project Advancement


U.S. Senator Todd Young (R-Ind.) applauds the announcement that the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) is eligible to begin the design and engineering phase of the Double Track Northwest Indiana Project after receiving approval to enter the second stage of the Federal Transit Administration's (FTA) Capital Investment Grant (CIG) Program.

 

"The FTA's approval of NICTD's South Shore Double Track project into the Engineering stage is an exciting step forward in the Capital Investment Grant process," said Senator Young. "I will continue to work with all stakeholders to advance this project and achieve significant economic development in Northwest Indiana."

 

The Double Track project includes installation of a second main line track from Gary to Michigan City, Indiana. The project adds 17 miles of new track, four new bridges, station and parking improvements at five South Shore Line stations, street-running track removal, new track installation that is separated from the roadway in Michigan City and closes 21 at-grade crossings in Michigan City.

 

Today's announcement is the culmination of broad bi-partisan efforts over the last several years to advance this crucial infrastructure project. Senator Young worked hand-in-hand with Governor Holcomb and Congressman Pete Visclosky (IN-D-01), reflecting bipartisan, federal-state support for the project.

 

In June 2017, Senator Young invited U.S. Secretary of Transportation Elaine L. Chao to Indiana to visit with Hoosier stakeholders and discuss NICTD proposed CIG projects. Later that summer he hosted Secretary Chao and Acting Administrator K. Jane Williams in South Bend at the South Bend Airport, where Senator Young, Governor Holcomb, and Congressman Visclosky demonstrated the importance of the Double Track Northwest Indiana Project.

 

Senator Young has also held numerous meetings with federal and state transportation officials and other third-party stakeholders. This project paired with NICTD's West Lake Corridor Project, is expected to attract roughly $2.3 billion in private investment to Northwest Indiana, and create more than 6,000 new jobs and $3 billion in economic impact by 2048.

 

Click here to learn more about today's announcement.