Big, Beautiful Bill


Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, we are heading into what many people hope  is the finishing stretch of our legislature, putting through what  Donald Trump calls the big, beautiful bill.

There are a lot of issues yet to be decided, and I would like to  address some of those issues today.

The first issue I have talked about once already, but it seems to be  a major holdup, the rumors are, in negotiation.

There are clearly going to be some tax cuts in this budget. Our goal  will be to continue with tax cuts that were put in place in 2017 but  add some others.

As we hear rumors of what tax cuts will be added, we have to remember  that taxes in the United States are so high that every tax provision  affects our behavior.

Some people want taxes, and I am one of them, to be lower on  manufacturers because manufacturers have to compete with other  countries. A good way to make sure we have good manufacturing jobs, as  well as to make sure we get more research on manufacturing in this  country, is to aim our tax cuts at manufacturers.

Some of them specifically aim at research and development. They feel  the most important thing in manufacturing is research and development.

Others are made to encourage savings. In the past year, we have  passed tax cuts to encourage people to put more money in their IRAs or  401(k)s.

We have a problem in this country that not enough people are having  children, and that is not only a problem for the country; it is a  problem for individuals who, I think--I am told, many of which regret  when they are 35 or 40, not having children when they were younger.

People want to use the tax code to incentivize people to have more  children. There are a variety of ways you can do that. President Trump  floated a balloon just to give people a large check. I think that is a  big mistake because we do not want to have people having children just  to get a large check.

If you want to make it easier to raise children, maybe raising the  personal exemption to $5,000 would be a good way to favor parents.

One thing that concerns me. Unlike people who want to encourage more  manufacturing, encourage more work, encourage more overtime, encourage  more children, there are people who want to change the tax code to  encourage local governments and State governments to raise taxes.

There is a provision called the SALT provision in which they want to  make tax deductible State and local taxes. They are already, to a  degree, tax deductible, but there are people who want to help the  wealthier people deduct their State and local income taxes as well.

I have talked to both my State legislators, and last weekend I talked  to a county executive, and they both gave me the same story. They are  both conservative people. They said they were shocked that there were  Republicans who want to increase the tax deduction for State and local  taxes because what does that incentivize? It doesn't incentivize more  children. It doesn't incentivize more research and development. It  doesn't incentivize more manufacturing.

What it does is it incentivizes State and local governments to raise  taxes and spend more money. I had to explain to my State legislators  these were Republicans who wanted it. They found it hard to believe. It  sounds like a tax provision that you would be more likely to hear  Democrat legislators want.

In any event, I think we have to follow the negotiations that are  going on, and we have to see whether within the Republican Party we  wind up with a product to encourage more work, encourage families, or  whether we wind up with a bill designed to encourage State governments  to raise the income tax or sales tax, or encourage local governments to  raise their property tax.

I am going to be very disappointed. It would certainly be a defeat  for, I guess what I will call, traditional Republicans, such as myself,  but that is one of the negotiations going on behind closed doors.

There is another provision that they are going to use the IRS code  in--which concerns me a little because there are rumors that this may  be out there as well. Quite frankly, I have a suggestion how we could  cut taxes and put ourselves in a stronger position.

Right now there is a provision in the tax code called low-income  housing tax credits, and what it means is that if a developer wants to  build a new development, they would get a credit equal to 10 percent of  the cost of the building over 9 years, which, right off the bat, sounds  like the government is paying for 90 percent of the value of the  building.

That is not quite right because there is a time value to money, and  if you are getting a building that you paid $10 million for, if you get  a credit worth $1 million 10 years out, you have got to wait for that  credit, and there is a time value to money.

Nevertheless, even taking into account the time value of money, a  potential developer has the government, through tax credits, pay for 70  percent of the cost of a building.

Now, this is not open-ended. Usually these credits go to politically  well-connected developers picked by State agencies or State  organizations.

I think, personally, of all the tax cuts particularly, people  complain about tax cuts for the rich. Of all the provisions in the  Internal Revenue Code, I can think of no provision more questionable  than having the Internal Revenue Service reduce somebody's taxes so  that you get 70 percent of the value of your project paid for.

Now, people do not earn enough income to use, say, in the case of  $100 million, a building, they don't have enough credits to offset $70  million in taxes. So they have to sell the credits to somebody else.  This means getting lawyers and experts from LIHTC involved so that  these credits can be transferred.

A significant number of these credits go to some of the largest banks  in the country. And, of course, the largest banks in the country, I am  sure, would love to have Congress change the provisions so that they  were able to use still more tax credits.

Why at a time when we can do so many other good things would we do  that? I don't know, but they have been very active in this building,  and they are looking to get more tax credits.

The next thing to remember about this is there are some units, but  not all units, which have restrictions on the amount of rent that can  be charged. Quite frankly, there is no guarantee that any of these  rents will be below market rate. In fact, some of the people who live  in these projects will be able to use vouchers, what we call Section 8  vouchers.

So the government, first of all, sets aside money for somebody to get  free rent, and then the vouchers are given to a property developer or a  syndicate that is going to wind up owning the building, and they wind  up with a voucher as well. It is kind of hard to believe it is  developed that way, but it has developed that way.

I had always wondered before hearing about these things why sometimes  low-income housing developments look nicer or more elaborate than  regular old apartments. Part of that is they are newer, and, of course,  newer buildings are usually nicer. A lot of it is we are paying these  developers 70 percent of the cost of their building.

And just like if you at home were building a new house and the  government said we will give you 70 percent of the cost of that new  house, if a developer is building something new and the government says  we will pay for 70 percent of the cost of your apartment building, of  course the building becomes more lavish, which, of course, makes the  property developer wealthy as well.

And you can begin to see, as we work our way through here, that the  developer is the big beneficiary here.

Then what happens is the building is sold to a syndicate of a variety  of wealthy people who get the tax benefits of depreciation for about 15  years, and then eventually it is returned to the original developer.

So there are many people making money here. Certainly the banks are  making money. Above all, the developers are making money. The lawyers  are making money, as they have to constantly draft documents between  the banks and the syndicate and the developer. And, like I said, the  syndicate itself, which is made up of a variety of wealthy individuals  or wealthy limited partnerships, is able to get money here as well.

When I think of all the things we can--well, I digress. Again, the  developer who gets this is determined by a  State agency. It is naive to think anything other than these developers  are politically well-connected people.

I do not know why, if we think it is the Federal Government's  business to provide housing to people--which, of course, it is not--we  would set up a system in which a private developer gets such a large  chunk of money that the Federal Government is laying out.

Right now, as a matter of fact, the money is so great, even though  new projects are spread out or the tax credits are spread over nine  years, we are spending over $13 billion a year on this method of so- called creating workforce housing or low-income housing.

I will also point out that there are some people who would say this  is necessary because nobody builds any housing anymore. Well, I am from  Wisconsin, which is not what you normally consider a booming State. It  is not like Florida. It is not like Texas. As I go around my district,  everywhere I look there is new housing. There is single family housing  and new apartments.

For a variety of reasons, it is grotesquely expensive. We can deal  with that by working our way towards more of a balanced budget, so  interest rates are not so high. As the cost of energy goes down, it  will lower the cost of anything and lower inflation on other goods as  well. Anybody who remotely believes in the free market believes there  will always be a market for new housing.

There are apparently some places around the country where it is hard  to build new housing, but that, in general, is because there are State  governments and local governments which are hostile to business in  general and hostile to developers in particular. People then don't want  to do more building in this city or that city.

In any event, as we work our way through the process, I hope the  negotiators who are meeting in unknown rooms in this building, if they  need to balance the budget, think about getting rid of the low-income  housing tax credits and use the $13 billion a year that is primarily  benefiting some well-connected and wealthy property developers and use  it somewhere else. I think that is one of the things that we have to  look at carefully.

There was another topic I wanted to take up. I have been talking to  some people who wonder why we have demonstrations in this country  hostile to Israel, and even more bizarre, demonstrations favorable to  Hamas and people who live in the Gaza Strip.

It has been my belief--and I give this conversation privately to  people, but I should make my case more public--that when people take  bizarre positions, in other words, when they see Hamas invade Israel  and kill over a million people with pride, not even embarrassingly and  hiding it, but taking pictures of it, and their sympathy goes towards  the people killing the thousand people, including young children, one  has to wonder if something psychological is going on here.

My belief is that anybody who is hostile to Israel in this conflict  and is demonstrating in favor of Hamas has some sort of psychological  problem. I will refer to this psychological problem as--we will name it  after the young girl who was obsessed with global warming in Sweden.

We will call it Thunberg syndrome. You all remember the little girl  whose father said she was depressed and unhappy, but then she read  about global warming and decided to obsess over it. She, all of a  sudden, became happy because she could run around and had a purpose in  life. Prior to that time, like a lot of wealthy people in the West, she  really didn't have a good purpose, but it gave her a purpose. Like I  said, she could run around, she would give speeches and feel she was  saving the world.

Of course, eventually, Greta Thunberg also wound up siding with the  Palestinians, who had killed the Israelis, against the Israelis. I  think it was for the same reason. She wanted to adopt a cause to feel  she had a purpose in life.

When one particularly has kind of a spoiled life, the people you want  to help are people who are kind of opposed to the successful society we  have here in the West, be it America, be it Europe.

There is a certain hierarchy of needs that everybody has, right? We  need food, we want safety. Once you take care of food and safety, you  also need a purpose in life. There are sadly many, many people in  America and Western Europe who don't have that purpose.

I think this is particularly a problem for people who may not have a  family to devote time to. They may not have children to devote time to.  They may be financially well enough off.

You very rarely see Thunberg syndrome on somebody who has three jobs.  They are busy with their life. They are going from job to job and  working all the time. You would rarely see Thunberg syndrome in, say,  somebody with four kids, because four kids is very time-consuming. You  have to earn money to take care of the kids, spend time with the kids.  That is a purpose in life.

I think, as we have more and more young, single people not having  children in the West, you have more and more people looking for a  purpose in life. For whatever psychological reason, they want that  purpose to be hostile to the West in general.

If they are in the United States, they frequently want that purpose  to be anti-American. Of course, when Greta Thunberg wants to get  involved in foreign affairs, it is not surprising that she picks global  warming because then her enemy is the West and the factories and the  cars.

It is interesting that when people have Thunberg syndrome, they do  not get mad at things done by what used to be called Third World  countries, right? People who have Thunberg syndrome, well, they may  object to a new, clean power plant in the United States. They never  worry about the plethora of new coal plants going up in Red China or  going up in India, and that is because those aren't Western countries.  There, miraculously, they don't care.

When it comes to the attacks on the Jews in Israel put out there by  the Palestinians, they will purport to care about the Palestinians who  lose their life when the Israeli Army inevitably had to go back into  Gaza, but they don't care about Muslims who are dying in other wars.  They don't care that many, many Muslims are dying in Syria.

That is because those people are being killed by other Syrians, and  it doesn't fit the narrative of, I want to hate the West. They don't  care about a civil war going on in Ethiopia, they don't care about the  conflicts currently going on in Iraq.

They don't care at all about all the suffering of the Muslims in  Western China, the Uyghurs. Why doesn't the left or why don't these  demonstrators care about all the Uyghurs being killed or persecuted in  the western part of China? It doesn't solve their psychological need to  hate the West.

I think more research should be done on Thunberg syndrome to see how  we can prevent it from growing because inevitably the United States and  the West will fall if a significant number of their populous winds up  for some psychological reason adopting causes that are hostile to the  West.

That is what is going on right now, be it in global warming, be it in  the Palestinian situation, be it the bizarre opinions that President  Biden had about the United States being such a racist community.

I mean, here you have a country, the wealthiest people are Indian  Americans, the second wealthiest are Filipino Americans. People come  here from Cuba and do fantastically well.

Another cause adopted by these people with Thunberg syndrome, despite  the fact that anybody could open their eyes and see the wild success of  people from all around the world coming to the United States, these  people have decided to adopt an ideology in which they have to fight  this imaginary racism in the United States with people like Joe Biden  or other opportunistic politicians egging them on.

I strongly encourage this body, or if not this body, some  universities to look at people who have these bizarre opinions that  will inevitably destroy this country. They hate wealth production, they  certainly hate energy production even when it is new energy that is  fantastically clean, so much cleaner than it was when I was a child.

They hate it when Western countries wind up in armed conflict with  horrific opponents like Hamas, but for psychological reasons they side  with Hamas.

Those are some of the issues that I think we ought to be paying  attention to over the weekend. I think I have used up enough of my  time.