Breakdown of Traditional Families


Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, tonight I will talk one more time about  what I think is the most pressing problem facing America as we try to  address the crime rate, the drug problem, and the education problem. It  is a problem that was, sadly, not addressed in the One Big Beautiful  Bill Act.

As a matter of fact, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act went, to a  certain extent, in the opposite direction. I want to educate the  American public on this problem, and that is the breakdown of the  traditional family with a man in the household over the last 60 years  of America.

As this Congress tries to make America great again, it is hard to  imagine America being that great if we continue to punish and penalize  any family that has both parents at home.

America has changed dramatically. In the 1960s, about 5 percent of  the children in this country were born into families without both a  mother and father at home. I want to point out, I know families of all  sorts of backgrounds. I know parents who have done a fantastic job of  raising children in all backgrounds, and sometimes beyond their fault,  there are families who appear to be doing a perfect job of raising  their children, but nevertheless have a problem.

I think most Americans, though, with common sense would say it is  more difficult for, say, the post-1995 generations, where 40 percent of  American children are born without a mother and father at home,  compared to the generation of children born in the 1960s, when that  number was only 5 percent.

We have to ask ourselves why that happened. Sometimes when I talk to  people back home, they mention the decline in religion, and maybe that  is why we shot up from 5 percent to 40 percent.

Actually, if you look at programs the government authors, and I am  going to reference George Gilder a little bit here, who was a great  sociologist, if I can call him that, who wrote ``Wealth and Poverty''  in 1980. He looked at single-parent families to see if he had any  observations. The families he looked at were specifically from the  poorer parts of Albany, New York. At the time a woman got pregnant, if  the family was not a married group, they began to collect benefits, and  it was not a panic situation in which, how are we going to support the  child? What are we going to do? Are we going to have to live with your  parents? What are we going to do? It was kind of gleeful as they went  from government office to government office getting their low-income  housing, getting their free healthcare, getting their free college  education if they wanted to go to college, food stamps, like I said,  free apartment, which I think is the most generous giveaway of all.

Now, I don't know that it is good that we have created a situation in  which a young person getting pregnant should be happy because of all  the government benefits they are eligible for, but if you look at the  eligibility requirements for every one of these programs, they are  based on what we call percent of poverty. If you have somebody in the  household--it could be a woman or it could be a man--if a man is in the  household, you could penalize that family by easily $25,000 or $30,000  cash for having both parents at home.

An example of programs which fit the bill, which we penalize people  for getting married, would be formerly called food stamps, certainly  low-income housing, which by itself can be a benefit of over $12,000 a  year; something called the earned income tax credit, which can easily  be $6,000 or $7,000 a year, provided you work and keep your income  under $17,000 or $16,000 a year.

If you do a little bit of work, unlike, say, if you had a sister who  is married to a husband with a salary, you would get free childcare,  childcare not available to a couple with two incomes.

There is a TANF program for people who aren't employed, giving free  cash away. Again, it is much easier to get if you don't have a working  parent in the household.

We have our child credit, which is, again, something that is phased  out and appears to be designed to discourage people from getting  married.

We have Pell grants--and I will tell you a story about that in a  minute--a program that gives free college to a family without a working  person.

Not surprising, if you spend some time talking to people who aren't  at your country club fundraiser, spend some time talking to people who  are not lobbyists, you will be surprised how many young people today  are not getting married because they want that $25,000, $30,000 cash  benefit that you get if you stay single and frequently don't have a man  in the house.

I will also point out that frequently these benefits allow you to get  benefits better than people who are working are getting. For example,  it is a well-known thing, but if you talk to people, clerks at the  local food store will tell you that people on food stamps are  frequently buying things that the clerk in the food store cannot  afford.

When it comes to low-income housing, particularly because we have a  horrible program called the low-income housing tax credit program, the  government incentivizes developers to build housing that costs  $300,000, $400,000, or, in some cases, over a million dollars per unit,  in which some people will be able to live, provided their income is low  enough. You will find out what a person working for me once found out.

She got married, and she and her new husband were looking for a new  apartment. They found what they felt were the nicest apartments in  Madison, Wisconsin, were the low-income apartments. Not only do you get  a free apartment, but it is superior to the apartments that other  people are paying for.

With regard to childcare, I have heard a childcare provider say that  she preferred to get the vouchers--and I don't know if this is always  true; I have heard a mixed bag--but get vouchers from somebody from the  government because those were always paid.

Childcare is very expensive today. If you agree to take care of a  child, maybe sometimes that family will not have enough income to pay  for the child. If you are on the government dole, it is more  consistent. You will always get the childcare credit.

With regard to college, I will tell you a story. I once gave this  speech about 15 years ago in Green Bay, Wisconsin, and I wondered what  the people would think of the marriage penalty. Most of the people who  were listening to the speech were older people. It was a Tea Party  group, and they, of course, all agreed with me that it was scandalous  that we were bribing somebody $25,000 a year not to get married.

I asked a gal who was present in the room that night--her job was a  bartenderess--what she thought about these programs in which you would  get a benefit, not only if you didn't get married, but an even larger  benefit if you didn't work too hard. She said she got married before  she had a baby, but a lot of her friends preferred not to get married  before they had a baby because they got free college. In other words,  one more time we had a situation in which this woman--and I found there  were other people in the same boat making the same observation.

Young people going to college--kind of hard to believe, but it is  true--may decide not to get married because they get the Pell grant,  another poorly designed program, and get it to pay for either all or  part of their college.

You may say: Is this all on purpose? Did the government design these  programs to destroy the American family? Who would do that?

Let's not forget that Karl Marx, a socialist who is looked up to in  some universities, said one of his goals was to abolish the family.

More recently, in 1960, a woman who has been described as the mother  of women's studies--which is a major we make fun of in college.  Nevertheless, it is something that a lot of kids take as an elective.  Kate Millett, the mother of these classes, said: The complete  destruction of the traditional marriage and the nuclear family is the  utopian goal of feminism.

I have a feeling a lot of people don't realize that the utopian goal  of feminism was to get rid of the nuclear family. Obviously, Kate  Millett's successors are probably thrilled that we penalize married  couples $25,000, $30,000 for getting married.

More recently, a Wisconsin Supreme Court judge--this is just what we  call dictum. Nevertheless, she was a judge elected statewide. She said  the notion that marriage serves as the foundation of the family is at  best outdated and at worst misogynistic.

This is a woman who didn't, obviously, put that on her television  commercials. It is interesting that a very liberal judge in the State  of Wisconsin clearly had contempt for traditional marriage. Apparently,  she maybe took some women's studies classes in college.

It seemed from her comments in this court case that she would be  thrilled if traditional marriage was no longer the norm.

I talked to an Indian immigrant back home in my district. He made an  interesting observation. Congressmen should go out of their way to talk  to their immigrants because, frequently, they have observations as to  what is going on in America that Americans who have been here their  whole lives do not have. What he said is that, in America, the woman  marries the government, and that is exactly true.

When we have a country in which the woman is encouraged to marry the  government, the woman, the child, and the father pay a price. Children  born in a difficult background like this are, by almost every standard,  on average--and I realize there are examples of tremendous parents--on  average, have a tougher go of it in life. They are going to struggle  more in school. They are going to be more likely to use drugs. They are  going to be more likely to commit crimes.

It is kind of interesting when I sit in committee hearings around  here. We had a committee hearing on crime earlier this week. People  look around for the causes, or this or that, of the problems we have,  problems related to drug abuse, problems related to crime, maybe  problems related to depression. They never talk about what the real  problem is, the real problem being the breakdown of the family.

Does anybody doubt that if we still had a rate of fatherlessness in  the home of--or a rate of intact families--back to 5 percent as we did  in the 1960s, that our crime rate would drop like a stone? Does anybody  think or not think that the number of--even though it can happen in the  best of families--the number of people dying of drug abuse wouldn't  fall? Does anybody think our education would improve if we had kids who  are doing a better job of focusing at school?

It is high time, in the second bill that this Congress passes, that  we begin to address this problem. We can't address it by giving every  married couple $25,000 a year because we don't have that kind of money  and would probably only encourage more people not to work very hard.

Mr. Speaker, by the way, I should mention, just as these programs  discourage marriage, they all discourage work. I will mention the low- income housing tax credit program.

Mr. Speaker, I ran into somebody a couple of months ago. In order to  be eligible for these very nice apartments, they could make only so  much money. I will speculate that this person was making, say, $50,000  a year. If they got a second job, they had to be aware that their rent  would go up.

In this country, particularly with the low-income housing tax credit,  we penalize people who work hard. I think that is horrible public  policy, but that is what we do.

Mr. Speaker, in any event, when the next reconciliation package comes  through, I strongly hope that the Republican leadership, rather than  allowing something like the low-income housing tax credit to go through  and be expanded, of all things, Republican leadership recognizes this  is a problem.

Even if they don't care if a man is in the house or not, at least  they shouldn't penalize him. They shouldn't hate families in which a  man and woman are raising their children together. I think that should  be the number one priority of Congress.

Mr. Speaker, the second issue that I will take on is that we passed a  defense authorization bill last week that I think had a serious  problem. I would hope our slumbering press corps would do a little bit  more work on the problem.

Elon Musk and DOGE were here. They did a good job pointing out that  there were some, particularly in offices, Federal employees in the  District of Columbia, or even around the country, that maybe weren't  working that hard. Some of this happens in the private sector. More  likely, it will happen in the public sector.

Right now, we have about 80,000 employees--I think a little bit under  that; it might be 76,000--in the Department of Defense who are non- uniformed. I assume most of these employees are not people who cut the  lawn or something. Most of these employees are in an office, and at  least Elon Musk seemed to point out that a lot of them might not be  working that hard.

Under the defense authorization, they anticipate, over the next year,  the number of non-uniformed employees will drop by maybe another 30,000  or 40,000. When DOGE was riding high, I think one would have expected  this number to drop more like 200,000 or 300,000.

I then asked the Department of Defense to, as quickly as possible,  put together a proposal and say what would happen if they had to make  do with only 400,000 or 450,000 non-uniformed employees in the  Department of Defense. I will point out that a lot of these employees  are making over $100,000 or $150,000 a year, with anecdotal evidence  that they do very little.

One of the reasons Congress is so irresponsible is our press corps is  asleep. I hope our press corps digs into this situation a little bit  and publicizes how many people are working in desk jobs in the  Pentagon, desk jobs in which they are not in uniform, and questions  whether this is really necessary. We can then see whether there are  significant savings here.

Of course, some of the money will not go to reducing our debt.  Insofar as we find excess people around here, I think we are not  prepared enough in this country for hypersonic missiles. I don't think  we have an Iron Dome-type Israel situation in which we are prepared for  other sorts of missiles.

I think the reason we are not prepared is that there are way too many  people who are not working as hard as they could in the Pentagon. I am  going to ask the press corps to wake up and ask people about that.

I will also ask the press corps to wake up and ask Congress whether  it is appropriate that we penalize married couples by $25,000 or  $35,000 a year because they got married, as opposed to their siblings  who may not have gotten married.

Mr. Speaker, there is one other thing I want to comment on tonight. I  was listening to a television program on one of the big conservative  networks, and I listened to a commentator make fun of socialism. She  talked about how much better capitalism was. I don't think she has a  good handle on why capitalism is good.

First of all, we ought to require all defenders of capitalism to not  call capitalism ``capitalism.'' We ought to call it a free-market  economy. The major reason we would rather live in a country with a  free-market economy than in a country that is a socialist economy is  the government has so much more power in a socialist country than a  free-market economy.

In a socialist economy, or as we work toward a more socialist  economy, a larger segment of the population works for the government.  As an elected official, I have noticed in my time that, frequently,  people who work for the government are afraid to speak openly to me  about problems in their field.

Mr. Speaker, I am thinking a substitute teacher would be afraid to  give me a campaign contribution because they worked for a school  district that was hostile to Republicans. They felt they would be  discriminated against if they knew they gave money to a Republican  politician.

There are people who worked for the Department of Natural Resources  in Wisconsin, which is the equivalent of the EPA in Washington, who  tell me about problems in their department but caution me that they  could never cite them. What they were telling me had to be secret  because they worked for the government and because they were afraid the  government would discriminate against somebody who backed the party,  the less government party, the Republican Party.

In a free-market economy, we can rent from whoever we want. In a  socialist state, all the property is owned by the government. Right  now, my office is in a place called Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. If I want  to live in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, first of all, I pay rent. I am  guessing that in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, there are maybe 400 different  landlords. The landlords compete for the rental dollar.

I have the ability to buy my own house, paint my house whatever color  I want, and maintain my lawn in whatever fashion I want. That is  something we do in a free-market economy.

In a socialist economy, the government runs everything. If I want to  rent a dwelling, I have to rent from the government. If the government  doesn't like me, if I have said the wrong thing, or if I have said  something that is politically incorrect, they may say they will not  rent to me. They might also give me an inferior place.

The same thing applies to food. In a free-market economy, my guess  is, in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, a city of only about 35,000 people, I  bet there are 150 places where I can go to eat and have something made  for me.

In a socialist economy, something that the gentleman who is running  for mayor of New York would like--I guess he would like only one type  of grocery store. There would only be one sort of restaurant because  all the restaurants are run by the government.

First of all, since they are owned by the government, they don't have  to compete into a better job because they are never going to go through  bankruptcy. Secondly, because they are owned by the government, the  government determines what fare is offered. They determine how many  restaurants we have that will serve Italian fare or Mexican or what  have you. It is much better in a free economy.

Even more importantly, in a socialist economy, we have to work for  the government. The more people who have to work for the government,  the less freedom they have. If we have to work for the government and  the government is all-powerful, as it is in a socialist state, the  government determines whether we keep our jobs, whether we are promoted  in our jobs, or whether or not we get raises.

Mr. Speaker, it is all determined by a government that may look down  on us if we are critical of the central planning authority. That is a  big difference between a free-market economy and a socialist economy.

Mr. Speaker, in a socialist economy, you do not have to do well  because you are owned by the government, or if you have a restaurant  that has crummy food or you have a factory in which the people are not  working very hard, because apparently some people are not working very  hard for the Department of Defense, you do not get in trouble for that.

Because it is a socialist economy, everybody becomes poorer because  there is no incentive to work that much harder. You can't lose your  job, Mr. Speaker, because everybody is working for the government. That  is another reason why life is so much better in a free market economy.

I think people like being free better. When you talk about  testimonials in the old Soviet Union, Mr. Speaker, and probably to this  day because the work ethic hasn't changed enough, you run into a lot of  very unhappy people because they are stuck in an economic system in  which they have to work for the government.

As a matter of fact, I know a friend who went to Cuba. It was an  interesting observation. In Cuba, which is an island country, he  noticed that there were no, or almost no, boats on the docks as he went  around the Gulf of Mexico.

This is a sign of what happens in a socialist state. People are so  unhappy there that they won't allow them to  get on boats and go into the Gulf of Mexico to somewhere else. They  have got to force the people to stay at home.

In any event, I think in the future when we explain to the younger  people why we like a free market economy rather than a socialist  economy, we should emphasize the freedom that comes with a free market  economy, the freedom to pick one of hundreds of employers in Fond du  Lac, Wisconsin, or if you want to get around the whole country, one of  hundreds of thousands of employers. You have the ability to rent or buy  a home wherever you want, Mr. Speaker, not where you are restricted by  where the government is. You have the ability when you go to a retail  outlet to have people competing for your sales dollar so there are a  lot of opportunities to buy this item of clothing or these appliances  or whatnot, as opposed to in a socialist state where the government  determines what the government bureaucrats think you need.

Finally, of course, you are overwhelmingly wealthier because in a  free market economy, Mr. Speaker, you are free to work hard, and you  are free to open up your own business. By doing that, all of society is  wealthier, as opposed to the socialist state in which everybody has to  work for the government. There is no guaranteed incentive for working  harder. If you think of a better way to do business, Mr. Speaker, you  are not allowed to set up business on your own. All you can do is make  a suggestion to your boss, and if he doesn't care to take your  suggestion on how the business can improve, well, Mr. Speaker, then it  just never improves.

This is why the socialist state in old Russia, the old Soviet Union,  was so ineffective.

In any event, to summarize tonight, first of all, I really hope  Republican leadership and President Trump begin to address the $25,000  penalty this country imposes on any married couple with children.

Secondly, I hope Republicans point out when they talk about the  difference between socialism and what they refer to as capitalism, that  the major difference is the freedom that comes from a free market  economy.

Finally, I hope the press corps pays attention to the huge number of  non-uniformed employees in the Department of Defense and what the  current administration is doing about it.