Equal Opportunity for All Investors Act of 2025


Mr. FLOOD. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Hill and Ranking Member  Waters for their support. I also thank my co-lead on this bill,  Congressman Cleo Fields, for all of his work.

The Equal Opportunity for All Investors Act would expand the  accredited investor definition to include individuals that are  certified through an exam written by the SEC and administered by FINRA.

Accredited investors are individuals that are allowed to participate  in investment opportunities that are not generally available to the  broader public, like private offerings.

Most current pathways to becoming an accredited investor are based on  your balance sheet, your wealth, and your income. This bill changes and  opens up a brand-new pathway allowing for investors' knowledge to be  the determining factor in whether they are able to become an accredited  investor.

In my view, wealth alone is not a particularly strong judge of  whether someone should be an accredited investor or not. A better one  is whether someone has the knowledge to accurately weigh the benefits  and risks of private offerings.

In 2020, the SEC started allowing professional investors with  credentials like a Series 65 or a Series 7 to become accredited  investors. This was a very helpful step forward, but licensing  requirements for brokers and investment advisers go beyond what is  needed to properly weigh the risks of private offerings for an  individual's personal finances.

Following the principle that merit, not just wealth, should guide who  can become an accredited investor, an exam specifically written to  determine the sophistication of investors is a natural next step.

The examination created by this bill is meant to strike the right  balance between rigorously testing for sophistication and not being set  to such a difficult standard that even an intelligent investor could  not pass it.

This bill is a commonsense, bipartisan product that will expand  opportunity in our capital markets. I urge my colleagues to support  this bill.