Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act


Mr. FLOOD. Mr. Speaker, I have been working on this since I was in  the Nebraska Legislature. Back in 2021, I passed the Nebraska Financial  Innovation Act, making our State the second State to allow State- chartered banks to custody digital assets, stablecoins.

These stablecoins have the ability to greatly increase not only the  speed of payments and settlements, but also make our economic system  even more efficient. Stablecoins will also support the advancement of  the U.S. dollar around the globe.

We may often take it for granted, but most of the transactions around  the globe rely on a currency backed by the U.S. dollar. That could  change if we don't adopt laws like this.

Who steps in? Adversaries like China.

We want to have a presence on the Continent of Africa. That is the  next frontier. This assures us of that.

In the early days, caution was certainly prudent. Stablecoins are a  novel technology with significant questions regarding how to protect  consumers, like what happens in the event of bankruptcy and how to  ensure that the issuers live up to the technology's namesake by  providing a truly stable asset, the dollar.

That is why we have been working on this issue in our committee for  the last several years. Similarly, the Senate has been running through  their process.

Let me be clear, this bill is not perfect. With my experience in  Nebraska, I have been a strident supporter of a strong, robust State  pathway for issuers. This bill has a State pathway, but it is capped at  a $10 billion asset threshold.

I personally much prefer Congressman Bryan Steil's STABLE Act to this  Senate product. However, despite my personal preferences, this bill  absolutely provides a comprehensive and safe Federal framework for  stablecoin regulation.

In order to usher in a new era of blockchain innovation, we need to  pass the GENIUS Act so our regulators can get to work implementing a  comprehensive stablecoin framework.