Housing for the 21st Century Act


Mr. FLOOD. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Hill; Ranking Member Waters;  and my counterpart on the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee, Ranking  Member Cleaver, for all of their work on this package.

This is how Congress is supposed to work. We all worked hard to bring  forth a bipartisan housing bill that addresses housing affordability.  The Housing for the 21st Century Act cuts costs, slashes red tape, and  will increase housing supply.

There is no question that the legislation before us is a historic  rewriting of our housing laws to bring our housing market into the 21st  century.

According to the National Association of Realtors, the median annual  existing home price in 2024 was up 69 percent relative to 1995, and  that figure is adjusted for inflation. The realtors also have data  showing that the median age of a first-time home buyer is 40 years old.  This is an absolutely astounding figure.

Some estimates put the gap between housing supply and demand at about  3.85 million units, while other estimates show it to be 5 million  units. This housing affordability challenge affects everyone, from  young people saving up for their first home, to middle-class workers  who are working as hard as they can to provide for their family and are  just trying to make the rent.

There is no silver bullet for fixing this problem, but I think that  this bill, this legislation, includes a range of meaningful housing  reforms that will add to housing supply and ultimately decrease housing  costs.

I will take a moment to highlight a few provisions that I think will  make a difference. Section 104 and 105 of the bill works to rightsize  the environmental reviews on both HUD and USDA housing projects to  properly reflect their impact on the environment. This legislation  ensures that these environmental reviews are properly tailored to the  real impact of a project going forward, and this change will ensure  that more housing projects break ground on time and on budget.

Section 201 includes reform of the HOME Investment Partnerships, the  largest block grant program at HUD dedicated to building affordable  housing. This bill would change HOME by slashing environmental reviews,  easing labor cost burdens like the ones created by section 3 HUD  requirements, and providing greater flexibility for cities and towns  across the country to use HOME dollars to promote homeownership.

Section 301 makes important changes for manufactured housing. I give  a special thanks to Congressman   John Rose and his extremely important  bill that would remove the requirement that a manufactured home be  built with a chassis. That saves money. That one change is going to  enable a significant growth for manufactured housing, and it will  reduce the cost of manufactured homes.

Finally, title 6 of this bill adds meaningful community banking  reforms to this legislation. It eases the burdens for de novo banks so  that new banks can get off the ground. It tailors regulatory  requirements for the smallest community banks, and it reforms the bank  resolution process.

Mr. FLOOD. Mr. Speaker, the bottom line is that the Housing for the  21st Century Act is a comprehensive, bipartisan housing reform package  that will increase housing supply, slash government regulations that  keep housing costs high, and unleash our community banking sector.

Mr. Speaker, I thank everybody who worked on this bill, especially  the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Cleaver), Chairman Hill, and Ranking  Member Waters.