Haiti Economic Lift Program Extension Act


Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 6504, the  Haiti Economic Lift Program Extension Act.

First, as all have done, I thank the distinguished gentleman from  North Carolina, Dr. Murphy, for his leadership in bringing this bill to  the floor and for his partnership because we worked closely together to  try to make sure that Haiti is given an opportunity to alleviate the  suffering of the people of Haiti.

I also, again, can't help but celebrate the legacy of the former  chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means, Charlie Rangel, who  championed meeting our moral responsibility to support stability and  dignity for Haitians.

That is precisely what this bill does today. The Haiti Economic Lift  Program Extension Act provides an economic lifeline to tens of  thousands of Haitian families facing a gang-fueled humanitarian crisis  that gets worse by the day.

The dire conditions on the ground in Haiti, driven by brutal, armed  gangs, cannot be understated, and 1.4 million Haitians, over 10 percent  of the country's population, are internally displaced. One-half of the  country's population experiences life-threatening levels of hunger.  Diseases such as cholera have spread as an increasing number of  Haitians lack adequate access to drinking water, food, and healthcare.

Every family that is employed through the HOPE/HELP trade preference  before us today for extension is a family less vulnerable to gang  coercion, extortion, or recruitment.

There is no path to stability in Haiti without creating a foundation  for economic opportunity. The HOPE/HELP program does exactly that. We  simply cannot afford to abandon the thousands of Haitian families who  depend on this program, nor the economic lift to our region that it  will provide.

As the gentlewoman from the Virgin Islands (Ms. Plaskett), knows  best, because of her commitment to the Caribbean, this is a very  important bill.

Lastly, let me say to Chairman Smith, who goes to the gym in the  morning and for months said to me  time and time again he will continue to work tirelessly until he gets  this bill done: I thank him for doing this and doing it in a bipartisan  way with Ranking Member Neal and others.

This is the way we can do good in the United States House of  Representatives and good for people who are in need.