Providing for Consideration of H.R. DC Criminal Reforms to Immediately Make Everyone Safe Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Policing Protection Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Lowering Age At Which A Minor May Be Tried As Adult for Certain Criminal Offenses in District of Columbia; Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Judicial Nominations Reform Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Guaranteeing Reliability Through the Interconnection of Dispatchable Power Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. National Coal Council Reestablishment Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act; and for Other Purposes


Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. McGovern for his continued  leadership on the Rules Committee. I thank him for his leadership in  the people's House and for him always putting the working American  first.

Mr. Speaker, I heard my colleague say he is proud of the tariffs. We  need to do one thing: let's vote on it. Let's vote. That is how you  will see where we are. Let's vote on it. Let it go to the floor. Let's  review the tape from the past year.

President Trump has declared bogus international emergencies as a  pretext to tax imports from Canada, Mexico, and then the whole world,  passing these costs right to the hardworking American people. He wanted  to protect his friend, as Mr. McGovern said, former President  Bolsonaro, so he then announced another pseudo emergency to impose yet  more tariffs on Brazil.

The law that Donald Trump is using for tariffs on everyday consumer  goods was, in fact, meant to respond to actual global emergencies, not  personal vendettas. That is why Congress reserved power under the law  to author privileged resolutions to end any fake emergencies used to  grab Congress' power to tax.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleague from New York: Let's vote on it. Why  block a vote on the floor to see where Members of the House stand?

Just as multiple courts have now found, Trump's tariffs are illegal.  The House is also acting in contravention of the spirit of the law by  avoiding votes instead of having votes like the vote on my privileged  resolution to end these unjustified tariffs that harm Americans. We can  vote on it.

Speaker Johnson is doing this by literally declaring, again, that a  day is  not a day for the purpose of the international emergency law. A day is  not a day, but he is just doing what the other Speaker--the President,  but he is acting as Speaker--is doing what he is told.

This gameplaying is not the norm. Actually, just across the Capitol,  the Republican Senate, they are taking votes on similar resolutions  that have been offered. The Senate voted in a bipartisan way to end the  Canada emergency, but Speaker Johnson is refusing to allow that to  happen.

Mr. MEEKS. The House should have a say. Even last Congress, the  Republican majority had votes on privileged resolutions under the  emergency law.

I can understand why some of my colleagues across the aisle might  wish to avoid such a vote. They don't want to be seen raising taxes and  increasing costs on everyday families in this country, but their  inaction is doing just that, by letting Donald Trump's fake emergencies  and tariffs continue unchecked.

Let me propose a solution: Do your job. The American people elected  us to take those tough votes. It is our time. The cameras of history  are rolling and what they are going to see is the Republican majority  shying away from the spotlight. Vote ``no'' on this rule.