Relating to A National Emergency By the President on February 2025


Mr. Speaker, I think I have heard that story before that this is all  about drugs. If I recall correctly, the former President of Honduras  probably put more drugs in the United States than Canada has combined.  The President of the United States didn't say that was an emergency. He  pardoned him. I have heard it before. It is all about drugs. That was  the case.

What is the case and what is a fact is that in the last year, tariffs  have cost American families nearly $1,700. That cost is expected to  increase in 2026. That is the case. Since these tariffs were imposed,  U.S. exports to Canada have fallen by more than 21 percent.

When I go home, my constituents aren't telling me they have an extra  $1,700 to spare. They are asking me to lower grocery prices, lower the  price of healthcare, and make life more affordable. That is what this  is about. It is about the American people and making things affordable  for them.

Today's vote is simple. It is very simple. Will my colleagues on the  other side of the aisle vote to lower the cost of living for American  families, or will they keep prices high out of loyalty to Donald J.  Trump?

That is what this vote is. That is why we pressed for this vote  today. That is why a day is a day, and we finally get our chance to  have the Members of the House vote their conscience. Do they vote for  the President and his ways, or do they vote for their people, their  constituents?

Let's be clear about this so-called emergency Donald Trump declared  on Canada and so many other countries where no emergency exists. For  over 50 years, emergency authorities have been declared. What have they  been? Yes, they have been for civil wars. Pandemics? I think that is an  emergency. A massive human rights crisis could be an emergency.

Canada is none of those things. Canada isn't a threat. Canada is our  friend. Canada is our ally. Canadians have fought alongside Americans,  whether it was in World War II or the war in Afghanistan, where 165  Canadians gave their lives after our country was attacked. There is no  national emergency. There is no national security threat underpinning  these threats.

In an interview just last night, Donald J. Trump admitted he placed  tariffs on Switzerland. Why? I will tell my colleagues why. It is  simply because he didn't like the way their leader spoke to him. He put  tariffs on Switzerland.

That is not a strategy. That is impulse. That is a person who is just  trying to say that he is the king. Mr. Speaker, guess what. That  impulse, who is going to pay the price for it? Who is going to pay the  price for that impulse? I will tell my colleagues who. It is the  American people.

Our morning coffee, our kids' chocolate, lifesaving medical devices,  those are the Canadian goods that are being hit by 35 percent tariffs.  Americans are paying more for healthcare and their daily essentials  during an affordability crisis, all because of a manufactured emergency  and one person's ego.

The damage doesn't stop there. What about American products? They are  being boycotted across Canada. Don't believe me? Just look at the  President's social media posts from just 2 days ago where he said:

``Ontario won't even put the U.S. spirits, beverages, and other  alcoholic products, on their shelves.''

Tourism from Canada is down 30 percent. People in the hospitality  industry--Las Vegas, my home State of New York, and the chairman's home  State of Florida--are losing their jobs because Canadians do not want  to come to the United States of America.

What are the people getting in return? I will tell my colleagues what  they are getting. They are getting higher electricity costs during one  of the coldest winters in modern history. They are getting higher food  prices and higher costs for industrial goods and healthcare.

Mr. Speaker, this is heads, we lose; tails, we lose.

Tariffs are bad for American workers. They are bad for businesses.  They are bad for working families. Instead of addressing the  affordability crisis, which the President has called a hoax,  Republicans have spent a year blocking this vote to protect Donald  Trump, rather than doing their job to help the American people and what  the American people did send us here to do, which is to lower costs.  That ends today.

Every Member now has to go on record. Do they stand with the  disastrous trade war or with their constituents who are demanding  relief? It is time we end this so-called national emergency because the  only emergency here is the economic one created by Donald J. Trump's  tariffs.

I urge the adoption of the resolution and the termination of these  unnecessary and harmful tariffs, which are just taxes on the American  people.

Mr. Speaker, we have had some time from the last time that we were on  this floor. If he were so serious about drugs, I asked the chairman  previously: Why would the President of the United States pardon one of  the biggest drug dealers who was killing Americans, Juan Orlando  Hernandez. The last time, the gentleman said that he hadn't spoken to  the President and didn't know why.

Mr. Speaker, if he is so interested in stopping drugs, maybe he could  have and should have had a conversation.

Let me just tell you something about drugs, how much drugs are coming  in from Canada, because that is what this is about. As a former special  narcotics prosecutor--that is me--I know a little bit about that.  Saying that you are going to focus and stop certain things from coming  across the border of Canada, as if it is coming across in a cluster  like it is an emergency, is just an out-and-out lie.

The fact of the matter is that if you look at the Federal  prosecutions--this just came out not too long ago--for narcotics in the  United States of America, it just came out that, under the Trump  administration, Federal drug prosecutions fell to the lowest level in  decades. It talked about that Federal drug prosecutions dropped 10  percent in 2025 as agents changed their focus to immigration, that the  number of new cases being filed is the lowest in decades according to a  Reuters analysis. High-priority drug investigations have stalled since  Donald Trump took office. It doesn't sound like the President of the  United States is really concerned about drug prosecutions.

Mr. MEEKS. Have you found out yet why Mr. Hernandez has been  pardoned?

Mr. MEEKS. I want to find out right now because I would prosecute  him.

Mr. MEEKS. Have you had a conversation with the President about it?

Mr. MEEKS. Well, you should. If you consider--why aren't you  prosecuting cases now?

Mr. MEEKS. It would not be coming from Canada.

Mr. MEEKS. Did the fentanyl come from Canada?

Mr. MEEKS. What source is that?

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, what source is the gentleman talking about?

Mr. MEEKS. No, I think that is Canada is doing law enforcement on its  side, and we are not doing now law enforcement on our side.

Mr. Speaker, Canada plays virtually no role in the United States'  fentanyl influx, especially compared to other countries targeted by the  Trump administration. Canada contributes less than 1 percent to our  southern neighbor's border of street fentanyl, less than 1 percent.  That is not according to me, because I don't know where he gets his  facts, but that is according to the DEA, as well as the Canadian  Government, 1 percent.

We do a lot of trade with Canada, and in Florida's 21st District, the  chairman's district, exports to Canada support 1,650 jobs. Many of them  will begin to lose their jobs. This is about affordability. This is  about job creation and the economy. I wonder what he is going to say to  those 1,650 people in Florida's 21st District.

Sanchez), a member of the Committee on Ways and Means.

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, the talk time is soon over because of what I  am hearing from the other side. Basically what this is about is the  American people having a chance to see where their Members are, whether  they want to--they will judge ultimately--believe that this is an  emergency from what they hear and know of the President or whether they  are concerned about their cost of living, whether they are concerned  about that hot chocolate, whether they are concerned about that coffee,  or whether they are concerned about life-saving medical devices.

What this will do--which has been blocked for almost a year--is  simply to have a vote on the House floor so that the American people  can see because then ultimately, we will know which way is the right  way for them.

We are here to represent the citizens of the United States of  America, not a President. We soon will have a vote because that is what  is going to happen, which is what I have been asking for for over a  year. If you think this is an emergency, if you believe the President,  you are going to vote that way. If you think this is going to be  accountable to the American people, if you think that the American  people will say that the cost of living, the cost of electricity, the  cost of food every day they go to the market is of concern to them,  they will be watching how you vote on this bill. They will be watching.  Vote how you want. This is for the American people to see where you  stand, with them or the President of the United States.

Salinas).

Mr. Speaker, one thing that I will say, yes, the economy is booming.  Mr. Speaker, if you are a billionaire, the economy is booming. However,  when I go home and I talk to my constituents, what they tell me is that  the price of beef has risen 16.4 percent over the last year. The price  of coffee is up a whopping 19.8 percent. The price of lettuce is up 7.3  percent. Frozen fish is up 8.6 percent. So for them, it is not booming.

As I said, this is just about a vote. It is just about a vote. I wish  we could have had this vote 1 year ago. If, in fact, they believe this  is an emergency, I don't know why it was held up for 1 year and tried  to be prevented again.

It is a vote. Let the American people know where you stand, Mr.  Speaker. They see it with your vote.

Do you stand with them, Mr. Speaker, trying to fix the affordability  crisis, or do you stand with Donald Trump and my Republican colleagues  who are just taking care of those for whom the economy is booming, the  billionaires of our country?

The American people are watching. This is very simple. Why did we  take a year to get this vote? It is because Trump's tariffs are  unpopular--the majority of Americans know it--and a majority of my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle don't want to be on the  record. Well, they are going to be on the record.

They know that more than 60 percent of Americans disapprove of these  tariffs. They know that the foreign governments don't pay these  tariffs. They know that American families do. The farmers feel it.  Small businesses feel it. Moms and dads feel it every time they see the  prices at the grocery store.

What this is, we can go back and forth, but the American people are  watching. They are the ultimate judges. They can see. They can hear.  They know our friend. They know how Canada and Canadians are friendly  to us in the United States of America, closest partners. Many Canadians  have given their lives for us.

The American people can watch. What this simply does, this  resolution, we will see. If you think that there is a crisis with  Canada, then vote.

Still, the Constitution says it is the House of Representatives and  the United States Congress, it is within our authority. Don't punt.  Don't just hide behind somebody else. That is what this will do. If you  believe that this is an emergency, vote that way, if that is what you  really believe.

However, if you go to the grocery stores, if you see the price of  beef, if you look at the price of coffee, if you feel that the economy  is suffering as a result of these tariffs, if you think the economy for  the average, everyday American is as good as those billionaire friends  that the President has, then you vote with the President.

Give up, but don't give up your authority as a Member of this House  to vote. The first fight here was the power to vote on this issue,  which was blocked for 1 year. I choose not to give up that power.  Whether I agree or disagree, I want to vote on it. That was prevented  for over a year.

Today, we will vote on it. I thank some of my colleagues on the other  side who have had the courage to stand up and say: Let's vote. Let's  vote on this, and let the American people know how we stand. Let's vote  on this to see if we believe that tariffs cause an affordability issue.  Let's vote on this if we believe that Canada is not our friend, if  Canada is an adversary, and you feel we should block a bridge like the  President is talking about now, a bridge that Canadians paid for right  across, block it, make them the 51st State, and insult them. If that is  what you want to do, do it.

If you want to stand to bring down prices, if you want the average,  everyday American to be able to raise their children and live the  American Dream, if you want to make sure that families can afford to  pay their rent, can afford to buy food, can afford to have healthcare,  then you vote ``yes'' for this resolution.

The jury is really the American people. They ultimately will vote.  They ultimately will tell us what is in their best interests. I have  confidence in the American people. That is why I wanted a vote on this  bill.

I didn't want to play the funny rules that were being played and were  attempted last night. Fortunately, some of my colleagues on the other  side did not want to play that game anymore either.

Those rules and those games that were played to prevent a vote on the  floor in the United States Congress are over. That is what this is  about, so the American people can see what we stand for. Do we stand  for just going blindly with the President of the United States, or do  we stand for the American people and making sure that their cost of  living is cheaper and affordable so they can simply send their kids to  school and be able to put a good meal on the table and a roof over the  heads of their families? That is what this vote is about.

Mr. MEEKS. I will say that the American people are the judges. They  don't need to hear anything else. The American people will judge.

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.