Removal of the Use of United States Forces for Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela


Mr. Speaker, let me just say maybe I can teach the chairman something  about diplomacy. Maybe he doesn't know anything about diplomacy.

First, let me talk about the picture he tried to show me. That was a  bipartisan trip, Democrats and Republicans, working together. It was  called the Boston Group. We were bringing the opposition and at that  time the Chavistas together.

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, we were diplomatically working together. We  were trying to help the people of Venezuela.

In fact, we can also see how long ago that was. I had all-black hair  at the time. I think I looked good. I got gray. I had all-black hair  because that was back in 2002. I was a new Member of Congress, trying  to work together with diplomacy from the very beginning.

Mr. Speaker, I didn't come here with prop photos because I am here to  debate substance. I am here to find out why the President of the United  States pardoned convicted drug dealers. I have not gotten an answer to  that yet.

If we are talking about pictures, I could have come with pictures of  President Trump with his arm around Kim Jong Un. I could have come with  pictures of President Trump offering the red carpet to Vladimir Putin.  I could have come with a whole lot of pictures of President Trump with  Epstein. I didn't come to play games. My colleague is playing a game on  the House floor.

I came because we have serious business here. This is not a game.  This is about our responsibility as Members of Congress in addressing  issues that should be before this body. It is about us having a debate  in committee and holding the administration accountable, as we do any  President. It is about us being the Representatives of people who elect  us.

Mr. Speaker, this is not a game. Diplomacy is not a game. War is not  a game. There are rules in war. When people violate rules in war, they  have to be held accountable. When people violate rules in our cities,  they have to be held accountable.

The people who are in these positions--law enforcement officers,  police officers, and the President of the United States--have to be  held responsible. If we close our eyes on one, our country is not the  country we have said it is.

I said earlier on the floor during this debate: My War Powers  Resolution to end this administration's extrajudicial strikes on boats  in the Western Hemisphere, those bombs are not about drugs.

If the administration did want to stop drugs, Trump would not have  pardoned the former President of Honduras, Juan Orlando Hernandez, or  Ross Ulbricht who operated the Silk Road drug marketplace. He wouldn't  seize an oil tanker off the coast of Venezuela or threaten CIA  operations, blockades, and strikes on Venezuela.

This is no joke. This is serious. This is not about drugs. It is  about regime change. It is about being honest with the people of  America. That is what the Chief of Staff of the President just did. She  didn't talk about drugs. She talked about regime change. It is Trump  himself saying it.

He said he wanted the oil. He said it was our oil, not Venezuela's  oil. He said it is our oil and our territory. We are going to take it  back. That is the tweet of the President. This is no joke. This is no  game. This is serious business.

Mr. Speaker, I am not going to get into these back-and-forths. I have  been waiting for an answer because this is serious business. The  American people want an answer that they can't quite get yet. I can't  get anybody at a hearing from the administration to answer the  question. I can't even get anybody from the administration, when I saw  some yesterday, to answer the question. I have been waiting here. The  American people want to know why a President of the United States would  pardon two drug dealers. They are not just accused. They are convicted  and in jail. They were, but not anymore. They are free men now.

I have been waiting for an answer. I am not playing jokes. This is  very serious. I am asking everybody, all of my Republican colleagues,  anybody who speaks, anybody, just answer the question. We are on C- SPAN. Here is an opportunity to tell the American people why the  President of the United States, for whom you say this is about drugs,  would let go of two major convicted drug dealers, not small guys, but  major. I just don't know why kingpins can get away with doing and  pedaling drugs in the United States, but a peon in the operation must  die.

Even if you survived a strike and are holding on for dear life--you  have no weapons, no phone, no anything--you are still an imminent  danger, so they say, to the United States.

We have pictures that will show whether or not they were a threat to  the United States while holding onto that boat. The administration has  decided they can show all the others, but the American people cannot  see that.

I have been waiting for an answer. The American people want an  answer. I will wait.

Nothing.

Velazquez), the ranking member of the Committee on Small Business.

Mr. MEEKS.

Let me just say this real quick, because the chairman keeps going on  about these pictures. I am not going to keep belaboring, but I do  remember something, if you want to talk about it now.

I think that we know that Kim Jong-un, who he is, et cetera. I have a  quote, if you really want to talk about relationships, Mr. Chairman,  that you can get directly from the President of the United States. When  he was talking about Kim Jong-un, here is what he said: ``We fell in  love, okay? No, really. He wrote me beautiful letters, and they're  great letters.'' We are in love.

That is Kim Jong-un. You can also talk about him and Xi, where  fentanyl is coming into the United States. Those are real  relationships.

Any time you are ready to answer the question about why somebody, the  President of the United States, would pardon kingpins in the drug  trade, I will get an answer. I have been waiting. I have been asking  everybody. Not only the chairman but any Republican that wants to make  a statement, if they could just explain to the American people. They  don't have to explain it to me. Explain it to the American people. Just  give me some explanation of why the President of the United States  would pardon convicted drug traffickers.

I am not going to talk to my colleagues because they are not going to  answer the question of why two convicted people, not just indicted,  were pardoned by the United States President.

Mr. Speaker, I will address my fellow Americans. Congress would need  to pass an Authorization for Use of Military Force if President Trump  wanted to put boots on the ground or conduct military strikes in  Venezuela to abide by the law.

For that, Republicans in Congress would need to cast their vote on  whether to commit U.S. Armed Forces to an open-ended conflict that  their constituents, the American people, certainly do not want.

Trump ran on ending forever wars, but now he has forgotten what they  are, what his own Secretary of Defense, Pete Hegseth, characterized as  ``interventionism, undefined wars, regime change . . . . and feckless  nation building.'' Yet, with Venezuela, Trump is provoking a new war  right in our backyard and threatening to destabilize the entire region.

Let's be clear: Claiming a war with Venezuela will be quick and easy  is a fantasy. Maduro is by no means a good guy. He lost the last  election and has violently repressed the Venezuelan people to stay in  power against their democratic will. To think that if the U.S. military  just chases him out, then Venezuela's military and armed groups around  the country will welcome democracy with open arms is naive at best.

This administration has no plan for the day after. It has no  strategy. If Members do not vote for Mr. McGovern's War Powers  Resolution, they are signing their name to everything that comes after,  a forever war in our own hemisphere, a quagmire the likes of Vietnam in  a country twice the size of Iraq for a length of time that is  completely unknown.

How many billions of dollars of taxpayers' money would be spent so  Pete Hegseth can play a wartime general? How many U.S. servicemembers  would make the ultimate sacrifice so Donald Trump can do in Latin  America what Vladimir Putin does in Europe?

The power over matters of war and peace belongs to the United States  Congress. It is our most solemn duty given in the Constitution of the  United States, and votes like this are our most consequential. They are  literally about life and about death.

If history has taught us anything, it is that wars are easy to start,  but they are incredibly difficult to end. The choice you make on this  vote will carry a long, a very long, a very long part in this history.

Mr. Speaker, I will end with this. Let me just tell you, the cameras  of history are rolling. What will be the downstream effects of  destabilizing the country, an entire region? Anyone who tells you they  know, they are lying.

What we do know is that the American people don't want this. That is  unequivocal. Even President Trump's supporters do not understand why he  would do this.

I ask you, let's vote in this House for Mr. McGovern's bill. It is  the right thing to do. Vote so the American people know how you stood  at this point in history.