Rescissions Act of 2025


Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for allowing me to  speak.

Mr. Speaker, this rescissions package isn't about fiscal  responsibility. It is about abandoning America's legacy of compassion,  ceding global leadership, and turning our back on the most vulnerable.

The President's demand to slash $8.3 billion in lifesaving foreign  assistance is plunging America deep into moral bankruptcy. Despite what  Secretary Rubio and others have falsely claimed, cuts to U.S. foreign  assistance have caused unnecessary deaths around the world. The cuts in  this rescissions package, based on outright lies, will cost many more  lives.

Now, maybe they don't care about lives, but I think we have a moral  obligation that we should. My Republican colleagues should know better.  Why? Just months ago they voted for this funding. They understood, and  I believe they understand now if they would tell the truth, that we all  should know that foreign assistance is smart policy and a national  security imperative. Rescinding these funds now will have real and  immediate consequences.

This package cuts $400 million from PEPFAR. These aren't Democratic  pet projects as some would have you believe. PEPFAR was established by  President George W. Bush and has saved more than 26 million lives,  while slowing the spread of HIV/AIDS around the world. Cutting these  kinds of funds is another death sentence for children and women who  depend upon lifesaving medication that costs us just pennies.

It cuts $1.3 billion from humanitarian assistance, while over 300  million people around the world urgently need food, shelter, and  medical care. These aren't abstract numbers. These are real lives that  are at stake.

To justify these cuts, the President has misled the public about the  very agencies carrying them out. Take USAID, for example. It has never  failed an audit, never been found out of compliance with laws or  regulations. In 2022, it ranked third among nine Federal agencies for  evidence-based budgeting and decisionmaking.

Let's contrast that with the Department of Defense, who is getting  more money. The Department of Defense has failed its audit. Mr.  Speaker, 7 years in a row they have failed their audit. If this was  truly about waste, fraud, or abuse, we would be having a lot different  conversation here this afternoon.

This package also slashes funding for UNICEF, which works to protect  children around the world. It means yanking more than 40 million kids  out of school. It eliminates programs that help almost 4 million people  have clean drinking water.

Do you know who is excited about this package? I can tell you who is  excited about it. China, Russia, North Korea, Iran, they are excited  about this package. They would love to do this themselves if they  could, because they know that this takes away our strength and our  relationships, and then they will try to jump in. They are laughing.  They are happy because they see us surrendering, because that is what  this is. This is a surrender.

We cannot be fooled by this budget talk. You know what? Look at it.  These funds really are less than 1 percent of our overall Federal  budget, less than 1 percent.

Meanwhile, if you look at what the Trump administration and our GOP  colleagues are doing, they are actually adding deficits of trillions of  dollars to give tax breaks to billionaires.

This is not really about fiscal restraint. Saving lives is what we  should be talking about. Those billions of dollars that they are going  to get in tax cuts are not going to change the lives of those  billionaires.

Let us reject this rescission bill. Let us vote ``no'' and restore  the money to save lives.