Fighting Voter Suppression


Mr. JACKSON of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Congresswoman for  her leadership and her stewardship. I thank the body for convening  during this very special hour.

Democracy is on trial this week.

Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight with a fervor and the burden of history  on all of our backs. The question is: Do we go forward in faith, or do  we go backwards in despair?

I rise tonight not just for myself as a legislator, but for all of  those who never made it to this mike, for all of those who did not have  the opportunity to be viewed as full human beings in our great country,  for those who marched in the dust, for those who bled on the bridges,  for those who faced the dogs and the batons right here in the United  States of America, for those who met the fire hoses just to try to  claim their right to vote.

Mr. Speaker, both of my grandfathers served in World War II.  Oftentimes, when I look at Union Station, I remember that my  grandfather, having fought the Nazis in World War II, coming back to  the United States and into Washington, D.C., he had to leave the first- class train car as a soldier and go into the back because he was  considered a Negro, a colored man. Nazi POWs went to the first-class  train car as they headed back toward South Carolina.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today because the right to vote, the crown jewel  of our  democracy, is under attack again. We have seen this play out before,  and we know how it ends if we don't act. Tonight, I say: We have come  too far and there is too many to go back in time again.

In 1965, a year before I was born, after 346 years, African Americans  were finally given full citizenship with that crown jewel of the Voting  Rights Act.

I am 59 years of age. I am the first generation in my family, all  born in America--all born in America--who has full equal rights. In my  lifetime, at the age of 59, my children will have fewer rights than I  have had. Those are troubling signs.

In 1965, the Voting Rights Act became the law of the land. It was  signed in blood and baptized by the courage of men and women who dared  to believe in something better. Selma gave us the foot soldiers,  Montgomery gave us the movement, and the movement gave us the right to  vote.

Yet, here we are in 2025, and it feels like we are back at square  one. This week, the President signed an executive order requiring proof  of citizenship to vote in Federal elections. He cut off mail-in ballots  unless they arrive on time as he cuts the postal workforce. He says  that you cannot have ballots that don't arrive on the day of.

Mr. Speaker, ignoring the rural voters, the disabled voters, the  traveling soldiers and our veterans, if your State does not comply, he  threatens to take away your funding. How is the President expanding  democracy? He is asphyxiating our body politics.

This is not policy. This is punishment. This is not democracy. This  is deception. That is suppression dressed in a suit and tie.

Don't be fooled by the language. Republicans call it election  security. Jim Crow has had a way of cleaning up vile and vitriolic  racist words, but I have lived long enough to know that when they say,  ``security,'' what they actually mean is ``selectivity.'' When they  say, ``integrity,'' what they actually mean is ``inequality.''

Let me be clear. We don't have a voter fraud problem in this country.  We have a voter suppression crisis. We have polling places shutting  down in Black neighborhoods. We have long lines in indigenous  communities that stretch around the corner and throughout the night. We  have purges, ID laws, and maps drawn to divide rather than to unite.

Mr. Speaker, we have courts gutting the Civil Rights Act, statehouses  cooking up new restrictions, and a President threatening to override  the will of the people with the stroke of a pen.

Mr. Speaker, that is not justice. That is regression. That is going  in reverse. We don't want to go back. We are not going back. We won't  go back to a time when folks had to count jellybeans in jars to prove  they were American enough.

We won't go back to a time when the color of your skin determined the  weight of your ballot or your opportunity to have a ballot in your  hand. We won't go back to a time when power was hoarded by the few and  denied to the many. We are marching forward with ballots, not bullets;  love, not fear; and with hope, not hate.

When you suppress the vote, you suppress the American Dream. You  suppress the worker, the teacher, the farm laborer, the preacher, the  nurse, the single mom juggling three jobs just to make it to election  day. You suppress the very soul of our democracy.

Mr. Speaker, some would say order is needed. Let me say something  about order. There is no order without justice, and there is no justice  when you erect barriers to silence people instead of listening to them.

We need access. We need more access, not less. We need more voices,  not fewer. We need to make voting easier, not harder; more joyful, not  more burdensome; and more sacred, not more cynical.

Mr. Speaker, this Congress must not wait another day. We must pass  the John R. Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act to restore what the  Supreme Court gutted when it ripped out preclearance. We must pass the  Freedom to Vote Act to guarantee that every citizen, no matter the ZIP  Code that they live in, their income, or ancestry, can register, vote,  and be counted with dignity.

We must defend the courts and protect the power of judges to stop  injustice before it spreads and metastasizes because, if we silence the  judiciary, we silence the law.

While we legislate, we must also organize. We must educate. We must  inspire new generations who understand the vote not just as a right,  but as a duty, as a voice, as a weapon of choice, and a peace  instrument in our long fight and struggle for its freedom and total  emancipation.

We must keep people marching in the streets for those who marched  before us and those continuing and coming behind.

We must keep dreaming for a democracy big enough for all of us, not  just for a favored few.

We must keep building the more perfect union that the Framers spoke  out about but never completed.

Mr. Speaker, tonight, in the spirit of Fannie Lou Hamer and Medgar  Evers--Fannie Lou Hamer said she was sick and tired of being sick and  tired. I know some people are asking why we are relitigating this  again.

Some people who are male and White have all of the privileges. Some  people think democracy began in 1776, when only White male landowners  had the right to vote. We have been a work in progress, and God is not  finished with it yet.

I speak for Medgar Evers and Malcolm and Martin and for the people in  line in church basements, gymnasiums, and mobile vans who believe in  this country even when this country forgot about them.

They are watching as we march. History is watching us. The past is  listening.

The future is haunting. The world is watching to see if America is  still what it claims to be. Let us not fail the moment. Let us be  worthy of the dream and our ideals. Let us not be thick on deeds and  thin on action.

Let us be worthy of the dream and aspire to live up to the words of  our Constitution. Let us protect the vote, not for ourselves but for  all those who cannot be in this Chamber, who are counting on us to  speak truth to power, pass laws, and lead with love. The vote is power.  The vote is our voice.

The vote is sacred, and I will not rest until every hand that reaches  for a ballot is met with a promise, not with a barrier.