No Tax Dollars for Terrorists Act


Mr. JACKSON of Illinois.  I rise in support of H.R. 260, and I thank my dear friend  and honorable colleague, the Honorable Tim Burchett from the great  State of Tennessee, for his remarks.

Mr. Speaker, oversight of U.S. policy toward Afghanistan does not  have to be a partisan issue. We can all agree that we do not want  American dollars sent to Afghanistan to be diverted to the Taliban.  However, we must do so in a way that does not further alienate those  partners already reeling from the Trump administration's foreign  assistance freeze, which terminated nearly all humanitarian assistance  to Afghanistan, despite its compliance with U.S. law and policy.

Mr. Speaker, I am glad that Mr. Burchett was willing to work with  Democrats to address many of our concerns about this legislation. I am  also glad that this legislation contains important amendments offered  by the Honorable Representative Kamlager-Dove to require additional  reporting on the Haqqani Network, and Representative Keating to ensure  that the strategy required by this bill prioritizes Afghan women and  girls, as well as our Afghan allies. These amendments, adopted with  bipartisan support during the markup, underscore that there remains  considerable areas of bipartisan consensus in the House about our  Afghanistan policy.

Unfortunately, there is not a consensus about what the Trump  administration is doing on Afghanistan because they won't tell us. The  State Department has ignored multiple bipartisan requests from this  committee, dating back to February, for more information about the  deals it is making with the Taliban and the Haqqani Network. Despite  the fact that the Republican-led Congress enacted a law codifying the  Coordinator for Afghan Relocation Efforts, Secretary Rubio is disabling  the infrastructure supporting our Afghan allies and leaving Congress in  the dark.

Likewise, Secretary Rubio has abolished the Special Envoy for Afghan  Women and Girls, even as this administration lifted the Rewards for  Justice bounties on the leaders of the Haqqani Network, a group with  the blood of U.S. troops on their hands.

Mr. Speaker, we urgently need more information and assurances from  the Trump administration about their priorities in Afghanistan and now  Iran. I hope my colleagues on the other side will stand up for our  committee's oversight responsibility. For now, we are glad to have the  opportunity to work together on this legislation.

I thank, again, the Honorable Congressman Tim Burchett and all his  great bipartisan advocates. I encourage my colleagues to join me in  supporting  this measure.

Mr. Speaker, our Afghan allies risked their lives for America. The  United States must continue to do everything it can to support our  partners on the ground providing assistance to Afghan civilians,  including women and children, while also ensuring U.S. foreign  assistance isn't being diverted into the hands of the Taliban.

There remain considerable areas of bipartisan consensus in Congress  when it comes to our Afghanistan policy. This legislation will lean on  that consensus to help bolster our committee's oversight power and take  a step toward delivering to our Afghan allies the support that they  deserve.

Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me and support this bill.  I yield back the balance of my time.