Maintaining American Superiority By Improving Export Control Transparency Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690695/maintaining-american-superiority-by-improving-export-control-transparency-act


Mr. JACKSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today, we are bringing a very  important piece of legislation to the floor, the Maintaining American  Superiority by Improving Export Control Transparency Act, a key piece  of legislation to ensure our country stays ahead of our adversaries.

Businesses and universities in the United States work constantly to  innovate, improve, and invent the best technologies and systems in this  world. This is what keeps America on the leading edge. Our Nation's  determination and commitment to achieving the best has allowed us to  develop the best technologies in all fields. Through strategic  investments under the leadership of President Trump, this will continue  for many years to come.

In today's era of strategic competition, Congress needs to provide  the administration with the tools it needs to ensure American  technologies are not falling into the hands of our adversaries. Malign  actors like China, Russia, North Korea, and Iran would gladly seek to  use our very own goods and technologies against us, whether in military  engagements or on the economic battlefield.

America's open, competitive economy has allowed us to become the  global leader in cutting-edge technologies,  but in order to maintain this advantage, we must be able to track how  American technology is used around the world.

My bill, the Maintaining American Superiority by Improving Export  Control Transparency Act helps to ensure increased transparency and  accountability in the export control process by creating better  reporting in the licensing application process, giving critical  information to both Congress and the administration.

My bill creates a mechanism for tracking and reporting of export  licenses and can be utilized to form a paper trail to understand where  American-made technologies are going, who is using them, and how they  may be getting diverted to adversarial nations. If our adversaries are  benefiting from American technology, we must know exactly how that  happened and who is responsible.

Further, my bill will provide necessary clarity on how licensing  determinations are made by producing information for each application,  including the applicant, the recipient, and the compliance measures  implemented to uphold export regulations. With this necessary  information in one place, we will have a better understanding of where  American-made technologies are going abroad, who is supposed to have  them, and how we can support the administration to close gaps being  exploited by our adversaries.

The American free market has led to some of the most incredible  technological advances of all time, so it is important that we  modernize our export control process to help protect it. Export  controls are a key national security tool for the administration in  these increasingly dangerous times. Therefore, Congress should swiftly  pass this legislation and send it to President Trump's desk.

As my chairman mentioned, this bill passed the House unanimously in  the 118th Congress. The only difference between this year's bill and  last year's bill is that we have incorporated some helpful technical  assistance provided by the new administration to ensure the legislation  better executes the letter of the law and congressional intent.

I thank Chairman Mast and Ranking Member Meeks for supporting this  legislation and working together to see that this bill made it to the  floor today. I also thank the co-leads of this bipartisan and bicameral  legislation, Congresswoman Sara Jacobs, Senator  Jim Banks, and Senator  Mark Warner.

Greater transparency and accountability in export controls is a  critical national security issue that everyone should have an interest  in supporting. I urge all of my colleagues to support this critical  piece of legislation that will enhance our national security and  economic competitiveness while protecting American innovation.