Recognizing the Career of Mr. George Woodward


Mr. JACKSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the retirement  of Mr. George Woodward. After eighteen years of dedicated service, Mr.  Woodward is stepping down from his responsibilities as the Director of  Public Affairs for the 82nd Training Wing at Sheppard Air Force Base in  Wichita Falls, Texas.

Throughout his 30-year career as a Public Affairs Specialist, Mr.  Woodward has been a tremendous source of expertise for the United  States Air Force. Mr. Woodward has served in a number of critical roles  and commands, including the 927th Air Refueling Wing at MacDill Air  Force Base, Florida and European Regional Medical Command at Sembach  Air Base, Germany. Mr. Woodward subsequently returned to the United  States where he took the position of Director of Public Affairs for the  82nd Training Wing, where he has faithfully served the outstanding men  and women at Sheppard Air Force Base.

At Sheppard, Mr. Woodward diligently supervised eighteen employees  who delivered clear and well-informed communications support on behalf  of the installation and sixty other training locations around the  world. As the official spokesperson for the base, Mr. Woodward advised  the commanding general on the effects of policies and actions on the  base's relationship with internal and external audiences and was  responsible for testing and executing crisis communication plans and  procedures, serving as the base liaison with state and federal  legislators, and overseeing a $1.3 million audiovisual contract.

During his tenure, Mr. George Woodward led public relations efforts  on critical developments at Sheppard Air Force base, such as the base's  groundbreaking on a $27 million Child Development Center and the 82nd  Training Wing's overhaul of the Air Force's Wartime Training Plan. Mr.  Woodward also supported visits to Sheppard, including from the  Secretary of the Air Force and Air Force Chief of Staff, Air Education  and Training Command leadership, and foreign dignitaries. As the  Director of Public Affairs, Mr. Woodward also led the communications  efforts for the base's 75th anniversary and Guardians of Freedom  Thunderbirds Air Show.

On behalf of the entire Congress and a grateful Nation, as well as  the thousands of Airmen who served at Sheppard Air Force Base  throughout his eighteen-year tenure, I express my sincere gratitude and  appreciation to Mr. George Woodward for his outstanding leadership and  unwavering support for the missions of the U.S. Air Force.