Recognizing and Expressing Gratitude to Former Director of Operations Kathy Zhu


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697542/recognizing-and-expressing-gratitude-to-former-director-of-operations-kathy-zhu


Mr. JACKSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and  express my sincere gratitude to my former Director of Operations, Kathy  Zhu of Kissimmee, Florida, for her exceptional service, tireless  dedication, and unwavering commitment to the people of Texas' 13th  Congressional District. Over the years, Kathy proved to be an  invaluable asset to my office, where her attention to detail was  crucial in my ability to represent and serve my constituents.

Kathy discovered her passion for public service in High School and  was extensively involved in the Florida Federation of Teenage  Republicans and the Republican Party of Florida. This passion  eventually led Kathy to study Political Science at the University of  Michigan, where she served as the Vice Chair for the College  Republicans at the university. After graduation, Kathy moved to the  Washington, D.C. area and began her career in politics, working for  various organizations in event coordination and digital analysis.

In February of 2022, Kathy joined my staff as Scheduler and quickly  became my Director of Operations the following year. During her time in  my office, Kathy worked diligently behind the scenes to ensure the  smooth and effective operation of my office. From travel,  events, and meeting coordination to office administration, she  consistently demonstrated precision and professionalism. She also  greatly contributed to the culture and environment of my office by  bringing her dog, Moose, in on out-of-session days. While working in my  office, Kathy continued her education at the Johns Hopkins Krieger  School of Arts and Sciences and received a Master of Arts in Global  Security Studies in May of 2025.

Kathy has returned to Michigan to continue her career in public  service and is currently the Digital Strategy Director for Speaker Matt  Hall in the Michigan House of Representatives, where I have no doubt  that she will continue to lead and serve with purpose in this new role.

Although Kathy has moved on to new challenges, her impact on my  office and on the people of Texas' 13th Congressional District  continues to be felt in the work we do every day. On behalf of myself,  my staff, and the constituents I proudly serve, I want to thank Kathy  Zhu for her years of loyal service, her commitment to excellence, and  her patriotic spirit. I wish her the very best as she continues her  journey in public service.