Recognizing and Expressing Gratitude to Former Chief of Staff Bryan Brody


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697548/recognizing-and-expressing-gratitude-to-former-chief-of-staff-bryan-brody


Mr. JACKSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and  express my gratitude to my former Chief of Staff, Bryan Brody of  Highland Village, Texas, for his exceptional service, tireless  dedication, and unwavering commitment to the people of Texas' 13th  Congressional District. Bryan has been with my office since the  beginning. As a trusted advisor, he helped build and lead Team Jackson  from the ground up. His leadership and insight were invaluable as we  worked daily to deliver results for the constituents of Texas' 13th  Congressional District.

A proud Texan through and through, Bryan graduated summa cum laude  from Houston Christian University, where he was a standout both on the  soccer field and in student government. During his college years, he  pursued two internships on Capitol Hill, where his curiosity,  dedication, and love for our Nation's values stood out.

Bryan began his career in Washington as a Staff Assistant for Senator  John Cornyn and quickly earned a reputation for being a hard worker who  was quick on his feet. He went on to serve as a Military Legislative  Correspondent for Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Jim Inhofe,  where he developed a deep understanding of defense policy and America's  military.

This expertise became critical when he joined my office as a Military  Legislative Assistant, where his policy and procedural knowledge across  both chambers of Congress helped advance key legislative victories for  Sheppard Air Force Base, the Pantex Plant, and the many defense  equities and military families I represent. Bryan's sharp, strategic  mind was also instrumental in getting my first piece of legislation  signed into law--the Maintaining American Superiority by Improving  Export Control Transparency Act. Whether serving as Legislative  Director, Deputy Chief of Staff, and eventually my Chief of Staff,  Bryan was essential in helping me become a leader on the House Armed  Services, Intelligence, Foreign Affairs, and Agriculture Committees.

His accomplishments continue to be recognized by his alma mater,  receiving the 2024 Houston Christian University Emerging Leader Award,  an honor bestowed upon alumni from the past decade who have achieved  early career success and made a positive impact in their communities.

Today, Bryan continues to serve our country as a Special Assistant to  President Donald J. Trump. In this role, he will continue to fight for  our America First agenda and the hardworking men and women of this  great Nation.

Although Bryan has taken on new challenges, his impact on my office  and the people of Texas' 13th Congressional District will be felt for  years to come. On behalf of myself, my staff, and the constituents I  proudly serve, I want to thank Bryan Brody for his years of loyal  service, his commitment to excellence, and his patriotic spirit. I wish  him the very best as he continues to work diligently for the American  people.