Recognizing and Expressing Gratitude to Defense Fellow Major Evan Hanson


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697563/recognizing-and-expressing-gratitude-to-defense-fellow-major-evan-hanson


Mr. JACKSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and  express my sincere gratitude to my Defense Fellow, Major Evan Hanson of  the United States Air Force, for his outstanding work in my office and  service to the people of Texas' 13th Congressional District during  2025. Since being assigned to my office, Major Hanson has made a  profound impact, bringing professionalism, insight, and dedication that  have delivered exceptional results for the constituents I represent.

Major Hanson entered my office with critical knowledge and experience  from his distinguished Air Force career, which was indispensable in  advancing my legislative priorities across the House Armed Services,  Intelligence, and Foreign Affairs Committees. In 2013, Evan  commissioned as a Logistics Readiness and Munitions Maintenance Officer  after graduating from the University of Colorado, where he received a  Bachelor of Arts Degree in International Affairs with magna cum laude  honors. As a commissioned officer, Evan has remained committed to his  educational and professional growth, earning a Master of Science Degree  in Organizational Leadership from Regis University and completing the  Air Force's Continuous Process Improvement Green Belt Program.

During his career, Evan has served with distinction at the Squadron,  Wing, and Major Command levels, both stateside and overseas at Bagram  Air Base, Afghanistan, and RAF Mildenhall, United Kingdom. His previous  assignments include experience as Operations Officer, Defense Logistics  Aviation; Director of Logistics and Force Protection, Combined Joint  Special Operations Aviation Component; Special Assistant to the  Commander, Air Force Materiel Command; Director of Innovation, 90th  Missile Wing; Resources Flight Commander, 790th Maintenance Squadron;  Materiel Management Flight Commander, 90th Logistics Readiness  Squadron; and much more.

Major Hanson's background proved critical in his unique ability to  support my efforts on behalf of the men and women at Sheppard Air Force  Base in Wichita Falls, Texas. Having trained at Sheppard in 2018, where  he completed the Air Force's Maintenance Officer Fundamental Course, he  brought firsthand understanding of the world-class technical training  and education that Sheppard provides our airmen. Notably, Evan's  leadership was instrumental in securing inclusion of my Advancing  Innovation and Maintenance through Headquarters for Instruction,  Growth, and High-tech training Act, or the AIM HIGH Act, as an  amendment to the House-passed Fiscal Year 2026 National Defense  Authorization Act--positioning Sheppard to receive designation as the  Air Force's Technical Training Center of Excellence.

Beyond his professional excellence, Major Hanson will be remembered  most for his servant leadership, integrity, and team-first spirit. His  patriotism, humility, and unwavering commitment to others have left a  permanent mark on my staff and our mission that will be nearly  impossible to replicate.

On behalf of myself, my staff, and the constituents I proudly serve,  I want to thank Major Evan Hanson for his exemplary service to my  office and our great Nation. I wish him nothing but continued success  as he carries forward his leadership in the United States Air Force.