Recognizing the Career of Jeffery Ronald Billman


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690377/recognizing-the-career-of-jeffery-ronald-billman


Mr. JACKSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and  express my deepest gratitude to my former Chief of Staff, Jeffery  Ronald Billman of Irving, Texas, for his dedicated service, steadfast  leadership, and unwavering commitment to the people of Texas'  Thirteenth Congressional District. As my first Chief of Staff, Jeff  played an instrumental role in helping me to become a better Member of  Congress, advancing the interests of Texas Thirteen, and ensuring that  my constituents received the representation they truly deserve.

Jeff, a native from Sacramento, California, found himself interested  in American History and Politics, which brought him to the University  of Dallas, where he received his bachelor's degree in history and a  master's degrees in American studies. Following graduation, Jeff moved  to Washington, D.C. and started his career in public service.

Throughout his time in Washington, Jeff's distinguished career  included serving as a Special Assistant to the Chief Deputy Whip for  Deputy Whip Peter Roskam, Legislative Assistant for Congressman Peter  Roskam, Deputy Chief of Staff for Congressman Peter Roskam, Deputy  Chief of Staff for Congressman Kevin Hern, and Legislative Director and  Deputy Chief of Staff for Ranking Member Kevin Brady before coming to  Team Jackson as my Chief of Staff. His extensive experience, knowledge,  and leadership in these roles have helped shape policy and governance  at the highest levels.

During his tenure in my office, Jeff was instrumental in my success  on the House Armed Services Committee, House Agriculture Committee,  House Foreign Affairs Committee, and House Permanent Select Committee  on Intelligence. He provided key legislative guidance that strengthened  our national security and helped assemble a top-tier team to serve the  people of Texas Thirteen.

Currently, Jeff serves as Senior Vice President of Government  Relations at AxAdvocacy, where he continues to use his vast expertise  and experience to advocate for important issues that shape public  policy.

While Jeff has moved on to new opportunities, his legacy of service  will not be forgotten. I have no doubt that he will continue to excel  and make a meaningful difference in whatever endeavors he pursues. On  behalf of myself, my staff, and the people of the Thirteenth  Congressional District of Texas, I extend my sincere appreciation to  Jeff Billman for his years of hard work, dedication, and service to the  state of Texas and our great Nation.