Congress is A Math-Free Zone


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698698/congress-is-a-math-free-zone


Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, I was actually going to come here and do  some things on demographics and some things that are optimistic, but I  actually think we should first jump into the fact that we work in a  math-free zone.

If you listen to the people coming behind the microphones,  particularly today, it is as if they have read none of the CBO reports,  none of the HHS reports, or the other things, particularly in regard to  the ACA, which are subsidies. They are subsidies on top of subsidies to  insurance companies.

Did you read the reports? Last year, 41 percent of those subsidies on  subsidies of the people that had the enhanced subsidies paid no  premium, so they had no skin in the game, which is not what we were  promised when ObamaCare came into existence a dozen years ago.

We actually showed an economic report. I did entire floor speeches on  it showing that only a third of that $35 billion, $40 billion a year  subsidy on top of the subsidies actually goes to healthcare.

We also showed that a third of the folks never made a claim because  now we are finding rampant fraud of people who were signed up because  if they don't have a premium to pay, they had brokers signing them up,  and they had no idea they had coverage.

Where is the passion to actually deal with the fact that particularly  the left--and I have got to blame my brothers and sisters on the  Republican side, we have done the same. We have turned healthcare into  financial engineering, instead of having it be about the cost, access,  and delivery of having our brothers and sisters get healthier.

Is it you have sold your soul to the insurance companies? Remember,  the ACA model is an insurance company model. You promised them rates of  return, you promised them a market, so this is 7 percent of the  healthcare market, and 94 percent of that 7 percent gets a subsidy.

Let's actually do math because you have been listening to--oh, yeah,  there has been actually no math today as people talked about subsidies  on top of subsidies. The CBO report that updated yesterday--and I can  do this off the top of my head--basically said the 3 years cost $80  billion.

The reason it is lower than my $105 billion is because they made an  assumption that this year, if the Senate were to pass these, that there  will be a delayed sign-up, so there will be half a year or so where  people--but if they did a claw back, the actual number on these  subsidies is about $105 billion.

Okay. Even if you do the CBO's number of $80 billion for 3 years of  subsidies on top of subsidies, and then you put in the 10 years of  interest, you know, because of the interest window, this costs $111  billion.

Understand what the left is telling you. They are basically saying  they don't give a damn about healthcare. It is financing. If we wanted  to change the price of healthcare, we would actually be looking at the  innovations that are going on and start to legalize them, but there are  too many damn lobbyists walking up and down our hallways here trying to  stop us.

Look, here is an article from 2 days ago. Bless the State of Utah. If  you are like me--I have hypertension. Can you imagine that? I have had  it since I was a teenager. I take a calcium inhibitor. It lowers my  blood pressure. Hopefully, I don't pop an aneurysm, but every 90 days,  I have to pick up the phone to renew a doctor's prescription or go  visit the doctor, even though it is the same prescription I have had  for decades.

Utah just created AI that will take my data and renew my  prescription. It will save a fortune for the people of Utah--cost,  access, not subsidies.

Stanford medical reviewed basically being able to use certain  wearables. Their new AI model predicts disease risk as you sleep from  over 100 health conditions. They take some data as you are sleeping off  your wearables, and boom, basically you are wearing a medical lab.  Except the problem is, it is not allowed to prescribe. That would be  illegal because that would require us to actually do things, modernize  access to healthcare, use the technology to crash--oh, we can't use  technology to crash the price. It would really annoy a whole bunch of  the lobbyists. People are lined up at our doors. People would show up  at our fundraisers.

OpenAI chat health to connect data from health apps medical records-- there is a revolution coming where we as people of America can stay  dramatically healthier.

Why aren't we doing the discussion of what to do to lower the price  of healthcare instead of having debates of another $100 billion that  goes on the very credit cards of the people who get--the insurance  companies that get the subsidy that only as--our model is 38 percent of  that subsidy actually ends up going into healthcare. We are still  trying to figure out where the hell the rest of the money went.

Have we lost our minds? Why is it so much easier to just keep  borrowing money and borrowing money and borrowing money and say: I am  giving you something, but I am putting it on your credit card. It is  like we are engaging in a level of financial lunacy here.

Now, let's actually go on to the even more difficult part of this  discussion. I am doing this because I want us to start to have a  benchmark. If there is anyone out there listening that has ever had to  tolerate--because I have been doing these for a decade, and I am just  exhausted. I am frustrated. I am angry.

My brothers and sisters here, Democrat and Republican, I like most of  these people, and I am crushed. I am just absolutely intellectually,  emotionally, even physically crushed at the inability to tell the  truth. We don't want to tell the truth because our constituents get  pissed off at us when we walk them through the math. The constituents  look back and say, so you have been lying or the politicians have been  lying to us for decades. The answer is yes, but it is not Democratic.  It is not Republican. Much of the crisis that we are facing is  demographic.

I am not going to explain all of this chart, but I am basically going  to tell you, if you look at the financial lines on this chart, Mr.  Speaker, it basically says, in 3 years, over half the money this  Federal Government spends will go to those 65 and up. In 3 years, half  the money we spend will go to those 65 and up.

Now, I need you to work through something with me. I have already  presented the Moody's Analytics report that is saying, in 8 years from  now, 30 percent of our spending, 30 percent of tax collections, will go  just to interest. You are now seeing, in 3 years, the majority of our  spending will actually go to benefits here. We have a math problem.  Today, we have fewer 18 year olds than we had 20 years ago, but we have  double the number of 65 year olds.

We can sit here and blame each other, but it is just demographics. It  is happening over the entire industrialized world, but we are not  allowed to actually have an honest discussion about it because the  moment you say something, the other side is writing political  commercials to rip your face off  because you told the truth about math and demographics.

It is real simple. Mr. Speaker, you are going to run for U.S. Senate.  In your next term, the Medicare trust fund is empty. The Social  Security trust fund is empty. It takes that first year, 2033, to just  cover that shortfall that is over $638 billion. If you don't fix it,  you double senior poverty. You double the number of baby boomers who  will live on the street, and everyone's Social Security check has a 24  percent cut.

How many people have you heard this week get behind the microphones  and say maybe we should actually start to adopt technology,  modernization, deal with the reality of our fiscal cliff that is  coming? Instead, I watch a parade of my brothers and sisters here say:  I have an idea. It costs more money, but it is a really good idea.  Let's just put it on the credit card.

It is out of order, but I will get to it. I am going to say it a  couple of times because I did a presentation of a report from I think  it is the Massachusetts or Boston economic council, freaky smart  professors. If you use a 6 percent discount rate, which you can argue  something lower, but sometimes you have to talk about math. A child  born today, you need 104 percent of that child's lifetime income, so  more money than they make in their entire lifetime, just to cover  Federal pension benefits, Social Security, Medicare, military, Federal  employees, and railroad retirement.

Does anyone care? Does anyone care? What is wrong with this place?  The immorality that the next generation will be poorer than us--but we  are not allowed to say that because, let's be honest, people want more  stuff. If we keep giving them more stuff, they vote for us. They might  even contribute.

Look, let's just continue to do some of the basic demographics. From  2004 to 2024, you see this one line here, those are 18-year-olds.  Somewhat similar, but now you start to get to 2035 and start to  understand, without immigration, you have a world where you  functionally have more 65-year-olds than you have 18-year-olds.

We are having debates right now. There is a report out that--now, it  is not adjusted for self-deports--saying that the United States had  about 400,000 as a first snapshot growth in 2025. We have another  report that says the United States had zero population growth last  year. We have another report that says the United States will have zero  population growth this year.

Mr. Speaker, are we going to tell the truth about math? You want our  Social Security. You earned it. You deserve it. You want our Medicare.  You earned it. You deserve it. In 7 years, both of those trust funds  are empty.

What are we going to do? The argument is we will just borrow more  money because, God forbid, we have any conversation about the cost of  delivering healthcare. That will upset someone's business model or  bureaucracy's model. It is hard to read.

The basic point was trying to show we are having terrific economic  growth. I will show some slides here. With our GDP growth, some of the  tax policies and some of the regulatory policies adopted in the last  year are working.

Our problems are spending. Almost all the spending growth is interest  because we are refinancing. We have $30 trillion out there we have to  bring to market over the next few years. I think this year refinance  was going to be about $11 trillion. That is bonds, notes, and paper  that come due, plus another $2 trillion probably in virgin. That is new  issuances. They are subject to the higher interest rates today than we  had 5 years ago.

That is why our interest coverage costs have gotten so much more  expensive. That is why if we do total interest from last year--the  interest we also pay back to the trust funds from the money we borrowed  from the trust funds--we spent $1.2 trillion on interest last year.  Interest was the second biggest expense in this government last year,  and it is getting worse.

What happens when we produce economic growth? We see this in red  here. Our debt projections are actually every bit as bad as last year.  That means for every dollar we take in, in tax receipts--remember that  our tax as a percentage of GDP is basically back to the mean that it  has been for decades. For every dollar we take in, we will spend $1.43.  That is $1 in and $1.43 out. How long can we carry that on, Mr.  Speaker? Yet, you start looking at where we are demographically.

What frustrates me is this is just what we are. There is not a magic:  Well, we will suddenly have more children. Really?

This is happening all over the industrialized world. We have  countries that buy you a house on your third or fourth child, and it  didn't increase fertility rates. Yet our pension systems were designed  on four or five workers.

Remember that Social Security and Medicare are pay as you go. We had  a benefit of building reserves when the baby boomers were in the labor  force. They ultimately were designed as pay as you go.

I have been in a 50-50 district for years. The political consultants  lose their minds. They tell me I am not allowed to talk about the truth  in math, but no one here wants to go near it, not even the people in  20-point or 30-point partisan districts. Will anyone here help us plan  for the future?

This future is coming fast. We have economists now say we have  functionally 3 years before we get in the interest cycle back and  forth. I will try to explain that one of these days.

You have to understand when we hit in--what was that? In 2020, we had  2.7 workers per Social Security retiree. We are actually getting to the  point over here where we think we are down to 2.3. In the coming  decades, it is even less. So you and your spouse, you and your partner,  functionally have your own retired person. It is just to understand the  basic economics of the math.

Then we have the brain trusts who say we will just borrow the money  each year. Did they hear the math? In 2033, the year the trust funds  are empty, it is well over $600 billion. You are going to borrow  basically half. That is 40 percent equal to what is the--well, actually  almost 60 percent equal to today's defense budget. We will just throw  that on the credit card. The next year it is bigger, and the next year  it is bigger.

There are good things happening. The GDP numbers, which means the  baseline economic growth numbers, are remarkably healthy. There is huge  investment going on right now in technology that could actually boost  productivity. Therefore, it will boost wages.

Where is the unified theory here? We are going to do another  reconciliation where we are going to tell the markets that we will  start limiting the spending so we get lower interest rates and so we  can have more market growth. People can afford houses, all the input.  Instead, you have a government that for every dollar we spend, we have  to borrow another 43 cents. This is insane.

I was going to try to walk through some things I consider really  hopeful. These are the contributions to GDP growth. Many of these  contributions in the GDP growth, if we can get our policies and our  regulatory designed properly, we can get some pops and productivity.  Pops and productivity means pops in people's wages and pops in tax  collections.

We have to get all the stars aligned at the right time. I just don't  see us doing that because somehow it is not part of our lexicon. I will  do presentations. We have too many people, particularly even on my  side, who say things that aren't mathematically true. We hear  something, and we repeat it. The customs duties, tariffs, are helpful.  It is not as much money as so many people think.

Mr. Speaker, I am blessed to chair the Joint Economic Committee. I am  number four on Ways and Means. I chair the Oversight Committee. I am  the guy running a bunch of committees and am responsible for a number  of these really uncomfortable investigations. I am blessed to have a  staff that is a hell of a lot smarter than I would ever have hoped to  have been at their age.

We start to work out charts like this. I am going to make some people  mad. As a matter of fact, I am not even going to bother with that one.  I will walk us through the straight number.

We are still vetting the number because we are doing predictions. All  of this could mean nothing if the Supreme Court tomorrow changes its  rules on the President's authority to  do the enhanced tariffs--let's just call them that--and whatever  authorities the President may have to supplement those tariffs.

We have to understand our latest articles that we are looking at  saying, for 2026, $215 billion of what we call customs receipts-- tariffs--the baseline, if there had been no changes, it would have been  $84 billion. Mr. Speaker, is everyone working with me on this? That  means there was $131 billion of new tariff money coming into the budget  this fiscal year.

If we pull out our calculator, so far in the first quarter of this  fiscal year, we have been borrowing $8 billion a day. We are hoping it  actually comes back to the mean of being about $6 billion. Let's do  $131 billion divided by 8. We functionally are covering 2 weeks of  borrowing. It is helpful. It is not a solution.

Yet I will do the speech. I ask anyone who is watching if they have  some suggestions of how I can actually start to break through because I  am exhausted. Then I will watch someone come up. I am sitting in my  office, and I am watching the floor. On occasion, I will pull out my  calculator. I am just enraged because of the mathematical lying that  goes on behind these microphones over and over. This is the survival of  our Republic.

Let's actually do something that is semi-optimistic here. Let's look  at waste and fraud. I had a meeting with a wonderful woman the other  day. She actually is involved in our county party. She is really smart  and absolutely lovely. I hope I misheard her. She seemed to believe  that if we just didn't have that fraud in Minnesota, we could have  covered a whole bunch of our national debt. She was genuinely  concerned. It sounds like she was trying to quote what she actually  thought she heard on cable news.

Mr. Speaker, I had to walk her through saying, okay, here is the best  projection. Remember, some of this fraud may have happened over a  decade. We are still getting all the numbers. There have already been a  number of prosecutions, ``Minneapolis woman pleads guilty in $250  million Feeding Our Future fraud scheme.'' She stole $250 million.  There are a number of these articles that I have here, but you still  have to do the math.

The fraud, just to give you an idea of the scale of our Nation's  borrowing, is only a couple of days of borrowing. How do I help people  understand the perspective of the scale and the fact that everything  that we as Members of Congress vote on is borrowed?

If you told me today that I have to balance the budget, I can do it.  Every part of government has to be shut down--no Park Service, no  Congress, no EPA, no FDA. Everything that is discretionary is gone.  Today, my math is that several hundred billion dollars of mandatory  spending have to be gone. We are borrowing so damned much money now  that we have to borrow money just to cover our Medicare obligations.

Do we understand? What if I came to you tomorrow and said that I can  end most of the fraud in the IRS and the government and the SNAPs and  all of these subsidies, like welfare and nutrition support programs?

We have actually had a bill for 6 or 7 years to use AI to audit the  Pentagon. The Pentagon, I think, last year was its ninth audit. It  failed. It could not pass an audit.

The same technology that we wanted to use to audit the Pentagon, it  turns out that all of these programs, you just put that in the back  end. Instead of doing the pay-and-chase model that, for some reason,  the left seems to embrace, why let the fraud money ever go out the  door?

I want to give you a simple example. How many of you have a credit  card? How many of you have ever gone to a place where you have never  purchased from before, and you stick your credit card in because I am  going to buy some fishing tackle or whatever the hell you are buying,  and suddenly, you get this text message saying: Is this you? Can you  put in your PIN? Can you put in your code?

That technology has been around for a decade. If the credit card  companies now have even more advanced AI to know that someone isn't  you, that it is fraud, and that the data on your application and other  things are fraud, you are telling me that we put billions and billions  at risk trying to help our brothers and sisters, only to later find out  that we have been financing scammers.

I have a passion for dealing with the long-run debt of this country.  How do I convince the American people that we are going to have to do  hard things when they are able to point and say that you haven't taken  care of the filth and the stealing from our society, from our  taxpayers? How do I get them to trust me when I still have scam artists  robbing them?

Mr. Speaker, we have proposal after proposal to use technology to  stop the scamming. Will it ever get a hearing here?

There almost seems to be a war to stop us from using technology  because--I actually can't give you an honest answer. We know that, for  years, I have been trying to fix technology at the IRS, and the IRS  union loses its mind thinking: You are trying to get rid of us.

When we have been doing the audit at the Pentagon, the unionized  auditors come and want to have meetings with me. They are concerned  that we are trying to get rid of their jobs. I am just trying to  protect the American taxpayers, but the technology already exists in  the private sector. It is time we adopt it.

On healthcare, I just want to give this as an example. Utah, a couple  of days ago, announced that they are going to allow AI as a pilot  program in Utah to prescribe. It is for the renewal of your  prescriptions. As I was talking about before, my calcium inhibitor, my  hypertension medicine, the same one I have had for decades, I could  plug in my data to the AI, and it would order my prescription, and it  would be sent to me. It functionally has almost no cost.

We have dozens of examples that I have brought to the floor here over  the last--actually, dozens and dozens of examples that I have brought  to the floor here over the years, showing how we could crash the price  of healthcare instead of doing the scam of let's just keep subsidizing  the subsidy and the insurance companies. How about we change the  accessibility and use technology to make it less expensive?

We are actually working on a thought experiment--and this will be the  end--a crazy thought experiment. President Trump and the White House  actually get a lot of credit, though we worked on this for years.  Glutides, GLP-1s, I believe by the end of this month, one of the tablet  versions will be available for $149 a month.

If obesity is responsible for 47 percent of U.S. healthcare spending,  according to the Milken study, what would happen in our society,  particularly where we have States where technically over half of their  populations are considered obese? What would happen if access to the  drug and, hopefully, nutrition and all the other things that need to go  with it--but just do this thought experiment with me. The lobbyists  weren't able to stop access to the glutides.

You might be on the cusp of a revolution of people who are morbidly  obese, who have multiple chronic conditions, and who are losing their  feet are about to get healthier.

Let's actually start accepting the technology, thinking creatively.  With that, Mr. Speaker, we might be able to do some amazing things out  there.