Draining the Swamp


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701375/draining-the-swamp


Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, I have a number of things to go over.

Mr. Speaker, do you remember over the last few years the number of  discussions we would have at home, saying drain the swamp? What was the  term, swamp critters?

We have been collecting a number of articles and trying to figure out  why it is so hard to actually do policy that makes our brothers' and  sisters' lives easier, better, healthier, and more prosperous.

I am starting to come to the conclusion that for so many of our  brothers and sisters who are at home who are watching Members of  Congress, and they somehow think this is the swamp, it is part of it.

We came across a number of stories that looked like they had been  properly vetted, where the lobbyist community is handing out money to  people. This was more on the conservative side, particularly some of  our conservative publications, handing them cash to write stories to  promote whatever that lobbyist wanted.

I have been behind this microphone before, and I have actually shown  repeatedly, here are influencers on the internet, more from my side,  here are some MAGA influencers that were taking money. Maybe we should  have caught it more quickly when it was the 23-year-old attractive  person talking about Medicare Advantage and saying: I am sure she is an  expert on Medicare Advantage.

It turns out we had a series of I guess it was the broker community  and those things in Medicare part C paying them to warp the information  for the American people to try to understand for those who of us to get  up here and try to reform this place, reform how we are trying to spend  our money, to try to take on the U.S. debt, that the swamp is now on  your information that is coming through this device.

You have to understand, Mr. Speaker, I actually have some articles  from 1 year ago. It turns out, some of the biggest snack food producers  were trying to stop Congress through social media influencers. They  were paying social media influencers to stop having a conversation  about GLP-1 semaglutides like Ozempic. That is how perverse this place  has become.

I have learned, and I truly believe this, that almost everything in  Washington, D.C., is actually about the money.

What happens when the armies of folks are walking up and down our  Halls here? Are they here because they want a freer society? Is it  because they are fixated on the morality of the prosperity of growth  and of opportunity for all people? Are they here to try to get us to  put up pieces of legislation that stop their competition and that stop  creative destruction in the economy, even though that is how you get  better, faster, and cheaper? Is it how they want us to hand them cash?

Mr. Speaker, I am going to show some boards from the Treasury's  detailed balance sheet. The level of financial trouble our Republic is  in is remarkable.

If anyone is watching C-SPAN over the last day or 2, how many people  have you actually seen coming behind these microphones that actually  care?

This is the chart I have typically started with, and the reason I do  this is to say: Hey, you see this blue portion of this board? That is  what we get to vote on as Members of Congress. Everything else in the  red is on autopilot. We only vote on about 25 percent of the spending  here in Congress. The rest is formula. It is mandatory spending.

However, it is worse than that. A couple days ago, the Treasury, as  they are required by statute, did the sort of here is the balance sheet  of America, here is where we are financially.

Did anyone see the stories--you have got to read some of the geeky  sort of financial press--that America actually had negative?  Functionally, here is what was on the Treasury's balance sheets,  saying, hey, America, currently--these are current liabilities. These  aren't the unfunded liabilities for the future. These are current  obligations. We owe $47.8 trillion in current liabilities, and we have  $6 trillion in assets. This is from the Treasury statement.

Doesn't this terrify anyone? Is it still just a calculator/math-free  zone or is it more important that when the paid influencers, the paid  person on conservative media by a lobbyist is saying: Oh, they might  actually look at making us reform our program. We are going to hand  some money to one of these authors so they will say: Oh, reform is bad,  it's not Republican.

Of course, it is Republican. We believe in markets. At least we used  to.

Let's actually talk about how bad this math is. I am going to go  straight to the punch line. If you actually just do the 75-year Social  Security and Medicare obligations, you are at $88.4 trillion of  unfunded liabilities, and these numbers probably aren't dystopian  enough.

Look, a week ago, I did a whole presentation here, and we partially  talked about the unified theory of how we stabilize the debt. I have  seen the applause in some of the financial articles on CNBC, Bloomberg  saying: Well, there are some Members of Congress trying to do a piece  of legislation to get us to 3 percent of debt to GDP. Wonderful idea.

At this moment, just interest is well above 3 percent of GDP. So far  this year--so we are 6 months into the fiscal year--over 7.3 percent of  the entire economy is being borrowed by the Federal Government. But  don't worry, we  are going to do that 3 percent thing even though the latest GDP numbers  are below that.

If I had told you a decade, two decades ago that just the interest  being paid by the Federal Government on our debt is bigger than the  growth of the country, you would have thrown up your hands and said:  Well, it is all over then.

Yet, we look the other way because we are too busy doing the damn  shiny objects around here that will get us on cable news tonight or on  social media. We can do the shiny object, get some dopamine hits, maybe  get some people giving us money on text message fundraising.

We are heading to well over $88 trillion in liabilities. What do we  do?

I came here a month ago and showed part of the report that said a  child born today, if you use a 6 percent generational discount rate-- that might be a little bit high, it is a little geeky, but it is within  the margin--this country needs 104 percent of that child's lifetime  earnings just to pay the Federal Government pensions.

I have a 3-year-old. Our obligations right now require taking every  dime my little Matthew will ever earn just to pay the Federal  Government pensions.

Part of this, Mr. Speaker, is the math of demographics. We don't have  enough people. We don't have enough children. We are functionally at  zero population growth. There is a math set--I had some of the Heritage  demographers in my office today. They have a model that says in the  next few years we could actually go negative in population as a  country.

For some people, oh, yay, that is great, less traffic. Okay. You tell  me how I am going to finance Social Security. You tell me how I am  going to finance Medicare. In now less than 6\1/2\ years, the Social  Security trust fund is empty. In less than 6\1/2\ years, the Medicare  trust fund is empty. At that time, we double the poverty of seniors, we  will double the number of baby boomers who live on the street. That is  the morality now of this place.

Why am I the only idiot who comes behind the microphone and does this  every week?

Okay. God gave me a gift. I am pretty good at math. I will have  Members of Congress who see me in the hallway and turn around and walk  away from me because I am going to pitch them an idea of here is how we  save Medicare Advantage, here is how we save Social Security, here is  how we do this. I have pieces of legislation to do some of these  things.

Oh, David, you don't understand, we have been told by our political-- and this is Democrats, too--we have been told by our political  consultants we are not allowed to use those words because we might  actually have to explain what the hell is actually going on.

You have the same number of 18-year-olds today as we had 20 years  ago. We have double the number of 65 and up. I turned 64 a couple weeks  ago. Maybe I am pathologically optimistic. We have adopted a 3-year- old, and I have a 10-year-old. Do they deserve to live better?

Every math set right now says our kids will be the first American  generation to be poorer than their parents. A child born today, my 3- year-old, let's use my 3-year-old as an example. When my 3-year-old is,  I think it is 22, 21, 23, right in there, every tax, every one, every  single tax in America needs to be doubled just to maintain baseline  services.

Why am I the jerk that gets up and does math and people look at him  and say, oh, David, we are not allowed to talk about that. We will deal  with that after the next election.

Have you noticed there is always another election?

I have been getting that same answer for 15 years here: David, we  can't talk about that. It is mandatory spending. We can't go around and  tell the truth.

It is fixable. There are things you can do. We have presented over  and over and over and over ways you could crash the price of healthcare  using technology, the morality of cures, the morality of helping our  brothers and sisters get healthier, convincing the bond markets that we  are creditworthy.

Right now we pay more--so, Greece, today Greece can sell a 10-year  bond cheaper than the United States. That is what the world debt  markets think of us.

I could geek out and walk through what happened a couple days ago in  the 2-year auction we had and how badly subscribed it was. Maybe it is  the war, maybe it is other things. This isn't a game, and this is  somewhat unique.

Look, I have some books. I collect economic books. One of my books  talks about 5,000 years of economic history. There are lots and lots  and lots of stories of societies that built up lots of debt and  collapsed. Okay.

I could not find a story in there that walked through the economics  of a society that built up lots of debt and started to have fewer  people, zero population growth. Tell me how that math works.

We have a unified theory. I have been behind this microphone dozens  and dozens and dozens of times. I am saying, the adoption of  technology, synthetic biology, deregulation, smart regulation, a  talent-based immigration system--we basically have a dozen things that  have to go into this just to stabilize where we are in debt.

Mr. Speaker, do you think this place is intellectually prepared to do  anything that is difficult? We are going to go home and stand in front  of our constituents and talk about shiny objects.

Mr. Speaker, as of today, we are borrowing $88,000 a second. Mr.  Speaker, as of today, we borrowed, I think, $7.5 billion today,  yesterday, tomorrow.

Maybe we just shouldn't give a damn about math, but it is going to  win. The math always wins.

Look, my staff wanted me to use this board to try to put it in  perspective of if it was your household. In your household you  basically earn $52,000 a year. This is the Federal budget right now,  but you spend $73,000 this year. If you do the accumulation beyond the  fact that you went 20 grand into debt this year, if you add up all the  years of debt for your household, and this would be your household as  divided by the Federal debt, it is $1.3 million upside down.

Next year, these numbers get worse and the year after that it gets  worse. Part of the reason is--help me grow the economy, help me find  how we balance our tax base.

I am a free market economist. I believe in as low taxes as possible.  But is borrowing a tax? This is a really interesting, intellectual  question that the left has to have and we on the right have to have. Is  borrowing a tax?

The family budget this year, you made $52,000. We are going to spend  $73,000, so we borrowed $20,000 this year. I am going to argue it is a  tax. It is just a tax with interest.

Are you and I going to pay it? Because the philosophy around here is  it is going to be our kids that are going to pay it and our grandkids  that are going to pay it, and I am going to argue the numbers are  eroding so fast.

Remember, 6.5 years from now, the Social Security trust fund is gone.  Mr. Speaker, 6.5 years from now, the Medicare trust fund is gone.

Just to cover that shortfall for the first year is $638 billion. You  run for United States Senate, this happens in your first term. This is  not way off in the future. It is here. Yet, when some of us have tried  to do the debt and deficit commission, we get these people coming in,  lobbying, beating the crap out of us on social media, on conservative  press, and now we find out they are being paid.

It is absolutely immoral what we are doing, and it is your  retirement, and it is my kids and every child out there. How is  accepting a society that says: Oh, screw it. We are just going to make  sure our kids are poorer, but at least we are going to get stuff until  the bond market decides they are actually in charge of this country. It  is almost there.

Let's actually do some more math. We have some new ways to try to  describe the scale of the problem. I know this is hard to read, but I  am going to do my best to make this understandable.

You actually see net receipts by category.

Do you see this dark blue here? That is individual income taxes. That  is one of the crazy things those of us on Ways and Means need to  actually start having a conversation on how we are going to deal with,  because we are seeing right now in the GDP growth we are  getting in the country, more of it is coming from capital than workers.

We are building big datacenters, automation, the technology, but it  is not necessarily from wage growth, which actually is a whole other  speech and freaks me out because we have got to raise wage growth to  make up for the years of the Biden inflation.

Then take a look over here. This is payroll taxes. This is the taxes  you pay for your Social Security, for your Medicare, for unemployment.  Part of the deep secret here, please don't tell anyone on Social  Security, an average couple retiring today gets about a $76,000 spiff.

Here is what we paid in, you get an extra $76,000. Horrible, horrible  rate of return. However, Democrats made sure that 20 years ago, 25  years ago when there was a temp saying: Could we build a little, tiny  15 percent sidecar, you can invest in the market. That would mean you  would have been dramatically wealthier today. They killed that. They  should be responsible for much of the poverty that is going to exist in  our senior population. It was Democrats that chose to do that.

The dirty secret on this portion here is that same couple for every  dollar they put into Medicare tax, they are getting $6 to $7 back. That  is one of the primary drivers of U.S. sovereign debt, that and  interest, healthcare and interest.

We got older, and we owe $39 trillion. $30 trillion is functionally  sold to the markets, but that other $9 trillion that we borrow  internally, we still pay interest on it. It is still a liability. We  still have to pay it back. These little slivers over here are customs  and corporate taxes. That is our receipts.

Here is our net outlays. You notice this little black box here? This  is all borrowed. This is what the taxes cover. A week ago, we had a  balance budget amendment, which I voted for, but folks had no  understanding that the economic literature basically says: If you want  to balance the budget today, you have to cut almost half of U.S.  spending. Understand that.

Last year, for every dollar that came in, we spent a $1.43. With the  economic effects, if you said tomorrow, David, I demand you balance the  budget. I can do it. Tell me which half of the spending you want me to  cut. Because right now--this is Social Security right here.

Actually, I think Medicare is here. Other mandatory, this is your VA  pension. Those things that are built-in that we are obligated to  formula.

You start to look over here, this is net interest. Remember, net  interest--actually, it should be gross interest. Total interest right  now is the second biggest expenditure in your Federal Government.  Defense is actually number 5. The thing that is in the Constitution is  number 5 on our stack: Social Security, interest, Medicare, Medicaid,  and ObamaCare subsidies and defense.

If you came in here right now and said: David, balance the budget. I  can do it. You tell me how much defense, nondefense, Medicaid, they all  have to go away, and because of the economic effects, this black line  moves in and you would actually have to start cutting Medicare.

It is math. It is not personal. It is just something that comes off  of a calculator and someone who is literate enough to actually look at  the numbers. David, it is really bad politics telling people the truth.

I am in a 50/50 district. Now, I am in one of the best educated  districts in America. It turns out you can get elected in a real tough  district. You can even get--don't tell anyone, but you can get smart,  educated Independents and Democrats to vote for you. They may not like  you, but they, at least, know you are intellectually credible. When was  the last time we actually gave a damn about being intellectually  credible around this place?

Net outlays for interest over 10 years. Right now, remember, I  mentioned just interest--and actually the number is higher than this-- my math is coming in at $1.2 trillion of interest this year. You are  well over 3 percent.

We are going to go down to 3 percent. That is actually what the  Treasury Secretary and others say. I agree, but we are borrowing 7.3  percent of the economy at this moment. You tell me what part you want  me to cut.

CBO's report, what was it, 2 weeks ago, basically says that in 9  years we are going to be borrowing $3.1 trillion a year. That is before  the war. That is before the request for supplementals. That is before  these new healthcare calculations. We are going to be borrowing $3.1  trillion. This is couple weeks ago, CBO report. $2.1 trillion of that  will just be interest, one will actually be structural deficit.

Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, I apologize. I am going to talk faster.  No, I won't do that to you. As some of you know, I have a coffee  problem, and I have only had like nine cups today. I am not shaking,  and I am trying not to talk like a machine gun.

Mr. Speaker, I have this chart. You can find this chart if you really  care about it. It basically talks about interest fragility. What is  interest fragility? It is when interest goes up, interest rates go up,  and what that means to the debt.

When you start looking at a chart like this--so, think about this.  For 1 year, a 10-percent increase, so essentially 10 basis points, it  is about $4.1 billion. You start to see when you actually go out 10  years and start looking at, hey, if we had 1 point of interest--now,  this is on the base debt right now, publicly sold debt, not the full  debt, but the publicly sold debt. That comes out to $3.1 trillion, a  single point for 10 years.

What happens when the bond market has more influence and changes our  spending patterns more than this place does? I had people say--as we  were trying to do the big, beautiful bill, and then we were supposed to  do the second reconciliation to pay for a big chunk of it--but that  would be too difficult. We might have to talk about fixing Medicare and  Medicare Advantage.

Look, go read the reports that are stacked up on my desk that say you  have a couple of trillion dollars of waste, fraud, and misalignment.  The Wall Street Journal does article after article after article, full- page things on it, saying, hey, the high grading, that is $100 billion  a year. We are going to do what about it, Mr. Speaker? Oh, but we would  have to explain it. What is wrong with us?

Unless we convince the world debt markets--remember, we are the  biggest debtor in the world. You want lower mortgage rates? Convince  the debt markets because the Federal Reserve only affects the short end  of the curve. Your mortgage is based off the 10-year. The 10-year is a  market rate, not a Federal Reserve rate. How many politicians around  here: We have to beat up the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates.  That is on the 2-year, the short end of the curve, maybe even less.  Convince the debt markets that we are actually going to stabilize our  debt.

We have a 40-year cycle. Those of us who are baby boomers, to move on  to our reward before we get back to the more normal demographics--those  normal demographics may never come because the fertility rate in the  Western world continues to fall.

Look, there are things we can do. This is the type of improper  payments. I have been working on this for years. Stop the waste and  fraud in government. It is billions and billions of dollars. If you are  borrowing $220 billion to $230 billion every single month, we can get  rid of every improper payment. We don't even cover a month's worth of  borrowing. We still have to do this.

It turns out that the most powerful way to fix something like this,  Mr. Speaker, is not a whole bunch of new laws, not buildings full of  auditors, buildings full of lawyers. It is data scientists.

Look, I chair the Oversight Subcommittee of Ways and Means. We have  investigations going on into Medicare part C, hospice care, and organ  procurement. How are we finding these things? We hired a data  scientist.

Mr. Speaker, there is hope. There is a way to do this. We just need  to step up our game and become more intellectually curious and robust.  With that, maybe we can stabilize the future for your retirement and  our kids.