Expressing Support for Tax Policies That Support Working Families


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701799/expressing-support-for-tax-policies-that-support-working-families


Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, wouldn't it be fun if we actually did  these sorts of discussions and debates sort of like we do term papers  where you actually have to give the footnote of where the numbers come  from. That is because I hear numbers from my brothers and sisters on  the left, and I say: Where did that come from?

So the first number I am going to give you today, Mr. Speaker, from  the Joint Economic Committee, tomorrow is the first day that you  actually work for yourself, meaning the first 3\1/2\ months you have  been working to pay taxes, whether it be your property taxes, State  income taxes, or Federal taxes, Mr. Speaker. This is for the middle  income of our brothers and sisters.

Welcome to Tax Freedom Day, which technically might be actually  tomorrow.

The rest of the numbers I will give you, Mr. Speaker--if you want to  go on to the Senate Finance Committee's website, you will actually find  the facts and the numbers. I would love  someone who is actually a researcher and likes to look at them, look  and then compare them to what the Democrats say and what we say.

For Arizona, we were one of the epicenters of inflation. Our brothers  and sisters in our State, after the Biden years of inflation, their  wages are just now starting to catch up. Our brothers and sisters were  poorer.

One of the things we did in the tax bill last summer is we actually  found a way to use the tax system to raise wages, whether it be because  of paying less taxes or some of the economic growth.

So let's actually walk through some of the numbers. For a couple,  there is a $6,800 real wage increase. You can find that on the Senate's  website, Mr. Speaker, $7,400 to $10,600 real take-home pay increase for  the average Arizona family. Remember, Mr. Speaker, this is a State that  was crushed. I think when the Biden inflation years were over, we came  in number two in the country.

Our brothers and sisters in that hardworking middle class are still  poorer today because we are just now starting to catch up.

I am actually taking a look at small business. I have 514,000 small  businesses that now have the 20 percent deduction locked in. Mr.  Speaker, tell me that isn't stability, when you start to walk through  things like the $6,000 bonus deduction for seniors in that middle realm  of income.

These things are remarkably important to growth, stability, and  actually having to deal with the fact that inflation is the biggest tax  in the last 40 years, those years of the Biden inflation. Inflation is  a tax.

In many ways what we did here in tax reform, we are just trying to  make things a little more even for those working brothers and sisters.

I have 822,000 families in Arizona who got an increase in the child  deduction of $2,200. I thought that was something the left actually  liked.

When you start to walk through our work, Mr. Speaker, to try to make  life better for my brothers and sisters in Arizona, that is why this  was so important.