Facts and Math


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694915/facts-and-math


Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, I missed all of you now that we are  back. I get teased back home of doing these things that seem more like  an economics lecture. That is actually not the goal here. It is  actually just to sort of walk through the reality of the math because  so much of this body is about theater and not about facts.

As my wife a decade ago said: David, you get to go and hang out in a  math-free zone.

Let's have some fun with facts and math.

Mr. Speaker, next year, the 2026 fiscal year, 3 weeks away, take a  guess: For every dollar of tax collections--for every dollar of tax  collections we get next year, what are we going to spend?

For every dollar of tax collections we take in next year, we are  going to spend $1.43. This one number right here should scare the hell  out of people. Instead, the hallways around here are full of people  demanding more spending. Just a little while ago in my office there  were more people saying: Can you get us a grant? Can you get us more  money? Can you regulate our competition?

For every dollar of tax collections this year--we still have 3 more  weeks before the fiscal year is over--my estimate is that we are going  to spend $1.39. Next year, it is $1.43.

How long do you intend for this to go on?

Here is your problem: Most of that increase in spending is not some  sort of crazy this or crazy that. It is interest. Remember, interest  rates are up. We still have to finance about $10 trillion of refinance  this year, and we are going to bring about $2.4 trillion or $2.3  trillion in total new debt this year.

Next year, the baseline was we are going to borrow $2.5 trillion. It  is probably going to be less $300 billion because of customs duties,  tariffs. Yet, here is something I beg of everyone. Whether you are on  the left or the right, burn this into your psyche: We borrow about  $70,000 to $72,000 every second, and almost all of the growth in that  borrowing is interest and healthcare costs.

Mr. Speaker, I am sorry. Forgive me. I enjoy tormenting you. I don't  mean to.

Think of this: In 7 years, the Social Security trust fund is empty.  Under the law--under the law, grandma takes a 24 percent cut in her  check. In 7 years, we double senior poverty in America.

Yet, if you are an idiot like I am, and you get up and say: We really  should work on this. The Democrat consultants are going to beat the  crap out of a Republican and vice versa for even mentioning the fact  about the math. It is not Republican math. It is not Democrat math. It  is in the Social Security actuary report.

In 7 years, the Medicare trust fund is empty. If you are running a  hospital or one of these where the part A trust fund is your revenue  source, you get an 11 percent cut. In 7 years.

This year, we are going to spend $1 trillion on Medicare. In 7 years,  we spend $2 trillion. It doubles in 7 years. It is demographics. It is  not personal. It is not Republican-Democrat. It is what we are as a  society.

We have the same number of 18-year-olds today as we had 20 years ago,  but we have double the number of our brothers and sisters who are 65.  It is math.

Behind these microphones this week, how many people have come up and  actually talked about math, about the demographics, about the economic  future? I would argue that understanding the math is moral. Is it moral  to look the other way and in 7 years double senior poverty?

Yet, you will get the living crap kicked out of you around here if  you actually tell the truth about the math because we have spent so  many decades lying to the American people.

Mr. Speaker, I have this board I have used for a while. It was saying  that right now we are borrowing $6 billion a day. I apologize. This  number is wrong. We are borrowing $6.5 billion dollars a day, and there  is the theatric problem.

You get people saying: I am going to save a couple hundred million  dollars. That is wonderful. Let's see. If I am doing $6.5 billion a  day, that is almost $270 million an hour. There is the fraud around  here. It is the inability to understand the scale of what is going on.

Let's understand that borrowing is a tax. It is a tax paid for in the  future with your retirement, my kids, but it is a tax paid with  interest.

We have a society who so desperately wants free stuff. They want  money. The 100 times I have come behind this microphone and show the  charts saying, I want every dime of my Social Security. Of course. Of  course. Most people don't realize the Social Security formula actually  is progressive. If you are a high-income earner, you get less  of your money. If you are lower income earner, your FICA tax, you  actually get more, but in the mean, you get about a $72,000 spiff for  that couple. It is a crap rate of return.

However society, the Democrats, back 20, 25 years ago decided that  the idea of putting a little money into the market was a horrible idea  except for the fact that now we look back 25 years later, it was a  wonderful idea.

Poverty rates of return and those things would have been dramatically  different, but it is too late now. We are well into the population  bubble of baby boomers. The driver that we don't like to tell the truth  about is that same couple for every dollar they put into Medicare, you  are going to get about $6, $7 back. Most people don't realize that  about 38 percent of Medicare comes from the trust fund, about 15  percent comes from your copay, the rest comes right out of the general  fund.

Are we allowed to tell each other, the lobbyists, the activists, the  people on social media making absolute crap up? How about our voters?  Are we allowed to get in front of them and say: This is serious. This  isn't a game. We right now are borrowing about $6.5 billion every  single day for this fiscal year. We are down to the last 3 weeks, so  you have a really good sense of what we borrowed.

In 9 budget years, it is well over $10 billion a day. Yet, a couple  hours ago, I offered an amendment that basically said there is all  these dollars--and I am going to talk about this probably two, three  times--that were appropriated. I showed one example of money  appropriated in 2015. It wasn't a huge amount of money, few million  bucks, and it has never been touched. We just leave it sitting in the  account. We borrowed it, we are paying interest on it, but it just sits  there. That is insane. You hear budget geeks go: We should do zero- based budgeting. Absolutely, because you can say, oh, we did that. We  were going to do this.

In that case, it was actually a clean coal program, but no one  actually ever qualified for the grant so the cash sat there. There was  like $36 billion of stuff that has been sitting in the accounts for  more than a year and some for half a decade.

Yet, we are so dysfunctional, we can't actually start from the  beginning and go line by line by line. It doesn't solve the problem,  but it helps.

Let's actually walk through math reality. I am a Ways and Means guy.  I chair Oversight Subcommittee on Ways and Means, but I also chair the  Joint Economic Committee. I have a handful of Ph.D. economists that  work for the committee, and we try so hard to do intellectually honest  math.

Mr. Speaker, please don't tell anyone, but I am a dinosaur. I  actually believe in free markets. I actually believe in the elegance of  competition. We are actually going to touch a little bit on the  economics of creative destruction. If you want productivity--because I  am going to show in these charts where we are demographically, if we  don't have an explosion of productivity, we can't make wages go up.

If you are a working person in this country today--particularly like  in my Phoenix-Scottsdale area, if you are a working person today and  you haven't had about a 28 percent pay hike in the last 4 years, you  are poorer today.

It is called inflation. The biggest tax in modern history was those  3, 4 years of inflation because we now get to pay back our debt with  inflated dollars. We are crushing people. The way you make wages go up  is two things: You raise people's wages because of inflation. That just  means you are treading water, or productivity.

Now some of the things we did in the reconciliation budget that we  passed before break is expensing, research and development expensing,  things to try to get investments to do things better, faster, cheaper,  but we are going to have to have the brutal discussion of--you  functionally have the same number of 18-year-olds coming in and next  year it is going be lower and the next year it is going to be smaller  and the year after is smaller. People like me, baby boomers, with gray  hair, there is a whole bunch of us. We have got to legalize technology.  Is it rational? I will say this a couple times. Is it rational to make  it illegal to automate a port?

I would love to have the dockworkers and the unions love me. Maybe  they would even send financial help and say nice things about me, but  it is not about that. It is about the entire continuity of society,  when we create these barriers for automation, for doing things better,  faster, healthier, and cheaper.

If you are going to have a command and control economy, let's just  admit we are populous. We want to run the economy. We want to own  businesses. We don't believe in the economic theories of creative  destruction, creating new, better, faster, but give up on the  productivity cycle and then you tell me how people's wages go up. You  have a middle class that is getting absolutely crushed and squeezed.

Their purchasing power is stagnant, if not reduced. It doesn't have  to be that way, but it is going to happen through policy here. It is  like no one here went to their basic elementary school economics class.

The chart here--I am going to try to make a point--is customs duties.  We all talk about tariffs. I heard a Member a couple days ago say:  Customs duties. Tariffs are going to pay for everything. No, they are  not.

Now, they do pay for most of the big, beautiful bill. The fact of the  matter is, last year we took in about $77 billion in customs duties.  This year, we are going to take in, our best guess, is $190 billion.

Except the problem is, did I mention to you a little bit ago that we  borrow about $6.5 billion a day? The increase in tariffs, customs  duties, is going to pay for like 11 days of borrowing. Out of 365 days,  we just covered 11 days of borrowing.

For anyone who is watching, much of what DOGE was doing was  fascinating. Go look at DOGE.gov right now, and you will see a couple  of hundred billion dollars of potential savings, though only a fraction  of a fraction of a fraction has actually been executed because we in  Congress can't even do basic rescissions.

We did a rescission before August. It was a total of like $9 billion,  so if you are borrowing $6 billion, we covered a day and a half of  borrowing. It was war here for 6 weeks to save that much money.

We are living in a mathematical delusion where people don't  understand that is 12 zeros. They don't see the difference between a  trillion and a billion, but the fact of the matter is, we need to start  telling the truth about the math.

Let's walk through. Let's get a little more geeky. This morning,  there was something called the JOLTS data. It is basically ADP's  attempt to sort of take an estimate of what is happening in jobs data.  There has been a lot of slop in the numbers. Look, we were beating up  BLS before, but remember, we also have a response rate to the surveys  that is down dramatically. Sometimes you get big revisions, and then  the next month you get a little more data, and the next month you get  more returns, and you can finally calculate.

In the JOLTS data, there is a fascinating number to look at. The  number of jobs was fairly flat, but unemployment looks like, our best  model, it is going to stay steady because we are finding we don't have  as many workers looking for jobs. It is really worth taking a look at  that, as we are starting to see the demographic implications of how  many of our brothers and sisters are choosing to take retirement at age  62, when for years we have been looking at there are, like, 7 million  prime-age males missing from the labor force.

That was actually one of the controversies when we were trying to do  some of the reforms in Medicaid, saying that should we ask folks to at  least look at participating in the economy and the society because,  Heaven knows, we need them.

Look, this may be a little bit geeky, this chart, but the basic  premise is, when you are taking a look at labor force participation,  back here is the recession. We had, like, 70 percent of the population  participating in the economy. Today, we are down here below 62 percent,  or 62.5 was our 2025 estimate, and we believe it is going to continue  to fall.

Is this people just sitting on the sidelines? No. It is more  complicated. As a society, we got older. We have done entire  presentations--and I know this is controversial and uncomfortable--of  our brothers and sisters when you have  entire States where more than half of the population qualifies as being  obese. We are not being mean, but the Joint Economic Committee a few  years ago did a major study saying, hey, it turns out obesity costs  about $9.1 trillion of additional healthcare spending over 10 years,  and there is the Milken study from a few years ago saying 47 percent of  all U.S. healthcare. Maybe the morality is getting our head straight  and saying we help our brothers and sisters get healthier so they can  participate in the economy, so we have more labor force participation,  so the economy grows, so productivity goes up, and so wages go up.  However, we are incapable of a unified theory around here because it  would require thinking in math.

To get a little more sarcastic, we actually are fixated on just some  of the budgetary problems. We actually believe there are hundreds and  hundreds of billions of dollars that are subject to rescission. They  have been sitting in accounts for years. Instead, we just did an  appropriations bill a little while ago, where we stacked on top of  stacks.

Why is it so terrifying to the army of lobbyists, the people back  home who want more money to say, hey, we are just going to look at  everything because we found occasions where we are doing an  appropriations that there was an appropriation done 3 or 4 years ago,  and the money is still sitting in the account.

I can understand the scale, if you are borrowing $270 billion a  month, maybe fixing this, but we don't have a choice. Is anyone else at  least at all freaked out a little bit looking at what is happening  around the world right now, what is happening to French bonds, British  bonds, Japanese yields on the long end of the curve? When you see the  long end of the curve going up and up, that lets you know the entire  world is getting really nervous about long-term debt.

Ray Dalio, the billionaire, has been giving speeches around the  country. He even wrote a book saying you have a math problem. The  entire industrialized world basically is at zero to negative population  growth. Our brothers and sisters who have gotten older, who are moving  into their pension years, their healthcare years, where are the savings  to keep financing all these governments that are borrowing? His  argument is there is not enough savings for all the borrowing.

Then, you get the idiot who says: Well, we will just print the money.  Of course you will. What is that thing called again? Yeah, inflation.  You debase the currency. Yes, you pay for it with inflated dollars, but  everything you have, your savings, become worth less. You make real  estate and things more expensive, so the next generation can't buy a  house. We are basically--it is an economic term--oh, yeah, we are  screwing over the next generation and maybe our own retirements by not  telling the truth about the math.

It doesn't have to be dystopian. There are ways to deal with this  stuff. We just don't have a lot more time.

Look, we have something called the Sunset Act. We have been looking  at regulations, command and control, that are woven through the  economy, particularly post-Biden administration, where they regulated  at breakneck speed. They are up for review. They need to be modernized.

Part of the question is, if you are going to regulate air quality, do  you do it the same way you did 30 years ago, when you actually have  remote sensors that can be in your pocket, or do you need the million- dollar-a-year tower to do it where you look at the entire marketplace?

The fact of the matter is, there are better, faster, cheaper ways,  and much more elegant, and you get the bad actors. We have actually  done some economic modeling, and it turns out we can actually add a  real pop to GDP growth, the size of the economy. GDP growth is  important because that is actually your living standard. When we grow,  you live better.

It turns out, it is not deregulation. It is smart regulation. Find  this bureaucratic control of economic growth and let's just review  them. Should we still do it the same way we did 20 years ago?

Let me give you a conceptual. A year and a half ago, I met with a  Phoenix-based company that is actually building a ginormous drone. They  intend to do ground-penetrating lidar, radar underneath this drone.

Let's say you want to build a pipeline or a road. They are going to  fly it back and forth, back and forth, back and forth, and penetrate  the ground to see if there are archaeological, geological issues, these  things.

At the end of the week, they claimed the AI, the artificial  intelligence, can write the entire environmental and engineering  report. What would it have taken for people to go out and walk the  site? A couple of years.

We have already been being lobbied by, ``We are the archaeological  guild. We are the geological guild,'' we are this and that because we  don't want to be replaced by the technology, so it should take 2 years.  We are going to do permitting reform, saying we want to do it in half  the time, so we are going to have these people walk twice as fast?

That is the way this brain around here works. We are going to make it  so that they walk twice as fast. Are we out of our minds?

That technology is not in the code yet. We have not legalized saying,  I can let AI, even though they claim the statistics of it would be more  accurate than humans out walking the site. We can do things  dramatically faster.

There was a great article. I think it may have been in The Economist  or the Financial Times a couple of days ago that was making the point  that China has become a country of engineers. We have become a country  of lawyers.

Why does it take us so long to build something? Why does it take us  so long to do the things that would make us more prosperous? It sort of  becomes obvious in that one line: We are a country of lawyers. Our  competitors are countries of engineers.

Look, when we start looking at actual GDP growth--maybe this is a  better way than using the chart. The long-run economic growth, almost  all the credible economists in America say that we are going to get a  nice pop in the next year or two from what we did in the reconciliation  budget. Great. Then, because of our demographics, we start to hit going  back to the mean. It is only like 1.8 percent GDP growth.

We cannot make it if we grow at anemic rates, but you can't do it  through a bunch of handouts and subsidies. It has to be from unleashing  markets. It is why I am concerned, seeing things going on where we are  taking ownership interests in companies.

Look, this one is going to be uncomfortable. Let's go back 15 years  ago, the Great Recession, when we bailed out a car company. Yes, we  were saving jobs, except for long-run economic growth. There are some  brilliant papers that have been written, saying, after a couple of  years, you would have had the same number of jobs and three or four  creative, smaller, innovative car companies, one doing electric, one  doing sports cars, one doing--that is actually how creative destruction  works in the economy. It is like a phoenix. It is the rebirth.

When you stop that rebirth from happening, you don't get to clean out  the legacy headwinds, the things that are slowing down the innovation.  You basically perpetuate the inefficiencies. It doesn't make you  popular telling the truth, but we all knew this.

Should we have bailed out Blockbuster Video 15 years ago because  there were tens of thousands of people who worked for Blockbuster?  Should we have put Netflix out of business? Should we have slowed down  the internet? Should we have stopped the revolution of technology where  you go home now and hit a button?

You say that is absurd, David. No. It is the same sort of concept.  Should government have stepped in and stopped innovation?

We have done entire presentations here where you talk about the  morality of cures. If diabetes is 33 percent of all U.S. healthcare,  should we spend more money on helping people maintain their misery?  Probably. Should we spend what is necessary to cure the disease? What  would be the economic impact?

There is a brilliant study from a couple of years ago talking about  maybe one of the leading, if not the leading, contributor to income  inequality in America. It is actually health, except we will get  lobbied by groups that are upset saying: If you kill the disease, what  happens to my business model?

This is how perverse this place has become. Where is the passion?  Where is the vision? Where is the innovation? Where is the optimism?

Look, I am 63. My wife is 63. I have a 3-year-old and a 9-year-old.  The 9-year-old is remarkably loud.

We are blessed. We were able to adopt. It is the most greatest joy in  life.

Mathematically, my children will be part of the first generation that  is going to be poorer than their parents. That is the American ethos  now? The Americans' ethic is that we are going to make our kids and  grandkids poorer because we want stuff? This is what we have become  because we are so damn afraid to do things that are hard around here?

Look, I am going to do this slightly out of order. Ten weeks ago,  when we were doing the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, part of my deal was,  Mr. Speaker, that I don't like some of the things that are in here, but  I really want to offer legislation to pay for it because I think there  are some eloquent things we could do to offset. The deal was, okay, go  ahead. See if you can get anyone to sponsor it and vote for it.

We have been chasing for over a year. Go read The Wall Street Journal  articles, the MedPAC report--the amount of fraud, waste, misalignment.  Some of it is perfectly legal misalignment. We are the idiots that  screwed up the law in Medicare part C, or what I was talking about a  little while ago, cash that has been sitting in accounts for years that  could be swept that we are paying interest on.

This number is getting bigger, a talent-based immigration system. We  educate people and send them home to compete with us--and the  President's golden visas. It came in over $3 trillion of savings. We  wrote the bills.

We had Ph.D. economists help us model them and get our numbers right.  We got a preliminary number from CBO that the Medicare Advantage  modernization saves $1.8 trillion, making it the biggest savings bill  in U.S. history.

Mr. Speaker, guess how many cosponsors we have? Zero. Zero because it  is hard, complicated, difficult to explain, but it is really good  policy. There are solutions. Toughen up.