Growing the Gdp


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699000/growing-the-gdp


Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker, as a mercy to the poor staff here, I  am not going to use the whole half an hour. I am just going to try to  run through a couple of concepts.

I did a little tripping up of some details last week, where we were  trying to explain some of the things we see going on in the math. I  want to walk through a concept.

We actually, right now, as a country, are remarkably blessed. The GDP  growth, the economic growth, is actually well beyond almost any of what  even my economists were predicting over the last year.

We are seeing some data right now--if you actually look at the  Atlanta Fed, GDPNow, nowcasts, some of these--we could hit a five- handle this quarter, which is remarkable.

Looking at some of the data from the third quarter of 2025, it looks  like the number of a 4.3 percent GDP growth is going to hold up.

These numbers are actually remarkable, and I want to make a point  here for the annualized 2025 GDP number. I know this is geeky. There is  a point I am going to come to, and that is the irony that tax  collections don't look as robust as the economy. We are going to try to  explain what is going on. This is why getting policy right is going to  become so critical.

The first quarter of last year, so 1 year ago this quarter, we  actually had negative GDP. The first quarter, when the Trump  administration started, when our new Congress started, we actually had  to go through 3 months of slower growth. Then, it wasn't until the  second quarter, third quarter, and now we believe the fourth quarter-- we don't have that final number in yet--we finally hit the acceleration  pedal.

What is going on out there? We had this irony happening where we have  really actually stable and much broader economic growth than we  expected. We are actually seeing some odd things.

Actually, the labor force participation is pretty flat. We had a  small tick up in some of the last unemployment data. Also, if you look  at this chart here, we are trying to explain the difference. Here is  the number of folks who are entering the labor force. They are working.  Here is the number of folks who are available for work.

When we start to get to 4 percent or 4.6 percent unemployment, we are  actually, if we look at our historic average, even the last 25 years,  that is almost full employment.

Do you see this curve here? It is basically starting to demonstrate  the demographics of America. It is also sort of the demographics of the  entire industrialized world. You have a situation where today we  functionally have the same number of 18-year-olds as we had 20 years  ago. Today, we also have almost double the number of our brothers and  sisters who are 65 and up than 25 years ago. That is creating an  interesting irony.

We actually take a look here at what we call tax receipts. Most  people like to call them tax collections. If you are on Ways and Means,  they are tax receipts. Look at this interesting spike here. That is  actually tax receipts. That is good.

Almost every dime we see on this chart of the real growth is actually  capital gains. It is those who have had assets. It is those who have  sold real estate. It is those who have sold stocks.

The tax receipts really coming in from labor are good. They are  stable, but they are not growing nearly in sympathy--if you can play  economist words--in sympathy to the GDP growth. This is an important  part of what I wanted to share. I am trying--I hate this term--to  socialize the concept.

What happens when you are producing growth because we have a lot of  growth policies that are right? Last summer, earlier in the year, where  investment is going into plant, equipment, data centers, AI, and all of  these things are happening, wage growth is actually okay. It is  actually outpacing inflation now, finally, thank Heaven. Yet the real  GDP growth is coming from that capital spend and not from wage and new  employment and the demand for labor.

Understand why this is a problem. We are an income-tax-base country.  There are income taxes on businesses, but mostly the income tax base is  on working--and also FICA, Social Security tax, Medicare tax, and  unemployment tax; those are taxed on your wages.

We are starting to see this irony where we are actually doing some  data where we ask what happens when you hit this type of GDP growth  and, at the same time, the amount of borrowing and debt in the country  is still going to stay remarkably high.

We still have a model that we think will be a bit less, but we could  still be approaching $2 trillion of borrowing this year. I hope we are  wrong, but you have to understand that the first quarter of this fiscal  year, I think we were borrowing about $90,000 a second.

So far this fiscal year--so we are, what, 3 months and 10 or 11 days  into it--I think we have now borrowed $800 billion. Sometime. Maybe  before this month is over, we are going to have borrowed another $1  trillion. This time, it wasn't 3 months. It might be coming in at 4  months. We shouldn't be seeing those types of borrowing with this type  of economic growth.

The point I am going to make is: Why is the borrowing going up? Look  at the spending data. I didn't bring all of those charts because they  are exhausting, but if you take a look at interest, remember that we  have to refinance $10 trillion or maybe $11 trillion this year. That  means that the bonds that were sold in the past have to come back to  market, refinance, and they are being refinanced, for many of them, at  much higher interest rates.

The other thing is healthcare, but it is healthcare, Medicare. We  have a model that says that now, in less than 6\1/2\ to 7 years,  Medicare will go from $1 trillion to $2 trillion. Also, in 7 years,  Medicare is gone.

Excuse me. Let me rephrase that. The Medicare trust fund is gone, and  that will result in around an 11 percent cut, particularly to  hospitals.

It is demographics. Baby boomers are moving into their peak  utilization years of these benefits. We are functioning, I think in the  last 3 years or 4 years of baby boomers moving into the age of 65 and  getting their earned benefits, so you see the shift in the labor  market.

What happens if the formulas that I had come behind these microphones  for years and said: That if we could grow another point of GDP, it is  this many hundreds of billions of dollars of tax receipts, and now it  isn't.

I know this is geeky, but it is really, really important because it  means many of the budget documents that the brain trust around here  talk about, we may be getting wrong--many of the solutions we have had  for taking on debt and deficits.

There is a piece of legislation. I am absolutely elated. I am trying  to get on it. It basically says: Look, let's do a debt and deficit  commission, like we did BRAC many, many years ago to close excess  military bases, and let's go for 3 percent of GDP growth.

Madam Speaker, there is a problem with that number. Just our interest  coverage is over 3 percent of our economy. So we are going to take  spending and get it down to 3 percent. Great. So we are going to stop  borrowing so much, except just the interest we pay is bigger than that.

Does anyone see the math problem? So this is actually the punch line  I have been trying to head toward. This is a chart that sort of shows  labor as a percentage of income.

I am sorry, but this is actually really important when you are trying  to design how you finance your government. We are hitting a time way  down here. This is 2024 because that is the last sort of good data  point that I have. We actually believe it has actually fallen further.  For years, 64 percent, and there may have been times when we crossed  over to 66 percent of our income basically came from labor that  financed the government.

Today, we are down to touching--actually, we may be as low as 53  percent. That is a huge difference, and it is going to force us--those  who care about the economics, those of us on the Ways and Means  Committee who actually have to do tax policy, those who actually are  paying attention to our bonds and our promise to pay back $30 trillion- plus of publicly sold debt, and another $8.5 trillion that we have  borrowed internally. How do we pay it back?

We are going to have to start thinking about the taxation on labor.  It is going to become a problem. I want to bounce around a little bit  because, a couple of days ago, we got some of the inflation data, but  with that also came some of the State and localized inflation data. I  thought this one was interesting. I am going to be a little caustic on  it, but I haven't had as much coffee today, so I am not wound up as  tight, so at least I am not speaking like a machine gun.

We thought this was interesting. Increase in monthly costs in  Arizona, and we thought we would do a snapshot. I am blessed that I  represent the Phoenix, Scottsdale area. So between January 2021 to  September 2021, so we are actually doing the same snapshot of time, if  you lived in the Phoenix area, you functionally lost $1,597 to  inflation. That is for the average family.

Now we come here to 2025. It is still not as good as we demand that  we get it to, but it is now $944, a $653 savings.

That is 1 year of the success of Republicans lowering inflation. We  have to get it further, but we actually see how bad it was before  because this was the inflation that was handed to this country during  Biden's first year, and then we start to take a look at the progress.  We are making progress. It is not as good as I want, but understand  this is the reality of the math.

Madam Speaker, I have a fixation that we tell the truth and sort of  get an understanding of some of the math. One of the most difficult  things is that we have been trying to figure out how do we make sure we  preserve our promises.

We owe a promise for Medicare. We owe a promise for Social Security.  We have to deal with the reality that, in less than 3 years, over half  of everything that this Congress will spend--so over half of everything  that the Federal Government will spend--will go to people who are 65  and up.

Why that is just an amazing thing to think about. In the 1970s, for  every dollar that went to those who were 65 and up, there were $6 to $7  spent for those who were 18 and younger. Today, that is flipped.

It is just demographics. It is not some evil plot. It is a  combination of the baby boomers, a big population bubble, and  healthcare got dramatically more expensive.

Last week, I did a presentation here and basically showed where  Democrats are turning healthcare into financial engineering instead of  the incentives to do it better, faster, and cheaper.

We have turned healthcare into--remember the whole debate here on  subsidies on top of subsidies? When you turn healthcare into financing  instead of helping people be healthier, you have screwed up the  economics and the incentives, and we start to look at charts like this.

Now, this is Medicare Advantage. I am actually a big fan of what you  call Medicare part C, Medicare Advantage. The chart is a little bit  distorted because it doesn't really give you the population statistics,  but we believe that this year, 55 percent of the population of this  country that are in Medicare is going to choose a Medicare Advantage  plan.

Okay. But we aren't telling the truth about the math. There is this  thing that is called the MedPAC reports. They are big orange reports  like this, hundreds and hundreds of pages. If we go through them, there  will be this section in there that says that it turns out Medicare  Advantage is coming in, according to the MedPAC report--and this is the  roomful of people that specialize in this and, I hate to say, my own  joint economic economist, the CMS data and HHS data, and The Wall  Street Journal, everyone else looks into this--it is coming in at 120  percent of fee for service.

Why this is a big deal is when Medicare Advantage was designed--it  really came into effect in 2005--Senator Frist, who is a doctor--they  put together a plan with this idea that we are going to do managed  care. The insurance companies, which are going to be basically the  gatekeeper, are going to make profit by helping our brothers and  sisters on the program be healthier. The model was it was going to come  in at 95 percent of fee for service.

Today, it comes in at 120 percent of fee for service. That 25  percent, Madam Speaker, over 10 years is $2 trillion. When we show a  chart like this of the transition that has been happening for  traditional fee for service Medicare to now Medicare Advantage, fine,  but we are going to have to have the honest discussion of how do we get  the incentives lined up.

I saw what Senator Grassley published yesterday--and I was going to  bring the report out here and use it as a prop and show it to you, but  it is like this. It basically talks about hundreds and hundreds and  hundreds of billions of dollars.

Look, the report, I am only a third through it, but it is example  after example of Medicare Advantage insurers signing either having  companies or their own folks go out and knock on grandma's door and  score them as sicker and, therefore, getting bonuses for having a  sicker population.

The Wall Street Journal almost 2 years ago did a major expose on a  person. I think they were in Sun City, Arizona, and the insurance  company had scored them I think as having HIV, except the problem is  this person didn't have that. They had never been tested for it.  However, the insurance company was getting a bonus for that. It is  called risk scoring.

We are going to have to consider moving to a model that says we are  not going to let you go and score people differently. We want to create  a model where it is put in the initial pricing of the program, and then  you make money by helping the senior population be healthier.

There are so many miracles right now, the technology can be worn, the  ways you can keep track, the ways of telehealth, digital health, all  these other things. We want a system that incentivizes investing in  people's health instead of profiting from claiming they are sicker.

People have got to understand, there is actually a piece of  legislation to do this. Preliminary scores, $1.84 trillion of savings.  We are going to fight, knife fight, complain, cry, and fuss at each  other over things that are absolutely tiny.

We have been told this piece of legislation actually is the biggest  savings bill in U.S. history. I beg of anyone that actually cares about  these subjects of taking on debt and deficits, help us. Help us explain  it to our brothers and sisters. Help us take on what will be, let's be  honest, a barrage of hate from the brokers, from the insurance  companies that don't want a system that lines up the incentives  properly.

These were the incentives of the original design of Medicare  Advantage, and it got perverse by ObamaCare. They changed parts of the  quality ratings that created another bonus system that could be  manipulated.

Congress can fix things like this, but are we allowed to actually  say: We are going to fix something on Medicare. So often, that sets off  fear.

Did I mention in the beginning here, you have got less than 7 years  and the Medicare trust fund is gone. If we are going to preserve these  earned entitlements--these are earned programs. You worked for years.  You earned this. This was part of the societal contract. People like me  here, we have got to figure out how to finance this, keep it going. Yet  it is almost a sin around here to talk about the problems, the fact we  are hemorrhaging cash, we are borrowing. This year, for every dollar we  take in in tax receipts, we are going to spend $1.43. The Moody's model  says in 8 years interest will consume 30 percent of all of our tax  receipts.

This isn't a game. We have got to stop the juvenile discussions we  have around here and start facing the really big, difficult things  ahead of us.

This is us. It may look like a chart with a handful of different  blues on it, but this is actually us as a people. What this chart is  telling us is that in less than 3 years, over half of all of our  spending in this government will go to our brothers and sisters who are  65 and up.

If that is the societal deal we made, we made it; but we have an  obligation as Members of Congress to make it work. If we know there is  hundreds of billions of dollars--let's not use the word ``fraud''-- being misallocated--let's get fancy on the language, we will call it  misallocated--why wouldn't everyone line up with us?

I would argue the army of lobbyists outside our doors here who lose  their mind every time I talk about this, who scare the crap out of us,  we have still got to do the right thing. Someone running for the United  States Senate today, in your first term--if you are blessed enough to  win--you are going to have to deal with the fact the Social Security  trust fund is gone, the Medicare trust fund is gone. Our preliminary  math says in 2033, the first year that those trust funds are gone, it  is $638 billion just to make up that shortfall.

This isn't a game. These are numbers that should terrify you. Yet for  anyone who is crazy enough to be watching C-SPAN, how many times have  you seen this week, last week, the week before that Members come behind  these mikes and talk to you about the real issues that will change this  Republic, or have we just decided we are going to let the bond market  basically run this country, and we are going to just keep pretending we  can keep spending like this?

Much of that spending is not Democrat policy, Republican policy.  Look, I think much of the Democrat policy is absolutely absurd, but  much of it is demographics. In the early 1990s, and even going back  further, we have had dramatically fewer children.

Remember, Madam Speaker pro tempore, we model--the United States will  be close to almost zero population growth this year. If you have a Pay- As-You-Go system, it is really hard to make that math work. Do you  still let the scams, the misalignments, the taking advantage of these  systems, the fraud go on? It means we are going to have to talk about  it. We are going to have to dive into it. We are going to have to take  on an army of lobbyists. They are probably going to run nasty ads  against all of us because it is so much money.

Let's step up and do the hard things. Let's step up and do the right  things.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.