Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700037/law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act


Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, have you ever had a piece of  legislation--we all go through this--where you have your friends on the  opposite side who say things, and you think, wow, I can't find that in  this piece of legislation. I guess we are all sometimes in the  pandering business.

About a year ago, in my community, we had a woman who came running  out of her house holding a knife. She was having some sort of horrible  mental health issue, and she was charging a police officer with a  knife. Before this type of technology, she would have lost her life  because a traditional firearm would have been used. They used a  nonlethal.

The reason it doesn't say ``taser'' in the language is because who  knows what next year's innovation is going to be. That is the whole  point: Can you have a society where, through the use of technology,  people don't die?

Why do the bill? Why do this portion of the bill for those of us on  the Committee on Ways and Means? Let's go back about 100 years ago. On  excise tax, you have 11 percent on the cartridge, and you have 10  percent on the unit itself. You collect the excise tax. Then you have  to go back to the tax-exempt government agency, have them fill out  their paperwork, submit it over, and then turn back to refund it. We  are just trying to clean up the bureaucracies that are 100 years out of  date.

It is not that hard. Make up your mind. Do you want broader adoption  of nonlethal technology so our brothers and sisters don't die?

Think of some of the crappy things that have happened in our society  over the last 10, 20 years because of the discharge of a firearm in law  enforcement. It does not need to be that way.

This is actually the second or third rewrite of this bill as we try  to make the anti-firearm groups happy. It turns out we would meet their  requests, and then they would change their standard. The problem or the  disagreement kept changing.

I don't know what the motivation is for playing games, but we bring  this to the floor with honest hearts. We want our brothers and sisters  not to die in this moment of violence. I would think there would be  this almost giddy optimism that technology is bringing us here.  Instead, it continues to be the moving excuse of why to oppose the  bill.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record three letters.                                      Congress of the United States,                                        House of Representatives,                                  Washington, DC, December 10, 2025.      Hon. Pam Bondi,      Attorney General, Department of Justice,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Dan Driscoll,      Acting Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and           Explosives, Washington, DC.      Hon. Robert Leider,      Chief Counsel, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and           Explosives, Washington, DC.      Hon. Scott Bessent,      Secretary of the Treasury,      Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.      Hon. Robert Cekada,      Deputy Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and           Explosives, Washington, DC.      Hon. Mary G. Ryan,      Administrator, Alcohol, Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau,           Washington, DC.

Dear Attorney General Bondi, Secretary Bessent, Director       Driscoll, Deputy Director Cekada, and Chief Counsel Leider,       and Administrator Ryan: As former law enforcement officers,       we write to share our concerns regarding the outdated federal       classification of modern less-than-lethal technologies and       provide an update on the strong legislative progress of H.R.       2189, the Law Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act, and       H.R. 4242, the Innovate Less Lethal to De-Escalate Tax       Modernization Act. H.R. 2189 has received significant       bipartisan support and was marked up and approved by the       House Judiciary Committee with favorable guidance on November       18, 2025.

H.R. 2189 addresses a serious and growing challenge:       outdated statutory language within the 1968 Gun Control Act       (GCA) that unintentionally classifies certain non-lethal       devices as firearms. As technology has advanced, this       decades-old framework has failed to keep pace, creating       regulatory outcomes that run counter to modern policing needs       and Congress's original intent.

A clear example is the TASER T10. Although engineered       expressly for less-than-lethal use, it has been classified as       a firearm solely because its propulsion system uses a small       primer charge to expel its non-lethal projectiles. Older       TASER models also contain a primer, but because those devices       utilize compressed air released from a punctured gas cylinder       to expel the projectile, they fall outside the GCA       definition. The T10's updated, gas-less propulsion system       triggers firearm classification under the statute, even       though the device is no more dangerous and, in many respects,       safer than previous models that remain unregulated under the       GCA.

This misclassification restricts access to modern,       effective less-than-lethal tools for law enforcement, tribal       agencies, correctional institutions, and healthcare       facilities. It also slows innovation in technologies       explicitly designed to de-escalate encounters and reduce the       need for deadly force, an outcome directly at odds with       public safety goals nationwide.

H.R. 2189 corrects this problem by establishing a       modernized definition of a ``less-than-lethal projectile       device'' and creating a DOJ-guided, multi-step classification       process to ensure these devices are evaluated consistently,       accurately, and safely. This framework ensures that only true       less-than-lethal devices fall within the updated category       while preventing unintended loopholes or misuse.

H.R. 4242 harmonizes tax statutes with the classification       framework in H.R. 2189. It ensures consistent federal       treatment across the National Firearms Act (NFA) and the       Firearms and Ammunition Excise Tax (FAET), reduces       administrative burdens, and restores long-standing tax       treatment for federal law enforcement agencies. Today,       federal agencies such as the U.S. Marshal Service are not       exempt from paying the FAET on less-than-lethal devices.       Historical payments of the FAET tax from a federal law       enforcement agency, such as the U.S. Marshals Service, are       not revenue for the federal government because they are also       an expense. The reforms advanced by H.R. 4242 have previously       been scored as having a de minimis effect on federal revenue.

Modernizing policy for less-lethal capabilities has the       backing of a wide range of respected organizations       representing both law enforcement and community voices. These       include:

Law Enforcement & Public Safety Organizations

Fraternal Order of Police (FOP)

Major County Sheriffs of America

National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives       (NOBLE)

Hispanic American Police Command Officers Association       (HAPCOA)

Peace Officers Research Association of California (PORAC)

Civic, Community & Reform-Focused Organizations

African American Mayors Association

Next Generation Alumni Leadership Council

Prince Jones Jr. Foundation

Coalition of Moms Against Police Brutality

This broad coalition reflects a shared understanding across       communities, law enforcement, and advocacy groups that       improving access to less-than-lethal tools is essential for       enhancing safety, reducing harm, and achieving better       outcomes in police-community interactions.

Given the bipartisan support in Congress, the backing of       leading law enforcement and community organizations, and the       clear public-safety benefits associated with resolving       misclassifications in federal law, we respectfully request       the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Department of the       Treasury's (USDT) full support for H.R. 2189 and H.R. 4242.       DOJ and USDT's leadership are critical to ensuring federal       law aligns with modern technology, supports de-escalation,       and advances the safety of both officers and the communities       they serve.

If you have further questions, please contact Allie Esau,       Deputy Chief of Staff for Congressman Pete Stauber.            Sincerely,      Pete Stauber,      Troy Nehls,      John Rutherford,      Gabe Evans,      Clay Higgins,      Mike Ezell,

Members of Congress.                                   ____                                      Congress of the United States,                                        House of Representatives,                                       Washington, DC, May 19, 2025.      Hon. Pam Bondi,      Attorney General of the United States,      U.S. Department of Justice, Washington, DC.

Dear Attorney General Bondi: As the former Chairman of the       Subcommittee on Indian and Insular Affairs, as well as the       Representative of Wyoming, home of the Wind River Reservation       and the Eastern Shoshone and Northern Arapaho tribes, I am       writing to thank the Department of Justice (DOJ) for renewing       its efforts to prioritize public safety and justice       throughout Indian Country. In the spirit of helping to       improve public safety on Native American reservations, I am       writing to request the assistance and support of the U.S.       Department of Justice in advancing H.R. 2189, the Law-      Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act of 2025.

H.R. 2189 arises from a need to make less-than-lethal       projectile devices more accessible and affordable for all law       enforcement, and this legislation is of even more       significance for Native American tribal police departments.       If enacted, this legislation would ensure that Native       American tribal police departments are not subjected to       unnecessary and counterproductive roadblocks, delays, and       costs when acquiring less-than-lethal projectile devices.

For context, H.R. 2189 defines a less-than-lethal       projectile device to include only those devices that meet all       the following tests:

The device is not designed or intended to expel, and may       not be readily converted to accept and discharge, ammunition       commonly used in handguns, rifles, or shotguns.

The device is not designed or intended to expel, and may       not be readily converted to accept and discharge, any other       projectile at a velocity exceeding 500 feet per second.

The device is designed and intended to be used in a manner       that is not likely to cause death or serious bodily injury.

The device does not accept, and is not able to be readily       modified to accept, an ammunition feeding device loaded       through the inside of a pistol grip.

The device does not accept, and is not able to be readily       modified to accept, an ammunition feeding device commonly       used in semiautomatic firearms.

This bill is needed because, in the antiquated definition       of a ``firearm'' under the Gun Control Act of 1968 (``GCA''),       a device that meets all of the above specifications can still       be classified as a firearm by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,       Firearms & Explosives (``ATF'') if the device uses the action       of an explosive to expel a non-lethal projectile. This is       true even if that action of an explosive is merely a standard       small arms primer without any kind of propellant. Classifying       a less-than-lethal projectile device as a ``firearm'' makes       it more difficult, costly, and time-consuming to manufacture       innovative new technologies for law enforcement.       Additionally, law enforcement officers can be unfairly       subjected to higher levels of liability exposure for       discharging a ``firearm'' than a less-than-lethal device.

Despite these issues, federal, state, and local law       enforcement agencies still have the ability to bulk order       less-than-lethal projectile devices and traditional lethal       firearms       directly to their facilities, as 18 U.S.C. Sec. 925(a)(1)       provides an exception for federal, state, and local       governments. This exception is routinely used by local,       state, and federal law enforcement agencies to cut down on       burdensome and unnecessary administrative waste. However, as       recently as late 2023, the ATF took the position that Native       American tribes and their law enforcement departments do not       qualify for the 18 U.S.C. Sec. 925(a)(1) exception based on       the plain statutory text.

Accordingly, whenever a Native American tribal police       department acquires any kind of firearm--including one that       is in actuality a less-than-lethal projectile device--for       duty use by its officers, it is treated as if it were a       private security company under our nation's federal firearms       laws. This means that the tribal police departments cannot       have a bulk order of firearms shipped directly to their       police department and instead must send an authorized       representative of the tribal police department to a Federal       Firearms Licensee (``FFL'') to do an over-the-counter       transfer. The only narrow exception to this general rule that       the ATF has identified is the so called ``cross-      deputization'' of an officer. Individual Native American       tribal police officers who are cross-deputized as a federal       law enforcement officer by the federal Bureau of Indian       Affairs (``BIA'') and have permission from their supervisor       at the BIA may utilize 18 U.S.C. Sec. 925(a)(1), but only for       ordering weapons for their direct individual use, and not for       their department.

This present policy has many civil and criminal       implications for tribal police departments, especially given       that this nuance is not widely explained to FFLs or the       public. Additionally, the exclusion of Native American tribes       and their law enforcement departments creates many logistical       difficulties in states where there are limits on the number       of firearms that can be acquired within a month, especially       for tribal reservations that are located in more than one       U.S. state. This present state of affairs is further       complicated by the fact that many tribal reservations are       geographically located in regions of the United States that       do not have FFLs close by.

H.R. 2189 represents a major step forward in creating       parity for Native American tribal police and ensuring that       all law enforcement agencies have access to innovative less-      than-lethal technology. I believe that H.R. 2189 and other       legislative proposals like it that seek to improve the       capabilities of Native American tribal police will make a       quantifiable difference in improving public safety for men,       women, and children who live in Indian Country. Thank you for       your attention to this matter. I, along with the sponsors and       co-sponsors of this legislation, look forward to       collaborating with your office on this issue.            Sincerely,                                                Harriet M. Hageman,      Member of Congress.                                   ____

H.R. 4242: Innovate Less Lethal to De-Escalate Tax Modernization Act

Lead Sponsors: Rep David Schweikert (R-AZ) and Rep Greg       Stanton (D-AZ)

50 Bipartisan Co-Sponsors across 23 states

Tax Policy Alignment:

The legislation aligns the new less-lethal category       outlined in H.R. 2189 with the National Firearms Act of 1934       (Tax) and harmonizes other tax code provisions to ensure all       less-lethal devices are taxed consistently. The CBO scored       the provision in the 118th congress and it has a de minimis       impact on the U.S. Treasury.                Firearms and Ammunition Excise Tax (``FAET'')

The bill will harmonize H.R. 2189 and continues the       exemption of certain less-than-lethal projectile devices,       shells, and cartridges designed for use in such devices from       the Firearms and Ammunition Excise Tax (FAET).

The legislation provision will have a de-minimis impact on       tax revenues because modern less-than-lethal tools and       technologies are almost exclusively sold to official       governmental end-users or exported for use by official       government end-users abroad. CBO scored in 2024 with a de-      minimus score.

The bill is a companion bill with HR 2189 (Fitzgerald/      Correa) and ensures a consistent and harmonious federal       approach to the Department of Treasury & the DOJ updating and       maintaining clear compliance guidance for less-than-lethal       projectile devices.

The legislation corrects a key issue for federal law       enforcement. Unlike the U.S. armed forces, state and local       law enforcement agencies such as the U.S. Marshal Service are       not exempt from paying the FAET on less-than lethal devices.       The legislation returns the U.S. Marshal Service and other       federal agencies to the status quo of not paying a ten or       eleven percent tax on the purchase of less-than-lethal       devices.

A historical payment of FAET tax from a federal law       enforcement agency such as the U.S. Marshal Service is not       actually revenue for the federal government because it is       also an expense.                  Tax Policy--National Firearms Act of 1934

Legislation will harmonize H.R. 2189 and continues the       exemption of certain less-than-lethal projectile devices,       shells, and cartridges designed for use in such devices from       the National Firearms Act (NFA) of 1934.

The NFA was implemented in response to mobsters' use of       machine guns in the 1930s. The NFA makes the product subject       to making and transfer taxes, transfer restrictions,       additional licensing and registration requirements, and even       more stringent recordkeeping standards.

This provision will significantly reduce the administrative       burdens and processing delays for less-than-lethal projectile       devices presently designed in a configuration that brings it       under the regulatory purview of the NFA.      H.R. 2189 establishes a technical fix establishing a Less-Lethal                     classification process for the DOJ

H.R. 2189 simply distinguishes, advanced lifesaving less-      than-lethal projectile devices from firearms without touching       the historical definition. H.R. 2189 establishes a clear       classification process for the Department of Justice to use       when evaluating a ``less-than-lethal projectile device.'' A       device must pass all of the following tests to qualify:

Are designed or intended to be used in a manner not likely       to cause death or serious bodily injury;

Cannot expel (or be readily converted to expel) any       projectile at a velocity over 500 feet per second;

Cannot use (or be readily converted to use) ammunition in a       handgun, rifle & shotgun (no bullets);

Cannot accept (or be readily converted to accept) a       magazine into the device's grip; and

Cannot use (or be readily converted to use) magazines for       semiautomatic firearms.

The legislation requires that the Attorney General render a       classification decision within 90 days of a request submitted       to ATF for a determination.

The federal definition of a firearm under the Gun Control       Act of 1968 is currently:

(A) any weapon (including a starter gun) which will or is       designed to or may readily be converted to expel a projectile       by the action of an explosive; (B) the frame or receiver of       any such weapon; (C) any firearm muffler or firearm silencer;       or (D) any destructive device. Such term does not include an       antique firearm.

As amended by HR 2189, the definition of a firearm would       be:

(A) any weapon which will or is designed to or may readily       be converted to expel a projectile by the action of an       explosive; (B) the frame or receiver of any such weapon; (C)       any firearm muffler or firearm silencer; or (D) any       destructive device. Such term does not include an antique       firearm or a less-than-lethal projectile device (as defined       in the multi-part test discussed above).

Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, 90 seconds is the shortest I have ever  spoken.

Mr. Speaker, if someone is actually listening to our discussion, the  Democrats have made it clear: Hey, lots of law enforcement have this  product.

Wonderful. We are trying to explain that this is a segment of the tax  code we are trying to make easier and more efficient. Once again, just  read the bill. It is remarkably simple.

Mr. Speaker, you have an excise tax. You have to go through all these  steps to collect it then to refund it.

So my friend from California--he is a good guy. We have done a number  of bills together over the years--made my argument. This is actually in  wide distribution across the country, and there is another generation  of technology, hopefully, coming and another one coming.

It is more than just the taser in the hand. It may be the thing on  the wall that protects my synagogue or my school or those things. There  is a revolution of nonlethal coming so that people don't have to die.

I thank the gentleman for explaining that it is in wide distribution.  Now let's deal with the things in the tax code that add bureaucracy and  costs. If we both support the fact that these should be in the hands of  people protecting our public, then let's remove some of the bureaucracy  that makes it more expensive.