Math is Such An Anathema


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699988/math-is-such-an-anathema


Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, give me a moment here to get set up.  Sometimes, we are just scrambling because we had a whole speech lined  up. We were going to do something just simple and pleasant for  everyone. We were going to walk through Medicare financing for a while,  and they wouldn't give me 3 hours or 4 hours to do it, so you are stuck  with me for a half an hour.

Then, earlier today, CBO actually did their update. Okay. Let's see  if I can make this make sense.

When I come behind these microphones, I am trying to explain sort of  a unified theory that, so often, the political class behind these  microphones say: We can do this.

Okay. That may be wonderful, but you have to understand that it all  works together: our demographics, our tax system, the fact of the  matter is this incentive for this to grow, this incentive here, and the  adoption of technology. I need people to start thinking about the  interaction that there is not a simple solution to a country that,  right now, is functionally borrowing about $74,000 every second so far  this fiscal year.

Sorry. Let me rephrase. Over the last 12 months. If you do just  fiscal year, it is higher.

A few hours ago, the CBO put out a report. Look, the report is  actually like this. I just cheated. I just grabbed the executive  summary because I didn't need the whole binder out here.

It is going to take me 3 days or 4 days to read through everything,  but I have some of the highlights for you--this is important--and then  it is going to tie into what we are spending.

Your country is an insurance company with an army. That is both funny  and it happens to be mathematically true. In about 33 months, over half  of the Federal spending will go to those who are 65 and up. Actually,  in 33 months, I will be one of them.

It is demographics. We have gone about 30 years or 40 years with  dramatically fewer children than we expected. I have done a series of  presentations here on the floor where I have shown that we actually  have the same number of 18-year-olds as we had 20 years ago, but double  the number of those who are 65 and up.

Is that Republican or Democrat? Look, there is policies that have  been engaged in by Democrats that helped to create this, but the fact  of the matter is that these are people. It is our reality. We have our  obligations on Medicare, on Social Security, and some that will be dual  eligible because they are poor and retired, and we have some things  that are terrifying.

In 6\1/2\ years, the Medicare trust fund is empty. Your hospital will  take an 11 percent cut. Medicare Advantage programs will actually take  something much larger. It is just the way the Medicare part A trust  fund works.

In 6\1/2\ years, the Social Security trust fund is empty. No one  stole your money. We just don't have enough workers. It was a Pay-As- You-Go system. It is math. The fact of the matter is that, yes, the  money has been loaned to the Treasury. Treasury actually pays interest  on that money, so that twice a year, there is actually a fairly large  dividend given to the trust fund. It is demographics. We had the baby  boomers.

In 6\1/2\ years, if we followed the law, there is a 24 percent cut  coming to Social Security recipients, which will double the poverty of  seniors in America. Our math is that it will double the number of baby  boomers who are homeless. It is absolutely immoral, but we are not  allowed to talk about it except for idiots like me who get up and say  week after week: Please, my brothers and sisters here, there are things  that we can do.

The Democrats say that we will just tax rich people. Then you show  that the math is nothing like that. It doesn't work.

Here is the CBO report. In here, it makes it absolutely clear, and I  have been telling you for 1 year, but the scorekeepers have finally  caught up with my Joint Economic Committee economists. Remember, I  chair the Joint Economic Committee. I chair Oversight Subcommittee in  the Ways and Means Committee, so I am blessed. I have a freaky smart  staff.

In 2032, the trust funds are empty. In 2033, the first year where  they are completely empty, if you said that we are just going to pay  for everything out of the general fund, okay, we can do that.

My estimates come in at about $638 billion in 2033 just to make up  the shortfall of the Social Security trust fund being gone and the  Medicare trust fund being gone. That is, what, 60 percent of today's  defense budget.

Why is math such an anathema to this place?

Let's walk through a couple of other things here. I have only had  time to produce a couple of boards from the new CBO report, and then we  will try to tie these into what else is going on.

This year, we are basically going to spend 3.3 percent of the entire  economy on interest--interest. Once again, this interest number is just  the interest to publicly sold debt.

Remember how I was just talking about the debt? That we borrow the  Social Security money, and then the trust fund gets IOUs from the  Treasury, and we pay it interest? Then when the Social Security needs  money--which they do every month--because the tax receipts come in from  your FICA taxes and there is a shortfall, so they cash that in every  month?

If you add up all of the money and interest paid from the trust  funds, I think this year is going to look more like $1.2 trillion in  interest. Why that is important: What is the number one spend in  America? The number one spend of your Federal Government is Social  Security. It is going to come in at about $1.6 trillion this year.

Interest is your number two. It is going to come in at about $1.2  trillion.

Medicare is going to come in at about $1.1 trillion this year, maybe  a little more.

Medicaid and ACA, ObamaCare subsidies, are going to come in at $900  billion.

Those are your top four.

Number five is the defense. The thing that is actually in the United  States Constitution is actually number five in hierarchy of spending.

One of the things that CBO was trying to point out is that their  estimate is for 9 budget years--so 9 budget years is 2036 from now-- that we will go from $1 trillion of interest to $2.1 trillion of  interest. In 2036, so 9 budget years from now, the annual deficit will  be about $3.1 trillion. Structural deficit is $1 trillion, and $2.1  trillion will just be interest. The majority of future deficits are  actually interest.

Interest and healthcare are the primary drivers of U.S. sovereign  debt. Will the bond market continue to finance this?

What happens when one of your greatest solutions is: Can we actually  have honest conversations about healthcare costs? Are we willing to  legalize the very technologies and the methodologies of helping our  brothers and sisters stay healthier and, therefore, use dramatically  less healthcare?

I have been coming behind this mike for over a decade with  presentation after presentation of technologies, new pharmaceuticals,  and new methodologies to crash the price of healthcare. I get the crap  kicked out of me because armies of lobbyists don't like it when we talk  about changing their business model.

Remember, several months ago, I came here to the floor and showed  that we came up with a math experiment of, in America, how many  duplicative MRI scans, ultrasounds, X-rays, and CTs are there? The top  end was looking like $36 billion in a single year.

Why wouldn't you do something crazy? You get an MRI, attach it to  this crazy supercomputer that you put in your pocket, and then when you  go to your next doctor, you put it up, and it is up on their screens,  and you don't get another one.

Now it turns out that you get some folks who make money on the  duplicative scans. They get very angry, but $35 billion over 10 years,  $350 billion, and that is just one of dozens of things. Why is it so  hard? Are we that afraid of the lobbyists? Are we that afraid of trying  to explain to the folks at home that we don't have a choice?

In 6\1/2\ years--let's say it again--the Medicare trust fund is  empty. If you want to extend the life of the trust fund, let's have a  revolution on the actual cost of delivering healthcare.

There are a couple of other things that are highlights in the CBO  report. They estimate that in 10 years, we will have 5.3 million fewer  people in America. That is mostly from reduction in immigration and the  fact that our fertility rates continue to fall, but think of this.

That missing 5.3 million people is $500 billion over that timeframe  in lost tax receipts. When I use the term ``demographics'' on our debt,  it is a function. Our debt is a function of the fact that our society  has gotten older. We have substantially fewer children. We are going to  have fewer workers, and there are actually whole charts I have here  that actually talk about it.

Look, they are hard charts. This one is absolutely inappropriately  designed to use on the floor, but it is trying to explain what happens  in a society when we have substantially fewer young  workers in our society and substantially more of those who are now 65  and older.

It is just life, but we have to be prepared for what it means when  the majority of Federal spending will be going to those 65 and up in  just a couple of years.

Are we prepared for this? Of course, we are not. So many folks still  have a mind frame that is decades out of date with what we are  demographically. This is happening over the entire industrialized  world, but in our society here, if I can raise wages and productivity  of those who are in the workforce, I have resources to cover the  promised benefits, because we made a deal. We have a societal deal that  we are going to cover Medicare and Social Security.

Something I want to touch on--and I didn't bring the chart on this.  There are a lot of folks who think that Medicare itself is paid for by  your payroll tax. It is actually about 38 percent of that. As a medical  enrollee, you pay--the total cost, depending if you are in Medicare  Advantage, which is--what?--55 percent of the population. The others  are maybe in part A, part A and part B.

Fifteen percent is sort of paid by the enrollee. Thirty-eight-some  percent is paid by the FICA tax, so today's workers paying for today's  retirees. The rest is borrowed out of the general fund.

You have to understand that a huge portion of our debt is actually  paying for the healthcare.

Sorry. My 3-year-old is trying to call me. Yes, I have a 3-year-old  and a 10-year-old, so you know I am optimistic.

When we talk about Medicare financing, most folks don't understand it  is one of the key drivers of our debt.

Let's actually walk through something. Several months ago, we  gathered all the MedPAC reports, all the other reports on Medicare  Advantage. It is Medicare part C. I love a capitated model. A properly  designed capitated model, which is Medicare Advantage, is designed so  you have sort of a gatekeeper. That may be the insurance company or  that may be the group of doctors. Their mission needs to be helping you  be healthier.

We do this in my State's Medicaid system. We call it AHCCCS in  Arizona. I actually, at one point, did the budgets for that.

The concept behind this is to align the incentives. The incentives  aren't to keep trying to find the highest reimbursement to charge  things to the healthcare system. It is the incentive that we are going  to help our brothers and sisters be healthier.

If you are the insurer, you make a profit because you lower  utilization because you had your enrollees, your patients, your  members, get healthier. That is not what has been happening in Medicare  Advantage if you read the actual auditing reports.

We actually did a piece of legislation several months ago that said  instead of having this world where there is the risk scoring and--if  you see, there are actually now criminal investigations going on at the  Department of Justice because of people being scored as being much  sicker, needing much more, and they are actually not sick. There are  multiple criminal investigations going on at the Department of Justice.

I keep approaching the Medicare Advantage companies, saying to work  with us. Could we get rid of the way we do risk scoring, the way we do  these star ratings, where you use those things to pump up your  compensation, and actually do it from enrolling? Let's get the actual  models right. We will build a shock absorber if someone gets really  sick. We will share the risk.

Then, the incentive is to help the population get healthier and  healthier because we have technology. We have wearables. We have GLP-1.  We have other things you can do to help our brothers and sisters get  healthier.

We have lots of data right now, when we are starting to see math  showing, in 2025, almost $84 billion of new risk model implementation  basically saying this is excess spending. If you look at the MedPAC  report, it is almost coming in at a couple of hundred billion dollars a  year.

We run around here saying waste and fraud, but this technically might  not be fraud because it is the design of the system.

When ObamaCare was passed 18 years ago, it actually had a series of  things in there that created many of these incentives to game the  system.

Now, the administration is talking about saying we are just going to  do a cap. I want to try to sell this concept, saying why don't we align  the incentives, both the government incentives as the payer and the  patient incentives to the doctor, so we are all doing the same thing.  We are lowering the expense by creating a healthier population.

The fact of the matter is, if you look at the MedPAC reports--and I  know they get mocked, but no one else seems to produce the actual  data--it is almost $2 trillion a year. Remember, the MedPAC report  comes in and says, Medicare Advantage, when you do the risk adjustment,  it comes in at 120 percent of fee-for-service. That is a 25 percent  gap. In the original design, in 2005, the Medicare part C was supposed  to come in at 95 percent.

I know it is geeky, but this is a stunning amount of money. We will  spend hours here arguing about millions of dollars. These are billions  and billions, and over 10 years, it is in the trillions.

Why is it so hard for this place to want to take on the things that  actually would affect the crushing debt that CBO just told you is  coming screaming at you?

Remember, the CBO report here basically says in this 9-year budget  window, 10-year budget window, your country goes over 120 percent debt  to GDP, surpassing World War II.

Are we going to fix it by little incremental things, or are we going  to do it by a major reconciliation bill that actually takes on big  issues, complex issues, real math? Or will we just continue to pander  and not tell the truth about the scale of what is coming at us?

Medicare Advantage overpayments, we believe, this last year, just the  overpayment portion, was $84 billion. You start to see a chart like  this. Add it up, I actually have a trillion dollars here for you. Align  the incentives, and I can get you another few hundred billion dollars  of alignment incentives by changing utilization, by helping our  brothers and sisters be healthier. Turns out that is real money.

I have lots of charts here, but I want to actually go--I am going to  skip around a little bit--to contributions to the proposed Medicare  Advantage payment update. If there happens to be a lobbyist out there  representing Medicare Advantage, come talk to me. This is what I think  CMS is actually proposing to you, saying we are going to change the  compensation. We are going to change your risk scoring. You are  basically getting zero movement.

This is what you get by not working with us in aligning the  incentives, where you can make a profit by fixing the incentives within  the system or you can basically get a cramdown. Which one do you want  to do? Do you want to prove that you are a free market manager, that a  free market system actually can deliver healthcare and do it better,  faster, more efficiently, and more morally because you give a darn  about your patients?

Or we can basically say we are just going to pay you less, and then  you figure out how you are going to put that through the system. This  is the proposal coming at you. You didn't want to talk to me about  trying to fix the incentives in Medicare Advantage, so now you are  going to get this.

I will argue, come talk to us about our piece of legislation. It has  been out there for several months. You have had chances. We have had  multiple Ph.D. economists score it. We have a preliminary score from  CBO, saying it is probably about $1.84 trillion in savings over 10  years, making it the single largest savings bill in U.S. history.

I am in a 50/50 district, and I am doing bills like this because I  can do math.

Mr. Speaker, instead of me walking through all this, did you see the  job growth numbers today? They are actually pretty good. Did you see  the punch line in the job growth numbers?

The U.S. economy added approximately 140,000 jobs; the market added  181,000. It is absolutely terrific. A dominance of the new jobs that  were created are in healthcare. The majority of spending in healthcare  comes  through government. Does anyone see the circular problem of what we are  talking about? If my growth in the employment base is healthcare, and  over here those jobs are financed through government spending, and that  government spending is substantially borrowed, that is not a virtuous  cycle.

We have a structural problem. Remember, today your government is  going to borrow 6 to $7 billion. This was supposed to be a year with  the tariff receipts and with everything else we were supposed to really  start to pay down the deficit. The problem is interest, healthcare  costs have exceeded our models. We are still probably heading to a 1.9,  $2 trillion borrow.

It turns out now CBO is catching up with the numbers I have been  bringing behind this microphone for the last year. If we do not start  to take this seriously, Mr. Speaker, we will have made the decision  that the bond market, not as in Congress, not the White House, will run  this country.

Remember, we have to bring about 10 to $11 trillion of debt to market  this year for refinancing, and we are going to issue probably $2  trillion of new debt.

When the United States sells a 10-year bond and Greece sells a 10- year bond today, Greece has a lower interest rate than the United  States. When the debt markets think Greece is more creditworthy than  the United States--I don't know how to make it more simple. Why is it  so hard to tell the truth about the math?

Mr. Speaker, there is a way to stabilize this. We are not going to  pay it off. The demographic headwinds make that almost impossible, but  you can stabilize the debt. You just have to do complex big boy things  to do it.

One of the reasons I am leaving Congress is I am tired of smashing my  head over and over here on blunt objects as people just stare back at  you and say, David, I would have to try to explain that. David, you are  not allowed to use the words ``Social Security'' and ``Medicare.'' It  will upset people. What will upset people is when these trust funds run  out and they are seeing their benefits cut because we were too  intellectually vacuous to step up and tell the truth even though we  have known this for decades.

Mr. Speaker, I am actually going to drink more coffee and do more  reading.

I yield back the balance of my time.