Stop Bathing in Folklore and Start Bathing in Math


Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, we are having a really exciting  discussion with my buddy of how CBO actually does scoring on things. I  was trying to explain that some of the things we consider absurd are  actually our fault because it is the law that we have passed to tell  CBO how to do the scoring.

Mr. Speaker, I want to make an apology to everyone because this one  will  go a little longer than normal. Yes, I know. Everyone can grab a cup of  coffee or something. Hopefully, the Sergeant at Arms--we are apparently  not allowed to drink coffee on the floor. Whatever happens, don't get  caught, right?

Mr. Speaker, I am going to try three things tonight. I will upset a  number of folks. I am sorry. My math will be accurate because we have  spent the last couple of days double-checking it.

I am going to try to do something a little insane. I am going to walk  folks through the Social Security actuary report. We are just going to  do some of the most basic parts of it so folks understand what the  reality is.

Number two, I am going to walk through actually something that really  bothers me because I have a number of politicians on the left and the  right who spend day and night making up math. Mr. Speaker, can you  believe that?

They attack the CBO. They attack the Joint Committee on Taxation,  this and that. I am going to walk us through parts of the accuracy and  what we call the variance report done by the Congressional Budget  Office and try to demonstrate--yes, there are mistakes. They are  actually more accurate than most of the outside groups.

That is uncomfortable because one of the other things I am going to  touch on--and this is tough--is we have aspirational documents coming  from the White House and from our own folks here on what growth can be.  We can actually do remarkable growth, but we have to do very difficult  policies to make it work.

Are we going to do talent-based immigration? Are we going to do  incentives to automate, to modernize, to use technology, or to even use  AI? My fear is we want to take credit for very high growth numbers, as  in GDP grows this, but we are not willing to do the hard lift with the  policy.

With that, I will explain why that is so important. The growth of  debt, the drivers of debt, is the thing it is hard to tell the truth  about.

I am going to show some charts in a little bit, Mr. Speaker, that  show over the next 10 years interest is the number one driver of debt  and then healthcare, Medicare, almost exclusively.

It is hard to explain that it is actually like 65-35 now. The some  $22 trillion dollars that are baseline and then stack everything else  on it that is going to be borrowed over the next 10 years, about 60 or  65 of that is just interest.

Whether we like it or not, the reality of it is this country, our  Federal Government, is an insurance company with an Army. We don't have  enough cash in the bank to pay for all the promises we made as part of  that insurance coverage.

Let's have at it, Mr. Speaker. I keep bringing this chart because it  is a really simple visual. Think of the people who almost attack us in  our hallways and say: How can you want to cut spending?

We show them this chart that says baseline spending. It is $86  trillion over the next 10 years. All we are talking about on the House  reconciliation budget--and my understanding is the Senate, our good  friends down the hallway, their cuts and spending are even more anemic.

It is 2.3 percent. $86 trillion is the baseline spending for the next  10 years. We are trying in the House reconciliation budget to cut $2  trillion. That caused absolute panic because Washington, D.C., is about  one thing. It is about money. When so much of America makes its money  off D.C. policy, this has caused absolute panic, but it is a fraction.  Mr. Speaker, when you see the new data on what is happening in  healthcare costs--we have got some new data today that the numbers are  even worse. Almost no one has actually started to do the math--the fact  that the Social Security Medicare actuary report from 4 days ago  actually has an 11 percent cut coming in the Medicare trust fund in  2033. That is not actually in the baseline debt numbers.

Mr. Speaker, are we just going to pretend that we didn't get older as  a society?

Let's actually walk through.

Mr. Speaker, I have done this chart for a decade. About 74 percent of  all spending is on autopilot. It is what we call mandatory. It is  interest, it is Social Security, it is Medicaid, it is Medicare, and it  is other promises that are built into the formula. Members of Congress  almost never ever get the chance to vote on any of this red. The only  time it will ever really come up is if we have a reconciliation budget.

All the blue, defense and nondefense, is 25, 26 percent of our  spending. Every dime of it is borrowed. Please, anyone who cares, get  this in your head: Every dime--other than some of the things in the  reconciliation budget, every dime a Member of Congress will vote on,  many for their entire careers, is borrowed money.

Mr. Speaker, you see this 26 percent that is in blue, that is defense  and nondefense discretionary.

This year we are on track for every dollar we bring in in tax  receipts--that is corporate taxes, that is individual taxes, that is  everything--we are going to spend $1 in, $1.39 out the door.

Does anyone see a math problem?

Mr. Speaker, 1 month ago, Moody's actually downgraded U.S. debt, so  now the three big rating agencies have lowered our credit. We actually  have 18 States in America that have a higher credit rating than the  Federal Government.

If anyone bothered to actually read it, it was actually really well  done. There were a lot of details. Mr. Speaker, you would have had to  have gotten it through a Bloomberg Terminal or pay a subscription. We  are blessed to have a Bloomberg Terminal.

Yes, they got attacked by people who want to keep spending money who  said: Stop. You can't downgrade U.S. sovereign debt.

The other two rating agencies had done it years earlier. The punch  line in there is that in less than 9 years--and this was assuming  interest rates stayed stable--in 2034, 30 percent of all tax receipts  just covered interest. If interest rates went up 1 percent, Mr.  Speaker, 1 percent, in 2034, then 45 percent of all U.S. tax receipts  pay interest.

Are we paying attention?

Yet, the first words I will get from my brothers and sisters on the  left are: Well, just raise taxes.

I will show over and over here, Mr. Speaker, that if you look at  times when we had high marginal tax rates, low marginal tax rates, we  basically always get about 17 to 18, sometimes 18\1/2\, percent of the  economy in tax receipts.

There is our problem, it is that split. Right now if we are sitting  in the almost 18 percent of the economy we are taking in in taxes, but  we are spending 24--and understand, over the next few years it goes  from 24, to 25, to 26--that gap is the annual deficit that gets piled  on to the debt.

I have lots of charts here that actually start to show--let me see if  I can find my favorite one here--that when we actually raise--well,  actually, I hid it in the back so we will do that as a whole section.

How many understand we borrow $6 billion a day?

How many understand in 9 years we are borrowing over $10 billion a  day?

Right now that means we borrow $72,000 a second. In 9 years we are  functionally borrowing over $100,000 a second. The reason I try to  break it down like that, is I am trying to find a way to make numbers  like this, absolutely crazy numbers, work.

Mr. Speaker, so you have that.

My Democrat brothers and sisters have legislation they have  introduced over the years. They have never actually brought it to the  floor even when they controlled this body and controlled the White  House. It gives you a sense, Mr. Speaker.

Economic study, go on Manhattan Institute, Riedl, it is about 1 year,  1.5 years old, they did the scoring on all the Democrats' tax  proposals.

Here is the problem: Increasing taxes, Mr. Speaker, when you did  actually all of them--and I am going to do this in a couple of  fashions--you basically got to the point that when you did all the  corporate, the estate, the individual, and then you did the economic  effects, you got about 1.5 percent of the economy.

All the taxes hikes--every time we have someone over on that side  saying: Just raise taxes--if we do every one of their tax proposals,  then we get 01.5 percent.

Hopefully, everyone knows what the joke is.

We are going to borrow 7.3 percent of the economy this year, and in 9  years we are borrowing 9 percent of the economy.

How do we tell the truth to the American people that we are going to  have to embrace things that are actually hopeful?

The cost of healthcare--it is always fascinating, I always thought I  would get beaten up for saying this behind the microphone, and,  shockingly, we have had people being remarkably kind to us.

The economist in my Joint Economic Committee--and it was a hard  report to write--a couple years ago wrote a major study saying: What  does obesity cost America?

That is not Republican or Democrat. It is just what we are. It means,  every time you say that, Mr. Speaker, did you make all the people who  make money off certain foods, off of certain healthcare, and other  things, nervous?

We came up with a number 2 years ago. It was $9.1 trillion of  additional healthcare spending over 10 years.

Now this one is a few years old. Milken did a study, he said that 47  percent of all U.S. healthcare spending was associated with obesity.

Is that Republican or Democrat?

It is just the math. It is something we could do together around  here.

How do we help our brothers and sisters be healthier so they live  longer? How do we help them so they could maybe have more family  formation, live a life, participate in the economy, and use a hell of a  lot less healthcare?

Mr. Speaker, you know the perversity around here. When we start  talking about maybe we need to modernize how we do agriculture in  America, what we grow, because we concentrate functionally on like five  crops.

What should we do? This is a question--and I have been attacked by  Democrats on this--is it moral to give an EBT card, modern food stamps,  to someone to go buy onion rings?

I love onion rings. It is one of my addictions. I am working on  getting off of it.

Is it moral with taking hard-earned money, rare resources--remember,  it is borrowed money now--and say: Go eat crap.

Now the people who sell onion rings come lobby us and come attack us  and say: People should have the choice. They should with their own  money.

The fact of the matter is, when we looked at some of the data of the  7 million prime-age males who are missing in America, we have a data  set that says about one-half of that population may be missing from the  labor force. They are missing from the American labor force not because  of drugs and not because of video games but because of health, because  of obesity.

Are we allowed to talk about it?

Mr. Speaker, a bit of trivia. Let's do something I consider  wonderfully funny and amusing.

In the last 20 years, what is the only success that has happened in  the United States of helping young people get healthier?

Remember, under Michelle Obama's initiatives with President Obama, I  think we spent, it was $16 billion or $36 billion, but some number like  that, and it had absolutely no success. This was the dietary issues and  the food issues, trying to get young people to go exercise. Can anyone  guess?

Come on, this is a play-at-home game. It was Pokemon GO. I know it  sounds crazy, but the gamification actually was the one great example  of success for the last couple decades of helping young people get  healthier.

What if we took that knowledge of, hey, these incentives do work, and  actually legalese that and made that part of how we deliver healthcare  services or how we allow insurers to provide incentives because the ACA  ObamaCare is a finance bill.

It is who gets subsidized and who has to pay. You have three age  groups and smoking. You could be creative enough to add a fifth  category that says you can provide a series of these sorts of  incentives, so when you wear the digital ring, wear the smartwatch on  your wrist, or walk 5,000 steps, at the end of the month, we are going  to give you something. Is that Republican or Democratic? Or is it just  using data to try to keep our brothers and sisters healthier?

The stock answer is to just raise taxes on rich people. The math  doesn't get you anywhere close. It may make you feel better. It may  make you feel better, but I am going to show you numbers that should  scare you half to death.

Let's continue to try to run through healthcare expenses. We are  going to have to update our charts because we got one just a couple of  hours ago and didn't have a chance. It actually had the spending growth  on healthcare over the next decade actually accelerating again.

Here is part of my problem. Nominal, which means before inflation, we  actually have domestic productivity growing at 4.3 percent over the  next decade. We have healthcare growing at 5.8 percent. It is geeky,  but that margin keeps separating and separating. Unless we are willing  to do policy, whether it be technology or incentives to stay healthy,  these sorts of things, if that separation continues, the debt picture  is actually worse.

Mr. Speaker, at some point, I am going to show a slide here that if  you actually take some of the policy we are working on, the baseline  between now and 2035 of the $22 trillion we are supposed to borrow,  some of the potential financing costs of what the Senate is doing right  now, the higher interest rates, we are not exactly there, but we come  close to doubling U.S. sovereign debt over the next decade. That took  us 240 years, and we functionally double it in the next decade.

Let's get to the really uncomfortable stuff. I have to admit that I  am only two-thirds through the Social Security actuary report. I have  one on my desk that has highlights and little questions and things that  I have to get my economists to go back to help me understand. For some,  I actually don't like some of the math I see.

I am going to try something, and we are going to try to build a chart  on this. This is crazy math, but we see it in the report.

You will have lots of activists say to just open up immigration. That  will take care of the Social Security shortfall. Remember, the report  says, in 2033--so, what is that? Seven or 8 years from now, there is a  23 percent cut coming in Social Security checks. That means we will  double--we have had witnesses that explained this to us. We will double  senior poverty after 2033.

Are we ready to do that? Is that moral?

Yet, I will get folks who will say that if we just open up  immigration--it turns out that is actually not the math because one of  the real reasons they moved up the date of the exhaustion of the Social  Security trust fund was actually flattening of wage growth. It turns  out there is no free option here.

We have some charts that show some things. Here are people who are  undocumented in America. They are working under stolen Social Security  numbers. They are giving into the system, but they are never going to  get anything out. Then, you look at the suppression of wage growth. I  know this is geeky, but I sort of need to lay a marker on the  suppression of wage growth. When you bring in millions of people across  the border who have similar skill sets, and they are often willing to  sell their skill sets for even less money, Social Security actuary  reports are now modeling a flattening of wage growth. That is one of  the things that has actually shortened the life of the Social Security  trust fund by a year.

The next time someone says that we just need to open up the borders,  that that will take care of the Social Security trust fund, it turns  out that it doesn't work that way. You actually didn't get anything  from it. You did a suppression of working people's wages, and this one  takes us out about a decade.

I don't know why people don't think, don't understand, these almost  basic economic--we all went to our high school economics class, right?  Here is what is coming. You have the 23 percent cut coming in 2033. If  you are watching this and don't plan to be around in 2033, you don't  have to care. The one that we have had almost no discussion about is  that the Medicare trust fund is gone in 2033. That means if it lives  off its income, its tax receipts from the FICA taxes, it is still an 11  percent cut.

The next time we get someone here saying that we need more money for  our hospitals, outpatient surgeries, and hospice care, point out to  them that, in 7 years, there is an ugly cut coming. This 11 percent  shortfall isn't even in our long-run CBO projections yet because a year  ago, to give you an idea of how these numbers eroded in 1 year--I think  2054 was in last year's actuary report for when the trust fund was  gone.

How many people over the last week, because this has been out for  almost a week now, have you seen come behind these microphones and say  maybe we should all work together, do something that is mathematically  honest, or just even tell our voters the truth that, in 7 years, you  are getting a 23 percent cut in your Social Security check and, by the  way, another 11 percent cut in your hospital coverage and other things  because the Medicare part A trust fund is gone.

For those who don't understand, and that is most of us, of the  portion of your payroll tax that goes to Medicare, about 38, 40 percent  of it is covered by the trust fund. That is the hospital portion, as we  typically refer to it. The rest of it actually comes out of the general  fund.

One of the most difficult numbers I have in my dataset here--because  this is the one that I see people get upset about--is the primary  driver of U.S. debt. Interest? It is healthcare. For every dollar you  put into Medicare, you are getting $6 to $7 back. That delta is  uncomfortable to talk about, but it turns out to be that and interest  are the primary drivers.

All right, you start to actually look at some more--and I put this  chart together just because I thought it was really interesting. We  finally actually have really good data that has been designed on what  happened during the Biden administration having the border open. We got  some direct effects of, hey, we got a little bit more tax receipts and  potential effects over time, but it turns out its deficit effects are  more than two times because of the consumption of services.

It turns out that when someone tells you this is going to grow the  economy, it is not in the economic literature. It may be in your  aspirations, in your heart, or how you feel, but it is not in the  economic literature. Tell the truth about the math.

National health expenditures as a percentage of GDP--remember, a  couple of moments ago, I told you we are trying to figure it out. We  just got another report that we expect the growth of healthcare  spending to pop almost 3 percent more than modeled. That is a lot of  money. Here is the punch line: We estimate that this year, right now,  we are right here. We are spending about 18 percent of the entire  economy on healthcare.

In 9 years, it is over 20 percent. Those differences are monstrous.  That is functionally a 12.8 percent growth in the cost of delivering  healthcare in that 9-year span. This is going to tie into why I am  talking about some of our growth rate projections.

How do you hit these folks who are running around saying: ``David, we  are going to grow at 3, 4, 5 percent GDP growth.'' At the same time,  interest and expenditures are chewing up everything around us. How does  that math work?

Then, I am going to show you some of the demographics. I am going to  probably say this twice just so it starts to bleed in.

Today, we have the same number of 18-year-olds as we had 20 years  ago. We have doubled the number of people 65 and up. So, functionally,  we have the same number of 18-year-olds--it is no one's fault. It is  not Republican and Democratic. Starting in 1990, U.S. fertility rates  rolled over. We have a shortage of young people in America.

Tell me how I grow the economy if you are not going to let me do  things like automation of ports, automated rail, AI, technology,  allowing AI when it has the right data to be able to prescribe, and  people go: ``Oh, I don't like that.'' Fine. Tell me how much poorer you  are willing to live.

It is economics. If I can't grow the economy, yet I am being buried  in debt service and increased costs for providing the services, tell me  how I am to pay for it.

There is a path where I can make this math--I can't pay it off. I can  stabilize it and make this another American century, but, damn it, how  do I do it in a body that is just terrified of telling the truth about  math or just basic economics?

This is the reality. This is our latest report. In 2033, 20.3 percent  of the economy will just be healthcare. Considering government is  functionally the primary payer, I think we are well over half of all  healthcare spending coming out of the trust fund and the general fund.

Does anyone see a problem? Do you remember, a moment ago, I showed  you that the Social Security and Medicare actuary report said that  there is an 11 percent cut coming in 2033? Are we going to let that  happen? Probably not. Are we going to reach into the general fund to  pay for it? Probably. It is not in the debt projections yet. The scale  of this is off the charts.

Back to the math problem. If I am making someone unhappy, be mad at  the math, not me. Be mad at all the people who have never told you the  truth with a calculator.

How do I save my future? Remember, my little boy turned 3 years old  yesterday. I have a 9-year-old. Yes, they are adopted. It is a miracle.  My wife is my age. Yes, we have screwed up my retirement. It is the  most fun I have ever had in my life.

My child will be the first generation to live poorer than his mommy  and daddy. Great job, America. This is our morality.

People will say: ``No, it is going to be great.'' Great. Okay. I hope  it is great. Tell me how I do it in the math. Walk me through the  economics. Walk me through what we are going to do to maximize GDP  growth or what we are going to do to change productivity.

People will say that we are going to just grow. Okay, tell me how.  That is our problem right now. We are using these wonderful,  aspirational words, and we are not doing any of the policy.

The reality of it is that Social Security, Medicare, and net interest  account for 80 percent of the spending growth.

If you are a Member of Congress, how many protesters did you have in  your office this last couple of days? ``You can't review. You can't go  after waste and fraud and Medicaid.'' Medicare Advantage, The Wall  Street Journal has done a five-part series that, if you add it all up,  is $1 trillion to $2 trillion of waste and fraud over 10 years. ``That  is hard. You can't actually talk about that.''

If we can't do the work, how do you save the country? How do you save  my kids' future? How do you save your own retirement? Maybe we can just  keep lying to each other and the public because the public really  doesn't want to hear these things.

There is a path to make this math work, but you keep telling me that  we are going to take off on productivity, but then you see the charts  of available young people to participate in the labor force. The number  keeps falling and falling.

Remember, we have the smallest group of 18-year-olds as a percentage  of population in U.S. history, and next year is even smaller, and the  year after that is even smaller, and the year after that is even  smaller. ``David, we are going to grow like crazy.'' We can, but you  have to do policies that maximize productivity. ``Productivity might  cause creative destruction.'' We are not allowed to do free-market  economics anymore. Remember, we are populists now.

If you embrace that you are going to drive this country--we will  still be greater than any country on Earth, but we are going to give up  so much.

Prosperity is moral. The growth is moral. We are killing ourselves,  but we are making promises that aren't in the data. They are not on the  charts.

You have an idiot like me who gets behind the microphone week after  week--I am not smart, but I am good at math--and tries to explain by  saying that there are ways to make it work.

Mr. Speaker, 1 month ago, after almost a year's worth of work--I  chair the Joint Economic Committee. I am number four in the Committee  on Ways and Means. I chair the Subcommittee on Oversight. It is public  now. The press broke the story. We have been doing investigations after  The Wall Street Journal did that major series on Medicare Advantage-- the amount of fraud, the people being diagnosed with  diseases they don't have, people being dumped on VA even though they  had the Medicare Advantage insurance, and people being dumped in  hospice care. If you don't know about it, grab your computer and  google: The Wall Street Journal MA.

The MedPAC report--I have come to this floor year after year. I am  sometimes thinking, Mr. Speaker, that I am the only idiot here who  reads the MedPAC report. It is like this, but it is not a hard read.

In there, it will say that when we started Medicare Advantage in  2005, it was designed to come in at 95 percent of the cost of fee for  service, but its model was that we were going to incentivize the folks  who manage the care to make money by helping you be healthier. The  incentive was that we were going to help populations be healthier.

The MedPAC report for the beginning of this year, today, comes at 120  percent of fee for service. Just that delta from the 95 to 120 percent  over 10 years is like $2 trillion.

Think about it. We are knifing each other right now, trying to figure  out how to finance as much of this reconciliation budget as we can. I  am an idiot, as I have been told by my wife over and over, because I  thought we cared. We spent 6 months writing the modernization to  Medicare Advantage to make it so it incentivizes to help our brothers  and sisters who are 65 and up who choose Medicare Advantage, which is  55 percent of the population, to get services so that they are  healthier.

The Joint Economic Committee economists say that, over 10 years, it  is $1.76 trillion of savings over 10 years. The preliminary score from  our conversations with CBO--it is not in writing, but preliminary--is  $1.84 trillion, making it the largest savings bill in U.S. history. It  doesn't take away a single service. It fixes the misalignment in the  system.

Mr. Speaker, how many cosponsors do I have? The bill has been  introduced for 1 month. Remember, we are tough. We are going to help  stop this borrowing. We are going to take on the debt. I have zero  cosponsors. We have visited almost 100 Members of Congress in their  offices. ``David, this is uncomfortable. It has big words. David, it  has the word `Medicare.' ''

I beg of you, understand the scale of this debt. I have people now  who won't even look me in the eye as they walk down the hallway because  they are fearful that I might ask them again and again: ``Will you  sponsor this? You tell me you care. Help us. Help us do the right  thing.''

Yet, if I try to show what is going on--remember our baseline. Over  the next 10 years, we expect to spend $14.67 trillion on Medicare  Advantage. It is not Medicare but just the Medicare Advantage portion.  All we are trying to do is save about 10 percent of that. That is the  alignment of incentives.

Stop telling me how much you care. Stop telling me you are a budget  hawk. I am a budget hawk. I care about the budget. But God forbid, I am  not putting my name on something that actually does something because  that is hard.

I am the guy in the 50/50 district. I am in one of the most  competitive districts in America, and yet I am willing to stand up  behind this microphone and tell the truth and actually put it on paper.

My economists did a model over the next 10 years with what is  happening demographically in America. We have a shortage of young  people. President Trump said something that was brilliant on the  campaign trail. He said: It is insane we educate people, then we send  them home with their degrees from the American universities to compete  with us. That sparked an idea, and then we got our economists to do the  modeling.

It creates about $150, $160 billion of additional tax receipts in the  10-year window, but in the second 10-year window, it explodes. We wrote  an immigration reform bill, moving the American immigration system to a  talent-based system, but it has the word ``immigration'' in it so that  scares the hell out of the political class because reporters will lie  about it. The activists on Twitter or X, whatever it is, will lie about  it, but the economics are incredibly important.

If you are going to move this country to raise its productivity so we  can raise wages so we actually can survive what is happening in the  actuary reports of Medicare and Social Security, guess what? You almost  can't close the numbers unless you do something like this.

The reason I am doing this is, we added the President's Gold Card,  but it is skills based. I get people saying: I don't know how I feel  about that. How many of you have a Dr. Patel? It was meant to be funny.  I am from Scottsdale. It is one of the greatest medical communities in  America, and a bunch of our great, amazing talent has come in from all  over the world.

Stop bathing in folklore and start bathing in math.

Our third bill to pay for the reconciliation budget is less of a cut.  This is using data to find where the hell is all the cash. It turns out  if you add it all up, there is $1.5 trillion sitting in accounts up and  down government. It was appropriated 3 years ago, but they never built  it.

There is a great example of hundreds of millions of dollars that were  set aside for one State. It is in the account to build a bridge. They  chose not to build that bridge. Cash is still sitting there. We call it  Total Discretionary Balances Subject to Rescission. We call it  forgotten funds. We are paying interest on that money. Almost every  dime of this was borrowed money, and some of it has been sitting in  accounts for years.

Why is it so hard? We have the legislation. I have introduced the  legislation line item by line item by line item saying let's just grab  that cash, even if you just went back to know your money, or maybe the  ones that are just a couple years out, it is a half a trillion dollars.  Grab that cash and bring it back and put it under Treasury.

If we as Members of Congress want to appropriate it again,  appropriate it again. I just gave you three pieces of legislation: I  gave you fixing Medicare Advantage, alignment of the incentives. Moving  to a talent-based immigration system, which, in the long run, is one of  the most powerful things we can do for GDP growth for productivity. And  capturing the forgotten funds. I just paid for most of the  reconciliation bill.

Wouldn't that solve a bunch of our problems around here? Wouldn't  that solve a bunch of the fighting? Wouldn't that solve a bunch of the  stress when we are saying: We are going to borrow how much?

This year, we are going to borrow $2.2 trillion. At the end of 2026,  if we do what I think and the Senate is going to try to jam us, that is  $2.5, $2.6 trillion of borrowing that year. But David, we are going to  have all this magical growth.

Look, I accept I am a senior Member. I have staff. I have really  smart economists. I just brought you three bills without cutting a  service to anyone. I found $3.3 trillion of savings and not a single  cosponsor in Congress.

I am going to try to do this next little section here. I don't want  to be a jerk. I am going to hurt some people's feelings. The math is  important. Why the math is important is because there are solutions.  The reason I am doing this is, I think it was Monday or Tuesday, I had  a Member I was talking to, great Member, brilliant in their area of  specialty, really smart. I have spent my whole life doing budgets and  healthcare finance and a few other weird things.

They said: David, CBO is always wrong, the Congressional Budget  Office. They make up things. It is way off.

Okay. For anyone that keeps telling you that, this is what you call a  variance report. CBO puts it out every year. I know every staffer and  every Member of Congress grabbed it in January and actually read the  data.

If you look at the calculations--and I didn't actually bring one of  the boards, which probably is good because it was really obnoxious.  What did happen to that board?

CBO projected when we did the 2017 tax reform, 2018, 2019, just  before the pandemic, they were like 99.5, 99 percent accurate. Don't  tell anyone because it will make it harder for us to lie around here.  Then you get Members saying: But over the next 5 years, they weren't  accurate at all.

Does anyone remember there was this little thing called COVID? Does  anyone remember what Congress and the world actually did? We dumped how  much cash into the world market. You are accurate to here, and then all  of a sudden, we dumped how much cash? Do you think there is a chance  when you borrow trillions and trillions of dollars, pump it out into  the economy, you don't have your tax collections go up? Oh, but David,  they didn't project that. They didn't predict that. Come on, people.  Stop it.

Because even now, when we get back to baseline after we got beyond  COVID, they were still remarkably accurate. I found the chart. It was  hidden back there. It is on the smaller board.

The fact of the matter is, what they projected and what actually  happened--and this is actually 2018, not 2016, so I found a printing  error--99.5 percent accuracy.

Mr. Speaker, they are not always accurate. Of what they projected for  the clean energy tax credits and inflation reduction, they missed by  miles because they didn't actually pay enough attention to the fact  that they were uncapped. There are a number of things where they  absolutely screwed up, but the fact of the matter is on tax  collections, the numbers have been good, and we need a scorekeeper.

My grandfather used to have this saying: It doesn't matter how you  play the game. It is who keeps score. He thought that was hysterical.

How do we convince the American people we are serious about economic  growth, productivity, taking on the debt and deficits, and not  bankrupting their future when we spend almost every day saying: Well,  we don't like the scorekeeping.

Then you look at every outside group, the Tax Foundation, Yale Model  Foundation, all these others, and it turns out CBO was more accurate  than they were.

I am not standing here to be a defender of them. I am actually being  a defender of my brothers and sisters here. Please, I know it makes our  lives easier when we can attack the scorekeeper. We can say the  scorekeeper didn't get it right, therefore, pay no attention when they  say we are trying to add $3, $4 trillion of debt.

We are better than that. There is a reason so much of the economic  press is just mocking us and making fun of us. I understand it is good  politics. You get to go home, get in front of the audience that is not  reading the Economic Press and say, they didn't get the it right. Let's  treat our voters like they are adults. They understand what is going  on.

These are the scores from Yale Budget Lab, from Penn Wharton, from  Congressional Budget Office, from Joint Tax, Tax Policy Center,  American Enterprise Institution, Tax Foundation, and then here is what  we are telling people.

Is every other Ph.D. economist wrong?

It becomes an excuse not to do the things I was just complaining  about when an idiot like me comes and says: I found you $3.3 trillion  in savings.

David, we don't have to do those hard pieces of legislation. We don't  have to explain those bills to our constituents. We don't have to take  on the lobbyists who are going to be all upset with us. We will just  tell people that it pays for itself.

So everyone else is wrong because it makes our life as policymakers  easier. Somehow, we are going to have magic growth, magical thinking  when just today parts of the latest census data came out. The  population 65 and older rose by 3.1 percent in the last year, while the  population 18 years old--under 18 decreased by 0.2 percent.

I am trying to make an argument that--I love the partisanship. I love  a good fight with my Democratic brothers and sisters, but what happens  when the debt and deficits are demographics? If we can blame the other  side, we will just do this ping-pong back and forth--they are in  charge, we are in charge, we are in charge, they are in charge--and we  will blame each other. Then we are going to have a failed bond auction,  and interest rates are going to explode.

Remember, there are datasets--I presented them here on the floor-- that just a single point of interest going up over the next decade  wipes out almost all the good we are trying to do extending the tax  reform of 2017.

Mr. Speaker, there is a way to make this work, and I am mentally just  exhausted. Maybe I need to consume more coffee or maybe I need to stop  caring so much because I am really worried. There is a way to make this  work. There is hope, but what happens when no one will hear a word you  are saying because it requires doing hard stuff and pisses off some  lobbyists or some group or some group that is in our office that wants  us to regulate their competition's business or give them something?

We used to be the party of fiscal sanity. I still think we are. We  can get there. We can do it. Maybe we just need to understand the math.