Turning Healthcare Into Financial Engineering


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697873/turning-healthcare-into-financial-engineering


Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, the good news is we have only until  10:00. The bad news is I am going to use every second of it. Let's race  through this because originally, I think I was going to go almost an  hour. Maybe this is mercy.

I want to walk through just a couple of concepts here. One, we are  going to talk about one of my intense frustrations. I have talked about  this for a decade or more. Please, how do I get my brothers and sisters  on the left and those on the right to understand we have turned the  whole discussion of healthcare into financial engineering? Work with me  on this.

Many of us know ACA as ObamaCare. It is a financing bill. It has  community rating in it, so the guaranteed access, but it is a financing  bill. It is who gets subsidized and who has to pay. Our Republican  alternative was a financing bill. It just had a little better actuarial  modeling in it. Medicare for all is a financing bill.

We don't have the discussion about what we pay, the waste, the fraud,  the adoption of technology, the adoption of cures, the adoption of how  we deliver, the adoption of making us autonomous because we can wear  our medical lab on our body now. I wear one of the data rings, and I  experimented with a Dexcom in the last couple of weeks.

Instead, we are going to beat each other up around here. The  Democrats are going to try to make a political issue out of it. We are  going to basically fumble because we had trouble explaining that we  have turned healthcare into financing. They want to hand out billions  and billions of dollars more to insurance companies to buy down rates.

Let's actually walk through some points I want to make. This is the  first one. I desperately hope this number evens out as we go through  the rest of the year.

Our model right now says in the first quarter of this fiscal year-- remember, October 1, we began the 2026 fiscal  year. For every dollar we are taking in tax collections, Mr. Speaker,  we are spending $1.62. The original model was, every $1 in, we would  spend $1.42 or $1.43. Our spending is up.

What is driving that spending up? It is the refinancing of our debt  at higher interest rates, because we had all that debt we sold a few  years ago at very low interest rates. The fact of the matter is  healthcare costs keep going up. The stupid discussion we are going to  have here is a financing debate--how much more subsidies should we hand  out--and not a discussion of what we are going to do to change the  price of healthcare.

Let's actually take a quick run through this. I am going to try to  explain a couple of basic things about the ACA. Most of us know it as  ObamaCare.

This chart is hard to read from a distance. ACA goes into effect. I  want us to step all the way back out to where we are here when the  enhanced subsidies--these are subsidies on top of subsidies--is $40  billion. Over here, the basic subsidies, the growth of the subsidies  since the pandemic, is another $75 billion. On top of the base  subsidies, they are $80 billion. This is only 7 percent of the  healthcare market.

Let's take a look at that. This is so hard for people to understand.  I was listening to one of my Democrat colleagues speak the other day.  It was a complete distortion field of the truth and what was going on  out there. They say all the healthcare is going to go up this much.

Are they willing to admit they screwed up? They created an absolutely  distorted model. By screwing up all the incentives, everyone's  healthcare costs went up, even though the ACA, ObamaCare, is only this  little wedge here. It is 7 percent of the healthcare population.

The vast majority of the other population gets it through their  employer, veterans, Medicare, and Medicaid. Then I need my colleagues  to see this other wedge there. That is the portion that is not getting  subsidies from taxpayers. The rest of this right here is getting  subsidized.

I will show a chart in a moment where 41 percent of this population  that is being subsidized in the ACA had no premium at all. You as a  taxpayers bought their healthcare. Is that really what the Democrats  promised us? Does anyone remember President Obama saying that  healthcare premiums will be lowered by $2,500? Folks will get to keep  their doctors. Should we hold the left to their own standards?

As conservatives, we need to get off our heinies and start explaining  that if we continue this model, we are all screwed. We need to step up  and say we can do this better. We have technology where we can lower  premiums rather dramatically. I have been coming behind this microphone  for a decade. I will try to go fast enough to touch on it.

I did this board the other day. I just need to show you this is what  they call an economic scoring of the enhanced premium tax credits,  which is basically the subsidies on top of the subsidies.

Functionally, only 38 percent of that $40 billion is actually going  to cover actual insurance where people are going to use it. The vast  majority of it just disappears. It either doesn't get used, or it may  have disappeared with the brokers or the insurance companies. Something  is horribly wrong in this money.

Yet, when we actually start to look at the studies and articles, here  is the GAO report about the ACA. It has a simple line here.

``Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: Preliminary Results  from Ongoing Review Suggest Fraud Risks in the Advance Premium Tax  Credit Persist.''

Then you read it, Mr. Speaker, and it is page after page after page  of different types of fraud. People have been signed up and had no  idea. Brokers are going to prison right now because they have been  signing up folks in the system.

``ObamaCare Is a Mecca for Fraud,'' The Wall Street Journal from just  a couple days ago. ``Open Enrollment is Healthcare's Most Expensive  Lie.''

How many more studies do we need to explain that you are being  defrauded, Mr. Speaker?

If this were helping people be healthier, then bless it, but,  instead, the Democrats are terrified to tell the truth because the  model they built is only 7 percent of the population. Almost one-half  of that population is getting the healthcare for free, and it has  created a distortion field of costs.

I will give you a simple test, Mr. Speaker. Ask yourself, go back 10,  15 years ago. Let's go do 10 years ago when the ACA goes into effect.

Mr. Speaker, how much have your healthcare costs, your insurance  costs, changed?

Remember, Mr. Speaker, insurance is different from healthcare. How  much have your costs changed?

Did they meet the promise that was given to you: We are going to make  things more affordable.

It is not the Affordable Care Act, and that is the reality of the  math.

So let's continue to walk through parts of this.

The number of subsidized zero claims is fascinating. The enhanced  subsidies that came out after COVID were only supposed to be 5 years.  The Democrats voted for this. I don't think a single Republican did. It  was their plan. This was Democrat policy, and now they are acting all  uppity saying: Well, you Republicans need to fix our mistake.

Almost 11 million who were part of that enhanced population never  made a claim. We are now seeing studies, data mining, looking at a huge  portion of these people had no idea they had been signed up. It is  rampant fraud.

Let's have a little more fun here.

How many who were enrolled with these enhanced subsidies ended up  having no skin in the game at all and who had no cost?

Last year, 41 percent had no cost. You, as a taxpayer, Mr. Speaker,  paid for their healthcare. This year we modeled it. It is going to be  around 39 percent. Think about that, Mr. Speaker.

Is that what you were promised? Is that what you were told?

As we start to walk through this, 6.4 million people this year were  improperly enrolled in subsidized ObamaCare plans costing taxpayers $27  billion a year.

Understand, Mr. Speaker, what this means. It is rampant fraud.

Mr. Speaker, how many members of the Democratic Party, the left, have  you seen come behind the microphone saying: Hey, we really like  subsidized healthcare, and we really like the level of fraud, so we  don't want to change anything?

Mr. Speaker, 96 percent of all applications representing fake  enrollees were approved on the ObamaCare marketplace and received  subsidies. Understand, Mr. Speaker, do you remember, we were promised:  Well, the website is going to find fraud.

It turns out that 96 percent of the fraudulent applications going in  where someone is just bleeding the system got approved. The system  doesn't stop the fraud.

This is your money, Mr. Speaker. You are paying for fraudsters, and  you are paying for brokers who are going to jail.

Our debate here is: Well, we want to give another $40 billion to the  fraudsters, but there will be a portion of that that will get some  buydown on their healthcare costs.

In 2023, one Social Security number--and I used this one just because  it is so easy to understand. Remember, there is a system that is  supposed to be mining this for fraud--one Social Security number was  used and got 125 policies.

How do we not catch that?

We are really that bad at this.

I am not going to make you go through that.

Mr. Speaker, this chart is almost impossible to read. I am going to  put it up on my website. What you need to understand is that these are  the different ways people ended up in healthcare.gov or  healthcare.care. The broker community goes and walks you through, but  what we are discovering is that it has no actual checks for fraud.

Have the Democrats stepped up and said: Okay, we know a huge portion  of this cash we were handing out after COVID has been disappearing. It  is not going to make our brothers and sisters healthier and provide  them access to care. Are they willing--no, they are not--to actually  fix this system so we are not bleeding American taxpayers?

Now let's actually talk about some solutions.

First, I need everyone to understand how perverse the system is. I  have  come behind the mike over and over and over and over and said: You have  this technology that you can wear, this thing you can blow into, this  thing here that can diagnose. This wearable here is actually more  accurate than a human doctor. The Apple watch now is an FDA approved  medical device for the heart, it should be allowed to prescribe. I need  you to understand, Mr. Speaker, how perverse healthcare has become  moneywise.

This one is absurd but it is easy to understand. Here are a couple of  articles: Paper industry, drugmakers spar over requirement to print  prescription forms.

Mr. Speaker, to show you how absurd the world has become, there was a  simple attempt to say: We are just going to put your prescriptions on  your phone so when you get them you can see all the side effects.

Mr. Speaker, do you know that all that paper that is printed? We had  lobbyists here and a U.S. Senator who blocked it saying: No, my paper  industry.

When the paper industry was able to stop a simple money-saving reform  because apparently cutting down trees and turning it into paper pulp  and printing it is more important than something that would have been  dramatically more efficient. It has gotten that absurd.

We attempted to basically run a piece of legislation because we did a  study on how they duplicate MRIs, X-rays, ultrasounds, and CTs there  are. We have some numbers that look like it could be as much as $25 to  $35 billion a year.

Do something crazy. When you get your knee MRI, Mr. Speaker, put the  data, the images on this so when you go to the next doctor a week  later, it is right there: Doctor, let me hand it to you. Not get  another scan.

We already have lobbyists running around the building saying: No, the  duplicate scans are part of our profit model.

Where are my own brothers and sisters, particularly on the  conservative side, saying: We want to unleash technology. We want to  unleash doing this a better, faster, and cheaper way?

For those Members who run around saying: PBM reform. Fine, but  understand that every study we have right now is that PBM reform saves  a fraction of a fraction of money, and it is already happening.

Mr. Speaker, you will start to see companies now ditching the  middleman and starting to sell directly. Go look up Civica RX for  anyone who is in front of a computer. It is a co-op making drugs,  selling insulin cheaper than our Federal Government-subsidized price.

The fact of the matter is legalizing, encouraging, and incentivizing  disruption in the market is where you get all sorts of different  channels. If PBM is the best price, God bless them. If the drug company  wants to sell directly to consumers, bless them. If a co-op wants to  get together with your Medicaid system, the hospital system, or  insurance company and they decide that we are going to manufacture our  own and we are going to do it cheaper than the government-subsidized  price, then bless them.

There are ways to crash the price of healthcare. We have one right  here. It is a discussion of AI. AI went through someone's medical bills  and started realizing how much mis-billing there was in there.

What if we did something very, very simple: Legalize one of my AI  billing--we call it clean claims. Where here is the doctor's note, here  is the insurance contract, they meet, and it gets paid.

How much staffing and other things would you save but also how much  more money?

We have the technology. I just can't seem to get our brothers and  sisters here willing to accept the bills.

Here is another one that is incredibly optimistic. If you have a  subscription to Wired magazine this week--Mr. Speaker, and it is  something we in our office have been working on for years now--they  call it a fentanyl vaccine. It is not technically a vaccine. It is a  protein binder that attaches to the drug making it so it can't pass the  brain-blood barrier. There is an entire article in Wired magazine.

We did some research. I had trouble believing this number. I had one  of my economists actually go back and double check it: $1.5 trillion in  2020 is the cost from fentanyl.

There are solutions, Mr. Speaker. We need to step up and start  understanding there is a moral way to approach the cost of healthcare,  and it is not a bunch more taxpayer subsidies. It is actually lowering  the price.