U.S. Borrows Billion A Day


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689381/us-borrows-billion-a-day


Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, forgive me as we get ourselves organized  here. Our friends on the other side ended a little faster than we  expected.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to do something a little dangerous. Have you  heard the saying you should never go to bed mad? I think there should  be another rule. You probably shouldn't come behind these microphones  cranky, but let's have at it.

Mr. Speaker, I have been walking through numbers after numbers. For a  decade now, I have come behind this microphone trying to walk through  the scale of our borrowing, the scale of what is going on. The fact  that most of it is driven by our demographics is giving a little bit of  an excuse. Saying that makes it so it is not Democratic or Republican;  it is just math. At Home, I represent the Scottsdale-Phoenix area. I am  trying to figure out what is going on in our brothers and sisters on  the left's heads.

I get it. They are cranky. As a former Senator that I sat next to  from my State was sharing with me, one of the great frustrations of  Democrats in my area is, for 15 years, they raised money and ran on  marriage equality. Well, that is pretty much settled. They ran on the  right to terminate pregnancies. Well, now that is in my State  constitution.

What do they run on now? They run on rage, apparently.

I want to get this out of my head before I start to walk through some  of the math. You have a country that is borrowing about $6 billion a  day, about $70,000 a second. In a decade, there is data saying 30  percent of our tax receipts will go just to pay interest.

The wheels are coming off, and, instead, the brain trust of some of  these folks--okay, I accept the tonal quality of some of the folks out  of the White House isn't warm and cuddly, but do you go around  neighborhoods, offices, and stick Nazi signs on their cars?

My wife drives a Tesla. We bought it a couple years ago. It is funny,  at that time she got teased a bit: Oh, now you are driving an electric  car. I thought you guys were really conservative.

Is this where your heads are at? Sticking Nazi things on people's  windshields? There is no way they knew it  was my wife's car. She just has a little BASIS sticker, which is a  charter school my kids go to.

This is really the quality of conversation discourse of communication  that is going on with the leftwing activists in my community. It is  not: Hey, David, we are concerned about Medicaid. Here are ideas how  you can deal with the debt and deficit so we have the resources. No,  because it is this really highbrow, intellectual discussion with our  brothers and sisters on the other side, stick Nazi things on people's  cars. This is what you have come down to? This is what is going on?  Come on, people.

Look, I almost always start with this chart. You see what is in blue?  It is defense and nondefense discretionary. It is--we expect it to be  26, 25 percent of spending. Last year, for every dollar this country  took in in tax collections, we spent $1.39, but everything we vote on  is 26 percent of the budget. Does anyone see a math problem?

We are going to get behind the microphones and have honest  discussions of how we are going to save the country. If it is about  programs the left cares about, help us figure out how to pay for it.  Yet, when you actually look at some of the spending and debt--I think I  have the chart. We actually did some of the math.

The crazy thing, one of my Democratic neighbors who makes a lot of  money, he has a beautiful home: David, is it true that the President is  even talking about going back to the 2017 tax rate for high-income  earners?

Well, apparently the President said something like that on Friday.

Well, David, do you think that is fair?

This is a guy I know is a Democrat because he has Democratic signs  even of my opponents in his front yard.

We did the basic math. If you actually were saying, let's just go  back to the tax rate for the top earners back to 2017, it is $32.7  billion over 10 years. Okay, we can all divide that by 10, so let's  call it $3.2 billion a year.

We borrow $6 billion a day. If that is $3.2 billion, you functionally  bought yourself 12\1/2\, 13 hours' worth of borrowing for the entire  year, and there is the mental breakdown. The left runs around and says:  Raise taxes. Okay. We are going to borrow 7.3 percent of GDP, which is  my latest number. Some of the other economists are around 7.2 percent  of GDP. Either way, you can go to the Manhattan Institute and read the  articles. It is from Democratic literature that if you take every tax  they have that they have scored: Raise tax on capital gains, raise tax  on income, raise tax on businesses, raise tax here.

I am sorry for talking so fast. Believe it or not, I live on coffee,  and I need to apparently deal with my issue with a 12-step group for  coffee.

However, the point I am going to, read the article. All those taxes  when you do the economic adjustment is about 1\1/2\ percent of GDP.  This place lies. Excuse me, we make up math because it is really hard  to tell people the truth. Almost every cut we talk about as Republicans  is about 1 percent or so of GDP.

I am enraged right now because I am hearing down the hallway the  Senate, they are talking about doing their reconciliation budget and  setting a floor, saying: We are not going to allow the Senate to pass  budget cuts of less than $3 billion. Huh?

I am upset that ours is so anemic at like $1\1/2\ trillion, but if  they do $3 billion, it is functionally a half a day of borrowing. This  is, yea, go team.

Look, at some point, the math is the reality. Why is it so hard to  tell the truth? One of the other points I sort of want to make--and I  stole this graphic from another group, thank you. Baseline. Baseline.  Baseline law, not baseline policy. The law. I will explain that later.

Over the next 10 years, we are going to spend $86 trillion. We are  talking about, at best, on the House budget resolution cutting $2  trillion over those 10 years. That is 2.3 percent. Oh, God, dear  Heaven, you are butchering government. It is 2.3 percent. You are  telling me that if we didn't grind through government, look at our  programs, look at all the reports the GAO and others have given of the  waste and fraud and just programs that haven't been authorized in  decades, you couldn't find 2.3 percent, but it is easier to go stick  this sort of crap on my wife's windshield than it is to do the  intellectual work of saying, hey, we think we have more elegant ideas  on how to reform spending in government, modernize it, make it better,  faster, cheaper for the American people. No, we would rather burn  things down.

Are we all proud of ourselves? The fact of the matter is $86 trillion  in spending over the next 10 years, and at best our budget  reconciliation is 2.3 percent of that spending.

This is the one I get complaints from everyone, so please understand,  I am trying to offend everyone with facts and math. If you do all  this--because we have a number of Senators over there saying: Don't cut  any spending. They are Republicans.

When you hear someone say: We should do baseline policy, not the law.  What they are basically saying is they don't want to have to deal with  telling the truth of the math.

Let's take a look here. We finished this fiscal year $37.2 trillion  in debt as a country. Baseline, we add $22 trillion of additional  borrowing over the next 10 years. If we were to do the tax extensions,  which we really need to protect the middle class and others by not  raising their taxes, but if we were to do it without any offsets and  then you add in the interest, that is about another $6.8 trillion of  borrowing. Then if we were to take care of the President's requests,  that is another $8 trillion, functionally saying we will borrow more in  this 10-year period than we did in the previous 240 years. On the day  we are elected we are going to double 240 years of borrowing.

Are we proud of ourselves? This is how we are going to save the  Republic? We are going to continue to just bury it in debt because it  is hard to tell people the truth about the math?

I have a caveat on this board. We don't have a subscription to  Moody's Analytics. It is expensive. Congressional Research Service  doesn't have one, but we found four or five articles talking about  Moody's saying their model says in 2035, nine budget years from now, 10  years from now, 30 percent of all U.S. tax receipts--so you pay a  dollar in taxes, 30 cents of it just paid interest.

Think about that. In 10 years, 30 percent. This year, it is 18  percent. Dear Heaven, there is a model out there that actually shows  that if interest rates were to go up 1 percent in that nine budget  years, it is like 45 percent of all U.S. tax receipts go just to  interest.

We are playing a very dangerous game here, but at least we can stick  things on Teslas and protest and be angry because God forbid we talk  about actual math.

In 7\1/2\, 8 years from now, the Social Security trust fund is empty.  The law says you cut benefits. That is a 21 percent cut. We double  senior poverty in America. How many people do you think come behind  these microphones are willing to have a conversation of how we are  going to save it?

The first year, my math, actually the Joint Economic economists'  math, the first year--so if the trust fund is gone in 2033, in 2034 it  is over $600 billion just to make up that shortfall. That makes what we  are talking about here in the budget resolution tiny. Those are only  like $200 billion a year. We are talking $600 billion a year, and it  grows just to cover the Social Security trust fund being gone.

That is 7\1/2\, 8 years from now. Are we going to talk about that,  though? No, because they are going to run television ads beating the  crap out of us because we tried to figure out a way to save it. The  perversity of this place. They don't give a damn about someone's  future, their poverty. It is about winning the next election and  raising money on it.

We have got to tell the truth also what is going on in our country.  You all saw the updates from the Census Bureau basically saying after  next year if you zero out immigration, our number of prime-age workers  starts to fall. As a matter of fact, there is a dataset. Now, we have  been using 8 years from now because that was the official Census Bureau  number.

There are a couple demographers out there who wrote articles a week  ago saying, we may have already hit more deaths than births in America.  I need you to process what that means. You have a system where Social  Security, the financing of Medicare, financing of so many of our  pensions relies on a  growth of the working population, particularly those prime-age workers.

If we are now entering a time of a shortage of young people--in 2027,  not that long from now, we actually go negative of prime-age workers.

Maybe our committees should maybe invite in a demographer and talk  about saying, is this Republican or Democrat? Starting in 1990, we  started to roll over the number of children we had. Now we are paying  the price for it. Now make these long-run programs, which are pay-as- you-go math, make them work.

This should be scaring the hell out of this place. Oh, no, David, we  can't tell our voters that. It is harder to raise money when you tell  them the truth of how hard the future is.

It is fixable. I have done presentation after presentation of  adoption of technology, redesigning some of the programs where you  don't cut anything, but you do really hard stuff. The problem is our  hallways are crowded with people. Here it is all about the money.  Understand, Congress is really about one thing: Money. The  inefficiencies, the design failures for these bureaucracies, for the  business models that make their living off government, that is their  profit. They actually like the inefficiencies.

We came and showed some charts I think a week or two ago just our  calculations that there could be $25 billion a year in duplicative  MRIs, X-rays, ultrasound scans in Medicare. Does a duplicative scan  when it is not necessary make someone healthier?

On the other hand, you could actually do something crazy, take the  scan, attach it to one of these things, the little supercomputer in  your pocket, and carry it around with you. There it is. Did that cut  anyone's service? Mr. Speaker, $25 billion this year times 10? It is a  quarter trillion dollars with one little reform.

The perversity of this place when I do that piece of legislation is  that I will get attacks saying I am trying to cut benefits. No, I am  trying to save the programs.

I guess it would cause the difficulty of math, having to design and  put something on paper, and getting some of the economists to work  through it, but that is our job. We are the board of directors of the  biggest economy in the world, the biggest entity in the world. We are  going to spend over $7 trillion this year. Of course, we are only going  to take in $2 trillion in taxes, meaning we may borrow about $2.1  trillion, $2.3 trillion this year to keep the wheels on.

The scale of this should be scaring the hell out of people. Look, the  demographic curve, when we start to think right now, in 2024, we have  2.9 people working for every person receiving their benefits. A decade  from now, that is going to fall to 2.7, 2.6. Then, it really starts to  crash. When we start to look at the 30-year window, we are down to  about 2.4. That may not mean much to you, but trying to make these  numbers work, it can be done. It is just hard.

You are going to hear people come behind these microphones, give  these beautiful speeches of how they want to save the Republic, how we  care about the future, how we care about our kids, how we care about  your retirement, and then we will do nothing that is actually hard. It  is just immoral. It is just absolutely immoral.

I try over and over. When I am doing these, I am trying to do a  better job of bringing examples of where we can save.

I am going to admit DOGE and those, I am fascinated with the data  mining and those things. I know the quality of the gentleness or  gentility of the communications. They have a hard, rough edge. The fact  of the matter is a lot of the craziness actually wasn't coming from  them. It was coming from people in the bureaucracy trying to throw out  stuff to make it more difficult and just really anger people. Then, the  government unions have to try to light things on fire, so disharmony.

We have five major databases in the Federal Government. Is it  Republican or Democrat to just build a world where those databases  would talk to each other? If there is potential of $100 billion a year  in misallocations and fraud and these things, and you could fix it by  just having the databases talk to each other and know this is a  fraudster, this person isn't with us anymore, they have gone on to  their reward, but somehow they are out here asking for an SBA loan, is  that Republican or Democrat? It is just technology. Yet you have  protesters out there saying we can't allow the databases to talk to  each other. Have we lost our minds?

I want to do this just as an example because this one just burns me.  Between Christmas and New Year's, I went up and spent 3 or 4 days up in  the Navajo Nation. I took my little 9-year-old daughter. Yes, I have a  9-year-old and a 2\1/2\-year-old. That is the definition of  pathologically optimistic when you are 63 and have a 2\1/2\-year-old.  It is both funny and true.

Guess what? We have spent $42.5 billion for broadband equity.  Remember, we always like to add that word ``equity,'' except no one has  gotten broadband.

The Tribal president of the Navajo Nation and a number of the  communities called chapter houses basically said screw this. I am not  willing to wait another 20 years. You know what they did, something  just crazy? Instead of being patient and waiting for us to spend  billions of more dollars and run a piece of wire, they went out and  stuck up a satellite dish. Forty-eight hours later, for several hundred  dollars, they had broadband for the whole neighborhood, for the whole  what we call chapter house.

Is that Republican or Democrat? It is just the adoption of  technology, except the lobbyists who run around here wanting billions  of subsidies for something they are never going to connect get really  upset every time I do this board.

Do we care? Does this place care enough to do the hard things, to  actually do the math, the creativity.

Last week, I came here with the MedPAC report. It is like this. I  have no idea how many Members have actually bothered to read it. Yes, I  understand there are some anomalies, but they are rounding errors  compared to this. I think it had that $84 billion was spent last year  in the differential between Medicare part D and Medicare part A. That  is Medicare Fee-for-Service and Medicare Advantage. It was supposed to  be at 95 percent. If anyone wants to go back and do their history, in  2005, when they started Medicare Advantage, if you do that basic math,  that is $104 billion a year.

How about if Republicans and Democrats got together and said we are  going to fix this, that we are going to get the capitation program to  actually work the way it is supposed to, that we are going to have the  providers of services actually make money because they help our  brothers and sisters who are in their retirement years earning their  healthcare benefits, helping them be healthier? They get rewarded by  having their population be healthier, not by running around scoring  with sicker. Yay, everyone wins.

What would happen with that several hundred billion dollars over a  decade? That is not a cut. It is actually lining up incentives.  Instead, it is just easier to run around and scream stories that they  are going to cut things.

Let's pay people, so I have hospitals and other groups paying people  to fly out here, tell stories, and they have no idea what they are  talking about because we make crap up, once again, because everything  is about the money.

The last board and the one that always seems to upset people because  they don't want to know the truth, the Congressional Budget Office-- this one is a year out of date. The numbers are actually apparently  worse, but we haven't had the update yet. The Congressional Budget  Office estimates that over the next 30 years our country borrows $124  trillion. Now, I have to tell you, this number when we get our updates  could be much worse. If you look at their data, they actually have  discretionary, the part we vote on, growing slower than tax receipts.  That has a $9 trillion positive over the 30 years, but Medicare is  $87.2 trillion in the hole. Social Security is $36.8 trillion in the  hole over those 30 years.

It turns out, even the next decade, almost 100 percent of the U.S.  sovereign debt growth is interest and Medicare. There is nothing we can  do about interest. We can do some things to incentivize going out on  the curve so we are not as fragile to communicate  to the bond markets because the bond markets are basically about to run  this country. If you have to sell $6 billion a day, $60,000, $70,000  every second, maybe you need to pay attention to your bankers who you  are having to sell your debt to, to communicate to those debt markets  we are serious and looking at ways to use technology, better models  when obesity is the single biggest expense in our society. Yes, we are  not supposed to say that. Mr. Speaker, please don't tell anyone.

Last year, the Joint Economic economists calculated $9.1 trillion  additional of healthcare spending. Is it moral with what we do in food  policy, nutritional support, how we deliver healthcare? Maybe the  concept of helping our brothers and sisters live healthier when 31  percent of Medicare spending is diabetes--33 percent of all healthcare  overall is just diabetes.

Is that Republican or Democrat? It is just trying to get your policy  alignment to the fact we are buried in debt and getting older as a  society. I think in a decade, 23 percent of our population is 65 and  up. We now know that we are having this remarkable shortage of young  people. We are already potentially on the cusp of having more deaths  than births in our country.

In a couple of weeks, we are trying to roll out a STEM-based, talent- based immigration bill because for the economy to grow and stabilize,  we don't have a choice. People say, David, you are not allowed to talk  about immigration. People won't understand it. Well, they understand  the economic survival of you still getting your benefits when you are a  senior. We can make this work.

Mr. Speaker, we are now starting to run into articles saying that we  are putting the extraordinary privilege. What are the two extraordinary  privileges America has? Our currency--the world borrows in our  currency, meaning the fact of the matter is when we sell debt, there is  a demand to hold U.S. dollars denominated. Then, the second thing is  people want to live here. They want to invest here. They want to be  educated here. They want to be entrepreneurs here.

Mr. Speaker, we are now running into multiple articles saying some of  the things we are doing, particularly our debt stack which is putting  our extraordinary privilege of the country at risk. It doesn't have to  be this way.

A couple of smart economists say we have 3 or 4 more years. At that  point the debt gets so hard to manage. The Federal Reserve last week  took us from a 2.1 GDP down to 1.7. Just that movement is almost $200  billion a year in tax collection. Just that GDP reduction the Federal  Reserve calculated for the next 3 years, taking that out to 10, that is  more money than everything in our budget reconciliation.

The lack of understanding of the inner dynamics of our debt, the  interest, and these dollars terrifies me because there is a path. There  is a path for this to work, Mr. Speaker, but we are living on a razor's  edge because we are not doing the hard work.