We Are Borrowing A Second


Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, for everyone's sanity, I hope not to go  60 minutes. I might go 40.

Mr. Speaker, first, the good news. If anyone else is a geek out  there, there is this app put out by the Atlanta Fed, Atlanta Federal  Reserve, and what they do is they do certain samples in trying to  constantly estimate what the gross national product, GDP, will actually  be.

A little while ago, they actually updated it saying the U.S. economy  looks like it is running at 3.4 percent.

That is remarkable. If you stop and think about it, this is  absolutely--think about all the headwinds and all the things over  tariffs and all these  other, the economy actually is surprisingly healthy.

Mr. Speaker, one of the reasons I am up here today and every other  week is, our fiscal year ends in a couple weeks and our best estimate  is this fiscal year we will have borrowed $2.4 trillion, maybe $2.5  trillion. We have one model in our office that says more than $2.5  trillion. That is like $70,000, $72,000 every second of every day we  are borrowing.

Let's think of a world where you are borrowing $70,000 a second, yet  the economy is actually fairly decent. What is going on? Is it  Republican? Is it Democrat?

It turns out it is the very thing we hate to talk about. It is the  cost of interest and the cost of healthcare, and that healthcare is  primarily driven because we are unwilling--Mr. Speaker, you are a  doctor, if I remember. We are unwilling to have the honest conversation  of how we deliver, where we can revolutionize the cost, where we can  adopt technology because we are in the incumbent protection business.  We protect incumbent bureaucracies and incumbent business models.

If we don't take this seriously, do you think you can have a country  that is borrowing $70,000, $72,000 every second? Do you think you can  keep that going?

Remember, once again, I am going to try to show versions of this. In  7 years, the Medicare trust fund is empty. In 2032, 7 years, halfway  through that year, the Medicare trust fund is empty. In 2033, the first  full year, our best estimate is that there is about $140 billion  shortfall.

Mr. Speaker, in 7 years, the Social Security trust fund is empty.  Meaning, in 2033, if you are going to cover Medicare and Social  Security, you are approaching almost $600 billion. How many of us get  behind these microphones and actually talk about things that are truly  terrifying?

Are we really going to avoid dealing with our actual jobs? Are we  going to allow the doubling of senior poverty in America in 7 years at  the same time we are bankrupting much of the medical system?

In 7 years, grandma gets a 24 percent cut in her check and our model  says that it will double the poverty of seniors. Yet, often the  solution we get is, well, we will just raise taxes.

Okay. The first year of the shortfall--I am rounding up a bit--it is  $600 billion. You really think you are going to do a $600 billion tax  hike.

Here is my battle. I have tried for years and years and said, we need  to do a fiscal commission. The fact of the matter is, we have the same  number of 18 year olds as we had 20 years ago, but we have double the  number of Americans, our brothers and sisters, who are now 65 and up.

Twenty years ago, we had 35 million Americans 65 and up. Now we are  at 70 million Americans that are 65 and up, and I think we have another  10, 15 million that will be 65 and up in the next few years.

We are incapable of telling the truth. How many of us want to get up  in front of our voters back home or put into our newsletter saying, we  have a demographic financing crisis? Are we going to do all the things  necessary to skyrocket productivity because wages--sorry.

Do you remember your high school economics class? Wages go up by  inflation, but that doesn't mean you get anything. You are just  treading water. Our wages go up by productivity. Are we going to do the  things that are necessary for productivity?

It means Democrats and Republicans need to stop saying things like  you can't automate ports. You can't automate this. We don't want to  allow that technology. There is a way to make this not be dystopian.

Mr. Speaker, I am so tired of coming behind this microphone. The poor  staff here has to be just exhausted, but I am trying not to speak like  a machine gun anymore. I am trying to slow down.

Every time I come up here, the numbers are a little bit worse and  what is frustrating is, the economy is actually doing fairly well, but  it is the scale of the debt because we keep spending and spending and  spending.

Let's actually do some of the charts to try to see if I can get this  to sink in.

Next year, for every dollar of tax collection, we are going to spend  $1.43.

Let's do that again. For every dollar in tax collection next year,  starting in a couple weeks, October 1, we start the new fiscal year.  This is for the 2026 fiscal year; we are going to spend $1.43.

How long is that sustainable? For everyone going in your head, oh, we  will just raise taxes. Let's do this again. In the way back machine,  like in the beginning of the year, I think I did entire presentations  on Democrat tax proposals and what we have talked about in just cuts on  the Republican side.

Our best estimate is this fiscal year, which we are finishing in the  next couple of weeks, we are going to borrow 7.3 percent of the entire  economy. Our borrowing would equal 7.3 percent of the economy.

Every tax hike that we have scored that the Democrats have proposed,  capital gains, income tax, corporate taxes, the whole litany, when you  do the economic adjustment, it comes in at 1.5 percent, maybe 1.6, but  the math is easier, 1.5 percent of the economy. That is what we get for  all the tax hikes.

For those of us on the Republican side when we walk through, we can  cut this, we can cut this, we can cut this, it is coming in at about 1  percent of the economy.

Anyone see the math problem? I got 2\1/2\ percent and that is all you  have ever heard behind these microphones, but we are borrowing 7.3  percent of the economy this year.

How many idiots like me will get up behind these microphones and tell  you the truth?

Next year, for every dollar of tax collections, we are going to spend  $1.43. Let's say you are the most liberal Member here. Do you have any  understanding when this hits the wall, the devastation, the crushing of  poor people? How about if you are the most libertarian or free market?  Do you understand the crushing of the economic system, which has  produced so much prosperity, that will happen when we are in crisis  mode? Let's not let it happen.

Let's actually walk through this because this is actually one of my  things. We are actually borrowing a little over this. We borrow about  $6.5 billion a day. I always love the debates here: We are going to  save $100 million. Great. Great. We borrow about $260, $270 million an  hour, so a quarter trillion dollars an hour. We will have debates here  that go on for sometimes an hour to save functionally a minute, half a  minute. We have had one where it was like 15 seconds of borrowing.

In 9 years, we are over $10 billion, my math is closer to $10.5  billion a day. That is just the structural borrowing.

One of the deceiving things is, over the next 10 years, we  functionally spend $70 trillion, and you will get someone who says:  Well, you guys voted for this. Well, you guys wanted to tax this. You  actually start to help them understand, saying, we are talking  fractions of our exposure.

I accept, you don't need to be an accounting major or math major to  be a Member of Congress. We make some very pretty charts, though. For  anyone who actually gives a darn about what is going on, every single  month, the Joint Economic Committee Republicans publish a monthly  fiscal update. We have tried to make it as simple as possible to  understand, page after page, to show you what the hell is really going  on.

One of the things that is incredibly frustrating is we live in a  world where so much of what you are going to find on the internet right  now isn't true. Let me prove it.

Here is an article I was very disturbed to find out: Complex  infection keeps the Pope in hospital. This is Newsweek from a couple  days ago. Apparently, the Pope is in the hospital. This is actually a  story that was posted September 8, except the small problem is, this  Pope has been dead for months.

Welcome to the quality of what we call news anymore. This is  Newsweek. They just let their AI generate a story, fill it up. There is  no human that bothered to look at it. Yet, you and I have to help our  voters. Our constituents call us and say: Is this true? You can't find  the story. You ask them if they can send it to you. You think, well,  that doesn't make any sense. It is someone who hit a computer button.

What also happens when we actually see stories like: OMB says Trump's  economic agenda will cut the deficit in half. I am trying to find the  policies.  You start to go over it, and many of these stories are actually someone  was giving a speech, and so the AI wrote a story. It is not actually  what was said.

My frustration with this is, I have Members here right now who say:  David, we are going to take in $300 billion in tariff receipts--customs  duties if you want to be accurate--next year. We are fine.

Okay. Next year, we are borrowing about $270, $280--sorry, we will  borrow about $2.5 trillion in the 2026 year. So $300 billion is very,  very helpful, but you are still borrowing $2.2 trillion. We haven't  actually done all the economic effects of does that actually change  purchasing behavior.

Actually, we have some great stories today on the Bloomberg terminal  of companies that look like they have been actually undervaluing their  customs duties, meaning they are lying to the Customs Service, and we  are taking in less receipts than we should.

The scale of what is going on is just intensely frustrating. Let's  actually start to also knock down one of the urban folk legends: It is  defense spending. How often do we go home and I will have a liberal  person saying: If you would just cut defense, we would be fine.

Okay, here is your problem: Healthcare is about 28 percent of our  spending, Social Security is 22 percent of our spending. This is 2025  to fiscal date. Net interest is 14 percent of our spending. If you do  all the other outlays, it is 14 percent. Income security, that is  actually--well, it is what it is--10 percent. National defense is 12  percent. It turns out national defense is now number 5. The thing that  is actually in the Constitution is actually number 5 in the spending  stack.

Your government is functionally an insurance company with an Army.  You laugh, but you know you are going to quote that later.

Let's actually sort of take a look. This is net receipts by category,  2024 compared to 2025. Hopefully, this will make sense. I am going to  put this chart up on our website later because I know it is really hard  to see. If you actually take a look at what is happening, how do we  finance this government? It is mostly individual income taxes.

Now, for someone who says: Well, it should be corporate. Remember, in  the late 1980s, early 1990s, all across the country we were moving to  LLCs, professional partnerships, pass-through entities, so much of what  you would have seen back in the early 1980s, 1970s, 1960s as corporate  now passes through, so some of it was a corporate structure. You always  have to be careful when you say: Why are corporate taxes down so much?  It is now because it flows through on the individual line. I am just  trying to make that point.

Take a look at this. Here is Social Security and retirement taxes.  Well, that is FICA. Actually, you were getting $1.7 trillion last year.  This year it is up 3 percent. This year it is $1.761 trillion.  Corporate income tax, last year we took in $529 billion. Then you start  to look at customs duties.

Now, this is interesting. I am going to say this two or three times  to try to make a point. In the 2024 fiscal year, we took in $77 billion  in customs duties. That is tariffs. All right. We estimate this year it  is going to be up 146 percent, but that is $190 billion. That is a lot  of money, Mr. Speaker, but 177 minus the 190 . . .

Did I mention, next year we are set to borrow about $2.5 trillion is  our estimate? CBO, I know, has a number that is lower, but I will tell  you in this fiscal year, my Joint Economic Committee was more correct  than CBO.

If we are borrowing $6.5, $6.7 billion a day, you can do the math.  The step-up in customs duties, we might be picking up 3 weeks of  borrowing. This is my frustration.

What happens when our brothers and sisters get in front of  televisions or put out things and say stories like: Well, DOGE is going  to pay for everything. Well, the customs duties, the tariffs are going  to pay for everything. Then some of us have to actually try to make the  math work.

The voters are much smarter than we ever give them credit for. Hell,  I think they are much smarter than we are. Maybe we can tell them the  truth. We have got a problem. Interest and healthcare costs are  consuming this society, consuming this government. You start to take a  look at the debt outlays, and you start to see, well, Social Security  taxes, oh, they are up 8.3 percent over last year. Excuse me, sorry,  this is outlays, so spending on Social Security went up 8.3 percent  over last year. It is the baby boomers.

We actually have an unusual thing happening. If you take a look at  the Social Security actuary report, a lot of our brothers and sisters  are choosing to retire at 62, which actually is hurting productivity  because many of these folks are very productive workers, but they are  fearful, saying: Well, in 2032, I get a 24 percent cut, so I am going  to take my money now. That is another reason why we should fix that  cliff, but you are not allowed to actually talk about it because the  other side will run attack ads beating the crap out of you in the next  election because you dared talk about the morality of actually fixing  these things.

Look, right now, I am in a 50/50 district. There is someone over at  the DCCC taking clips saying: He said the words ``Social Security.'' We  have our attack ad.

Then, we wonder why no one here will work on it.

The point on the net outlays is, last year, we spent $7.746 trillion.  This year we are going to spend $7.148 trillion. Remember that 2025 is  an estimate because I still have a couple of weeks, and there are  always weird timing effects at the end of the year where we roll a bill  over into the next fiscal year.

What happens with our total receipts? We are going to take in $5.254  trillion and spend $7.148 trillion. The point there is that we are  spending a hell of a lot more money than we are taking in.

A bunch of the money is not stuff you can touch. It is Social  Security and what goes into the Medicare part A trust fund.

Let's go down to geekdom. On your FICA tax, your payroll tax, a  portion of that is Medicare, Social Security, unemployment, and other  things. That tax only covers about 38 percent of Medicare. The other  portion of Medicare, it can be 10 to 15 percent, is you paying copays  if you are in traditional Medicare. The rest comes right out of the  general fund.

That is why the fact is that, in the next 7 years, Medicare goes from  $1 trillion of spend this year to $2 trillion, in 7 years. It is  demographics and healthcare inflation.

This gap, from here to here, is the annual deficit, 7.3 percent of  the entire economy. For those who want to say that it is the  legislation from--no. This was structural. This is what we were built  on.

The increase in spending, once again--discretionary, what we talk  about, what we work on, keeps getting smaller. Defense as a percentage,  as we are going down from years--years ago, defense was number one.  Now, the way you actually stack it, it is either number four or number  five in our spending.

Yet, if you go home and tell people that, what continues to shock me  is how many people say, ``If we just did this.'' Show them the math  that you just covered about 30 minutes of borrowing, and they look at  you angrily because, my belief is, the political class for so long  hasn't told the truth.

Let's go on our truth binge. Anyone I am making unhappy, grab your  phone, grab your computer, and go hit DOGE.gov. It is right there. It  is live right now. You can go look it up. I actually really support  using technology to crawl through every ounce of this government.

In the NDAA, year after year--and I got it attached this year, the  ability to use AI to audit the Pentagon. Remember, the Pentagon has now  gone 8 or 9 years. It is unauditable. That is the term. It has not been  audited. We don't even know the stuff we own.

On DOGE's own website, at this moment, they say they have found $206  billion. Now, the reality is that only a fraction of that has actually  been executed by us in Congress or the White House.

If we are going to borrow $2.3, $2.4, $2.5 trillion next year, 8  percent, and that is if you have the face on it. We have all seen the  articles. They have only been able to actually execute on a fraction of  this.

Yet, I can show you some of our colleagues who run around and say:  Well, with DOGE and the customs duties, we are going to be fine, so,  Schweikert, shut up. We don't have to tell people how much trouble we  are in. Don't go and mention that the Social Security trust fund is  gone in 7 years and that they are taking a 24 percent cut. Don't tell  anyone that the Medicare trust fund is gone in 7 years and that their  hospital is probably going bankrupt. Yay, this is what we got elected  to do.

Yet, 2025 total receipts--receipts are tax collections. It is just  Ways and Means speak. We don't call them taxes. We call them receipts.  For this year, we gained 3.7 percent of our total receipts from customs  duties. Wonderful.

We can have a whole other presentation, debate, on its effect on the  economy, who actually pays it, whether is it paid by the consumer or  shipper. Fine, we will have the intellectual debate later, but it is  more revenue receipts coming in.

Our best guess, if we give the full faith of what we believe, $300  billion next year, 5, 5.6 percent on top of all the additional tax  collections. It is helpful.

Borrowing, in many ways, is a tax. It is a tax paid for in the  future, probably by our kids. It is a tax paid for with interest.

Stop pretending we have solved the problem.

Here is where it gets really uncomfortable once again. This is sort  of the Social Security chart, and the point was the trust fund balance.  We peaked about 2001, 2002. Baby boomers were in the peak of their  earning years, but here, it is gone. We need to step on this.

If you are someone out there and you say they stole the Social  Security money, no, they didn't. It was loaned to the Treasury.

There are some great articles. If you go back to the original design  of Social Security, they thought they would have a certain amount of  money. They would loan it for building bridges, dams, and all sorts of  things and get yield, but they loaned it to the Treasury.

The Treasury pays a fairly decent interest rate back. Our Treasury  pays the interest back to the Social Security trust fund twice a year.  That is why there are certain months where there is this sudden, big  spike of interest payments that are credited to the Social Security  account.

The chart is the chart. About halfway through 2032, so 7 years from  now, the trust fund is gone.

Here is the irony of our budgeting. When we talk about future debts  and deficits, CBO is instructed to act like we just keep spending the  money. The actual Social Security law says you have to cut benefits. If  you follow the Social Security law, that is a 24 percent cut.

In reality, about halfway through 2032, be prepared to have your  check cut by 24 percent. Our calculation is a few months later. We  double the poverty of seniors in America.

The fastest-growing homeless population is baby boomers right now.

Look at this chart. Look, I just threw this one on. It is a little  more complicated than I wanted to do tonight, but this is actually  showing the increases in spending.

One of the reasons I brought this chart is trying to help folks  understand. We are all so acculturated around here to Social Security  is always going to be the biggest spend. Except, when you get in the  out-years--I accept some of this is 20-some years from now, 25 years  from now.

Actually, healthcare costs, this is something we could actually have  a miracle in changing. I have come behind this mic over and over and  said we are on the cusp of miracles. A couple of weeks ago, I went to  New Hampshire to a lab where they were growing undifferentiated islet  cells. Apparently, islet cells don't need antirejection drugs to get  bodies to be able to start making their own insulin again. There are  crazy ideas.

Mr. Speaker, can we do a thought experiment? I am probably going to  get beat up for this. This is a thought experiment. Give me some leeway  on it. I am trying to help our brothers and sisters, and anyone crazy  enough to watch this, to think.

We have turned healthcare into a financing debate. The ACA,  ObamaCare, was a financing bill. It is who gets subsidized and who has  to pay. It was mostly borrowed money. The Republican alternative was a  financing bill. It was a little bit of an actuarial curve, but it was a  financing bill. The Medicare For All Act is a financing bill.

I am begging us: Could we have a revolutionary thought between  Democrats and Republicans, maybe if we actually talk about what we pay  and what we get for what we pay?

The debate right now is about a number of the expanded subsidies on  the ACA expire. There are parts of the country where there are high  medical costs and high income, where a person can make up to $600,000 a  year and get $4,000-plus in subsidies paid to the insurance company.

Here is the perversity. These subsidies, the $33 billion it would  take for one year--$40 billion if it is made permanent--are paid to  insurance companies.

Mr. Speaker, here is just a crazy thought experiment. Ozempic goes  off patent in Canada in January. States like Florida and Colorado have  already gotten the FDA to approve reimportation. We actually have a  chart that is looking at the potential of generic manufacturers  producing it from $60 to $120 a month.

This is a crazy thought. We know Milken researchers a couple of years  ago said obesity is 40 percent of U.S. healthcare. Diabetes is 33  percent of U.S. healthcare. It is 31 percent of Medicare. How many  lives are lost right now because of multiple chronic conditions?

What would happen if we took a portion of that money for our brothers  and sisters who are on Medicaid, Indian Health Service, VA, or other  subsidized government programs and we actually said: Screw it. We are  going to allow the reimportation. We are going to buy it. It is off the  patent. We can actually get an incredible deal. Yay.

What would be the actual cost of healthcare? What would be the health  statistics of our brothers and sisters? What would the effect be on  labor force participation, family formation, and all the other crazy  things we have seen in this data? What would it look like 1 year from  now, 2 years from now, or 3 years from now?

That is actually the thought experiment. Do we want to hand $33  billion of subsidies to insurance companies, or do we want to affect  the actual cost of delivering services and maybe have our brothers and  sisters live healthier and longer?

Why can't we think this way? Is that Republican or Democrat? I would  argue it is just moral. It is trying to be creative with the limited  resources we have. Every dollar of that is borrowed. Why wouldn't we  want a society that is actually getting healthier? I am just trying to  come up with solutions.

There will be an army of lobbyists outside my office tomorrow,  beating the crap out of me, because it turns out sick people are  business models. It is cruel to say that. It is just really cruel to  say that. We have to change it. The morality of cures, the morality  of--and it is also really good economics.

Mr. Speaker, I have two last boards. I want to make a point. We  updated this as of a couple of hours ago. We are actually remarkably  lucky. In other industrialized countries, the debt is starting to scare  the hell out of bond markets. A bunch of our longer term--10 years and  out--have actually been operating very efficiently.

Does it bother anyone that France just took down their government  because they were trying to do some fiscal consolidation? They won't  let them deal with their debt, but they can sell a bond for about 50  basis points cheaper than we can.

Greece is actually about 70 basis points cheaper. When Greece takes a  10-year bond to market, it is a substantially lower interest rate than  the United States. If we look at the credit rating of what people are  willing to buy the debt for, all of these countries have a better  credit rating than the United States.

Mr. Speaker, there are 18 States that actually have a better credit  rating than the Federal Government. I don't know other ways and I keep  struggling to find ways to get folks to take this seriously.

Once again, Mr. Speaker, the hallways will be full of people knocking  on  our doors, saying: We want more money.

They don't show up to say: Hey, we have an idea to do something  better, faster, and cheaper. We want a free market. We believe in  creative destruction.

Mr. Speaker, I never liked the CHIPS Act because it directs cash  subsidies. Often, subsidizing last-generation technology leads to what  is going on right now. Should Intel give up 10 percent of its  ownership? What would happen if Intel were forced to break up? We might  end up with four or five creative, efficient, and cutting-edge  companies. As an example, one company is doing design.

Do we remember our high school economics class? Creative destruction  is what brings us to that next level of productivity, which raises  wages.

For working people in my district, who are not making about 27 or 28  percent more than the first year of the Biden administration, they are  poor today. I think at the end we came in number two. Yet, I have seen  some numbers in Arizona that are making me very nervous on the growth  of unemployment and the stagnation of wages.

There are ways to make this another American century. The first thing  we have to do is tell the truth. We have a country that is borrowing  $70,000 to $72,000 a second. How long do we think we can keep that up?

Yet, if we get our taxes from a regulatory system and legalize, once  again, creativity, legalize productivity, instead of barrier after  barrier--those barriers may be great politics. They show up in our  fundraisers and help us. Maybe we can get a union to vote for us, but  it is crap economics.

Mr. Speaker, I am incredibly optimistic for the future. I am 63. My  wife is 63. I have said this a few times, and people think I am insane.  We have adopted a 3-year-old and a 9-year-old. We are the luckiest  family on Earth.

When my little boy is about 21 or 22 years old, every tax in America  needs to be doubled just to maintain baseline services. My kids will be  part of the first generation to be poor because of our unwillingness to  tell the truth. Is that the America we aspire to? We are better than  this.

I am sick and tired of having the leadership and others say: David,  we will do it after the next election.

Mr. Speaker, guess what? There is always another election.

I believe the American people would reward us if we demonstrated to  them that we told them the truth. We tried to do hard things and we  saved the future, because that future is coming very fast.