Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''; Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Defining Larger Participants of A Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment Applications''; Providing for Consideration of H.R. No Rogue Rulings Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689406/providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-overdraft-lending-very-large-financial-institutions-providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-defining-larger-participants-of-a-market-for-general-use-digital-consumer-payment-applications-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-no-rogue-rulings-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. MOSKOWITZ. Mr. Speaker, the Speaker is a Member of this body.  There are 435 of us, and the petition process exists so that the other  434 of us have a little bit of power so that if there is an idea that  we want to bring to the Chamber, one person can't stop it.

The petition process is about us. It is about the Members, but people  are feeling all sorts of kingly these days in D.C. It has been reported  that leadership is bribing Members to vote ``no'' so they can have  their bills moved and get spots on committees.

I don't understand. The Freedom Caucus just owns you guys. They just  own the Republicans. The last time they took you hostage, they removed  a Speaker.

Literally, the Freedom Caucus could teach a clinic on Speaker hostage  taking. If you don't like the bill, vote against it. Is the Freedom  Caucus the only one with power? Is Chip Roy the only one who sits in  these seats with power?

Mr. MOSKOWITZ. The Representative from Texas, Mr. Speaker. Is that  all right?

Mr. MOSKOWITZ. I will refer to him as Representative of Texas. I  didn't realize the snowflake thing was a problem.

Mr. Speaker, I don't know that anyone should lecture us on working.  The American people work harder than us. We are here only 3 days a  week. I mean, you want to talk about working, you guys are not even  showing up for your townhalls, so I don't know that you should be  lecturing us about working.