National Coal Council Reestablishment Act


Mr. McGARVEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman of the Committee on  Energy and Commerce. This is my first time to publicly congratulate him  on the House floor on assuming the chairmanship of the Energy and  Commerce Committee.

What I can tell you about Mr. Guthrie, having known him for a long  time, is he has always acted and led with civility, kindness, and  respect, going all the way back to the time in the State Senate in  Kentucky.

I have never served a day of my life in the majority. It might go  without saying I was sort of hoping that Mr. Pallone would be the  chairman this year. But if the chairman of the Energy and Commerce  Committee can't sit on this side of the House, I am certainly glad it  is a gentleman from Kentucky.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill not just because it is  a waste of our time. It is also a wasted opportunity to, for once, do  something for coal miners instead of coal companies.

As Ranking Member Pallone said, the President has already  reestablished the National Coal Council. It is a waste of our time to  focus on something that already exists just days before the government  runs out of funding and mere weeks before people receive notice of  their health insurance premiums going up by thousands of dollars next  year, unless the House Republicans extend healthcare tax credits for  working families.

Most importantly, it is a wasted opportunity to spend 1 hour of  precious floor time in service of Republicans' obsession with removing  coal from the ground while doing nothing for the men and women who work  the mines.

The House has not spent 1 minute debating an increase in black lung  benefits. Current levels are totally inadequate to cover the cost of  living for miners with black lung or their survivors after their death.

The House has not spent 1 minute on improving the long-term solvency  of the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund.

The House has not spent 1 minute on the Trump administration's  efforts to delay the life- and limb-saving proximity and silica dust  rules. These are delays which the United Mine Workers of America  president has called ``a death sentence for more miners.''

The House has not spent 1 single minute on stopping Trump's cuts to  the Coal Workers' Health Surveillance Program, the National Institute  of Occupational Safety and Health's black lung research programs, or  black lung screenings. These are cuts that are taking place at a moment  when this disease is killing coal miners at the highest rates this  century.

The Republicans have made clear that they are for coal, but I am for  the men and women who mine the coal: the coal miners. We must do better  for them.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote.