Thinkdifferently About Disability Employment Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1634, the ThinkDIFFERENTLY  About Disability Employment Act.

Although we have made considerable progress on bringing people with  disabilities into the workforce, the numbers reveal how far we still  have to go. Only 23 percent of the over 44 million individuals living  with a disability are employed. This is not because they lack the  skills or the willingness to work, but often because they face  persistent structural barriers, such as discrimination, limited  flexibility in the workplace, and inadequate transportation options,  among others.

While small firms employ half the private-sector workforce, they may  face challenges of their own, such as outdated infrastructure or  uncertainty about accommodations. Helping small firms hire people with  disabilities can directly benefit their company and in turn boost the  overall economy.

This bipartisan bill requires that SBA collaborate with the National  Council on Disability to help employers hire more people with  disabilities and provide much needed support to these entrepreneurs.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Stauber, Ms. Simon, Mr. Alford, and Mr.  Pappas for their bipartisan collaboration on this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. McGARVEY.  Simon).

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues: Mr. Stauber, for sharing his  story, for acting on behalf of his son and so many Americans with  disabilities; Ms. Simon for her passion and her work in this area; and  Mr. Alford and Mr. Pappas for their bipartisan work on improving  entrepreneurship and employment opportunities for people with  disabilities.

Every individual, no matter their disability, deserves a shot at  participating in our economy and getting that shot at the American  Dream. Whether it is getting a job in a local small business or  launching their own startup, this bill directs the SBA and the National  Council on Disability to collaborate on ways to help individuals with  disabilities do just that.

By passing this bill, we can start clearing the structural barriers  faced by people with disabilities, while growing the economy and  helping small business owners.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 1634, and I yield back  the balance of my time.