Veteran Fraud Reimbursement Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my support for H.R. 1912, the Veteran  Fraud Reimbursement Act of 2025, authored by my colleague,  Representative Connolly. He cannot be here today as he bravely battles  cancer, and our thoughts and our prayers are with him.

I echo the comments of Representative Bergman. Veterans in the  fiduciary program are some of the most vulnerable in the VA's care.  Because they are often elderly or mentally ill, they are at greater  risk for financial abuse and theft of benefits than the population at  large. Unfortunately, despite the VA's best efforts at vetting proposed  fiduciaries, bad actors do arise from time to time. When that happens,  theft or misuse of benefits can financially devastate veterans.

On top of the financial harm, the strain of being taken advantage of  can further eat away at the veteran's physical and mental health. We  must empower the VA to more quickly return stolen or misused benefits  to veterans who are exploited by their fiduciary. This bill would do  just that.

It passed the House last Congress, and I encourage my colleagues to  support it again.

Mr. Speaker, I also ask my colleagues to join me in passing H.R.  1912, the Veteran Fraud Reimbursement Act of 2025.

Before I yield back, I do want to express my deepest appreciation and  admiration for the sponsor of this bill, Representative Connolly.

Representative Connolly has been a faithful and passionate servant of  the American people for decades, both through his time as a  congressional staffer and then as a Representative of his beloved State  of Virginia.

Unfortunately, he cannot be with us today. Anybody who knows  Representative Connolly knows he is a bulldog, he is a fighter, and he  is tenacious. He is facing some serious health challenges right now.

Mr. Speaker, I know you will join me and Representative Bergman and  everyone else in wishing him the absolute best as he is in this fight.  I know he has got it, and we are with him.