Bankruptcy Administration Improvement Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698846/bankruptcy-administration-improvement-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this bipartisan legislation,  which will help ensure that Americans have access to bankruptcy relief  when financial disaster strikes and they need it.

The legislation would increase compensation for chapter 7 trustees  for the first time in more than 30 years, extend vital temporary  bankruptcy judgeships, and ensure that our bankruptcy system continues  to be self-funded and poses no cost to the American taxpayer.

Chapter 7 proceedings are designed for people who are most in need of  financial relief. In chapter 7 bankruptcy, an individual debtor who has  fallen on hard times, rather than go to debtor prison, which was the  old-school method, can settle his or her debts, pay off back taxes,  stop further collection actions, and secure a fresh start.

The process is means-tested, so it is available only for those who  really need it, and it often comes with credit counseling and debtor  education courses that can help our constituents achieve financial  literacy and avoid bankruptcy a second time.

Nationwide, this process is overseen by trustees who help to  distribute millions of dollars annually to local, State, and Federal  Government agencies and private creditors of all types. In 1994,  Congress set the pay for trustees at $60 per case, and we have not  revisited that $60 pay rate in the decades since.

This bill would increase that paltry amount at long last. By doubling  their fee to $120, we help to ensure that debtors will have the  assistance they need to navigate the complicated and convoluted world  of bankruptcy proceedings.

The bill also extends 29 temporary bankruptcy judgeships that are set  to expire. In my State of Maryland alone, we are on track to lose three  out of seven temporary judgeships. That is nearly half of our entire  bankruptcy bench. We cannot afford to lose these judges at the very  moment that bankruptcy filings are rising everywhere, up 30 percent in  our State alone over the last couple of years.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this bill to increase the access and  opportunity provided to all Americans under the bankruptcy system. I  ask all of our colleagues to read it and to support it.

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, again, I restate my strong support for this  bipartisan legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.