Bill to Outlaw Wounding of Official Working Animals Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700962/bill-to-outlaw-wounding-of-official-working-animals-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, here is what America is talking about: Donald Trump's  unauthorized, undeclared war of choice, a forever war in the making,  which is costing us between $1 billion and $2 billion every single day  and has killed already 13 Americans in uniform, wounding more than 200  Americans in uniform, and killing more than 1,000 Iranians, including  170 school children who were bombed at an all-girls school in Iran.

Americans are talking about the fact that gasoline now costs $3.84 a  gallon. It has gone up more than 25 percent in 1 week because of Donald  Trump's unauthorized, undeclared, illegal war of choice in Iran. Crude  oil is now soaring to more than $109 a barrel because Donald Trump's  war planners could not have predicted that Iran would try to strangle  commerce in the Strait of Hormuz.

That is what America is talking about this week. America is talking  about when there will be justice for Renee Good and Alex Pretti,  American citizens exercising their First Amendment and Second Amendment  rights who were shot down in cold blood by government agents in  Minneapolis, and the most recent Secretary of Homeland Security libeled  them as domestic terrorists and refused to recant from that defamatory  lie.

That is what America is talking about. When are they going to reform  ICE, and when are they going to start paying members of the Coast  Guard, TSA, FEMA, and CISA?

We have a discharge petition to say: Pay those people, and don't let  all of the illegality of ICE bring down the faithful public servants at  the Coast Guard, TSA, FEMA, and other Federal agencies.

That is what America is talking about this week.

Well, what are MAGA Republicans in Congress talking about this week?  They are talking about the BOWOW Act. The BOWOW Act?

Now, how did they come up with this bill and this title?

Well, the President's poll numbers are sinking like a stone, so they  needed to find something to do in Washington to put on the floor. They  can't talk about Trump's ruinous tariffs that have plunged so many  small businesses into oblivion and cost American consumers hundreds of  billions of dollars. They can't talk about that because the Supreme  Court, which they gerrymandered, sliced and diced, and packed and  stacked, struck it down.

Even the extremely right-leaning Supreme Court struck down Donald  Trump's tariffs. We told them that it was unconstitutional. We told  them that only Congress has the power to impose taxes and to regulate  commerce with foreign nations, but no. Like lemmings, they followed  Donald Trump off of the side of the ship, and now those tariffs are not  only economically ruinous for the country, but they are discredited and  struck down.

They can't talk about that, which was their big policy hit of the  administration so far. No, they can't talk about that.

Well, they are not talking about the war in Iran. That is splitting  even the MAGA base right down the middle because they had talked before  Donald Trump about the importance of Congress actually making decisions  about going to war. After all, that is what the Constitution says in  Article I, Section 8, Clause 11. It is Congress that has the power to  declare war.

Mr. Speaker, they are not talking about that. They are not talking  about the lives that have been lost in Iran with this bizarre,  impetuous war of choice that has been thrust onto the country when the  President promised us that there would be no more forever wars and  regime-change wars.

They can't even settle on whether this is a regime-change war or not.  Some of them say that it is. Some of them say that it isn't, so we  don't know. They can't talk about that.

Maybe they can talk about the healthcare public policy, which Donald  Trump has been promising for more than a decade. It is a decade of, in  2 weeks, we will get you our plan. They don't like the plans that we  have under Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act, which have delivered  healthcare to millions of Americans.

They have done whatever they can to dismantle those healthcare plans.  Maybe they could come up with a healthcare plan. No, they are not  uttering a peep about that.

You can't teach an old dog new tricks, and Donald Trump fundamentally  is not interested in delivering a healthcare plan to America.

Then someone says, ``Well, let's go back to immigration,'' but they  have already been told not to talk about mass deportation. We pulled  out of Minneapolis because we disgraced ourselves there. We know that  America reviles the policy of shooting down American citizens in cold  blood for exercising their First Amendment and Second Amendment rights,  so we can't talk about that.

Then somebody discovered Freddie and said: There is a case at Dulles  Airport with a dog, and we can at least go to the dog people with the  BOWOW Act.

I am co-chair of the Congressional Animal Protection Caucus, and I  have one of my dog's dog hair all over this suit, even though I tried  to get it off before I came out this morning. If anybody is going to be  a sucker for something called the BOWOW Act, it is me. I don't vote for  a lot of MAGA legislation, but every dog has his day, and I was willing  to look at this one. I was moved by something called the BOWOW Act.

I looked up the incident that the gentleman from California has  referenced, and it was outrageous. I was outraged to learn about what  happened to Freddie. It all started when Freddie the Beagle, the canine  detective at Dulles Airport who works with CBP, Customs and Border  Protection, to detect smuggled agricultural products, alerted his  superior officers at Dulles to the presence of over 100 pounds of  prohibited food items that appeared in the baggage unloading area.

It turns out Freddie did his job. He barked and alerted his superior  officers to what was happening. They determined that there was a guy  coming over from Egypt, a foreign national, named Aly Marie. Mr. Marie,  age 70 years old, who was traveling to the airport and had all of this  illegal food, contraband, was foiled by Freddie's excellent detective  work. This frustrated Mr. Marie guy kicked Freddie. He kicked him so  hard that the poor dog became airborne and had bruised ribs.

Now, if you are a major dog person and believe in animal protection,  like me, you say to yourself: You have to be kidding me. That should be  illegal. Kick that guy out of the country immediately. Don't let him  in.

Guess what. That is exactly what happened. He was arrested  immediately. He was charged immediately. He was held by the  authorities. He was charged with one count of harming animals used in  law enforcement under 18 U.S.C. 1368. He was convicted in a trial on  his second day in America. He was held overnight, arrested, charged,  convicted the next day, and then removed. He was sentenced to time  served. He was ordered to pay for the veterinarian bill for Freddie's  bruised ribs, which the court records show is $840, and he was promptly  deported right back to Egypt after the court hearing on day three.

I am happy to report that, according to the CBP, Freddie is doing  fine today. The law worked.

Imagine if Alex Pretti and imagine if Renee Good had that kind of  criminal law enforcement and justice. What if their killers had been  apprehended, arrested, charged, and convicted in 3 days? That would be  a great thing, but no. What do we hear from Pam Bondi? What do we hear  from Kristi Noem, the now-deposed former Secretary of Homeland  Security? It is under investigation. The whole world saw it right on  video. It is under investigation. Nothing is happening there.

Freddie got justice. We have a system that actually works there. Mr.  Marie served 3 days in jail. His food was confiscated, taken away, and  he was deported from the country. Why? Because assaulting a dog like  that is a crime of moral turpitude. Under the Federal laws, a crime of  moral turpitude like that gets you kicked out of the country. It all  worked.

They have nothing else to talk about, so they want to double down and  pass redundant legislation to say that somebody who does this should be  deported, which is already what happened in this case. The opportunity  to propose a redundant, unnecessary, superfluous bill to score  meaningless political points, when the rest of the world is talking  about war and inflation caused by this President, proved impossible to  resist for our colleagues.

H.R. 4638 would render inadmissible and deportable any noncitizen who  willfully or maliciously harms a police dog or a police horse, as  current law already requires.

There is one change. It removes the requirement that immigrants to  the country, whether travelers like the doggone Mr. Marie or a green  card holder, it removes the requirement that a noncitizen actually be  convicted of a crime. It is enough that you be charged with it or they  say you admitted it, or whatever, but the conviction requirement is  removed.

Now, that has been a trend for our colleagues in this session. They  have been taking things that are already crimes and saying: Let's make  that a matter of deporting and removing someone. Well, they already can  be deported and removed, yes, but now they want to excise the  conviction requirement to do it without complete due process. Why would  they do this?

Thomas Jefferson said at the time of the Alien and Sedition Acts that  there will be a temptation to go after the immigrants. He said that  when you water down constitutional requirements as they apply to  noncitizens, that is going to come to affect the citizens, too--a  bitter lesson learned by the families of Alex Pretti and Renee Good.

In other words, if you train the ICE agents that they can do whatever  they want, that they are beyond the law, that they can put on masks,  bust down people's doors, and enter without a Fourth Amendment search  warrant issued by a neutral magistrate, if they can do that kind of  thing, if they can abuse people as we have seen all over the internet,  if they can rough up people, what difference does it make really if  they are immigrants or if they are citizens if they are beyond the law?  Now, we have dead Americans at the hands of our own Federal agents,  with nobody charged, nobody arrested, and nobody being prosecuted.

They want to just get rid of the conviction requirement before people  are deported. They can already be deported once they are convicted, but  they want to get rid of the conviction requirement.

This case illustrates how completely unnecessary the bill is. Harming  animals in law enforcement, or any form of animal cruelty, is already a  crime involving moral turpitude and has been for a long time. It is a  deportable offense, and everybody knows it. If it wasn't, Mr. Marie  would not have been deported 3 days after he kicked Freddie.

Bizarrely, because their bill doesn't require a conviction, if this  legislation had been in place and Mr. Marie had been deported on day  two instead of day three, and there had been no trial, he never would  have had to pay restitution. Think about that. Due process helps a lot  of people. It is not just for the benefit of that defendant who might  be innocent, as Mr. Marie was not, but it also benefits the victims  because the victims can win restitution and fines in this way.

They want to deport first and not have a trial. They just want to  eliminate due process. I don't understand it.

President Trump has had his experiences in the criminal justice  process, and he had every right guaranteed to people under due process:  the right to a lawyer, the right to be heard, the right to introduce  evidence, the right to cross-examine, the right to trial by a jury of  his peers. Even after going through all of that, there are still people  who say: That wasn't enough. It didn't really work for him. He didn't  really get due process. He wasn't really guilty of committing fraud.

If that is the case for someone who had every conceivable benefit of  due process, what about somebody now who gets no due process at all and  no trial? That is what they are suggesting. I don't understand why,  really, other than the possibility of just introducing an unnecessary,  redundant bill and giving them something to talk about when they don't  want to talk about what is really going on in the world, what is really  going on in America, with gas prices soaring out of control, people  unable to pay for their healthcare, and people unable to afford  groceries. They don't want to talk about any of that. They want to talk  about Freddie.

Well, there is a lot of meaningful animal protection work we can do  together, and those of us in the Animal Protection Caucus would be very  happy to meet with the gentleman from California about all of the  things we can do to really help animals in America. But right now,  Freddie is doing fine. That case worked out fine. This bill is  unnecessary.

We want the immigration laws enforced. We also want the Constitution  of the United States to be enforced. They think somehow it has been  suspended, and the President of the United States can do whatever he  wants.

We are trying to stand up for the rule of law in America and for our  Constitution and Bill of Rights.

Jayapal).

Mr. Speaker, first of all, I am baffled and amazed that the gentleman  would bring up the economy under President Biden. A month before the  Presidential election in 2024, The Economist magazine had a cover story  titled: ``The envy of the world. The American economy has left other  rich countries in the dust. Expect that to continue, argue Simon  Rabinovitch and Henry Curr.''

That was what President Biden left to Donald Trump when he took over,  an economy that was the envy of the world, inflation down, unemployment  down, small business sector roaring, the economy roaring, opportunity  for young people. Donald Trump has taken an economy that left other  rich countries in the dust, and he has covered us in mud and dirt. He  has put us in the dust.

Now gas prices are up 25 percent in 2 weeks. I don't need to refute  all this propaganda and disinformation. People go to the gas station  and it refutes all the propaganda and disinformation that we are  hearing from them.

They are better off sticking to the BOWOW Act.

Under President Biden, we passed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, a  $1.2 trillion investment in America, in our bridges, our roads, our  highways, our ports and our airports, not blowing up stuff in other  peoples' countries, precisely what Donald Trump had promised he  wouldn't do.

That is where our money is going now, draining the U.S. economy by $1  to $2 billion every day. They are spending that on an undeclared,  unauthorized war, and our colleagues would not even want to have one  honest debate and one honest vote in Congress on whether or not to  declare war on Iran. They won't utter a peep about it today or  yesterday or tomorrow. They won't say anything about it, nothing, but  they let President Trump have their way with them.

Now the gentleman somehow accuses us of not being interested in  animal rights and animal welfare. I am sorry, I usually don't go  running to rightwing MAGA forces for the protection of animals against  animal cruelty and the industrial slaughterhouses and so on. They don't  show so much interest in that, but now in Freddie's case because there  was an immigrant traveler involved, they want to pass a law which is an  exact echo of what the law is. The gentleman has not explained to us  why we need to pass a law when Freddie's kicker was arrested, jailed,  charged, prosecuted, convicted, and sent back to Egypt all within 3  days. He never saw anything outside of a jail cell in the United States  of America, and yet they tell us we need, essentially, to go back and  pass the law that mimics what the law is today, except now they want to  sneak in a provision saying that we are going to remove the necessity  of a conviction.

Why wouldn't it have been better to deport Mr. Marie on day two  before he was fined $800 or $900 for Freddie's veterinarian bill?

Why would that have been better?

The gentleman hasn't explained. That is the only substantive change I  can imagine coming from the BOWOW bill because the bowwows are already  protected as we saw in this case. I wish he could summon up for the GOP  caucus the same kind of fervor, passion, and commitment they are now  demonstrating for animal rights and welfare, summon that up for human  rights and human welfare, for people like Alex Pretti and Renee Good,  who were shot down by out-of-control ICE agents in Minneapolis, and  then ICE and Homeland Security say that they will not cooperate with  local police authorities in Minneapolis and State police in Minnesota.

Why not?

All of a sudden they care just about dogs. They want to rewrite a law  that already exists that already protects dogs, as we saw in this case,  and not explain why they want to do it. It is an absolute diversion. It  is an absolute distraction for the country.

They can't talk about gas prices. They can't talk about inflation.  Remember, President Trump said he was going to bring down prices on day  one. He hasn't done one thing to bring down prices. Now, they are  soaring out of control throughout the entire economy because of his  illegal, unauthorized war that is splitting even their own base.

It is the most unpopular war at the beginning that we have seen,  maybe in American history, certainly in this century, because nobody  explained why they were doing it. That is why the Founders said it has  to be Congress that decides whether we go to war.

James Madison, Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, Tom Payne, the  whole founding generation knew that the Kings were always plunging  their countries into impetuous wars of conceit, vanity, imperial  ambition, foreign intrigue, and corruption. They didn't trust one guy  with that decision; they put that decision in us. They reposed it in  us, whether or not we wanted it.

They are running away from it. They don't want to make a decision  about this war, which Donald Trump now calls the ``little excursion,''  the little excursion in Iran, the little excursion that has already  taken the lives of 13 U.S. citizens in uniform, wounded more than 200  Americans, and killed more than a thousand Iranians, including 170  schoolchildren who got bombed in this reckless, impetuous war.

They don't want to talk about that. It is the BOWOW Act, but they  have not made one good argument about why we need to add a redundant,  superfluous law in this way.

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 228,  nays 190, not voting 14, as follows:                               [Roll No. 96]                                 YEAS--228       Aderholt      Alford      Allen      Amodei (NV)      Arrington      Babin      Bacon      Baird      Balderson      Barr      Barrett      Baumgartner      Bean (FL)      Begich      Bentz      Bergman      Bice      Biggs (AZ)      Biggs (SC)      Bilirakis      Boebert      Bost      Brecheen      Bresnahan      Buchanan      Burchett      Burlison      Calvert      Cammack      Carey      Carter (GA)      Carter (TX)      Ciscomani      Cline      Cloud      Clyde      Cole      Collins      Comer      Crane      Crank      Crawford      Crenshaw      Cuellar      Davids (KS)      Davidson      Davis (NC)      De La Cruz      DesJarlais      Diaz-Balart      Donalds      Downing      Dunn (FL)      Edwards      Ellzey      Emmer      Estes      Evans (CO)      Ezell      Fallon      Fedorchak      Feenstra      Fine      Finstad      Fischbach      Fitzgerald      Fitzpatrick      Fleischmann      Flood      Fong      Foxx      Franklin, Scott      Fry      Fulcher      Garamendi      Garbarino      Gill (TX)      Gimenez      Golden (ME)      Goldman (TX)      Gonzalez, V.      Gooden      Gosar      Gottheimer      Graves      Gray      Griffith      Grothman      Guest      Guthrie      Hageman      Hamadeh (AZ)      Haridopolos      Harrigan      Harris (MD)      Harris (NC)      Harshbarger      Hern (OK)      Higgins (LA)      Hill (AR)      Hinson      Houchin      Houlahan      Hudson      Huizenga      Hunt      Hurd (CO)      Issa      Jack      Jackson (TX)      James      Johnson (LA)      Johnson (SD)      Jordan      Joyce (OH)      Joyce (PA)      Kelly (MS)      Kelly (PA)      Kennedy (UT)      Kiggans (VA)      Kiley (CA)      Kim      Knott      Kustoff      LaHood      LaLota      Landsman      Langworthy      Latta      Lawler      Lee (FL)      Letlow      Loudermilk      Lucas      Luttrell      Mackenzie      Malliotakis      Maloy      Mann      Massie      Mast      McCaul      McClain      McClintock      McCormick      McDowell      McGuire      Messmer      Meuser      Miller (IL)      Miller (OH)      Miller (WV)      Miller-Meeks      Mills      Moolenaar      Moore (AL)      Moore (NC)      Moore (UT)      Moore (WV)      Moran      Nehls      Newhouse      Norman      Nunn (IA)      Obernolte      Ogles      Onder      Owens      Palmer      Patronis      Perez      Perry      Pfluger      Reschenthaler      Riley (NY)      Rogers (AL)      Rogers (KY)      Rose      Rouzer      Roy      Rulli      Rutherford      Salazar      Scalise      Schmidt      Schweikert      Scott, Austin      Self      Sessions      Shreve      Simpson      Smith (MO)      Smith (NE)      Smith (NJ)      Smucker      Sorensen      Spartz      Stauber      Stefanik      Steil      Steube      Strong      Stutzman      Suozzi      Taylor      Tenney      Thompson (PA)      Tiffany      Timmons      Turner (OH)      Valadao      Van Drew      Van Duyne      Van Epps      Van Orden      Vindman      Wagner      Walberg      Weber (TX)      Webster (FL)      Westerman      Wied      Williams (TX)      Wilson (SC)      Wittman      Womack      Yakym      Zinke                                 NAYS--190       Adams      Aguilar      Amo      Ansari      Balint      Barragan      Beatty      Bell      Bera      Beyer      Bishop      Bonamici      Boyle (PA)      Brown      Brownley      Budzinski      Bynum      Carbajal      Carson      Carter (LA)      Casar      Case      Casten      Castor (FL)      Castro (TX)      Cherfilus-McCormick      Chu      Cisneros      Clark (MA)      Clarke (NY)      Cleaver      Clyburn      Cohen      Conaway      Correa      Costa      Courtney      Craig      Crockett      Crow      Davis (IL)      Dean (PA)      DeGette      DeLauro      DelBene      Deluzio      DeSaulnier      Dexter      Dingell      Doggett      Elfreth      Escobar      Espaillat      Evans (PA)      Fields      Figures      Fletcher      Foster      Foushee      Frankel, Lois      Friedman      Frost      Garcia (CA)      Garcia (IL)      Garcia (TX)      Gillen      Goldman (NY)      Gomez      Goodlander      Green, Al (TX)      Grijalva      Harder (CA)      Hayes      Himes      Hoyer      Hoyle (OR)      Huffman      Ivey      Jackson (IL)      Jacobs      Jayapal      Jeffries      Johnson (GA)      Johnson (TX)      Kamlager-Dove      Kaptur      Kennedy (NY)      Khanna      Larsen (WA)      Larson (CT)      Latimer      Lee (NV)      Lee (PA)      Leger Fernandez      Levin      Liccardo      Lieu      Lofgren      Lynch      Magaziner      Mannion      Matsui      McBath      McBride      McClain Delaney      McClellan      McCollum      McDonald Rivet      McGarvey      McGovern      McIver      Meeks      Menefee      Menendez      Meng      Mfume      Min      Moore (WI)      Morelle      Morrison      Mrvan      Mullin      Nadler      Neal      Neguse      Norcross      Ocasio-Cortez      Olszewski      Omar      Pallone      Panetta      Pappas      Pelosi      Peters      Pettersen      Pingree      Pocan      Pou      Pressley      Quigley      Ramirez      Randall      Raskin      Rivas      Ross      Ruiz      Ryan      Salinas      Sanchez      Scanlon      Schakowsky      Schneider      Scholten      Schrier      Scott (VA)      Scott, David      Sewell      Sherman      Simon      Smith (WA)      Soto        Stansbury      Stanton      Stevens      Strickland      Subramanyam      Sykes      Takano      Thanedar      Thompson (CA)      Titus      Tlaib      Tokuda      Tonko      Torres (CA)      Torres (NY)      Trahan      Tran      Underwood      Vargas      Vasquez      Veasey      Velazquez      Walkinshaw      Wasserman Schultz      Waters      Watson Coleman      Whitesides      Williams (GA)      Wilson (FL)                               NOT VOTING--14       Auchincloss      Gonzales, Tony      Horsford      Kean      Keating      Kelly (IL)      Krishnamoorthi      Luna      Mace      Moskowitz      Moulton      Murphy      Swalwell      Thompson (MS)

Mr. VEASEY changed his from ``yea'' to ``nay.''

Ms. HOULAHAN changed her vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.''

So the bill was passed.

The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.