Child Predators Accountability Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698895/child-predators-accountability-act


Mr. Speaker, I am rising in strong support of H.R. 6715, the Child  Predators Accountability Act of 2025.

Mr. Speaker, the decision that the distinguished gentleman from North  Carolina references out of the Seventh Circuit, United States v.  Howard, threatens to significantly limit prosecutors' ability to hold  some of the worst child predators to account legally. The question may  appear to be technical, but the human consequences are grave and  brutally simple.

Title 18 of the United States Code, section 2251(a), criminalizes the  production of child sex abuse material. For decades, prosecutors have  used the law to target predators who prey on children or who produce  ghastly images of child sex abuse, but the Seventh Circuit's ruling in  the Howard case in 2020 jeopardized prosecutors' ability to go after  these dangerous people until they actually abuse the child and create  an image of the abuse.

The Howard decision narrowed the scope of section 2251(a), holding  that the mere physical presence of the minor in a visual depiction of  sexually explicit conduct does not automatically violate the statute.  To obtain a conviction for production of CSAM in the Seventh Circuit,  the child in the photo, video, or image must themselves be engaged in  the explicit conduct.

This is an absurd reading that we can and must legislatively resolve.  The Howard ruling undermines the ability to prosecute common scenarios  involving the surreptitious recording of kids; for example, when  criminals plant concealed cameras in bathrooms, locker rooms, and  bedrooms to record sexually explicit images of children who are unaware  that they are even being filmed.

Criminals who record themselves sexually violating very young  children, such as infants and toddlers, who are too young to understand  that they are being filmed in sexually explicit scenarios could also  conceivably avoid prosecution under the pinched reasoning of the Howard  decision.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 6715 would make clear that even the passive use of  a child in the production of child sex abuse materials is a crime, and  it will eliminate any confusion caused by the Seventh Circuit's ruling  in Howard.

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina.

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I yield myself the balance of my  time.

Mr. Speaker, we seem to have the bipartisan convergence that we need  to reverse the error of the interpretation that is in the Howard  decision to make sure we can always hold accountable the perpetrators  of this seriously corrosive crime.

H.R. 6715 strives to right this wrong, and I am proud that we are  acting in a bipartisan way to do that. I urge my colleagues to support  the bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the members of the Committee on the Judiciary  for unanimously supporting this bill in markup. I am grateful for my  colleagues who have all risen to speak today and to the ranking member  and leadership on the other side that have worked together with us.

Mr. Speaker, I urge swift passage of my legislation, the Child  Predators Accountability Act, and I yield back the balance of my time.