Coercion and Sexual Abuse Free Environment Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698878/coercion-and-sexual-abuse-free-environment-act


I rise in support of H.R. 6732, the CSAFE Act, which creates a new  crime to prohibit people from compelling children into physically  harming themselves or animals.

Coercing kids online to hurt themselves or others is spreading harm  that all of us need to take seriously. We have seen an alarming rise in  episodes of this in recent years, and it has become clear that there is  no Federal statute that effectively addresses this extreme misconduct.

Violent online groups have emerged on popular platforms geared toward  children and teenagers. These groups, and individuals acting alone,  encourage kids to commit horrifying acts, including cutting themselves,  creating child sex abuse material, sexually exploiting other children,  harming animals, swatting, doxing, and, in the most extreme cases,  taking their own lives.

This happened to Jay Taylor, a 13-year-old who was struggling with an  eating disorder, gender identity problems, and a sense of isolation. He  found a connection on the online platform Discord. Members of 764, an  online network that targets and exploits vulnerable young people, got  their hooks into him and devastatingly coerced Jay into taking his own  life while live-streaming.

The FBI agents who worked on his case repeatedly encountered  roadblocks while attempting to get prosecutors to file charges in the  case, with one U.S. attorney telling the agents that it simply was not  possible to do anything.

The bill before us now, the CSAFE Act, seeks to address the  shortcomings in existing Federal criminal law when it comes to  investigating cases and prosecuting criminals who coerce and extort  children online.

I thank the chairman for working with me to address some of the  constitutional concerns I raised at our committee's markup of this  legislation back in December of last year. I am very pleased to support  this bill today, which I think is legally seaworthy and will survive  any constitutional challenges.

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman from  Georgia (Mrs. McBath).

Mr. RASKIN. I have no further speakers, Madam Speaker. I will just  restate my strong support for this legislation. I thank the  distinguished gentleman from Arizona for bringing it forward. It is  certainly a lot more fun to be with him on legislation than against him  on legislation, and I am delighted we were able to work on this  bipartisan bill together.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.