Combating Online Predators Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698862/combating-online-predators-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6719, the Combating Online  Predators Act, and I echo my distinguished colleague in noting that  sextortion is a serious and rising threat faced by countless  unsuspecting teens all over America when they use the internet and  social media.

The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, or NCMEC,  operates a Cyber Tip Line to receive reports of suspected child  exploitation. The Cyber Tip Line has received many more reports of  sextortion of minors in recent years, amounting to tens of thousands of  potential victims. These crimes have deadly consequences.

NCMEC has identified 36 teens who took their own lives after being  subjected to harsh and incessant harassment from callous perpetrators  of sextortion. The problem is everywhere.

Last May, the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Maryland  announced the guilty plea of a man who had coerced at least 108  different girls to send him pictures and videos of themselves engaged  in sexual conduct. The victims ranged in age from 5 to 17 years old and  lived all over the U.S. and even around the world, from Tennessee and  Massachusetts to Australia and the United Kingdom.

When the man asked for access to the social media account of an 11- year-old, he wrote: ``Add me back or I'll post all your vids online and  in servers. I have everything saved.''

When some victims said they did not want to send him any more images,  he threatened to post the images online, come to their house, or tell  their parents. The man victimized a 12-year-old, her friend, and her 5- year-old sister through Snapchat.

Investigators obtained an IP address linked to the Snapchat account,  which eventually led them to the perpetrator's house, where they  recovered a laptop, two hard drives, and four iPhones containing  evidence of the coercive treatment of more than 100 different girls. In  this case, the man pled guilty to an existing crime of producing child  sex abuse material.

Prosecutors have said the existing statutes do not always fully  address the scope or severity of the conduct involved in these terrible  cases. This bill would close that gap and ensure that more of these  criminals are held accountable.

I hope we continue to work with our colleagues in a bipartisan way to  strengthen and improve our laws to address these new and dangerous  crimes and to keep our children safe online.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, to close, I strongly support H.R. 6719, the  Combating Online Predators Act. I encourage all of our colleagues to  support it, and I praise the gentlewoman for her leadership on this  legislation.