Deporting Fraudsters Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700902/deporting-fraudsters-act-of-2026


Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, another week, another redundant and completely  unnecessary immigration crime bill. This one purports to make the  commission of certain fraud offenses into deportable offenses, but  conviction of a fraud offense is already a deportable offense, as the  gentleman's recitation of all the cases involving people who were  convicted of a crime and then deported and removed from the country  demonstrates.

Fraud is considered a crime involving moral turpitude and a  specifically enumerated aggravated felony, the conviction of either of  which subjects any immigrant to deportation and removal from the  country.

In the past, we have heard our colleagues claim these bills are  necessary to resolve an undefined ambiguity in the law, but there is no  ambiguity.

Section 101(a)(43) of the Immigration and Nationality Act specifies  fraud as an aggravated felony, which is by definition a deportable  offense. Supreme Court precedent for more than 70 years has treated  fraud as a crime involving moral turpitude and therefore a deportable  and removable offense.

I know that President Trump, who knows a lot about the criminal  justice system, wants to strike a new pose of being tough on fraud. We  still have a First Amendment, so that is his right. But at every turn,  the Trump administration has dismantled the government programs and  offices that actually combat fraud.

At the DOJ, they disbanded key anti-kleptocracy efforts. They  eliminated the Consumer Protection Branch that prosecuted corporate  fraud. They gutted core anticorruption units like the Public Integrity  Section and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit. As all of America  knows, they have completely ravaged and shut down the Consumer  Financial Protection Bureau, the first and only agency devoted solely  at the Federal level to protect American consumers against being  cheated by scammers and fraudsters and big corporations.

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau delivered $21 billion back  to more than 200 million Americans who were victims of fraud, scams,  and other predatory business practices, and the administration has been  gutting it because they are soft on corporate fraud and white-collar  crime. That is the reality of what is going on here.

Hell-bent on meeting Stephen Miller's arbitrary mass deportation  monthly quotas, this administration has directed FBI agents to  deprioritize white-collar crime and instead devote their time to the  big immigration roundup, whose beautiful results we can see in the  nightmare of Minneapolis, where American citizens were shot down for  exercising their constitutional rights.

As a result, prosecutions of white-collar crimes, which include a  variety of fraud offenses, were down more than 10 percent in the Trump  administration in 2025.

If that weren't enough, ICE is interfering with States' abilities to  successfully prosecute crimes, like fraud and theft, and to ensure that  perpetrators pay their fines and make restitution to their victims. Why  is that? Well, they are deporting people before they can actually be  tried and fined and before the fines are paid.

Take the case of Jeson Nelon Flores. He was accused of stealing $100  million worth of diamonds. Before his trial was set to take place, ICE  swooped in and simply deported him before trial. That meant he served  no jail time and was never ordered to pay any restitution to his  victims, leaving them with lots of questions about where the $100  million of diamonds are but no justice.

By bypassing the conviction requirement, this legislation would hand  a literal get-out-of-jail-free card to immigrants who commit fraud by  deporting them without going through the criminal justice system and  giving their victims a day in court.

This is part of a broader trend of this administration siding with  the perpetrators against the victims, a trend America has seen in the  administration's shameful decision to cover up for Jeffrey Epstein and  Ghislaine Maxwell's co-conspirators, accomplices, and enablers, while  outing the identities and even the photographs of survivors. It is a  trend that includes the President's outrageous abuse of the pardon  power to let fraudsters, who also happen to be MAGA donors, to purchase  a pardon and skip out on their obligation to pay any fine or  restitution to their victims.

That includes Trevor Milton, who defrauded investors in his company  to the tune of $676 million. Milton and his wife donated $1.8 million  to the President's reelection campaign. In March of last year, Milton  got his pardon, and erased all of the restitution, the hundreds of  millions of dollars he owed to his victims.

Take Lawrence Duran, who was sentenced to the longest prison sentence  in American history for Medicare fraud in September of 2016. He filed  hundreds of thousands of false claims with Medicare, bilking the  taxpayers out of more than $87 million. Then he got his Trump pardon  and skipped away without having to pay any of the fines or the  restitution.

If you can remember one statistic from today, in just 1 year, Donald  Trump's pardons wiped out more than $1.3 billion in restitution and  fines to victims and survivors of fraud and other scams and white- collar offenses.

This bill is simply another effort to push a fake narrative while  ignoring all of the fraud that engulfs us, which the administration has  tolerated or even approved through these outrageous pardons.

The administration used fraud as an excuse to send thousands of  masked Federal agents to terrorize the people of Minneapolis and  surrounding areas, a blunder so egregious our colleagues are told not  even to use the phrase ``mass deportation'' anymore because the vast  majority of Americans reject what they saw on the streets of  Minneapolis, agents beating up peaceful protesters and killing them.  American citizens are dying because they dare to exercise their First  Amendment rights and their Second Amendment rights in public.

We saw the price of this authoritarianism. Every day this  administration is pushing lies to try to get the American people to  ignore the reality that is discernible by our own senses. That is the  real fraud on the American people.

Now, they want us to believe that they are combating fraud when they  pardon it, and they wipe out all of the government units that are  designed to ferret out fraud. They started by firing 17 inspectors  general, whose job it is to fight fraud, waste, corruption, and abuse  in the Federal Government. They sacked all of them to make it possible  for the kind of rampant corruption we have seen to take place. The  American people can see what is going on.

Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to oppose this redundant, unnecessary,  and distractionary bill.

Mr. Speaker, they are entitled to their own opinions, but they are  not entitled to their own facts. I am afraid that the gentleman owes  former President Biden a major apology for what he just said.

He said that hundreds of millions of dollars in restitution owed by  people whom Joe Biden pardoned was forgiven. According to a study by  the Cato Institute, which the gentleman can look up, all of the fines  and restitution forgiven by Joe Biden was $680,000, not even $1  million; whereas, Donald Trump has forgiven $1.3 billion in fines and  restitution owed by the fraudsters and conmen and white-collar  criminals whom he has pardoned since  he got back into office under their pay-to-play pardon operation they  have got going over there right now. That is the reality and the fact.  That is the truth of the matter.

No, Joe Biden did not forgive hundreds of millions of dollars in  fines. What Donald Trump has done is utterly aberrational in American  history.

I see the gentleman is fleeing the Chamber right now rather than  dealing with the facts and the reality of it.

The gentleman was completely wrong.

The gentleman was fleeing the Chamber rather than deal with the  reality that he was absolutely wrong when he accused President Biden of  forgiving hundreds of millions of dollars in fines and restitution to  people he pardoned. It never happened.

It was less than $1 million. It was $680,000.

Mr. Speaker, I will submit the Cato Institute report for the Record.

Mr. Speaker, I would love to be contradicted if there are any facts  over on that side of the aisle. If anybody wants to traffic in facts-- but, no, maybe it is more imaginary and delusional sophistry from the  gentleman.

Does he have any facts?

It is no problem just saying: I made a mistake.

It is like Secretary Noem calling Alex Pretti a domestic terrorist,  calling Renee Good a domestic terrorist. That was a terrible mistake  and a blunder, but she couldn't admit it.

Will the gentleman admit that he was wrong about that or does he have  facts?

I don't know. I ask you, Mr. Speaker, whether there might be some way  of determining whether there are any facts available to contradict me  on this, but the study that I have shows that all of Joe Biden's  pardons result in less than $1 million in fines and restitution to be  forgiven.

Mr. Speaker, do you know why that is?

It is because up until President Trump, every other President had  demanded ordinarily as a matter of course that fines be paid and  restitution be paid.

I hope that there are some people on the other side of the aisle-- they have got a huge staff of hundreds of people, can somebody find a  fact that would contradict what I have just said.

Jayapal), who is the ranking member of the Subcommittee  of Immigration Integrity.

That was an amazing evasion of what we are really talking about.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the Cato Institute study,  ``President Trump's Pardons: An Embarrassment of Riches.''               [From the Cato Institute Blog, Feb. 11, 2026]           President Trump's Pardons: An Embarrassment of Riches                             (By Dan Greenberg)

Yesterday, I described the final scandal of the Clinton       administration: Bill Clinton's midnight pardon of Marc Rich.       If the Rich pardon was a snowflake, then the pardons of       President Trump's second term are a blizzard.

The scope and magnitude of Trump's second-term pardons are       unprecedented. Joe Biden granted 80 pardons in his four-year       term, but Trump's pardons make his predecessor's look like a       drop in the bucket. In the first year of the second Trump       administration, the president issued 166 individual pardons,       as well as a mass pardon that erased the verdicts of more       than 1,500 January 6 Capitol rioters. In other words, even       putting aside the rioters' collective pardon, Trump is now       issuing pardons at eight times the rate Biden did.       Nonetheless, the fact that a president issues more pardons       than his predecessors is not necessarily problematic. The       real problem lies in the great number of particular second-      term pardons that appear indefensible. Such pardons fall into       five categories.

First: Biden's pardons eliminated roughly $680,000 in       financial penalties (fines, restitution, and forfeitures)       owed to victims or the government. In contrast, Liz Oyer, the       former lead pardon attorney of the United States, has       calculated that Trump's second-term pardons have forgiven       criminal debts of more than $1.5 billion. This staggering       sum--composed of money owed to crime victims and to       government treasuries--has been zeroed out by presidential       edict.

Trump's pardon pen was a boon to ex-criminals like Trevor       Milton (who no longer must repay the investors he defrauded       $660 million) and Lawrence Duran (who no longer must repay       the government he defrauded $87 million). It was also a boon       to HDR Global Trading Ltd., which owed the nation a $100       million fine; in this case, Trump also made history by       granting the nation's very first pardon to a corporation.

Second: Trump has normalized the pardoning of disgraced       politicians, such as former Honduran president Juan Orlando       Hernandez (who orchestrated a spree of state-sponsored drug       trafficking leading to a 45-year prison term), Nevada       legislator Michele Fiore (who embezzled $70,000 out of a       police memorial fund for personal expenses like rent and       plastic surgery), Virginia sheriff Scott Jenkins (who handed       out badges to untrained businessmen in exchange for $75,000       in bribes), and Tennessee House Speaker Glen Casada (who       defrauded state government with a fake-payee kickback       scheme). Perhaps I should disclose my proximity to one such       pardon recipient, Arkansas legislator Jeremy Hutchinson (who       traded official acts for bribes, embezzled from campaign       funds, and filed false tax returns); Hutchinson's tenure in       the state Senate, which ended with simultaneous indictments       in three federal districts, began when he defeated me in a       Republican primary.

Third: Trump's pardons are beginning to undermine the       contemporaneous work of his own Department of Justice. Alina       Habba, Trump's own US attorney in New Jersey, announced       Joseph Schwartz's three-year sentence for $38 million in tax       fraud in April; Trump pardoned him seven months later. Real       estate developer Timothy Leiweke was charged earlier this       year with conspiring to rig the bidding process for a Texas       sports arena; Trump pardoned him in December. Federal       investigators and prosecutors must find such pardons       demoralizing and self-negating.

Fourth: [REDACTED] For instance, the ordinary vetting       procedures of the Office of the Pardon Attorney have often       been sidestepped. Formality in pardon deliberation is       desirable because it immunizes the president from the       appearance of pay-to-play; the absence of such formality       makes it plausible that a multitude of recent pardons are       transactional. Trump pardoned Paul Walczak (who evaded       millions of dollars in taxes) after Walczak's mother raised       millions of dollars for MAGA candidates and paid a million       dollars to dine with the president at Mar-a-Lago. Trevor       Milton--the securities fraudster mentioned above--donated       $1.8 million to Trump's campaign before a presidential pardon       wiped out all $660 million of his restitution obligations.       (That is, if nothing else, an impressive ROI.)

Before Trump pardoned Changpeng Zhao--who headed the       cryptocurrency exchange Binance while it fostered more than       1.5 million illegal virtual trades as well as prohibited       transactions to Al Qaeda, Isis, and Hamas--Zhao had brokered       a $2 billion investment in Eric and Donald Trump Jr.'s       cryptocurrency business, World Liberty Financial. (When asked       about Zhao in a subsequent 60 Minutes interview, Trump       explained, ``I have no idea who he is. I was told that he was       a victim, just like I was and just like many other people, of       a vicious, horrible group of people in the Biden       administration.''

[REDACTED] Trump evidently hoped Cuellar would return the       favor by switching parties to the GOP; when that didn't       happen, the president released an angry statement on Truth       Social, criticizing Cuellar for ``Such a lack of LOYALTY,       something that Texas Voters, and Henry's daughters, will not       like. Oh well, next time, no more Mr. Nice guy!'' Previous       presidents would surely take offense at the suggestion that a       pardon could be traded for something of value; [REDACTED]

Fifth: Here is another occasion for alarm bells: Donald       Trump has increasingly focused on providing pardons to his       campaign supporters who stretched or broke the law, such as       John Eastman, Rudy Giuliani, and Jenna Ellis. (As the       president's pardon attorney, Ed Martin, famously explained on       X, ``No MAGA left behind.'') Indeed, Trump apparently views       the exercise of his pardon authority to forgive federal       crimes as insufficient; Trump's inability to eliminate state-      level convictions has apparently led him to pressure state       government officials to pardon state-level offenses related       to the 2020 elections.

I am not the only Cato analyst who has explained the risks       of political and constitutional crisis created by       presidential attempts to get state-level election criminals       pardoned; normalizing such actions will inevitably create       ripple effects in future elections. Historically, the central       principle of the Justice Department's role in elections has       been ``prosecution, not intervention.'' The latest edition of       the DOJ's governing manual in this sphere, Federal       Prosecution of Election Offenses, explains that the states       have primary responsibility for overseeing elections--and       that any federal investigation of elections must minimize the       likelihood of affecting that election or otherwise ``chill       legitimate voting activities.''

That edition of the manual has disappeared from Justice's       website. Bob Bauer, Obama's former White House counsel, has       speculated that the manual is being revised to match Trump's       goal of ``nationalization'' of election administration.

The Supreme Court has explained that pardons are justified       if ``the public welfare will be better served.'' It is       impossible to see how the public welfare is served by many of       Trump's pardons today. The president's power to pardon       federal crimes is practically absolute. It cannot be modified       by Congress. Furthermore, just as an uninvolved citizen lacks       standing to challenge a prosecutor's actions, a third party       likewise may not challenge the grant of a presidential       pardon. [REDACTED] It looks like the floodgates will remain       open for the foreseeable future. Perhaps future presidents       will behave better; perhaps a future constitutional amendment       will encourage them to do so.

At least the specter of corruption in previous presidential       administrations (Clinton's pardon of Marc Rich, or Biden's       pardon of his son) appeared to be an exception to the rule.       [REDACTED]

Mr. RASKIN. In it, it answers the question between the gentleman and  me. I thought that I was submitting a very simple, humble request, that  he withdraw the false statement that Joe Biden, as President, had  forgiven hundreds of millions of dollars in fines and restitution. That  is an absolute falsehood. It is inaccurate.

Now, look, let's start with this: I am going to educate the gentleman  to the extent that he wants to be educated any further on the matter  about the difference between pardons in the Biden administration and  the Trump administration.

Joe Biden granted a total of 80 pardons in his 4-year term. President  Trump issued 166 individual pardons in his first year and then, of  course, famously, the mass pardon of 1,500 January 6 rioters and  insurrectionists who stormed this Chamber and the Capitol.

I am quoting directly from the Cato study, for the benefit of the  gentleman from Arizona: ``Biden's pardons eliminated roughly $680,000  in financial penalties (fines, restitution, and forfeitures) owed to  victims or the government.''

This is money that a court has determined is owed and must be paid.  Biden forgave $680,000. Now, I am sure that if you are one of the  victims, you are not happy to hear about that, that that was forgiven,  but that is within the power of the President.

``In contrast, Liz Oyer, the former lead pardon attorney of the  United States, has calculated that Trump's second-term pardons''--that  is just 1 year of pardons--``have forgiven criminal debts''--fines,  restitution, and forfeitures--``of more than $1.5 billion.''

In other words, Biden didn't even forgive $1 million. President Trump  has forgiven more than $1.5 billion to the fraudsters, white-collar  criminals, and scammers who have found their way to Mar-a-Lago and the  White House and have been able to finagle the pardon that they always  wanted.

``This staggering sum,'' as the Cato Institute puts it, ``has been  zeroed out by Presidential edict.''

That is in a completely different galaxy than what President Biden or  any other President, Democrat or Republican, has done in American  history. It is stratospheric.

I am glad that the gentleman's blatant misstatement and his refusal  to retract it have given us the opportunity to focus on this  extraordinary corruption that is taking place because it tells the true  story of fraud and how fraud is being treated by the current  administration.

Cato says to consider the case of Trevor Milton, ``who no longer must  repay the investors he defrauded $660 million'' that he owed them. Take  the case of Lawrence Duran, ``who no longer must repay the government  he defrauded $87 million.''

You can add up all the people who were pardoned by President Biden,  and you don't even get to $1 million. Then, you have individual  criminals whom Donald Trump pardoned after they made various kinds of  overtures to the White House or showed up at Mar-a-Lago, and those  people were getting hundreds of millions of dollars or tens of millions  of dollars forgiven in fines.

The gentleman got back up to say these people were either convicted  for or accused of tens of millions of dollars in fraud under President  Biden. I am talking about what a court ordered them to pay. That is the  apples-to-apples comparison that the gentleman doesn't want to deal  with.

It is interesting that he happened upon that particular issue because  it is not one that benefits their side of the argument at all, as they  claim to be interested in saving the victims of fraud.

Victims of fraud, thousands of them, have lost more than a billion  dollars because of the pardons of Donald Trump. That is the direct  policy of the administration.

Mr. Speaker,

Mr. Speaker, some of our colleagues jump up like a jack-in-the-box  whenever the President tells them to do that. Others in the Chamber  want to stand up for American citizens exercising their First and  Second Amendment rights, like Alex Pretti and Renee Good. They were  shot down by ICE agents, who somehow believed that, with this Trump  administration, they are above the law and beyond the law.

We are going to stand up with the American people. We are not going  to take orders from the executive branch, which is utterly humiliating  and self-defeating for a Member of the Article I  branch of the Congress of the United States.

The gentleman, I think, accuses us of something he called the  deranged Trump syndrome, which I can only imagine means following a  President who plunges the country into an illegal, unauthorized,  undeclared war, spending $1 billion or $2 billion a day, and then not  asking any questions about it because somehow you think your political  destiny is intertwined with the President, who has shown no loyalty to  the people who show loyalty to him. That is a personal problem on their  part. We don't have deranged Trump syndrome. I think that falls on that  side of the aisle.

Mr. Speaker,

Mr. Speaker, there is such a thick fog of propaganda and  disinformation in the Chamber that I think we have lost sight of what  the bill is about and what the law is.

The law is very clear today, which is: Conviction of a criminal fraud  offense is already a deportable offense. It already gets you deported.  That is why the majority began with a whole litany of cases where  people were being deported after committing crimes.

They didn't like the fact that they had the right to appeal it. They  don't like the fact that there is due process, but they appealed it.  Then, they were deported. That is what the law is.

Their bill is simply an effort to say you don't need a conviction  anymore. You could just deport them based on hearsay evidence. An ICE  agent says that this person admitted to me that they had committed  fraud, and that substitutes for a prosecution, trial, and conviction by  a jury.

In the meantime, we have hundreds of judges in America who are  condemning ICE for lying in court. We have Department of Justice  lawyers who are saying literally in court that their job sucks because  they can't defend what is taking place with ICE. We have judge after  judge denouncing the fantastical, misleading, deceptive, mendacious  testimony of people from ICE, and now you want to just trust an ICE  agent to say this person admitted to me that they committed criminal  fraud. We are just going to kick them out of the country without a  trial.

Thomas Jefferson said during the Alien and Sedition Acts that there  are people who want to strip away the rights of aliens and who will  inevitably come to attack the rights of citizens, too. We already saw  that in Minneapolis.

There were a lot of people in this Chamber willing to look the other  way when they were knocking down the doors of immigrants without a  search warrant, without probable cause, when they were roughing up  immigrants, or when immigrants were dying in custody. Then, suddenly,  these ICE agents thought they could get away with it when it comes to  U.S. citizens, and that is when America woke up to this threat and said  no.

ICE agents are not superior to the rule of law. They are not above  and beyond the law. Even President Trump understood that, which is why  he has pulled a lot of people out of Minneapolis. They wanted to change  the subject. They said stop using the words ``mass deportation.''

A majority of the American people reject these authoritarian tactics  that have been unleashed against both citizens and immigrants.

This is a nation of laws. It is a nation under the rule of law and  under the Constitution. Their bill is, at best, if not completely  redundant, unnecessary, and silly, a gloss on what the law already is,  which is that if you are convicted of fraud and you are an immigrant,  you get kicked out of the country. You are removed. They want to pick a  fight on a nonsensical problem.

We don't need to degrade our own rule of law by taking action against  people without a criminal conviction. The criminal justice system works  just fine, so we should be encouraging government agents not to lie to  judges, not to render false testimony, as judges across the country  have been saying. Both Republican and Democratic appointees have been  rejecting what is coming out of this administration.

This bill, as far as I know, is not about naturalized citizens. I  think our distinguished chairman said something about that. He may have  gotten it confused with another bill, but this bill is unnecessary and  redundant.

Mr. Speaker,

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, before the distinguished gentleman leaves, I  would be happy to yield to him for an answer to a question.

The bill, as he originally introduced it, required a criminal  conviction. I wonder why it was changed and whether that was changed  with his approval or not. What was the logic for changing it?

I yield to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Taylor) for the purpose of a  colloquy.

Mr. RASKIN. Representative Taylor, this is your bill, H.R. 1958. It  begins like this:

``Any alien who has been convicted of an offense that involves  defrauding the United States Government or unlawfully receiving a  Federal public benefit . . . or a State or local public benefit . . .  is deportable.''

You have got the language of ``convicted'' in there. It was changed  by the Committee. I am just wondering: Why did you originally have it  in such a way as to require a conviction?

Mr. RASKIN. That is the way it has been changed. It has been altered  to that. When you introduced it, it required a conviction. I am just  wondering: What was your original logic, and why did you change your  mind about that, if you did? Maybe you didn't.

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I will reclaim my time.

I supported the original vision. It was basically unnecessary because  it was a restatement of what the law is, to put it all in one place, so  I could certainly support that.

Then your language was completely diluted in committee to open up  this huge, gaping hole to say that you don't need a criminal conviction  before deporting someone. We have enumerated the problems with that.

For one thing, it deprives victims of a crime the opportunity to be  heard and perhaps to get their restitution and to get their proper  justice in court.

Also, it sets a terrible precedent. This is the Thomas Jefferson  point. When we say we are going to have lesser standards relating to  immigrants, that then carries over to citizens. We have seen already in  this huge immigration roundup what that means in terms of the trampling  of the rights of our people under the Bill of Rights.

Mr. Speaker,

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for this lively debate. This bill  is redundant. It is unnecessary. It is dangerous in terms of eroding a  basic principle that we have, which is that there should be full due  process and people should not be deported without a criminal  conviction. The prosecution is  not always right, but also everybody should have their day in court,  including the victims.

At a time when we have seen Big Brother bloated beyond belief in  terms of budget and in terms of power, the last thing we should do is  to look for further ways to aggrandize the power of the executive  branch at this point.

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.