Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700496/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding  time.

Mr. Speaker, yes, use all lawful and constitutional means. I heard  one of our colleagues across the aisle just say: Well, yes, Article I,  Section 8, Clause 11 does give Congress the exclusive, plenary,  comprehensive power to declare  war and not the President, and we could be debating it, but the  President has already taken us to war, so it is too late. It would  undermine the cause for us to debate it.

What a humiliating, self-defeating argument for a Member of the  Article I branch of Congress to make. Don't my colleagues understand  that destroys our power to declare war if any President can plunge us  into a war and thereby defeat our exclusive, plenary power over it?

The Framers weren't fooling around when they did that. They knew that  the kings were constantly plunging their people into wars of deception,  conceit, plunder, imperial avarice, and fantasy. The kings were  constantly doing that. They didn't want to leave it up to one person to  decide whether to send a whole country to war and to put our sons and  daughters at risk.

That is an awesome and solemn responsibility that must be vested in  the Representatives of the people, all the people, which is why both  the House and the Senate are involved in it.

Whether my colleagues think this war is the most brilliant and  strategic breakthrough and moral cause since World War II, or they  think it is an absolute strategic blunder built on lies like the last  wars in Iraq or the war in Afghanistan, which cost thousands of lives  and more than $1 trillion, wherever my colleagues are on that policy  question, can we not agree as Members of the Article I branch that it  is up to us? We have to vote on it. We have to debate on it.

I am hearing very interesting and good arguments all over this  spectrum on this. That is why it is reposed in the Representatives of  the people to decide it. It is not Donald Trump, not JD Vance, not  Tulsi Gabbard, or anybody else in the executive branch. It is our  decision. Everybody should vote ``yes'' on this resolution.