Edward L. Ramsey Olney Post Office Building


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701607/edward-l-ramsey-olney-post-office-building


Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and the  gentleman from Texas for his remarks.

I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6310. This is a bipartisan  bill to rename the Olney Post Office after Sergeant Edward Lawrence  Ramsey.

Mr. Ramsey was a true American patriot. After serving honorably for  more than two decades in the U.S. Army, he brought his passionate  commitment to public service to Montgomery County, Maryland, where he  served as a postal clerk for 27 years, first in Glen Echo and then in  the beautiful town of Olney.

Mr. Ramsey's dedication to our community and his magnificent spirit  brought joy and connection to generations of families, friends,  community members, and colleagues throughout his career in the Postal  Service.

Many have shared with me inspiring stories of Mr. Ramsey's work in  the community. He often worked on the holidays to guarantee continued  stellar postal service. He would cover for colleagues who couldn't make  it to work because of a storm. He regularly dropped by the post office  to ensure that things were going well for his colleagues and for  customers even when he, himself, wasn't on duty. When a customer could  not afford postage, it was always Mr. Ramsey who always quickly covered  the cost out of his own pocket. He even helped resolve special after- hours requests for many customers whom he considered his friends.

It is no surprise for me to learn that visitors to the Olney Post  Office would often wait in his line, a longer line, just to visit with  him and to enjoy his vibrant and warm presence.

Mr. Ramsey's kindness and his enthusiasm for his work extended to his  postal colleagues who became like an extended family to him.

Mr. Ramsey was a dedicated and devoted husband to his wife of 31  years, Sharon Mosley Ramsey, and a proud father of four sons, Edward  Spencer, Lance Stanton, Hunter Shane, and Marcus.

Mr. Ramsey passed away in January of 2022 following a medical  emergency he experienced while on duty at the Olney Post Office. We  will hold his memory in our hearts, and we hope it will be a blessing  to his loved ones and family.

We are forever thankful to Mr. Ramsey for his 47 years of dedicated  service to our Nation and to our community in Maryland. Renaming this  post office the Edward L. Ramsey Olney Post Office Building will honor  Mr. Ramsey's outstanding life and legacy, and it will be a beacon to  people in our community forever.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of our colleagues to join me in supporting  H.R. 6310.