Expressing Support for Local Law Enforcement Officers


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691030/expressing-support-for-local-law-enforcement-officers


Mr. Speaker, this week, we welcome thousands of law enforcement  personnel to Washington for National Police Week. We remember officers  who lost their lives in service to our communities and our country, and  we thank all officers who work to keep us safe while reflecting on how  we can invest in law enforcement to better serve our communities.

Mr. Speaker, I rise to strongly support this resolution because we  strongly support our local law enforcement officers. Yet, we also  strongly support our State, Federal, and Tribal law enforcement  officers, as well. Why are these brave officers not part of this  resolution? This is a strange development.

In the last Congress, the 118th Congress, we passed H. Con. Res. 40  to honor local law enforcement. We also passed H. Res. 363 in 2023 to  recognize the police lives lost that year and the importance of funding  and supporting all law enforcement, Federal, State, county, and local.  These were followed by H. Con. Res. 106 and H. Res. 1213 in 2024, which  did the same.

This year the majority has chosen to have us solely recognizing local  law enforcement. Why is that? What explains this strange omission of  the Federal police officers who serve us?

With President Trump back in office, the majority apparently now sees  fit to honor only local officers and not the Federal law enforcement  officers who fought so valiantly to protect every Member of this body  and the Senate, our staffs, and our democracy on January 6, 2021.  Apparently, their commitment to backing the blue is so weak that they  now won't even mention Federal officers because they have to maintain  the pretense that Capitol officers did something wrong by defending us  against the violent rampage of the Proud Boys, the Oath Keepers, the  Three Percenters, and other extremist marauders who stormed the U.S.  House of Representatives and the Senate.

Is that right or will the majority please prepare a resolution  honoring Federal law enforcement, as well that we can bring to the  floor?

This is one troubling sign among many of an ideological abandonment  of our Federal law enforcement officers and there are more than 137,000  of them, not just the Capitol Police.

Speaker Johnson still refuses to hang a simple plaque honoring those  officers as is required by Federal law. The bill mandating the creation  and placement of the plaque, H.R. 2471, was signed into law on March  15, 2022, and the plaque was supposed to have been erected within 1  year of that, March 15, 2023.

The plaque is finished, it is ready to be placed, and it looks like  this. It reads: ``On behalf of a grateful Congress, this plaque honors  the extraordinary individuals who bravely protected and defended this  symbol of democracy on January 6th, 2021. Their heroism will never be  forgotten.''

Well, it seems it is already being forgotten by the GOP majority or  at least they want us to forget it. Are my friends so captive to  conspiracy theories and revisionist fantasies about January 6 that they  will not do the bare minimum to honor the police officers who fought  tooth and nail to protect every person in this room who was there,  including Members on my side of the aisle and Members on the other side  of the aisle?

The people we are failing to honor by not hanging this plaque include  at least 140 police officers who were beaten with poles, bats, American  flags, Trump flags, Confederate battle flags, and their own shields.  These are people who lost fingertips. They suffered concussions, broken  jaws, and broken ribs. They had heart attacks and strokes. They  sustained multiple other violent injuries and suffer from them, many of  them, to this day, in one of the worst days of injuries for law  enforcement officers in the United States in this century.

This affront is now adding further symbolic insult to the grievous  injury that began at the beginning of this administration. President  Trump granted full pardons to more than 1,500 insurrectionists and  rioters and commuted the sentence of the rightwing extremists who  spearheaded the attack on this Chamber and on the police officers who  defended us.

More than 600 of those defendants whose pardons are full, complete,  and unconditional were charged with assaulting or obstructing law  enforcement officers. Now President Trump, backed by his own Justice  Department, thinks that the violent insurrectionists should be  compensated, not the police officers, but rather the people who  perpetrated this assault on America.

President Trump said: A lot of the people in the government really  like that group of people. He is creating a compensation fund not for  the officers  and their families who fought and suffered and several died to save our  country but for the domestic terrorists, as leaders of the Republican  Party described them at the time, who tried to destroy it.

That is the decision, to cast his lot with the Proud Boys and other  extremists that he incited on that day.

Many of the officers who served on January 6 feel betrayed by the  officials whose lives they saved that day. Take former U.S. Capitol  Police Sergeant Aquilino Gonell who was nearly crushed to death on  January 6.

Sergeant Gonell is an Army veteran from the Iraq war and was  upholding his oath to defend and protect the seat of our Nation's  government. He said he saw violence on that day here at the Capitol far  worse than anything he experienced fighting for America abroad.

Despite the fact that he and many other officers nearly lost their  lives and now face lifelong injuries that have forced him out of the  line of police work, they still cannot get approved for Public Safety  Officers' Benefits, which provide disability benefits to officers  catastrophically injured in the line of duty.

As Sergeant Gonell recently told my staff, Trump is treating the  rioters like they were the ones defending the Capitol. He noted that at  every turn when Republicans could honor the bravery of law enforcement  officers that day, they have instead chosen to do nothing.

Of course, if my colleagues across the aisle want to focus on local  law enforcement, then I might ask why we are simply honoring them with  this concurrent resolution and not taking more meaningful action, like  restoring millions of dollars in Federal grants that help support them  that were recently terminated by the Department of Justice at the  direction of DOGE and Elon Musk.

Those grants supported programs like the rural violent crime  reduction initiative, which delivered financial assistance directly to  dozens of rural law enforcement agencies across America and allowed  agencies to upgrade technology and equipment, hire and deploy  personnel, support victim services and crime prevention programming,  and fill in other gaps in policing for small, rural, underfunded police  agencies.

We should be grateful for all of our officers, Federal, State,  county, and local, who help keep us safe while people are in their  communities and while Members of Congress come to Washington, D.C. We  should be grateful for all of them.

Let's join together to uplift all law enforcement officers whether  they are local or State, Tribal, or Federal, and let's support them  symbolically with our words but more importantly with our actions.  Let's restore all of the funding, the hundreds of millions of dollars  that have been cut or that face cuts by this new administration.

Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to hear the distinguished chairman of the  Judiciary Committee denounce the assault, the violent assault, on  Congress, the Capitol, our police officers on January 6, 2021. I wonder  if he would work with me to help enforce the law that was signed on  March 15, 2022 by President Biden for a plaque to be placed in honor of  the police officers who served us so valiantly and so bravely and saved  our lives on that day.

It was supposed to have been up by March 15, 2023, and the Speaker  simply has remained noncommittal and indifferent. The plaque is  actually completed. It is ready to be put up. We can show it again. It  is not as big as this poster, but it is the smallest token of  recognition and honor that we should be able to extend to the Capitol  officers, many of whom are still with us on the force, for their  sacrifice and the sacrifice that their families made based on their  work that day defending us.

I wonder if the chairman of the Judiciary Committee would follow  through on his very impressive statement that we all denounce the  violence of any kind against officers, including the more than 140  Capitol officers who were wounded, injured, hospitalized, some of them  permanently disfigured and maimed on that day as well as officers  around the country.

Now, on the point about defunding the police. Look who is defunding  the police: Elon Musk, Donald Trump, and their silent partners in  Congress are defunding the police. They just terminated $500 million  worth of grants, lost funding from the Department of Justice providing  Federal support for local violence reduction by community police,  community policing and prosecution, victim services, juvenile justice,  child protection, substance abuse and mental health treatment,  corrections and reentry, justice systems enhancements, research and  evaluation, and  other State, county, and local level public police and safety  functions.

I brought this to the attention of the Judiciary Committee because,  again, this was an operation by DOGE. We have got a Federal District  Court opinion from northern California saying that DOGE basically has  no legal status because it wasn't created by Congress. It might be a  completely renegade operation in an attempt to create a fourth branch  of government.

In any event, those of us who voted for the money, and that is people  on both sides of the aisle, voted for the money to be distributed by  the Department of Justice to local grantees didn't even know about  this. I shared with the chairman and with all the members of the  committee, the one name of the DOGE employee, an unelected bureaucrat,  a juvenile bureaucrat from Silicon Valley who worked his way up through  Tesla and so on, and they ended up in DOGE, cut hundreds of millions of  dollars to local police. They defunded the police.

DOGE defunded the police. Donald Trump defunded the police. I  introduced an amendment to try to restore every single grant that they  cut off in severing that Federal investment in local police.

My colleagues uttered not a word, not a word in opposition to my  amendment, but they all voted against it simply because they are  walking the line with Elon Musk right off the edge of the Constitution  because there is no constitutional grounding for anything that guy is  doing.

They walked the line behind Elon Musk and Donald Trump, and they just  defunded hundreds of millions of dollars from community law enforcement  and public safety, so don't give me that lecture about defunding the  police, which our side has never supported, but their side has just  colluded in right now in terms of what the Department of Justice did.

That doesn't even get into their attempt to dismantle completely the  ATF, shut down critical functions in the Department of Justice that  protect us from foreign involvement in our elections, to take down the  kleptocracy task force and so on. I don't want any lectures coming in  our direction, either.

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I will start just by asking my friend from  Ohio whether he is referring to me when he uses the word ``you'' or if  he is referring more generally to some other people because I would  categorically deny having done any of those things.

Mr. RASKIN. I yield to the gentleman from Ohio.

Well, the gentleman refers exclusively--and I think he is aware of  this because he is an extremely clever debater--to things that  different local governments did or did not do. I don't know what  Denver, Colorado, or Burlington, Vermont, did. I know what the United  States Congress does, and we never defunded the police, and we never  tried to defund the police.

On the other hand, my good friend, I believe, participated in--and if  he didn't, I am happy to stand corrected, but I know a bunch of his  colleagues said they wanted to defund the FBI, just like those who want  to defund the ATF and shut it down right now, so that is a reality.

In any event, why don't we talk about what Congress can actually do?  The President's new budget proposes to cut--so this is something that  my colleague and I could agree on--$1 billion across 40 Department of  Justice grant programs which support local police departments to reduce  violent crime, hate crime, and crime against women.

Would my colleague work with me to oppose that suggestion in the  President's budget? They want to cut $646 million from FEMA for  violence and terrorism prevention. Why do they want to do that? I have  no idea.

They want to cut $545 million from the FBI, cutting its workforce by  more than 2,000 personnel. That sounds like defunding law enforcement  to me.

I know they don't seem to be as fond of Federal law enforcement as  they are of local law enforcement, but do they really want to cut more  than half a billion dollars from the FBI to be fighting criminals and  terrorists? For the life of me, I don't understand how they can do that  while they swear fealty to law enforcement. It just makes no sense.

They want to cut $491 million from the Cybersecurity and  Infrastructure Security Agency, making our cyber and physical  infrastructure far more vulnerable to attack by foreign bad actors like  Vladimir Putin and President Xi and Kim Jong-un. I know there are some  people in high levels of office who are fond of those people, who write  valentines to Kim Jong-Un, but the rest of us would like to be  protected from them. We shouldn't be dismantling the cybersecurity  infrastructure of America.

They want to cut $212 million from the DEA. Can you imagine? If a  Democratic President had proposed any of this, they would be screaming,  their hair would be on fire, but Donald Trump proposed it, and they  just mumble along like it is no big deal.

What about all of these efforts to defund Federal law enforcement,  like the DOJ, FEMA, FBI? Will our colleagues work with us to restore  that money?

Yes, the record is becoming increasingly clear here. My colleagues  don't want to do anything about the dismantling of hundreds of millions  of dollars of funds that we appropriated at the Department of Justice  that have been mysteriously deleted by a DOGE employee from local law  enforcement. These are grants that go to local police departments and  victim assistance agencies all over the country. They got rid of that.

Then the President comes forward with a budget that will cut more  than $1.5 billion, maybe $2 billion from local law enforcement to go  after violent crime, hate crime, to defend the victims of rape and  sexual assault, and my colleague changes the subject once again to talk  about weaponization.

We have never seen weaponization of the government like what we have  seen under Donald Trump and his Department of Justice. The first thing  they did was they got rid of a dozen experienced veteran criminal  prosecutors in the U.S. Attorney's office and the Department of Justice  simply because they had worked to prosecute January 6 insurrectionists  and rioters.

Yes, let me repeat that. They fired prosecutors for doing nothing  more than their jobs to prosecute the criminals who beat the daylights  out of our police officers, and they sacked all of those prosecutors.  They were some of the most experienced veteran prosecutors that we have  in the U.S. Attorney's office. Then he named to be the acting U.S.  Attorney Ed Martin. He was just forced to withdraw that nomination  because he was standing by a Neo-Nazi Holocaust revisionist who said  that Hitler's problem was that he didn't finish the job. He also said  that those who are born with disabilities should be killed at birth. Ed  Martin called him a great man and a great leader.

He withdrew the nomination, but still he put Ed Martin in the  Department of Justice in a position that is not subject to Senate  confirmation. They have weaponized the Department of Justice. They have  weaponized the Department of State. They are going after anybody they  describe as a political enemy. Ed Martin was writing letters to Members  of Congress when he didn't like what they had to say.

We have never seen weaponization of the government like what is  taking place right now. They took the U.S. Pardon Attorney Liz Oyer,  and they sacked her because she refused to take the position that Mel  Gibson should get his guns back. That wasn't part of her job, but they  tried to conscript her to it. The pardon attorney refused to do it  because she said that was not her job and there were too many questions  about domestic violence episodes.

If you want to have a separate hearing on weaponization of the  government under Donald Trump, let's do it. In the meantime, let's  support local law enforcement and let's support Federal law  enforcement. Let's have another resolution praising all law enforcement  for what they do, and let's get that plaque up.