Leosa Reform Act


Mr. Speaker, this is Police Week. In colloquial terms, it is Law  Enforcement Week. Traditionally, we do two things in Law Enforcement  Week. One, we recognize the valor, the sacrifices, and the commitment  of the police officers who serve our communities, who serve us in  Congress, and who serve across the country.

Two, we try to think of ways we actually can assist them in doing  their jobs better so we can make their work more effective and safer,  and we can make the police function generally more efficacious for the  American people.

Unfortunately, with this bill, we are not doing either. In fact, the  majority is really falling down on the job in terms of both of those  major objectives.

In 2022, on March 15, we passed H.R. 2471, to post in the Capitol on  the west side of the Capitol a plaque in honor of the hundreds of  police officers who nobly served us on January 6, 2021 when our  institution, when our democracy, came under attack by Proud Boys, Oath  Keepers, and other violent extremists who stormed the Capitol, drove  Members of the House of Representatives out of our Chamber, drove  Members of the Senate out of their Chamber, and attempted to overthrow  a Presidential election.

Now, the new administration has seen fit to pardon more than 1,500  rioters and violent insurrectionists who attempted to overthrow our  constitutional form of government on that day, and they succeeded in  bloodying, wounding, injuring, and hospitalizing more than 140 police  officers on January 6. Several officers died in the subsequent weeks,  and several people died on that day.

Now, we have passed a law, not a recommendation, not an idle promise,  and not a suggestion in a suggestion box, we passed a law to post this  plaque in the U.S. Capitol. Yet Speaker Johnson has done absolutely  nothing to post this plaque.

I know that some of my colleagues think that they are being most  effective when they are doing nothing. This is a Congress that is  getting a reputation for being perhaps the greatest do-nothing Congress  in the history of the United States. Here is one thing that this  Congress can do, which is to post this plaque which reads: ``On behalf  of a grateful Congress, this plaque honors the extraordinary  individuals who bravely protected and defended this symbol of democracy  on January 6, 2021. Their heroism will never be forgotten.''

What extraordinary irony that is. Their heroism is already being  forgotten, or at least there are some people who would like us to  forget their heroism. That is on the symbolic front, because everybody  wants to pay lip service to the police, and everybody wants to say that  we honor them. Let's really honor them.

Let's put up a permanent plaque for future generations of Americans  to see that these officers risked their lives for the people in this  Chamber, for the Members of the House and the Senate, for the  leadership of the House and the Senate, for the staff who work here,  and for the reporters who work here.

We have many officers who have had to leave the police service  because they have been wounded and disfigured permanently by the  injuries they suffered at the hands of these people. This is the very  least we can do at a time when the President of the United States says  that he wants to create a fund for January 6, not a fund for Michael  Fanone who had a heart attack and had to beg for his life; not a fund  for Sergeant Gonell who was forced out of the force because of  permanent injuries and now is living on a fraction of the salary he had  before trying to support his family; not a fund for Officer Hodges who  was tortured in the eyes of the world, who got caught in the doorway  while the insurrectionists beat him with all of their weapons that they  brought back that day.

No, it is not a fund for them that President Trump is suggesting. He  wants a fund for the rioters. He wants a fund for the families of the  insurrectionists.

As Sergeant Gonell said recently, it seems like he believes that the  rioters and the insurrectionists were the ones defending the Capitol on  that day.

Let's get this plaque up. We voted for it on an overwhelmingly  bipartisan basis.

I appeal to Speaker Johnson to enforce the law even if he doesn't  like it anymore and even if he changed his mind about the plaque. This  is the law. Let's get it up there.

Now, secondly, we should be talking about how we could actually aid,  abet, and assist law enforcement officers in their work. Unfortunately,  we have not had from the majority a single bill that  they are willing to bring to the floor to increase any funding for  local law enforcement. On the contrary, the emissaries from DOGE--and  here I don't necessarily hold my colleagues accountable for this  because they didn't seem to know about it any more than we did--but the  functionaries of DOGE slashed more than $500 million that the  Department of Justice was giving to local police departments across the  country, community safety groups, and organizations assisting victims  of rape and sexual assault.

As far as we can tell, one person in DOGE, one unelected, midnight  bureaucrat whose career was made with Elon Musk, who seems to have  skipped town now, that guy cut out hundreds of millions of dollars of  aid to local law enforcement and community safety groups across  America.

I introduced an amendment in the budget reconciliation process in the  Judiciary Committee to restore all of that money. Not a single Member,  neither a Democrat nor a Republican, spoke against it, and my  Republican colleagues did not say a word, but they all voted against  it. They voted to uphold that nasty handiwork of DOGE slashing hundreds  of millions of dollars, which we appropriated on a bipartisan basis in  the House, in the Senate, and it was signed by the President,  programmed by the Department of Justice and awarded to their  communities, my community, your communities, communities across the  country, and one young person, a midnight computer hacker from DOGE,  Elon Musk's emissary, destroyed all of it, more than 300 grants.

Now they come forward with a budget for next year that would cut more  than $1 billion out of law enforcement: FBI, Department of Justice, and  ATF, you name it, Mr. Speaker, right down the line. I will have some  more to say about that after.

So what do we have?

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill. In 2004, Congress  passed LEOSA, a law that allows both off-duty and retired officers to  carry concealed firearms irrespective of State law. It compelled all  States to allow off-duty and retired officers to carry concealed  firearms under the terms set by Congress overriding the rules of the  State.

Now, when Congress debated it 20 years ago, members of the Judiciary  Committee on both sides of the aisle expressed anxiety about the bill  trespassing on the rights of the States to decide on gun laws for  themselves. The Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee at the  time, Congressman Sensenbrenner, opposed LEOSA for the reason of  federalism and State rights. He voted against it. Several police groups  opposed the legislation expressing concerns about how it would affect  officer safety, how it would create confusion in the event of an active  shooter, how it might expose their agencies to more liability, and the  insufficiency of training requirements for retired officers.

Despite all of that, LEOSA became the law after Congress legislated  some important limits on it and imposed commonsense training  requirements on the former officers. Those have been in place for more  than 20 years.

Now, H.R. 2243 would terminate the realm of discretion that States  have to limit when and where individuals may carry their concealed  firearms under LEOSA. It would force States to allow off-duty and  retired officers to carry concealed firearms onto all private property  open to the public, including restaurants, bars, parks, national parks,  and playgrounds. It would also force States to allow off-duty and  retired officers to carry concealed firearms on buses, trains, and  subways. It would even force States to allow for the concealed carry of  firearms in gun-free school zones. It also allows the off-duty and  retired officers to completely disregard State laws prohibiting high- capacity magazines.

This legislation not only supersedes the considered policy judgments  of the States, but it threatens the safety and security of Federal  agencies by forcing them to allow concealed carry in many Federal  buildings. Forcing Federal offices and buildings to allow concealed  carry is a completely unnecessary and dangerous risk.

The legislation also weakens training standards. Under current law, a  person carrying a firearm must meet State training requirements every  year, but this bill would allow individuals to do concealed carry with  training certifications obtained every 3 years. This is troubling given  that the bill extends nationwide concealed carry to retired officers  who are no longer receiving the training that accompanies their old  employment.

Our colleagues have different reasons that they advance for this,  which I think are pretty refutable. In the big picture, this bill does  nothing for existing police officers right now. It does nothing to  enhance public safety, and our friends have completely missed the mark  I think in terms of what law enforcement week should be all about.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate my distinguished colleague's suggestion  that I may have the wisdom of somebody who has been here for 21 years,  but actually I wasn't here either. I got it just from the books myself.

I was here, I should say, in 2021, when the Chamber was stormed, and  that is a day I will never forget. Forgive my passion on the point of  getting that plaque up. I wish our colleagues would just help us  convince the Speaker of the House that this is something that is  simple, and it should be done. It is not a partisan issue.

On that day, we were not Democrats or Republicans. We were Americans,  and we were legislators together being hounded and chased out of this  Chamber by people who did not accept the constitutional rules of the  game.

To me, it is a matter of great regret and melancholy that somehow it  has become politicized to the point where people can't even acknowledge  what they were saying at the time. We had Republican leaders who were  describing it as terrorism and saying it was absolutely inexcusable and  indefensible. Now, all of a sudden, we have the majority which will not  even follow the law by posting a plaque in honor of the officers who  gave blood and sweat and tears on that day.

One of them, Officer Hodges got caught in the doorway. The whole  world saw him screaming to high heaven for probably--I don't know if it  was 45 seconds or maybe it was up to 90 seconds, as he was being beaten  and pummeled, and he was being crushed in the doorway. When they  finally dislodged him, they took him back where they were taking the  officers. We were very short-handed. They wanted to tell him to just  stay there and wash his eyes out. He took about 5 to 10 minutes while  they were pouring water in his eyes, and he got up. Do you know what he  did? He went back outside, and he rejoined the battle because he said  he  knew that they needed him. We were outmanned, and we were outflanked by  the forces of violence that came down on us on that day.

That is the kind of bravery that we should be at least acknowledging,  if not praising. I know at the time we thanked them for saving our  lives, and people did die that day. Again, there were more than 140  officers who were wounded and brutalized and injured, and many  still have the physical injuries and scars that they are dealing with,  as well as the mental scars, because there is a lot of post-traumatic  stress disorder.

Several of the officers who were there had been in the Iraq war, and  they had been in the Afghan war. They testified before the January 6th  Select Committee, and several of them testified they had never seen  violence as brutal and as bloody as what took place on January 6, 2021,  with the various extremist groups that came and led the attack on the  Chamber and then gave bloody instructions to the rest of the mob about  how to treat police officers in their effort to go and ``hang Mike  Pence.'' That was the chant. I can still hear in my mind, ringing off  the walls of the Capitol: ``Hang Mike Pence.'' ``Hang Mike Pence.''  ``Where's Nancy?'' ``Where's Nancy?''

We are not going to allow this to be buried into some kind of  Orwellian memory hall. We have got a law requiring that that plaque go  up, and we are going to see that that plaque goes up and that the law  is enforced.

As for the LEOSA reform, again, it doesn't even purport to do  anything for police and law enforcement. Today, it would, I suppose,  increase some of the mobility of retired officers, off-duty officers to  go to places like restaurants, bars, public parks, national parks,  metros and buses, and so on, if they are police. I think that that  should be decided by our communities, whether people are doing  concealed carry there.

I thought that a belief in federalism was something that unifies us.  That is something that the State governments can decide in cooperation  with the local governments. The Congress of the United States does not  need to be making decisions about restaurants in Charleston, South  Carolina, or bars in El Paso, Texas, or what have you. Why don't we let  the people of the States and the localities make those decisions.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for his excellent presentation of  the bill. I wish it were one that we could be together on, but I think  it just goes way too far in terms of trespassing on States' rights and  States' powers. We have a nice equilibrium and stasis in terms of where  the law has been for the last two decades, and this seems unnecessary.  It does seem to me like a diversion from the things we actually could  be doing to be making the lives of police officers safer.

The reason why so many police organizations are with 90 percent of  the American people in supporting a universal violent criminal  background check is because nobody should be accessing guns, any kind  of gun, if they are not able to pass the Brady background check. That  background check has saved countless lives since it was instituted. The  reason the vast majority of the people support it is because we need to  close those loopholes. You should not be able to skip a background  check by finding a gun online. You should not be able to skip a  background check by going to a private gun show or engaging in a so- called private sale or transfer.

We need a universal violent criminal background check. That will do  far more than anything we are looking at today to make the lives of  police officers better, to make their jobs easier, because they are on  the frontlines of these killing fields across the country.

America's rates of gun violence are completely out of control when  compared to the nations in the European Union or Canada, our next-door  neighbor. We are losing 5, 10, or 20 times the number of people that  the residents of those countries are losing because our gun laws are  like Swiss cheese. They are filled with holes. Let's close those  loopholes. It doesn't diminish anybody's Second Amendment rights.

Justice Scalise said it himself in District of Columbia v. Heller.  You can have criminal background checks to make sure that only the  right people are getting guns and not the wrong people are getting  guns. There are things we can do to improve public safety and to assist  police officers, and we should be working on those.

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.