President Trump's Attack on the Federal Workforce


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694772/president-trumps-attack-on-the-federal-workforce


Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, at the beginning of this Congress, nearly  60,000 of my constituents in Maryland's beautiful Eighth District woke  up every morning to serve their country in the federal government.  Today, thousands of professional civil service employees, among them  cancer researchers, climate experts, food safety inspectors, air  traffic controllers and civil rights lawyers, have been illegally fired  or forced to retire from a job they loved and in which they excelled.  They are victims of the Trump Administration's drive to gut our  government and sell it for parts while replacing the professional civil  service with unqualified political sycophants.

One of my constituents working at the National Institutes of Health  wrote this summer about what it's been like to be a federal worker  during a period of administrative chaos and vicious attacks on federal  workers. This achingly beautiful and stirring essay drives home how the  loss of her service and the service of her colleagues will affect all  Americans. I include in the Record her essay as we return to session  this September, so that my colleagues and all Americans can read it and  reflect on the enormity of President Trump's attack on the federal  workforce.              What it is Like to be a Federal Employee in 2025

(Commentary published in the Federal News Network on June 13, 2025)

I remember driving with my father down Rockville Pike in       Bethesda, Maryland as a little girl. We would pass a large       campus of impressive buildings called the National Institutes       of Health. I told my dad I would work there one day. He said       no, that place was for doctors and scientists. I knew I would       find a way.

Many years later, I did. In March 2008, I began my journey       at NIH, working with several institutes until I found my home       at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and       Stroke. I stated in the Division of Translational Research,       then moved to the Division of Clinical Research, where I       remain today.

How proud I have been to work alongside titans of the       scientific community. Dr. Francis Collins, physician and       former director of the National Institutes of Health and the       National Human Genome Research Institute, led the NIH with       vision, dedication and hope. Dr. Anthony Fauci, physician and       immunologist, served as director of the National Institute of       Allergy and Infectious Diseases and Chief Medical Advisor to       seven different presidential administrations.

NIH scientists have made major contributions to health and       medical science for over 100 years, including 163 Nobel       laureates, 214 winners of the Lasker-DeBakey Clinical Medical       Research Award, and more than 200 members of the U.S.       National Academies of Science and Medicine. Non-scientists       like myself are essential to NIH's day-to-day operations and       key to understanding the institution's history and mission.       It had been the happiest and proudest time in my long career.

Everything changed in 2025.

The Trump administration cut billions of dollars in       biomedical research funding, resulting in dire consequences       for the scientific research community, including universities       and medical centers. This action has crippled lifesaving       research and innovation. I was once so proud to say I worked       for the world's premier biomedical research facility. All of       that has changed.

Diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives were scrubbed       away at the direction of this new administration, as though       they were dirty words. Donald Trump created the Department of       Government Efficiency and put Elon Musk at its head. In       record time, Musk moved from disrupting social media and       automotive industries to targeting the federal government       itself.

The indignities were swift and demoralizing. We were       required to provide weekly accounts of ``five things'' we       accomplished, as though our decades of service meant nothing.       They dictated what we could use in our email signatures and       instilled paranoia in every aspect of our jobs--all with the       support of the man elected to lead our country.

In a shocking turn of events, Musk shut down the U.S.       Agency for International Development. The impact was       immediate: food and crucial medications abandoned in       warehouses, vital programs closed, workers laid off. The U.S.       government, once known for humanitarian assistance, quickly       transformed into something unrecognizable. It is estimated       that over 300,000 people, including children, have died       because of this decision. But that would not be their worst       offense.

The Trump administration canceled grants at NIH, fired       intramural researchers, and planned to cut billions in       indirect costs. What they fail to understand is that federal       funding for biomedical research is central to healthcare       innovation. The dismantling of this once-great institution       will adversely affect American and global lives for years to       come. They stripped away vital departments like human       resources and acquisitions. There is no one to answer       personnel questions, and we are expected to perform without       basic supplies. This is not a well-thought-out plan, but       something executed with malice by an organization supposedly       focused on eliminating waste, fraud and abuse.

On February 14, 2025, scientists and medical researchers       began to be dismissed by President Trump's administration.       They were told it was due to probationary status and poor job       performance. Nothing could be further from the truth. I know       because one of them was my son.

This is as much his story as mine. He worked as a       contractor for nearly twenty years at NIH, helping to run a       lab at the National Cancer Institute. He devoted himself to       cancer research after watching my father die from lung and       brain cancer. While not a scientist himself, he was popular,       well-respected and beloved for his hard work and dedication.

Less than two years ago, in recognition for his service, he       was converted from contractor to federal employee. We were so       proud. On a day ironically devoted to love, my son was yanked       from the position he cared about and discarded like garbage.       He was a dedicated worker with the highest possible rating on       his yearly performance appraisals. His staff and senior       leadership were shocked, dismayed and bereft at losing such       an important team member.

My son delivered this news with a crack in his voice,       something that will bring any mother to her knees. He felt as       though a piece of his soul was destroyed. He immediately       filed an appeal with the Merit Systems Protection Board. Four       months later, he has heard nothing.

For these four months, my once cheerful, talkative son has       become withdrawn, sad and       rightfully prone to despair. He describes his treatment as       diminishing, brutal and humiliating. Initially, he kept in       constant contact with his former team, who continue to       support and miss him. Now, we have agreed never to speak of       NIH or the current administration as it is simply too much to       bear.

The National Institutes of Health limps along on invisible       crutches, its significance on life support, its staff feeling       diminished, dazed and confused. When this madness will end is       anyone's guess. With the Department of Health and Human       Services under Robert Kennedy Jr.'s direction and our country       steered by leaders who seem intent on destruction rather than       progress, there is little to hope for.

They say that change and grief are cousins. Indeed, they       are inseparable companions in these dark times for federal       service and scientific advancement.      A federal employee.