Proposing An Amendment to the Constitution of the United States Requiring A Balanced Budget for the Federal Government


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700932/proposing-an-amendment-to-the-constitution-of-the-united-states-requiring-a-balanced-budget-for-the-federal-government


I rise to oppose H.J. Res. 139, a feeble attempt by the President's  budget-busting, blank-check enablers in Congress to distract America  from their own staggering and historic fiscal irresponsibility.

Everyone knows they control the House. They control the Senate. They  control the White House, and they have used their total power over our  Federal Government to drive our country into a deep ditch of deficits,  debt, illegal tariffs, undeclared wars, and economic destruction.

After adding $4 trillion to our national debt with their tax breaks  for the super rich, every Republican in the Chamber but Representatives  Massie and Davidson voted to allow President Trump to keep spending  between 1 and $2 billion every day, not of his own money but of our  money, on his unauthorized and unconstitutional war in Iran, without so  much as a single vote or a single honest debate on the floor of the  House.

This war of choice and aggression, which is spiraling out of control  now in the Middle East, and which President Trump now calls this  ``little excursion,'' has already cost 13 American servicemembers their  lives and wounded over 200 Americans in uniform, while killing more  than a thousand Iranian civilians, including 170 children at a girls'  school that was bombed in the first week of Donald Trump's war.

But still our colleagues sit there passive, invertebrate, and  complicit in the face of this brazen usurpation of congressional war  powers, rising from their constitutional stupor only to vote ``no'' on  our War Powers Resolution, which every self-respecting Member of the  Article I branch should have voted for.

The administration reports that the first 6 days of this war cost the  taxpayers $11.3 billion, or $1.9 billion a day.

Have Republicans come to the floor to explain why this war was  necessary or to offer evidence of an imminent threat posed to the  American people?

Have they asked for a special Iran war tax to demonstrate their  fiscal responsibility?

No. They just put Trump's little excursion, as he calls it, on the  national credit card like an impulse trip to Disney World.

But our constituents are paying through the nose for this historic  folly right now, not just as taxpayers but as consumers. We have  already been buffeted by Donald Trump's illegal tariffs and imbecilic  trade wars against the rest of the world and the soaring cost of living  under his corrupt economic policies. Now, we also have to contend with  skyrocketing gasoline prices thanks to their foolish disruption of the  global oil supply. Gas prices have shot up more than 25 percent since  the lawless mullah theocrats of Iran shut down the Strait of Hormuz  after the lawless MAGA theocrats of America bombed Iran.

Now, our Republican colleagues present a doomed proposal to deface  our Constitution with the same kind of witless, self-incriminating  graffiti someone recently scrawled on the exterior front wall of the  Kennedy Center, which they call the Trump-Kennedy Center.

This proposed constitutional amendment pretends to address a problem  that the Republicans created and that Republicans have refused to  address legislatively, even though they have all the political control  and all the legislative tools they need at their disposal to address  it.

We don't need a balanced budget constitutional amendment. We just  need a balanced budget. If you believe in a balanced budget, bring us  one. Show it to us. You control the Congress. But don't start a fiscal  wildfire with your out-of-control spending and then throw the  Constitution into the flames, too.

If this proposed amendment were in effect today, the GOP-controlled  Congress would be forced to pay for Trump's war by further cutting  critical programs for America's working families.

If we gain the majority and try to repeal the trillion-dollar tax cut  that they handed to the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans, we would  have to get a two-thirds vote in the House and a two-thirds vote in the  Senate in order to engage in an act of fiscal responsibility. But if  they wanted to pass another trillion-dollar tax cut for Elon Musk and  the richest Americans, they would only need to get a majority vote in  the House and the Senate.

Mr. Speaker, even Republicans are denouncing the gigantic, runaway  deficits that result from out-of-control Republican spending and  stupendously reckless Republican tax cuts for billionaires and giant  corporations.

One of our GOP colleagues, Representative Chip Roy, described their  One Big Beautiful Bill Act as garbage prior to the House vote, saying:  ``If we're going to do the tax policy, at least do the spending policy.  Have the courage and the fortitude to do what you campaign on when  you're talking about balancing the dang budget.''

Representative Roy's outrage makes sense. Republicans control the  House. They control the Senate, and they control the White House. Yet  they have not once balanced the Federal budget or even tried to present  a balanced budget to Congress.

Their obscene, ugly, profligate law added a jaw-dropping $4 trillion  to the national debt because of their massive giveaways to billionaires  and corporations, which is the true political mission on their side of  the aisle.

They paid for a fraction of their profligacy by stripping health  insurance and food assistance from tens of millions of working-class  Americans who are now living with these Marie Antoinette policies  concocted by billionaires and cyber barons throwing Great Gatsby  parties at Mar-a-Lago and bulldozing the White House to build  themselves one more gilded ballroom.

Now, rather than showing some discipline and hard work and reversing  some of their terrible fiscal blunders from the past to propose an  actual balanced budget, no, they waste their time to keep the party  going by inviting us to spend the day finger painting on the  Constitution of the United States.

To observe the semiquincentennial of the country, they want us to use  our Constitution to make them do what they claim they want to do but  refuse to do at a time when they possess all the power they need to do  it.

With the same foresight and expert planning, the White House has used  in their chaotic, forever war in Iran, they will put our government  into a fiscal straitjacket forever to cover up for their gilded  incompetence and misplaced priorities.

It would mean, for example, that a responsible leader, like Franklin  D. Roosevelt or Bill Clinton, would no longer have the flexibility to  deal with economic crises created by Republicans like Herbert Hoover or  Calvin Coolidge or George W. Bush.

The simple truth is that we don't need a constitutional amendment to  balance the budget or have responsible fiscal policies.

They have got one-party control of every branch of government. They  have never stopped talking about balanced budgets.

Why don't they just bring us one? That is all we need to do.

However, billionaire rip-off artists like Elon Musk or Peter Thiel  don't get rich off balanced budgets. They get rich when the GOP opens  the spigots of taxpayer money in Federal Government contracts and  giveaways for billionaires and the high-flying, rent-seeking corporate  class.

Republicans have run up historic corrupt deficits in this Congress  and have never once submitted a single balanced budget. We don't need a  constitutional amendment to force the majority to do the right thing.  We need a new majority. Republicans may as well introduce a  constitutional amendment saying that Federal agents shouldn't shoot  American citizens in the face for exercising their First or Second  Amendment rights, or a constitutional amendment saying Federal agents  shouldn't shoot someone 10 times for lawfully carrying a firearm in  Minneapolis.

Mr. Speaker, you don't need a constitutional amendment to respect the  law, and you don't need a constitutional amendment to do the right  thing for the American people. You just need a new majority, and, Mr.  Speaker, it is coming.

Mr. Speaker, I am glad that the gentleman from Arizona has conceded  that the last time we had a balanced budget was under President Bill  Clinton, the elected Democratic President for two terms who turned over  a surplus of hundreds of billions of dollars to his successor in  office. Compare that to President Trump who has been President for a  total of around 5\1/2\ years and has added one-quarter of the national  debt from George Washington all the way to today. One-quarter of that  has come from Donald Trump himself. Mr. Speaker, look not at what they  say but at what they do. That is because it is the Democrats who have  always been the party of fiscal responsibility. Like they are doing in  their Iran war right now, they are spending us into oblivion without  even coming to Congress to get the war declared. It is unauthorized-- much less telling us how they are going to pay for it other than  putting it on a credit card for our children and our children's  children to pay for many generations into the future.

Yes, it is unchecked Federal spending by President Trump, who is  spending up to $2 billion a day on an undeclared, unauthorized, and  unconstitutional war in Iran.

Our colleagues won't utter a peep about it, and they won't bring us a  balanced budget, but they will bring us a balanced budget  constitutional amendment.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for that refreshing intervention  in the debate, but I think, as the President Clinton example  demonstrates, we can have and we have had the political will at  different points to balance the budget.

It is not politically impossible, but it does start with some people  taking some courageous votes.

For example, let's vote on whether or not we should be at war in  Iran, costing the American people $1 billion to $2 billion a day. If  you can't even have the courage to decide that we will exercise our  warmaking powers and our power to declare war under Article I, Section  8, and our spending power to do it, then nothing will save you, I am  sorry.

You can pass a constitutional amendment saying don't shoot people in  the face, but still, you have to tell ICE not to shoot people in the  face. You have to demonstrate your commitment to actually making that  policy real.

Mr. Speaker, I am charmed by the story that the gentleman from  Pennsylvania just told us about having gone to the White House to talk  to the President and telling the President he is spending too much. I  am just recording the story as it was presented to us.

He said to the President: You are spending too much.

That is the understatement of the 21st century. He is spending $1  billion to $2 billion a day on an undeclared, unauthorized,  unconstitutional war in Iran. He has given us one-quarter of all the  debt that has been created in the United States from George Washington  until today. That is under the Trump administration.

The gentleman represents that he spoke to the President and said: You  are spending too much.

The President's response was: I know we are, but I can't get them to  stop spending more.

Who is ``them''? Was that an implied critique of the Democrats? They  control the House. They control the Senate. They control the White  House. Who is President Trump in that vignette referring to? Is he  referring to the Republicans? He must be because they are the ones who  are controlling the Chamber, as they are proud to tell us. At least  until the end of this year, they are the ones doing it.

If Republicans think they support a balanced budget amendment, why  don't they start with a balanced budget? Just bring us one balanced  budget. That is all that we need from them.

Mr. Speaker, they have taken what is a math problem and tried to turn  it into a constitutional problem. Every family in America knows they  have got to make their expenses come within their means and within  their resources. Every family does that. Republicans don't want to do  that. They want to turn what is a simple math problem or an economic  problem into a constitutional problem.

To celebrate America's semiquincentennial, 250th anniversary, for the  first time they want to say that what we need to do is to amend our  Constitution to make us do what we want to do but we can't do. We don't  have the will and political courage to do it.

It was offered by the majority itself. We have got the will on our  side to do it. President Clinton did it, and we will fight to try to  make our resources match up with our expenses.

We have already heard that their side of the aisle is looking for a  military budget of $1.5 trillion for next year. They are looking for  $1.5 trillion for the war budget, for Secretary of War Hegseth. They  want $1.5 trillion. That is where they are headed: endless wars in the  Middle East, undeclared wars of choice, wars of aggression, not  authorized by Congress.

None of them will even utter a peep about it today. That is where we  are hemorrhaging money in America. Instead, they want to talk about a  hypothetical pie-in-the-sky constitutional amendment that no other  generation of Americans has ever needed before in order to do the right  thing.

What is their loyalty and fidelity to the Constitution? Let's say  they got their amendment. Right now, Article I, Section 8 says that  Congress must declare war. It is not the President, not Donald Trump,  not JD Vance, not Tulsi Gabbard, or somebody in their chat group.  Congress must declare war.

What do they do? They do nothing. They just let the President go  ahead and enter into his wars of whim and caprice, vanity, conceit,  imperial ambition, whatever. They do nothing. They won't even have a  vote to support it or oppose it. They won't have an honest debate about  it.

That is the war power, which Madison said was one of the essential  powers Congress must have, because the kings were always plunging their  countries into wars of conceit and vanity, imperial plunder and  corruption. So it had to be vested in the Representatives of the  people, but they won't follow that.

Mr. Speaker, how about the spending power? Exclusively Congress has  the power to spend money. It has to arise here in the House of  Representatives. We have the power to spend, and we have the power to  tax. The administration has been struck down dozens of times for  abusing our spending power, and they won't say a word about it.

What about the taxing power? Donald Trump became the first President  in American history to unilaterally impose tariffs, which is a huge tax  on our people. It is not on other countries and not on China. It is on  us. We told him it was unconstitutional. They wouldn't do anything,  with the exception of Representative Massie from Kentucky, who is the  conscience of the Republican Conference--although I don't mean to damn  him with faint praise--maybe a handful of others opposed the tariffs.  They all went along for the ride, even though we have the power to  impose tariffs. It has always been Congress that has established the  framework for tariffs, not the President. We can't make it up as we go  along, but that is what he did.

Of course, he was struck down even by the Supreme Court that has been  sliced and diced and gerrymandered to his advantage. Even that Supreme  Court struck it down on a 6-3 vote, but we hear nothing from our  colleagues about it.

What about the First Amendment? There shall be no law abridging the  freedom of speech. Yet, this is the most anti-free speech  administration the United States has ever seen. Donald Trump's chairman  of the FCC the other day said that broadcast licensees, television  stations, better watch out what they say about the war.

I can't think of a more naked violation of the First Amendment than  the government threatening to revoke broadcast licenses of media  entities who disagree with the President's policy, especially about  something as important to the American people as war.

They don't utter a single word about it. That is their demonstrated  fidelity to the Constitution. They are now saying: Yes, we are not  balancing the budget. We haven't presented a single balanced budget. If  we are made to do it through the Constitution, we will follow the  Constitution.

Fool me once, well, blame on you. Fool me twice, blame on me. We are  not falling for that.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my distinguished colleague from Arizona for a  spirited discussion of this important issue.

Mr. Speaker, I will take the example offered by the gentleman from  Arizona (Mr. Biggs) of President Clinton. We could take many historical  episodes, but we have time only for one.

President Clinton was determined to balance the budget, and he  returned hundreds of billions of dollars in a surplus to his successor  in office. He worked with the Republican-controlled Congress and led  them along to eliminate the deficit.

The government ran a huge surplus without the aid of a contrived  balanced budget constitutional amendment. Clinton bequeathed to his  successor, George W. Bush, famously a budget surplus of $236 billion,  which Bush and the GOP Congress quickly squandered on tax cuts for the  richest people in the country and then the staggeringly costly forever  wars in Iraq and Afghanistan

Mr. Speaker, what do you know? History repeats itself. If it doesn't  repeat itself exactly, it certainly rhymes. What do we have now? They  have added $4 trillion to our debt with their massive giveaways to the  richest people in the country and the richest corporations.

What are we in now despite all of Donald Trump's campaign promises?  We are in another undeclared, unauthorized, forever war of regime  change, although it is not really a regime change war because the  President obviously doesn't care about democracy or human rights in  Iran any more than he cares about democracy or human rights in America.  In any event, we are there. We are in that war, spending $1 billion to  $2 billion a day.

What do our colleagues do to try to deal with this fiscal  catastrophe? They offer a balanced budget constitutional amendment,  saying this is a bipartisan problem we are in. It is a pox on  everybody's house. Let's just amend the Constitution to make us do what  we really want to do but we can't do because we don't have the  political resolve and the courage to do it.

At the same time, they don't have the political resolve and courage  to exercise Congress' powers over war. They don't have the resolve and  courage to exercise Congress' power over spending or over taxes or over  our ability to regulate commerce domestically or nationally. They have  given it all away to the President of the United States, when we are  the Article I branch. We have the power. We can do it if we are willing  to exercise it.

What is the President's power? It is very simple: to take care that  the laws are faithfully executed.

If we pass a balanced budget, the President will have to remain  within it. If we are going to say that we are going to have a debate  about that war, that he can't just run off to war and start plundering  the public fisc and spending billions of dollars of the people's money,  he can't do it. Yet, our colleagues in the majority will not exercise  any kind of discipline or institutional self-respect.

Mr. Speaker, the Framers of the Constitution thought that people in  Congress would stand up for congressional power, just like the  President would stand up for Presidential power and would always try to  aggrandize the power of the executive branch, and the Supreme Court  would stand up for the power of judicial review and what the courts do.

Yet, they thought that, as Madison put it in Federalist 10, ambition  would counteract ambition. We would stand up for ourselves.

Our colleagues in the majority will not stand up for congressional  powers under the Constitution of the United States, so they want to  finger paint some more on the Constitution by adding their balanced  budget constitutional amendment.

We don't need a balanced budget constitutional amendment, which will  be a fiscal straitjacket in times like COVID-19 or times of war, where  Congress needs the flexibility. All we need is for the majority to  bring us a balanced budget, show some fiscal discipline, and show some  fiscal resolve. Then, we can take it seriously.

Otherwise, it just seems like a massive, fantastical distraction from  what is actually taking place in America today and on Earth, which is  we have a President who is bulldozing everything from the White House  itself to the Bill of Rights to the separation of powers.

What do we have on the other side of the aisle? It is nothing but  legislative  accomplices in all of this fiscal and constitutional irresponsibility.  They want to take a simple math problem and displace everybody's  attention by trying to turn it into a constitutional issue.

Mr. Speaker, that wasn't the handiwork of James Madison. That wasn't  the handiwork of Alexander Hamilton, who took balanced budgets very  seriously. They didn't think that America needed it.

If the political leadership is not rising to the task, then we need  new political leadership. If this congressional majority can't do it,  let's elect a new congressional majority, but let's not throw the  Constitution into the fire with all of the other constitutional  principles that have been set ablaze by this administration.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.