Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendment to H.R. Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, this bill, which they now call imperfect,  contains the single most corrupt provision for legislative self-dealing  that anyone in this Chamber today has ever voted on. It is such an  egregiously corrupt act of legislator self-enrichment and plunder of  the taxpayer that not only did every single House Democrat oppose it in  the Rules Committee last night, but multiple Republicans were  denouncing it, that is, before they were summoned into a side room and  instructed to vote for it, which they all proceeded to do.

Now they are telling us: Vote for it today and they will repeal it  maybe next week or maybe the week after that or maybe before Christmas.  I have a solution. If Members don't like this corrupt provision, don't  vote for it today. That will work.

This is a great bill, a great bill that is if you think eight  Republican U.S. senators should have a right to collect at least $1  million in a jackpot bonanza payoff from the taxpayers simply because  they were subject to the exact same rules all other Americans were  subject to and are subject to now. They don't propose to change those  rules for anybody else, not for more than 300 million Americans, not  for the Members of the House of Representatives, not for Governors or  mayors but for themselves. They want to deal themselves a special legal  privilege.

In this Republican class war, a Great Gatsby economy where President  Trump has made more than $3 billion since he reoccupied the White  House, the Federal building which he has proceeded to demolish in large  part while millions of Americans face losing their healthcare and their  SNAP benefits. This provision is an affront to our taxpayers and to the  rule of law.

Mr. RASKIN. It is an affront to everyone who believes that we, in  public office, must be the servants of the people, not the masters of  the people who get special, legal rights and privileges and  multimillion-dollar payoffs, people who think that they have a right to  better treatment than everybody else, like Ghislaine Maxwell in the  prison camp where she gets room service, puppy time, and special gym  privileges.