Recognizing the Dedicated Public Service of Reverend Dr. Della J. Owens-Barber


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697322/recognizing-the-dedicated-public-service-of-reverend-dr-della-j-owens-barber


Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the public service  of Rev. Dr. Della J. Owens-Barber in advance of her fourth anniversary  banquet as Senior Pastor at the Saint James Christian Church on  December 7, 2025. Rev. Dr. Owens-Barber is a dedicated pastor, scholar,  community leader, and advocate for spiritual and social transformation.  Over the past decade, she has played a key role in the nationwide  campaign to advance a powerful moral agenda to end poverty.

As National Security Director for Repairers of the Breach, Rev. Dr.  Owens-Barber has been a steadfast leader of the Poor People's Campaign  and has championed an agenda against poverty and inequality. At a  recent Poor People Campaign's Moral March on Washington, D.C., she  spoke on behalf of millions of Americans who are uninsured and  underinsured. As a result of her unflinching leadership in the campaign  to address the needs of poor Americans, she has been both praised for  her determination and arrested for non-violent civil disobedience. She  has been central to the outstanding work of both Repairers of the  Breach and the Poor People's Campaign.

Rev. Dr. Owens-Barber is an accomplished leader in her ministry,  developing robust programs that engage and empower senior citizens,  organizing community food giveaways and promoting mental health  awareness. She has also fostered intergenerational connection through  worship, education and outreach.

Rev. Dr. Owens-Barber previously led a distinguished career in law  enforcement, higher education, youth development and social justice  leadership.

Rev. Dr. Owens-Barber earned advanced degrees in Criminal Justice and  Theological Studies and a Doctor of Ministry. She continues to lead  community service through the North Carolina Council of Churches where  she serves on the Board of Directors, the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority,  and health advocacy networks. I am honored to recognize Rev. Dr. Della  J. Owens-Barber on her fourth anniversary as Senior Pastor at the Saint  James Christian Church and salute her for her passionate service to her  community and our country.