Relating to Consideration of the Senate Amendment to H.R. Rescissions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693713/relating-to-consideration-of-the-senate-amendment-to-hr-rescissions-act-of-2025


Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. McGovern for yielding.

The American people across the political spectrum are now demanding  the release of the complete Epstein file. This is what President Trump  and Vice President Vance and the whole Trump team was demanding up  until the last couple of weeks when President Trump suddenly decided he  wanted to sweep the whole thing under the rug. There are now two  approaches in Congress.

We have got a bipartisan, binding law which has teeth to compel  disclosure of all the relevant material that America wants to see, but  on the other hand, the Republicans in the Rules Committee just unveiled  a meaningless, hortatory, fig leaf, Swiss cheese resolution that has no  teeth at all. It doesn't even have dentures. It is all cavities what  they have offered.

We have got a choice now. We can go with a bill that would actually  have teeth for enforcement or a meaningless, hortatory resolution that  has all the legal force of National Chrysanthemum Month.

Now, the original Khanna-Massie bill asks for comprehensive release  from the Attorney General, and it is binding, which means if they don't  turn it over, then we can go to court. It is comprehensive. It includes  everything from flight logs and travel records to individuals,  including government officials named or referenced, in connection with  all of Epstein's criminal activities, all of the entities involved. We  want to know about all the immunity deals.

It even tried to deter and account for destruction, deletion,  alteration, misplacement, or concealment of documents and records. All  of that falls out of this fraudulent resolution they have thrown up at  the last minute here.

Mr. RASKIN. There is nothing in there except for a series of  qualifying weasel words which are added to give complete, unilateral,  and subjective discretion to the Attorney General to decide what should  be in and what should be out. It starts off by saying whereas--our  resolution says: ``All documents, records, and communications.'' Theirs  says: ``All credible documents, records, and communications.''

Well, who is going to decide that?

It will be Attorney General Bondi in conjunction with Donald Trump  who today said that a letter that he wrote to Jeffrey Epstein on his  birthday which was published and which has all the indicia of  credibility is not credible. That would not be included.

Let's release the real Epstein file.