Trafficking Survivors Relief Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697181/trafficking-survivors-relief-act


I thank the distinguished gentleman from South Carolina for his  leadership on this issue.

I am pleased that we are considering the bipartisan Trafficking  Survivors Relief Act, which will provide relief to victims and  survivors of human trafficking who have been unjustly criminalized as a  result of their trafficking.

Victims and survivors of human trafficking have been waiting nearly a  decade for us to make this relief available to them at the Federal  level. The heroic survivors of the global Epstein trafficking  conspiracy have raised the conscience of our Nation about the  nightmarish consequences of human trafficking for the victims of it,  and they strongly support this legislation, which is part of the long,  overdue reckoning that America must have with all of the double  standards and coverups that have affected women and girls who have been  entered into the trafficking criminal underworld.

While we have found far too less opportunities to work together in  this broken session of Congress, I am glad that the majority has  finally chosen to bring this much-needed consensus reform forward to  the floor to protect trafficking victims and survivors, and I look  forward to its swift passage.

Mr. Speaker, human trafficking is a multibillion-dollar criminal  industry that overtakes the will and the freedom of nearly 25 million  people around the world every year. Traffickers exploit their victims  by forcing them to provide labor, services, and commercial sex through  violence, fear, coercion, and manipulation. While awful, their  exploitation doesn't stop there. Traffickers often force their victims  to commit other crimes, including prostitution, money laundering,  fraud, drug trafficking, robbery, and theft.

This leads trafficking victims to be arrested and prosecuted without  consideration of their status as victims themselves. They are often  then made to serve prison sentences and left with criminal records that  can stop them from finding employment, suitable housing, or qualifying  to receive the treatment that they need to recover from trauma and  rebuild their lives.

When they are unable to start fresh or move on because of the  obstacles that they face as a consequence of the crimes that they were  forced to commit, victims and survivors often return to their  traffickers or fall victim to new predators. We cannot allow this cycle  of trauma, criminal exploitation, and victimization to continue in the  lives of so many untold victims.

While all but three States now allow trafficking survivors some form  of criminal record relief, there is still no Federal pathway to clear  criminal convictions or records in this situation. H.R. 4323 would  correct this inequity by allowing human trafficking victims to petition  to have their convictions vacated for certain offenses and to expunge  their arrest records for other offenses if the offenses were committed  only as a consequence of their trafficking.

This bill would also provide an avenue of relief for victims and  survivors facing prosecution for certain Federal offenses relating to  their victimization by establishing a human trafficking defense. The  defense will also be available as a post-conviction remedy. To ensure  that survivors have access to all of the remedies provided, this bill  makes clear that a grantee may use grant funds from the Office of  Justice Programs and Office on Violence Against Women for legal  representation for post-conviction relief.

For far too long, we have closed our eyes to the true horrors of  human trafficking and allowed victimization to fester simply by  allowing survivors of human trafficking to be classified and treated as  criminals. I am pleased to support this essential and thoughtful  bipartisan bill, and I urge my colleagues to support it.

Mr. Speaker, I pick up on the words of the distinguished gentlewoman  from Georgia, who is the ranking member of the Crime and Federal  Government Surveillance Subcommittee on Committee on the Judiciary. To  be forced into a human-trafficking network, like the Epstein network,  is to suffer a double trauma. There is the original trauma of the  exploitation and the abuse, and then there is the added trauma of being  stigmatized yourself as being a criminal: a prostitute and someone  forced to engage in other criminal activity by the trafficking network.

Mr. Speaker, I am delighted that, on a bipartisan basis today, we are  able to move forward to address this problem and to give some relief to  the victims and the survivors of a human-trafficking network.

Again, I recognize the survivors from the Epstein global  international child sex-trafficking conspiracy who have raised the  conscience of the country and changed America's mind about the  fundamental importance of our addressing this.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues for working with us on bringing  this legislation forward, and I yield back the balance of my time.