Valuing Truth `fullness': Lessons From Jury Trials


Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to reflect on the profound  responsibility that accompanies public service.

As public officials across the country are sworn into office, each  affirms a commitment to faithfully execute the duties of public office  and defend the Constitution of the United States. But more and more  Americans are losing faith that the actions of our public officials are  principally guided by our Constitution and our laws. And some of my  colleagues even doubt whether truth exists and whether government can  operate on the basis of mutually agreed facts, such as who won an  election.

Gregory Mize--a Georgetown University law professor and retired trial  judge--offers a compelling perspective: we can use jury trials as  models for attaining higher levels of truthfulness and reliable  outcomes in government. After all, our whole justice system is based on  the idea that we must all tell the truth and the fact-finder can decide  ``beyond a reasonable doubt'' or ``by preponderance of the evidence''  what actually happened.

Thomas Jefferson said, ``I consider trial by jury as the only anchor,  yet ever imagined by man, by which a government can be held to the  principles of its constitution.'' Indeed, the way a courtroom pursues  truth provides a blueprint for encouraging trustworthiness in our  public servants.

At the beginning of jury selection, potential jurors take a solemn  oath to truthfully answer questions posed by the judge and lawyers. The  selected jurors take a second oath to ``faithfully discharge the duties  of a juror and a true verdict render according to the law and the  evidence.'' When testimony begins, jurors observe each witness take an  oath under penalty of perjury to ``tell the truth and nothing but the  truth.'' Judges, also sworn to follow the law, enforce rules of  evidence--including by striking irrelevant or unreliable testimony from  consideration by the jury. In some cases, judges must also pre-qualify  proposed experts before they can state an opinion on a key issue. A  lawyer's questioning then further tests the reliability of those  opinions. Thanks to these established procedures, jurors learn the  court's high valuation of honesty and come to expect it from their  government

Rather than relying on a single robed jurist to render a final  verdict, our Founders wanted a panel of common citizens to administer  justice in honest dialogue with one another. They believed jury  deliberations to be a gold standard for reaching truth and achieving  just ends.

After hearing evidence and receiving legal instructions from the  judge, jurors enter a deliberation room. They test one another's  recollections and assumptions and assess witness credibility. Studies  show that, during deliberations, a jury polices itself. Individual  jurors remind others of the obligations of their oaths and the  requirements of the law as stated by the judge.

As a new year--with a new Congress and President--is underway, it is  high time to bring courtroom reverence for truth-telling into the  government generally and the public square. As citizens, we must demand  a commitment to the pursuit of truth from all of our public officials.  While enforcing oaths of office is a big challenge, citizens must  demand truth from public officials in all that we do. And as public  officials, we must earn that trust by honoring our oaths.

The work of Judge Gregory Mize is exemplary in calling America back  to the bedrock quest for truth. We owe him a debt of gratitude.