Welcoming His All-Holiness Bartholomew I of Constantinople to the United States


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695566/welcoming-his-all-holiness-bartholomew-i-of-constantinople-to-the-united-states


Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, this week, the United States Congress and  our Nation's capital will be honored with a visit from the Ecumenical  Patriarch of Constantinople, His All-Holiness Bartholomew I. Patriarch  Bartholomew is not only the denominational leader of 300 million  Eastern Orthodox Christians worldwide--he is a global spiritual leader  who has advanced the sacred causes of peace, interreligious  understanding and environmental stewardship.

Patriarch Bartholomew is stopping in Washington, D.C. on his way to  New York City to accept the Templeton Prize for his groundbreaking  harmonization of faith and science in service of environmental  protection. The Templeton Prize, given to singular champions of human  dignity and progress such as Mother Teresa and Archbishop Desmond Tutu,  honors people who have harnessed the power of the sciences to explore  the deepest questions of the universe and humankind's place and purpose  within it. His All-Holiness Bartholomew has earned this storied honor  through the same works that gained him the moniker of the ``Green  Patriarch.'' Since assuming his office in 1991, Patriarch Bartholomew  has convened leaders across borders and disciplines to redefine human- caused climate change, environmental destruction and pollution as not  just practical crises but spiritual and moral failings. He does so  because of his conviction that ``we are not owners of this planet. It  belongs to the coming generations as well. We are simply stewards and  priests of the environment and not proprietors of it.''

In addition to his environmental stewardship, Patriarch Bartholomew  finds common cause with Americans in advancing the causes of democracy  and peace. He assumed the Patriarchate of Constantinople during the  same year that the Soviet Union dissolved. His leadership was  instrumental in advancing the spiritual and political self- determination of the Eastern Orthodox faithful in former Soviet  republics. Today, he is a steadfast and unflinching moral leader  supporting the people of Ukraine as they resist Vladimir Putin's bloody  imperialist invasion and a forceful counterweight to the Moscow  Patriarchate's Putinist subversion. This is a cause that most Americans  support, recognizing that the cause of the people of Ukraine and their  war of self-defense and self-determination is now the cause of all  humanity.

During this time of great uncertainty and fear, we Americans would do  well to learn from Patriarch Bartholomew's example. Over the past 36  years, Patriarch Bartholomew has sought to build relationships across  faith traditions, cultures and borders. In 1997, Patriarch Bartholomew  was the first Eastern Orthodox Patriarch to denounce the great horror  and evil of the Holocaust. He has traveled to Muslim-majority countries  to foster interreligious understanding. And he has taken great care to  cultivate relationships with Roman Catholic Popes and leaders across  the world. These examples of moral and spiritual bridge-building are  essential to our own democratic and human progress as a multi- religious, pluralist democracy.

Twenty-eight years ago, the U.S. Congress recognized Patriarch  Bartholomew with the Congressional Gold Medal for his extraordinary and  courageous leadership. Today, on behalf of my constituents in  Maryland's beautiful 8th District, I welcome Patriarch Bartholomew back  to our Nation's Capital and congratulate him on earning the Templeton  Prize as the latest of many well-deserved honors.