Confronting the Disease of Addiction


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699740/confronting-the-disease-of-addiction


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend  President Trump for taking decisive action to confront one of the most  devastating public health challenges that currently face our Nation,  the disease of addiction.

With the launch of the Great American Recovery Initiative, President  Trump is elevating our national response by coordinating Federal,  State, and community resources. This action by President Trump will  expand access to treatment, to prevention, to long-term recovery, and  support millions of Americans and their families.

This initiative recognizes what addiction truly is, a chronic,  treatable condition. This comprehensive effort reflects a shared  American value that every life is worth saving and every individual  struggling with addiction deserves a path to recovery.

According to data collected in 2023, nearly 5,000 Pennsylvanians lost  their lives due to fatal drug overdoses. That means that across the  Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, we lost 14 lives each day to addiction.

Under the leadership of President Trump, I look forward to working  with my colleagues here in Congress to support this initiative and  ensure that it delivers real results for the families and those  suffering with addiction across our country.                Happy 90th Birthday to Sister Paula DelGrosso

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the  90th birthday of Sister Paula DelGrosso.

Sister Paula's religious vocation began in the 1950s. After spending  more than 30 years in education, she heard a different calling, a  calling to serve her community in another way. She worked to establish  the St. Vincent de Paul's Food for Families Soup Kitchen.

Sister Paula has worked with community leaders, service  organizations, and supporters to operate the soup kitchen. Now, for  more than three decades, she has lived her faith by feeding the hungry.

Mr. Speaker, as one of Sister Paula's many volunteers, I witnessed  firsthand her commitment and her passion to serving her community. On  her 90th birthday, I thank Sister Paula for her dedication and her  devotion for those in need. I wish Sister Paula a happy birthday.                             Honoring George Lake

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor George  Lake of Huntingdon County, Pennsylvania, as the first recipient of the  Pennsylvania Veteran Ag Entrepreneurship Award.

After completing his service in the U.S. Marine Corps, George took  the responsibility of owning the Thistle Creek Farms in Warriors Mark.

George has transformed his family's 600-acre farm into a nationally  recognized regenerative livestock operation which produces a premium  beef brand.

Motivated to help owners of small farms succeed, George also devotes  time to mentoring fellow beef farmers.

Mr. Speaker, I thank George Lake for his military service and offer  congratulations on receiving the Pennsylvania Veteran Ag  Entrepreneurship Award.                   Recognizing the DeGol Family Foundation

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  75th anniversary of the DeGol Organization, which is headquartered in  Altoona, Pennsylvania.

The origins of the family-owned and -operated enterprise date to 1950  when  Bruno and Lena DeGol produced a masonry plant in Cambria County.

Today, the DeGol Organization includes Seven D Wholesale, DeGol  Carpet, Seven D Windows and Door, Hollidaysburg Rail Car Services, and  the Scotch Valley Country Club.

In addition to driving economic growth and facilitating job creation,  the DeGol Organization has supported communities through the Bruno and  Lena DeGol Family Foundation. The foundation's philanthropy has funded  numerous capital improvement projects, education initiatives, and  nonprofit programs.

Mr. Speaker, with a distinguished legacy of leadership, I  congratulate the entire DeGol family on this milestone anniversary and  offer best wishes for continued success.