Critical Supply Chains


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, it is no secret that our  Nation's most critical supply chains are almost fully reliant on  foreign nations, and our pharmaceutical supply chain is no different.

Approximately 10 percent of the active pharmaceutical ingredients  required for domestic prescription drug manufacturing comes from  foreign supplies.

Simply stated, the prescription drugs that save the lives of millions  of Americans every year are at severe risk. American patients cannot be  reliant on countries like China for these lifesaving medications.

I am proud to see that President Trump is taking this seriously by  issuing an executive order that ensures that our Nation has a 6-month  supply of the critical active ingredients needed to make these  lifesaving medicines.

Bringing production back to the U.S. is not enough to fix our supply  chain. With this executive action, President Trump will also ensure  that America has the ingredients needed to domestically manufacture  these medicines.

American patients rely on these medicines each and every day, and I  applaud President Trump for taking this significant action.                     Creating a National Day of the Bible

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, last Friday, I was proud to  join a joint resolution to make September 12 the national day of the  Bible.

When the United States Congress met in Philadelphia in 1782, it  approved a 1,400-page version of the Bible published by Robert Aitken.  This Bible became known as the Bible of the Revolution.

This joint resolution will formally designate September 12 as the day  of the Bible to honor the first complete English-language Bible that  was produced in America. This is a historic moment.

This resolution also encourages our schools and other institutions to  observe this day and focus on the Bible's significance to our Nation's  history and our Nation's future.

Our Nation was founded on the ideals of freedom, including religious  freedom. Those who founded this land were fleeing religious  persecution. The Bible of the Revolution serves as a reminder of the  resilience that set our Nation on a path toward freedom as one nation  under God.                     honoring west suburban softball team

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the  West Suburban 12-under softball team of Johnstown, Pennsylvania, for  winning the Little League Softball World Series.

West Suburban compiled a record of 20-2 this summer and ended the  season on a 15-game winning streak. In their five wins during the World  Series, West Suburban outscored their opposition 15-1.

In the championship game, West Suburban defeated the central region  champion, Floyds Knobs of Indiana, 1-0. More than 1 million people  watched as West Suburban captured that victory. This makes the 2025  championship the most watched Little League Softball World Series game  ever.

West Suburban's success is a tribute to the outstanding leadership of  the coaches, the tremendous talents of the players, and the enduring  support of family and community.

I congratulate Manager Lester Gaunt, Coach Rick Baxter, Coach Rick  Bills, and players Mallory Bailor, Aubrey Baxter, Reagan Bills, Sadie  Divido, Kennedy Fees, Camilla Gaunt, Adalyn Hines, Mara Keefe, Kendal  Schilling, Leilah Schilling-Mansour, Haley Shepherd, and Nevaeh  Worthington.

Madam Speaker, on behalf of everyone in Pennsylvania's 13th  Congressional District, I congratulate the players and coaches of West  Suburban for an incredible achievement and offer my best wishes for  continued success.                           honoring the metz family

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the  Metz family of Perry County, Pennsylvania, for receiving the  designation of bicentennial farm from the Pennsylvania Department of  Agriculture.

A bicentennial farm is a farm that has been owned by the same family  for at least 200 consecutive years, has a  family member who still lives on the farm, and has at least 10 acres of  the original holding.

Richard Metz, Jr.'s newly designated bicentennial farm was founded in  1825 by Johann Metz, his third great-grandfather. After more than 150  years of family farm lineage, Richard Metz took ownership in 1996.

Today, the original 110 acres exist and grow soybeans, corn, and hay.

Madam Speaker, I offer my sincere congratulations to Richard Metz and  his family for continuing this rich history of agriculture in  Pennsylvania.