Delivering on President Trump's Agenda


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690998/delivering-on-president-trumps-agenda


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, the House Energy and  Commerce and the House Ways and Means Committees will hold markups on  their respective portions of President Trump's big, beautiful bill this  week.

This bill is our chance to lock in the agenda that the American  people voted for in November by cutting out waste, fraud, and abuse,  supporting small businesses, and supporting the American working class.

This legislation that we have produced in the Energy and Commerce  Committee will strengthen Medicaid for low-income children, for  pregnant women, for the elderly, and for those with disabilities. For  far too long, illegal immigrants and able-bodied Americans, who can  return to the workforce, have been draining funds from the citizens who  deserve and need Medicaid.

This ends now. The Ways and Means Committee is also delivering on  President Trump's agenda by permanently extending the President's 2017  tax cuts. Our small businesses will continue to prosper. Also included  in this big, beautiful bill is the removal of taxes on tips. It removes  taxes on Social Security. It removes taxes on overtime, finally giving  relief to the American middle class.

Additionally, this legislation also removes the tax-exempt status on  university endowments like the more than $50 billion endowment that  Harvard controls. The American people voted for an agenda that roots  out waste, fraud, and abuse of our programs and gives the middle class  the economic boost that they need.

Today, marks the beginning of delivering on President Trump's agenda.               Honoring our Courageous Law Enforcement Officers

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, this week is National  Police Week, where we have an opportunity to honor the courageous law  enforcement officers who put their lives on the line each and every day  to protect us.

On the House floor this week, we will address the Law Enforcement  Officers Safety Reform Act, legislation to allow our active and retired  law enforcement officers the ability to conceal carry firearms where it  may normally be restricted.

Our law enforcement officers are committed to protecting their  communities and their fellow citizens, and they receive rigorous  training throughout their careers. By allowing these brave men and  women the opportunity to conceal carry where it is normally restricted,  these local heroes will have the ability to respond to emergencies  whether they are on duty or not.

Last Congress, I proudly supported this legislation on the House  floor, and this Congress I look forward to seeing this commonsense  legislation pass the House and the Senate so that President Trump can  finally sign this into law.              Honoring Police Chief Robert Glenny of Gettysburg

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to celebrate  the service of Gettysburg Police Chief Robert Glenny as he makes the  next step in his career.

Chief Glenny attended Juniata College before beginning his 35-year  career as a law enforcement officer with the last 6 years spent as the  chief of police in the Gettysburg Police Department.

Before arriving in Gettysburg, Chief Glenny started his career in the  Ferguson Township, Pennsylvania, Police Department, where he spent 26  years on the force.

During his time in Ferguson Township, Chief Glenny held roles that  included patrol officer, traffic enforcement, and police sergeant.

Then, after a brief stop in Colorado to serve as the police chief  there, Chief Glenny returned to Pennsylvania to proudly serve the  people of Gettysburg.

During this time, Chief Glenny worked tirelessly to improve public  safety and to build strong relationships within the community. As he  moves on to his next position, the chief of police is held in high  esteem in Gettysburg.

Madam Speaker, I thank him for his leadership and his ability to  serve his community and wish him all the best in his next endeavors.                           Honoring John Massimilla

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the  career of the president of WellSpan Chambersburg Hospital, John  Massimilla.

For 35 years, John has worked in Pennsylvania healthcare, working to  ensure that patients throughout the Commonwealth have access to the  care that they need.

Throughout my time in Congress, I have had the privilege of visiting  John Massimilla and the WellSpan Chambersburg Hospital multiple times,  and I am always thankful for his insight and commitment to the  community.

John always looks to increase the hospital's ability to implement  innovative treatments, truly elevating the level of care at the  hospital. Additionally, under John's leadership, the WellSpan  Chambersburg Hospital has implemented state-of-the-art security  systems.

Throughout his career, he has exemplified what a true healthcare  administrator brings to the equation.

Madam Speaker, I congratulate John on his retirement.