Funding the Department of Homeland Security


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700325/funding-the-department-of-homeland-security


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my  deep concern over the lapse in funding for the Department of Homeland  Security. Every single day that we fail to provide DHS with the  necessary resources, the risks facing the American people dramatically  increase.

The security of our homeland should never be a bargaining chip.  Instead of prioritizing the safety of the American people, Democrats  have chosen to weaponize the appropriations process for political  leverage. This is not how our Democracy was founded to operate.  Americans continue to bear the consequences of Democrats engaging in  political theater.

As we return to the floor for a vote, Members of Congress must set  aside partisan agendas and personal politics. Our first duty is to  protect the citizens that we serve.

With the war in Iran, we have reached an increase in global  instability. In moments like this, we should be strengthening our  Homeland Security posture and not allowing it to lapse.

An unfunded Department of Homeland Security sends the wrong message  to our adversaries and leaves our homeland vulnerable. It is neither a  safe nor responsible act. It is a failure of Congress not to have met  one of its most fundamental obligations.

Mr. Speaker, the American people deserve better. The American people  deserve leadership that puts their safety first. It is time to end the  theatrics. It is time to fund DHS. It is time to fulfill and protect  this Nation.                            recognizing jordan ott

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize a native  of McConnellsburg, Pennsylvania, Jordan Ott, who is the head coach of  the Phoenix Suns.

As a three-sport athlete at McConnellsburg High School, Coach Ott has  always dreamed of working for a professional sports team. That goal was  recognized in 2013 when he joined the Atlanta Hawks as a video  coordinator.

Coach Ott went on to serve as an assistant coach with three NBA  teams. Last June, he was hired as the head coach of the Suns, where he  was named NBA's Western Conference Coach of the Month for January.

A former high school teammate described Coach Ott as someone who will  accomplish everything and take credit for nothing. What a coach.

That is a character trait worth emulating by individuals throughout  all of Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District. In fact, it is worth  emulating throughout all of America.

Mr. Speaker, I offer best wishes to Coach Ott for continued success  that exceeds his incredible expectations that will continue to rise  throughout the NBA.            Honoring Snider Family of Bedford County, Pennsylvania

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the Snider  family of Bedford County, Pennsylvania, on the selection of their  operation as a recipient of the National Beef Quality Assurance Award.

Singing Brook Farm is a third-generation farm currently managed by  Ross Snider and his sister Greta Halahan.

Founded by Obie and Mary Ann Snider in 1951, Singing Brook Farms was  later operated by their son, Bruce. Notably, Singing Brook Farms is an  established leader in education and advocacy.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the Snider family on receiving the  National Beef Quality Assurance Award. Their commitment to agriculture  continues to benefit all of the constituents of Pennsylvania's 13th  Congressional District.

Honoring Claysburg-Kimmel Elementary FIRST LEGO League Team

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, it is with pride that I rise  to honor the Claysburg-Kimmel Elementary FIRST LEGO League Team that  captured the championship in the Best Robot Design category during  regional competition.

What is most impressive about the achievement of these fifth and  sixth graders is that they were the first LEGO Club at Claysburg-Kimmel  Elementary that only formed last fall.

During the competition, students demonstrated their robot creations  and offered presentations on how their robots would function in real- world settings.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate this team from Claysburg-Kimmel, their  teachers and coaches Suzanne Wicker and Brandon Ickes, as well as  elementary school principal Kevin Edmondson and Superintendent Darren  McLaurin on this incredible achievement. Best wishes for continued  success.