Golden Age of America Has Arrived


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to share the  importance of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act that President Trump  signed into law on July Fourth.

President Trump's America First policy is widely popular with the  American public, and the big, beautiful bill took historic steps to  enact this agenda into law. Unleashing American energy, further  supporting our Border Patrol and ICE agents, and ensuring that working- class Americans keep more money in their pockets are commonsense  policies that my constituents overwhelmingly support. I am proud to  have helped deliver on this agenda.

Now, with this legislation finally signed into law by President  Trump, Main Street businesses will be able to expand, and working-class  Americans will take more money home in each paycheck. The golden age of  America has arrived.                     political violence is not the answer

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, this past weekend marked 1  year since the attempt on President Trump's life in Butler County,  Pennsylvania. While we thank God that President Trump's life was not  taken, we mourn the loss of an innocent father, firefighter, and proud  Pennsylvanian, Corey Comperatore.

Political violence of any kind has absolutely no place in our  society. Yet, the violent rhetoric coming from my colleagues across the  aisle has not stopped. Now, a year after the assassination attempt on  President Trump's life, they have turned their violent action toward  our courageous ICE agents, who work every day to protect our  communities.

The political violence that we are seeing in our society today will  not stop unless the violent rhetoric stops. One life lost to political  violence is one too many.

I ask my colleagues to remember that, regardless of our political  beliefs, violence is never the answer to our Nation's problems.            recognizing pennsylvania energy and innovation summit

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, this week, President Trump  will join Senator Dave McCormick in Pittsburgh for the inaugural  Pennsylvania Energy and Innovation Summit.

As President Trump returns our Nation to energy dominance and forges  ahead in the race to dominate artificial intelligence, Pennsylvania  stands ready to meet the energy needs that AI creates. This summit is  huge. It is huge for the Commonwealth, for Pennsylvania, and for  America.

Under the Trump administration, we have already seen historic  investments in the Pennsylvania economy, including the Nippon and U.S.  Steel merger and Amazon's $20 billion investment in building data  centers in the Commonwealth.

Now is the time to build on this momentum to ensure that Pennsylvania  is the hub of AI development throughout this great land.                           honoring ritchey's dairy

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a  family-owned and operated dairy business in Martinsburg, Pennsylvania,  that has been a cornerstone of the dairy industry in Blair County for  85 years.

Ritchey's Dairy was founded by Oliver Ritchey in 1940 just outside of  Martinsburg in Blair County. With the help of his son, Paul, and his  grandson, Reid, Oliver expanded operations and delivery routes  throughout the ensuing decades, offering all types of milk to the  local community.

Ritchey's Dairy even made history when it became the first dairy in  the area to transport milk purchased from other local farms in a tanker  truck.

In 1986, Reid Ritchey oversaw an expansion of the facility, which  accommodated a new ice cream production room, additional freezer space,  and new offices. Now, as the fourth generation of Ritchey's takes over,  Reid's son, Andrew, has continued to expand the operation.

On behalf of everyone in Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District,  I congratulate Ritchey's Dairy on the 85th anniversary of its founding  and its proud continuation of the dairy industry in Blair County,  Pennsylvania.