Improving Domestic Energy Market


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, this week, we will vote on  legislation to improve our domestic energy market and to support  President Trump's agenda on U.S. energy dominance.

In my home State of Pennsylvania, we have abundant natural gas  reserves. We can utilize this resource that is under the feet of my  constituents to provide tremendous economic benefit to our country and  support the energy needs of our allies.

Unfortunately, over the last 4 years, energy policy has stalled the  necessary development of pipelines and export facilities. This has  hindered natural gas production and prevented us from fully realizing  the benefit of this critical resource.

The United States' ample energy resources are a distinct advantage  over our global competitors. We can leverage this advantage to the  benefit of my constituents and the benefit of all Americans by  advancing this important legislation and putting energy policy in this  country back on track.

As a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I was proud to work  to advance this legislation to the House floor, and I look forward to  seeing it passed through Congress on the way to being signed into law  by President Trump.    Commemorating 75th Anniversary of James E. Van Zandt VA Medical Center

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join in  commemorating the 75th anniversary of the James E. Van Zandt VA Medical  Center in Altoona, Pennsylvania.

Mr. Speaker, 33 years after the VA medical center in Altoona was  opened, Congress renamed the facility in honor of the former U.S.  Representative James E. Van Zandt, who was the catalyst for the  establishment of the VA medical center in Altoona.

Representative Van Zandt was born in Altoona, elected to 11 terms in  the U.S. House, served with the United States Navy in both World War I  and World War II, and was a national commander of the Veterans of  Foreign Wars from 1934 to 1936. He retired as a rear admiral from the  United States Navy Reserve in 1959.

The legacy of devoted service that distinguished the life of  Representative Van Zandt remains as a source of inspiration for all.

I am proud that my longstanding ties to the Van Zandt VA Medical  Center include my service as a consultant serving our veterans. On  behalf of everyone in Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District, I  congratulate the James E. Van Zandt Medical Center on this important  milestone and express my personal gratitude for the excellent  healthcare that has been provided to the veterans there, continuing  today and into the future.

Honoring Century Farm Designation of Black's Willow Run Farm

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor four  generations of the Black family in Tyrone Township, Blair County,  Pennsylvania, on the designation of their farm as a Century Farm by the  Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture.

James Black purchased the farm in December 1920 at a cost of $28 per  acre for 140 acres. He raised chickens on the farm.

Family ownership was passed down through the years to Samuel Black,  who transitioned the operation from a poultry farm to a dairy farm, and  then to Samuel's son Bob Black, who chose to focus on crop farming.

Today, Black's Willow Run Farm is owned by Bob Black's son, Clinton,  and his wife, Jessica. Crops grown on the farm include corn, wheat,  soybeans, and alfalfa.

On behalf of everyone in Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District,  I offer heartfelt congratulations to all members of the Black family on  this notable recognition and express gratitude for their enduring  commitment to one of Pennsylvania's most vital industries, and that is  agriculture.                          Recognizing Krista Pontius

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  Krista Pontius on her selection as the recipient of the 2025  Pennsylvania Golden Owl Award.

Krista is a longtime agriculture teacher and the FFA adviser at  Greenwood High School in Millerstown, Pennsylvania. With pride, Krista  notes that she has devoted nearly 30 years to creating an FFA family at  the high school.

The Golden Owl Award is one of the most prestigious forms of  recognition in agricultural education. Presented at the Pennsylvania  FFA State Convention, the award honors teachers in the State of  Pennsylvania who dedicate countless hours to improving the lives of  their students.

Pennsylvania Secretary of Agriculture Russ Redding described Krista  as a natural teacher whose dedication makes a lasting impression on  students in our communities.

Most certainly, Krista is a source of pride for the entire district.  On behalf of everyone in Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District, I  congratulate Krista and look forward to the continuation of her  education for the community.