Lowering Healthcare Costs for All Americans


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my support  for legislation that House Republicans are bringing to the floor this  week to bring down healthcare costs for Americans.

Since the enactment of the unaffordable care act of 2010, Americans  have been suffering with a broken healthcare system. Democrats created  this system. It is a system that Americans simply cannot afford.

The Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act would address  these issues that will make healthcare affordable again by creating  more options and more choices for American patients.

With this new legislation, House Republicans will lower costs for all  Americans, preventing Democrats from taking over $100 billion of  taxpayer money and giving it directly to the insurance companies.

Mr. Speaker, as this bill comes to the House floor for a vote, I am  proud to join my Republican colleagues in a mission to reduce premiums  again for all American families. I look forward to securing this win  for the American patients and not for the big insurance companies.                   Bringing Down Costs for American Farmers

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend  President Trump on his announcement of $12 billion in farmer bridge  payments for American farmers.

The establishment of the Farmer Bridge Assistance program provides  critical relief to crop farmers across the United States, including  many in Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District.

The FBA program will make one-time direct payments to American  farmers in response to the Biden-era policies that distorted global  markets and drove production costs to record highs.

As we enter the next crop year, I look forward to working with  President Trump and the U.S. Department of Agriculture as we continue  to support the American farmer by bringing down costs, securing new  trade deals, and prioritizing American crop production.    Honoring Franklin County Board of Commissioners and Agricultural Land                             Preservation Board

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the  Franklin County Board of Commissioners and Franklin County Agricultural  Land Preservation Board for their joint efforts over the years that  have preserved 20,000 acres of farmland.

The recent preservation reflects a commitment to protecting vital  agricultural lands. These efforts will prevent the development of the  land for any purpose other than agriculture.

This initiative allows Franklin County to stay among Pennsylvania's  top-producing counties for a variety of commodities such as milk,  apples, peaches, and cattle. Franklin County has invested more than $40  million to preserve 164 farms.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of everyone in Pennsylvania's 13th  Congressional District, I congratulate all of Franklin County's  farmers.                         Congratulating Alexis Casner

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Alexis  Casner of McVeytown, Pennsylvania, who was recently awarded the  prestigious American FFA degree by the National Future Farmers of  America.

Every year, less than 1 percent of all FFA members are presented with  this award, which is the highest level of FFA achievement. The  selection of Alexis for this award is a reflection of her exceptional  dedication and passionate engagement in agriculture.

A 2023 graduate of Mifflin County High School, Alexis is a junior at  Penn State majoring in animal science with a minor in livestock  production. Join me in congratulating Alexis on this notable  achievement and for her commitment to Pennsylvania agriculture.               Recognizing Outstanding Leadership of Sam Worley

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  outstanding community leadership of Sam Worley, who celebrated his  104th birthday just this past June.

A proud U.S. Air Force veteran of World War II, Sam additionally had  a  very distinguished career in public service. Sam has served as the  chairman of the Franklin County Board of Commissioners, a  representative on the Chambersburg Council, and the mayor of  Chambersburg.

Sam's commitment to his country, his family, and his community truly  makes him an exceptional example of America's Greatest Generation.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Sam for all he has done for America.