Nippon Steel and U.S. Steel Merger


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691745/nippon-steel-and-us-steel-merger


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong  support of the Nippon Steel and U.S. Steel merger brokered by President  Trump to ensure that a critical American company remains right at home  in Pennsylvania.

By ensuring that U.S. Steel retains an American CEO, an American- dominated board, and allows the U.S. Government to have veto power over  critical business decisions, President Donald J. Trump has fully  protected our national security.

This merger will be a huge benefit for the Pennsylvania economy and  for our workers, as it not only includes a massive investment in U.S.  Steel's operations already present in Pennsylvania but also includes up  to $4 billion for a new steel mill, creating thousands of additional  jobs.

President Trump stepped up to the plate to protect a critical  American company. Mr. Speaker, because of his leadership, the  Pennsylvania economy and our Nation that depends on steel production  will once again see another example of the golden age of America  developing right in front of our eyes.                       Supporting Fentanyl Legislation

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, already this Congress, the  House of Representatives passed the HALT Fentanyl Act, legislation to  crack down on the criminals who create, traffic, and sell the deadly  fentanyl that takes the lives of so many Americans.

This week, we will be taking another step to further support our  fellow Americans struggling with the deadly cycle of addiction by  passing the SUPPORT Act. This legislation will ensure our brave first  responders can access and administer Narcan to save the lives of those  suffering from an overdose, as well as to continue the resources for  comprehensive opioid recovery centers to further support recovery.

Too many of our Nation's citizens are stuck in the deadly cycle of  addiction, and we must extend a helping hand so that they can return to  a normal life and be integral members of their communities.

I look forward to supporting this legislation on the House floor this  week to help ensure that our fellow Americans address this vicious  cycle of addiction.                   Supporting Whole Milk at School Lunches

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of  H.R. 649, the Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act, legislation to permit  schools to provide whole milk at school lunches.

School children throughout our country are unable to receive the  health benefits and the nutrients that whole milk provides due to out- of-date regulations that limit the type of milk that students can drink  at lunch.

As a doctor, I know how important a diet that includes whole milk is  to ensure that our Nation's kids have the building blocks to build  strong bones, strong muscles, and strong brains.

Even the CDC agrees that whole milk is the healthiest drink available  for our children. Not only will this legislation result in healthier  children, but it will be a critical boost to our Nation's dairy  industry, an industry States like Pennsylvania rely on.

In Pennsylvania, we produce more than 10 billion pounds of milk  annually from 470,000 dairy cows throughout our Commonwealth. Our dairy  farmers work incredibly hard to provide healthy products for our  families, and now it is our turn to support them and to support our  children with this commonsense legislation.                        Honoring Chief Robert Statler

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the  career of Johnstown Fire Department Chief Robert Statler who retired  after 40 years of distinguished public service.

Chief Statler joined the Johnstown Fire Department 29 years ago as a  firefighter. Throughout the years, he fulfilled the responsibilities of  driver, captain, training officer, and assistant chief before he was  promoted to chief in 2019.

Before joining the Johnstown Fire Department, Chief Statler began his  impressive legacy of public service as a fourth-generation volunteer  firefighter with the Windber Fire Department.

In addition to the leadership that he provided to Johnstown as fire  department chief, he also served as co-city manager, emergency  director, and liaison between the firefighters and city management.  Throughout the Johnstown community, he is known as a faithful colleague  and a consistent professional.

On behalf of everyone in the 13th Congressional District of  Pennsylvania, I express gratitude to Chief Statler for his devotion to  public safety and offer best wishes for a life of enrichment through  all of his future endeavors.