Opening of Kongsberg Defense Expansion


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700129/opening-of-kongsberg-defense-expansion


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight a  development in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, with positive impacts not just  for the community but for our entire Nation.

Last week, I had the privilege of participating in the opening of the  expansion of the Kongsberg Defense in Johnstown, Pennsylvania. The  expanded Johnstown production site represents millions of dollars in  investment in 20 new high-quality jobs for the area.

For more than two decades, this facility has produced critical remote  weapon systems that support the U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Army. Since  its opening, this Johnstown site has produced over 20,000 remote weapon  stations and remote turrets, providing high-skilled employment  opportunities in Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District.

This expansion signifies a strong commitment to domestic  manufacturing, while also bolstering our military readiness and  capabilities. In a world of growing tensions with foreign adversaries,  investments like this are essential to our national security. They are  essential for maintaining that peace through strength that President  Trump has promised.                Restoring Fairness in Prescription Drug Market

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on the  meaningful and long-overdue step toward restoring fairness and  transparency in our prescription drug market by passing the  Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2026, now signed into law by  President Trump.

For years, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce has ultimately  led the fight to crack down on pharmacy benefit managers, or PBMs,  whose hidden practices too often fail patients and, rather, enrich the  health insurance companies in America.

These historic reforms take important first steps to hold PBMs  accountable by delinking PBM compensation from the price of the drug.  This legislation replaces hidden incentives with a flat-fee model.

By requiring full transparency into how PBMs operate, this will give  employers and everyday Americans visibility into hidden costs and  rebates before they purchase a health insurance plan.

These changes promote several things. They promote accountability.  They promote protecting patient choice. They promote ensuring that  hidden fees are not in the price of the patient's medicine.

This is a pro-patient reform that will ultimately lower costs at the  pharmacy counter and deliver a more affordable healthcare system for  all of America.                      Recognizing Rebecca Conner-Miller

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  Rebecca Conner-Miller on her selection for the 2026 Dr. Laura Hummell  Technology Innovator of the Year Award, which is one of Pennsylvania's  most prestigious honors in educational technology.

Presented annually by the Pennsylvania Educational Technology Expo  and Conference, this award honors educators who elevate technology into  a tool that is used for exploration and opportunity.

Rebecca is a teacher at Mifflin County High School. Through her  teaching, students explore engineering design, digital fabrication,  robotics, and manufacturing challenges that mirror real-world industry.  Rebecca's colleagues praise her for her leadership and creativity.

Mr. Speaker, I extend congratulations to Ms. Conner-Miller on her  selection for the Dr. Laura Hummell Technology Innovator of the Year  Award. She is providing students the blueprint for a successful future.                          Recognizing Michael Clark

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  Michael Clark for being selected as the Outstanding Agriculture  Education Teacher of the Year. This is one of the highest honors for  his profession.

Michael is an agriculture teacher at the Greenwood High School in  Perry County, Pennsylvania.

The national award that Michael received recognizes teachers who  demonstrate innovation and program development, a commitment to  lifelong learning, and dedication to shaping the next generation of  agricultural leaders.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of everyone in Pennsylvania's 13th  Congressional District, I congratulate Michael on his selection for the  national Outstanding Agriculture Education Teacher of the Year Award  and express gratitude for his passionate commitment to the academic  achievement of his students.