Operation Midnight Hammer Success


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692792/operation-midnight-hammer-success


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate  President Trump and our incredible servicemembers who planned and  perfectly executed Operation Midnight Hammer to destroy the nuclear  enrichment facilities in Iran.

President Trump has made it clear since he first ran for President in  2015 that Iran can never become a nuclear power. This weekend, that  promise became a reality.

The Iranian regime has supported terrorist groups throughout the  Middle East that all have one goal in common: to destroy the United  States and our allies in the region.

A nuclear-armed Iran is a threat to our servicemembers in the region  and a threat to the entire Western world. President Trump's decisive  action this weekend stomped out the threat of an unstable nuclear  power. For that, the world is grateful for his leadership.

It is now time for the Iranian regime to negotiate in good faith,  bring peace to the region, and end the conflict with Israel.                         Promises Made, Promises Kept

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, my colleagues in the U.S.  Senate will vote this week on President Trump's One Big Beautiful Bill  Act, moving President Trump's agenda one step closer to being signed  into law.

This is critical legislation that will prevent the largest tax hike  in history by extending President Trump's Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of  2017, which ushered in historic economic growth for our country.

The legislation also provides rural Americans with much-needed tax  relief by extending immediate expensing to help our Nation's farmers  secure the most up-to-date technology and by delivering relief from the  death tax to more than 2 million family-owned farms, which ensures that  the next generation of American farmers can continue to feed this great  Nation.

In November, the American people voted for a change in leadership and  a return to the prosperity that our Nation enjoyed during President  Trump's first term.

I now urge my colleagues in the Senate to support this legislation  and deliver on the promises that we made to the American people.                             Supporting Veterans

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, the House will vote on our  2026 appropriations bill for the military construction and veterans  affairs programs.

Our Active-Duty servicemembers and our veterans have given so much to  our Nation to ensure that we remain safe and free. It is now our duty  to support them.

This critical piece of legislation fully funds veterans' benefits,  healthcare, and other VA programs that so many of our veterans need.  This legislation also furthers President Trump's goals of removing  waste and abuse from our government by codifying his executive orders  to end funding for ridiculous DEI and pro-abortion VA policies.

Additionally, this legislation ensures that programs to fight veteran  homelessness are fully funded. It also supports the Veterans Crisis  Line and other VA suicide prevention programs.

This is critical legislation to ensure that our Nation's veterans  have the support that they deserve.                            Honoring Bette Slayton

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the  career of the president and CEO of the Bedford County Development  Association, Bette Slayton.

Bette is retiring after 35 years as the senior executive of an  organization that recruits new businesses to move into Bedford County  and helps existing firms expand.

Recognized as the 2021 Economic Developer of the Year by the  Pennsylvania Economic Development Association, Bette played vital roles  in the restoration of the beautiful Bedford Springs Resort, the  recruitment of the Walmart and REI distribution centers, and the  construction of new business parks and business centers.

Under Bette's leadership of the Bedford County Development  Association, economic growth has facilitated job  creation, increased public revenues, and fostered collective hope for  future prosperity throughout Bedford County.

On behalf of everyone in the 13th Congressional District, I  congratulate Bette on her retirement and wish her the best.