President Trump's Peace Through Strength Agenda


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695425/president-trumps-peace-through-strength-agenda


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to speak on  the importance of the National Defense Authorization Act that I proudly  supported on the House floor just last week.

This bill will implement President Trump's Peace Through Strength  agenda by restoring our military's lethality and accountability.  Components of the NDAA will bring an end to the dangerous, leftwing  ideologies that have been incorporated into our military. For far too  long, woke-ism has been prioritized in our military. This bill signals  the change that once again puts our servicemembers first.

Additionally, the NDAA secures made-in-America military equipment to  provide our troops with the best tools that are made by hardworking  American hands, not by foreign companies. This bill tackles our  Nation's weak supply chains and diminishing manufacturing by bringing  American industries back to the table.

This legislation will save billions of taxpayer dollars by reducing  inefficient and unnecessary funding for defense programs. The NDAA  builds on efforts started in the Working Families Tax Cuts Act to  stimulate our economy and to bring jobs back home.            Addressing Misleading Advertising for Prescription Drugs

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, President Trump took  executive actions last week to address misleading prescription drug  advertisements.

This action will direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to  ensure that full and accurate information is available on the risks  associated with prescription drugs. It works to prohibit pharmaceutical  companies from promoting drug usage over lifestyle changes.

This will also eliminate the inappropriate intervention between a  patient and the patient's doctor. Unregulated prescription drug  advertising often misinforms the public about a drug's full risks and  potential benefits.

This initiative by President Trump delivers on a promise to put  Americans first by promoting a high degree of transparency. I strongly  support President Trump's action to address this issue to ensure that  patients can once again rebuild their trust in the American health  system.      Honoring Centennial Anniversary of Fayette Volunteer Fire Company

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the  Fayette Volunteer Fire Company of McAlisterville in Juniata County,  Pennsylvania, for their 100 years of service.

The selfless spirit of the officers and members has characterized the  company since it was founded in the summer of 1925. Whether responding  to calls, participating in training, or sponsoring fundraising, these  incredible volunteers engage at the highest level of commitment.

A faithful observance of duty has been the keystone of the Fayette  Fire Company's mission. These initiatives will continue to positively  influence current and future members.

On behalf of everyone in the 13th Congressional District, I  congratulate the Fayette Fire Company of Juniata County on its 100th  anniversary and express my personal thanks for their distinguished  legacy of community service.

Recognizing 75th Anniversary of Williamsburg Public Library

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize  the milestone anniversary of the Williamsburg Public Library in Blair  County, Pennsylvania, as they celebrate 75 years of service.

The methods that Blair County residents use to access information  have changed since the library system was established in 1950. However,  the mission of the library system remains the same: to provide  materials and information services for lifelong learning, enrichment,  and reading.

It has often been stated that libraries aren't about the books but  about the people. Nowhere is that perspective more clearly evident, in  form and function, than in the Williamsburg Public Library.

On behalf of everyone in Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District,  I congratulate the residents of the borough of Williamsburg on this  incredible milestone and express gratitude to the library team for  their enduring commitment to promoting the joys of lifelong learning  through reading.