President Trump Bringing Back Investments


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, during President Trump's  inaugural address, he spoke of an aggressive artificial intelligence  agenda to keep America competitive with the Chinese Communist Party.

Just a few months later, President Trump announced a historic $1.4  trillion investment into our economy from the United Arab Emirates.  This investment will support American artificial intelligence  infrastructure. It will support semiconductors made in America. It will  support energy production from America. It will support American  manufacturing.

Our two nations worked closely together during President Trump's  first term to bring peace to the Middle East through the historic  Abraham Accords. Now, with President Trump's leadership back in the  White House, I am encouraged to see this partnership grow even stronger  with this investment.

President Trump promised to bring investment back to the United  States, and he is already delivering on this promise just 2 months into  his term.                   Agriculture Is Critical in Pennsylvania

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, as a leading producer of  dairy products in the country, Pennsylvania dairymen know just how  important food additives are for the safety of our food supply.  However, the FDA's approval process for these additives has resulted in  a decades-long approval process that stifles innovation and leaves  American farmers falling behind their international competitors.

I am proud to join a bipartisan group of Members on the Innovative  FEED Act to streamline this process and cut the approval time down by  years.

Nutrient supplements keep our food supply safe and our livestock  healthy and allow American farmers to stay competitive on the  international market.

Agriculture is a critical industry in the Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania, and I am proud to help lead this fight in Congress to  give farmers access to the innovative products that they need to  compete.                Recognizing the Life and Legacy of Lloyd Peck

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  remarkable life and distinguished legacy of Lloyd Peck, a proud  veteran, a beloved community leader, and a true American patriot who  passed away on March 17.

Lloyd Peck served as a first lieutenant in the United States Marine  Corps during the Korean war. In civilian life, Lloyd filled many  various roles as an advocate for veterans. In addition to serving as  the commander of the Blair County War Veterans Council, Lieutenant Peck  was a founding member of the Blair County Honor Guard, the chief parade  marshal for the Memorial Day and the Veterans Day parades in Altoona,  and a volunteer at the James E. Van Zandt Medical Center, where he  worked tirelessly to help local veterans receive their benefits.

In the true spirit of Semper Fidelis, Lieutenant Peck continually  demonstrated his steadfast loyalty to his fellow veterans and  continually worked to help our Nation become that more perfect Union.

As we remember Lloyd Peck, we also keep in mind his loved ones,  including his wife, Judy; his daughter, Heather; and his sister, Betty.  We offer them our condolences and our heartfelt prayers.

Mr. Speaker, please join me, and all members of Pennsylvania's 13th  Congressional District, in remembering the incredible life and legacy  of Lieutenant Lloyd Peck.