Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars Ii; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690494/providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-advanced-clean-cars-ii-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in  strong support of H.J. Res. 88, my legislation to reverse California's  radical electric vehicle mandate.

With one foot out the door, President Biden and his administration  provided a waiver approving of California's policy to require all  vehicle sales in the State to be electric vehicles by 2035. What makes  this policy even more dangerous is that 17 other States, making up 40  percent of the American auto market, are set to adopt these  regulations, including my home State of Pennsylvania.

If consumers want to purchase an EV, they should be able to, but  Californian politicians have no right to remove the choice to buy a  gas-powered vehicle from my constituents.

The Biden EPA wrongly allowed California to enact an electric vehicle  mandate that will ultimately affect the entire United States.

What works in Glendale does not work in Gettysburg. Allowing the  California waiver to stand impedes on the rights of all other States,  even those who do not follow California standards.

Not only do EVs not fit the needs of so many American families, but  they are incredibly costly, as well. In my district, the average  household income is $65,000 a year, while the average price of an  electric vehicle is more than $55,000 a year.

Prices in the used car market will also surge, as dealers will not  have the gas-powered vehicles to sell because of the inventory of  unsellable EVs. My constituents simply cannot afford this ridiculous  regulation and should not be forced to purchase entirely unaffordable  vehicles that do not meet their needs.

Our economy was built on an open market and the freedom of consumer  choice. Congress cannot allow California to continue its abuse of its  standing in the Clean Air Act to limit consumer freedom. It is time  that we overturn this dangerous rule.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to pass this legislation to protect  our auto industry, to protect our autoworkers, and, most importantly,  to protect the freedoms of all of America.