Recognizing Chris Ardinger


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701691/recognizing-chris-ardinger


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Chris  Ardinger of Mercersburg, Pennsylvania, for his selection as the  recipient of the Spirit of Community Award.

The award honors individuals who demonstrate an exceptional  commitment to improving the quality of Franklin County life, where  Chris serves as the administrator of Antrim Township.

Known for his transparent leadership and reliability, Chris has made  significant contributions to enhancing the quality of life in the  Cumberland Valley.

Most certainly, Chris Ardinger has devoted his life to professional  and volunteer community activities.

A former executive director of the Tuscarora Area Chamber of  Congress, Chris was elected to the Tuscarora School District Board of  Directors at the age of 19. He served 8 years, including 2 as the board  president.

On behalf of the constituents throughout Franklin County and the  entire 13th Congressional District, I congratulate Chris Ardinger on  this prestigious award, and I thank him for his contributions to our  great communities.                             Honoring Don Bailey

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, it is with a heavy heart that  I rise to honor the life and the career of Don Bailey, an educator, an  administrator, and football coach, who passed away recently in his  hometown of Johnstown, Pennsylvania.

A graduate of Forest Hills High School, Coach Bailey dedicated his  entire professional life to the school district, serving as a teacher,  a principal, and an administrator.

As head football coach at Forest Hills, Coach Bailey became a legend  over his 45 years. His success includes 375 wins, 11 Laurel Highlands  Conference championships, and 10 District 6 championships.

Over the years, Coach Bailey was honored with induction into the  Pennsylvania Football Coaches Hall of Fame and the Cambria County  Sports Hall of Fame. He was also selected for the Lifetime Achievement  Award by the National Football Foundation.

As we pause to remember his legacy, we also keep his wife, Diane, and  all of his family in our prayers.

Please join me in honoring the life of Coach Don Bailey, who was  truly a Cambria County football legend.                             Honoring Mark Taylor

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor former Saxton  Fire Chief Mark Taylor, who stepped down from his position in November,  after 40 years of dedicated service.

During the Saxton Volunteer Fire Company's recent annual banquet,  Chief Taylor was presented with an award that recognizes his unwavering  dedication.

Chief Taylor joined the fire company as a volunteer 50 years ago. He  has been described by colleagues as a beacon of leadership to ensure  the safety of his entire community.

Chief Taylor's legacy includes mentorship of countless firefighters  and a strategic vision that positioned teamwork at its core.

I thank Chief Taylor for his profound impact on municipalities served  by the Saxton Volunteer Fire Company and for his vital role in  inspiring firefighters throughout his years of service.                      Congratulating Richard Fertig, Jr.

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate  Richard Fertig, Jr., of Smith Transportation on selection of  Professional Driver of the Year.

This award is the profession's highest honor, recognizing safety,  leadership, and community impact of professional drivers.

Richard Fertig, Jr., has been driving trucks for Smith Transport for  more than 20 years. Since joining Smith Transport, he has accumulated  more than 2 million miles driving safely, which is a testament to his  commitment to precision, to discipline, and to safety.

As a veteran, Richard's truck is wrapped in a powerful tribute to  Vietnam veterans, and it has become a symbol of respect everywhere he  drives.

Like many others, Mr. Fertig considers Smith Transport founder, Barry  Smith, to be his role model and his mentor.

On behalf of constituents throughout Pennsylvania's 13th  Congressional District, best wishes for continued success, continued  safety, and continued achievement.