Recognizing Levi Haines


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701183/recognizing-levi-haines


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Penn  State wrestler Levi Haines of Adams County, Pennsylvania, a two-time  NCAA champion, a four-time All-American, and a four-time Big Ten  Conference champ.

At the NCAA championships this weekend, Levi captured his second  title in his final collegiate match with a score of 2-1. The victory  capped an undefeated 26-0 season for Levi.

As the number one seed in the 174-pound class at the NCAA  championships, Levi won five consecutive matches. He concluded his  collegiate career with a record of 99-4.

Levi's achievements were integral to Penn State's fifth--yes, I said  fifth--consecutive NCAA championship for 13 of the past 16 years.

A graduate of Biglerville High School, Levi is the son of Ken and  Aimee Haines.

On behalf of the constituents throughout Adams County and the entire  13th Congressional District, I congratulate Levi. I congratulate his  parents, Ken and Aimee, and his wife, Madelin, on his remarkable  collegiate wrestling career and offer him best wishes for continued  success.                         Recognizing Mary Jo Casalena

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Mary Jo  Casalena as the recipient of the Wayne Bailey Lifetime Achievement  Award that was presented at the annual convention of the National Wild  Turkey Federation.

This award recognizes a wildlife biologist, trapper, or wildlife  manager who has devoted their career to the wild turkey and played a  major role in the turkey's restoration and management.

Mary Jo officially retired last October after working 33 years for  the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, including 32 years for the  Pennsylvania Game Commission. She was Pennsylvania's wild turkey expert  for 26 years.

Mary Jo has noted that she wanted to speak up for wildlife since she  was in the seventh grade. She has dedicated her career to working on  the management and research of wild turkeys. She has been described as  one of the most accomplished wild turkey managers of our time.

I congratulate Mary Jo on this prestigious award, and I offer best  wishes for joy and contentment in her retirement.                     Honoring Lehman's Feed & Home Center

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Lehman's Feed  & Home Center of York Springs, Pennsylvania, for 90 years of success as  a source of home and agricultural products for customers throughout  Adams County and the surrounding area.

Founded as Lehman's Feed Store in 1936 by J. Paul Lehman, the  business originally focused on meeting the needs of the rural  agricultural community through its feed mill and farm supplies.  Lehman's also served as the local Purina dealer, supplying dairy and  livestock feed to area farmers.

J. Paul Lehman and two of his sons owned the business for 60 years  before selling it to Allen Hartzell. By expanding the inventory and  range of services, Allen transitioned the operation to a one-stop  destination for rural and household products.

I congratulate Allen Hartzell on this milestone anniversary and thank  him for his continued efforts to support the agricultural industry in  Adams County and beyond.                          Honoring David Burket, Sr.

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the  life and agricultural legacy of David Burket, Sr., of East Freedom,  Pennsylvania, who passed away earlier this month at his home on the  family farm, where he was born.

Married to his late wife, Betty, for 72 years, David dedicated his  professional life to establishing and successfully operating Burket  Falls Farm with Betty and their family.

Over the years, thousands of visitors from over 40 different  countries on six different continents were welcomed to the farm by the  Burket family. The farm was recognized as one of the top 25 influential  breeders in the world by Holstein International. David was recognized  with numerous honors and awards.

As we pause to remember David, we also keep his loved ones in our  prayers. Please join with me in remembering the life and the  professional achievements of David Burket, Sr.