Reducing and Eliminating Duplicative Environmental Regulations Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701786/reducing-and-eliminating-duplicative-environmental-regulations-act


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  Alabama for yielding. I rise today in support of my legislation, the  RED Tape Act.

The RED Tape Act removes an unnecessary and duplicative environmental  review that the EPA currently conducts under the Clean Air Act.

As it stands, the relevant department or agency prepares an  environmental impact statement as part of the permitting of a new  Federal project, a process in which the EPA is often already involved.  After completion of that review, EPA is then asked to go back and  provide additional comments on those same findings; hence, the  redundant and duplicative nature of the process.

This secondary review of an already-completed environmental impact  statement only serves to slow down the critical projects, especially  projects in the energy industry.

This bill is about getting projects permitted and getting projects  completed, projects that will help us compete with our adversaries in  industries like AI and advanced manufacturing.

This bill is not, as has been alleged, an attempt to undermine  environmental review. The environmental impact statement must still be  completed by the primary agency. This is a process that agencies  already have the necessary expertise and capacity to carry out  efficiently. In many cases, EPA will still have the opportunity to  comment during the initial process as a cooperating agency.

As the name implies, the RED Tape Act simply removes bureaucratic,  redundant red tape. Projects will still need to comply with all  applicable environmental laws. This is in no way giving a pass to  polluters. It is ensuring that economic growth is not stifled by overly  burdensome Federal regulations.

Understand what this legislation will do. This is a commonsense bill  that leaves basic environmental protections in place while eliminating  artificial barriers. I urge all of my colleagues to support its passage  on the floor later this week.