Securing Our Elections


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689357/securing-our-elections


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, under President Biden's  administration, millions of illegal immigrants poured into our country,  threatening the security of our communities and threatening our  elections.

While President Trump is hard at work securing our border, it is now  time for Congress to secure our elections from noncitizen voters. This  week, the House will vote on the SAVE Act, legislation that strengthens  our election laws by requiring proof of citizenship to vote in Federal  elections.

The SAVE Act also requires States to create a program to remove  noncitizens from existing voter rolls. Ensuring safe and secure  elections should not be a controversial issue. Elections are truly the  bedrock of our democratic system, and I look forward to strengthening  this system to ensure only the voices of the American people are  counted in our elections.                 Congratulating Penn State Men's Hockey Team

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate  the Penn State men's hockey team for their overtime victory against the  University of Connecticut to advance for the first time to the NCAA  Frozen Four.

After a slow start to the season, including a 0-9 start in Big Ten  play, the Nittany Lions persevered to be one of four Big Ten teams in  the tournament. With their win Sunday evening, they are the last Big  Ten team standing.

I congratulate Guy Gadowsky, head coach of the Nittany Lions men's  hockey team, as well as all of the talented athletes who have worked so  hard to accomplish this victory and the Penn State fans and students  who packed the Pegula Ice Arena for every game.

Now I look forward to watching the Nittany Lions continue their  success against Boston University on April 10 as they look to advance  to their first-ever national championship game.            Increasing Innovative Therapies for Pediatric Patients

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, more than 15,000 children are  diagnosed with pediatric cancer each year in the United States. Despite  this, most cancer research is focused on adult cancer patients, leaving  our kids behind.

I am proud to be a cosponsor of the Give Kids a Chance Act of 2025,  legislation directing drug companies researching combination therapies  for adults to also research them for children. This is a simple piece  of legislation that supports the advancement of innovative treatments  while giving hope to thousands of pediatric cancer patients and their  families.

As a physician legislator, I understand the importance of developing  innovative therapies to save the lives of patients around the world,  and I thank Congressman McCaul for his tireless leadership on this  issue. Increasing innovative cures will increase positive outcomes for  all patients, including kids, finally making America once again  healthy.              Congratulating DeLeo Games on 80 Years of Success

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor DeLeo  Games of Altoona, Pennsylvania, for 80 years of success as a  distributor of amusement-type mechanical games and entertainment  options in the Commonwealth and for five neighboring States.

Since its founding in 1945 by Joe DeLeo, Sr., and his wife,  Josephine, four generations of the DeLeo family have embraced the  family business that today has an inventory that includes arcade games,  pinball machines, digital jukeboxes, pool tables, dart boards, skill  games, and ATMs.

In addition to supplying the region with entertainment options, DeLeo  Games has also been active in the community, sponsoring charities like  the UPMC Breast Care Center and drug prevention programs in Blair  County.

I congratulate the entire DeLeo family, including Joe DeLeo, Jr., Tom  and Colleen DeLeo, and their daughter Katie, on this milestone  anniversary and offer best wishes for their continued success.