Supporting the Stop of Chinese Fentanyl


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, last week I was proud to  support the Stop Chinese Fentanyl Act, legislation that will put  sanctions on any individual, including senior members of the Chinese  Communist Party, who are responsible for the production, the  distribution, the sale, or the financing of synthetic opioids.

It is no secret that China is the leading producer of the base  chemicals, the ingredients, that are needed to make fentanyl and that  the Chinese Communist Party is more than willing to work directly with  Mexican drug cartels to ensure that this poison continues to reach  America.

Unfortunately, drug overdoses have become the leading cause of death  for Americans who are ages 18 to 45, with fentanyl causing nearly 70  percent of those deaths. With strong leadership under President Trump  back in the White House, our southern border is finally becoming  secure.

We here in the House must take every action possible to stop the flow  of the poison that fentanyl is before it ever reaches our border.                      Strengthening Our Immigration Laws

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, this week, my colleagues  and I will take up H.R. 3486, the Stop Illegal Entry Act. This  legislation will strengthen our immigration laws and deter criminal  illegal aliens from crossing our southern border.

For 4 long years, President Biden and his administration were asleep  at the switch, allowing our borders to be flooded with illegal  immigrants, most of whom were simply released into our communities.

This legislation gives Federal officials more tools in their tool  belt to prosecute illegal immigrants by requiring significant  imprisonment for illegals who commit crimes.

President Trump has worked tirelessly to make our southern borders  secure again. Now it is our job here in Congress to ensure Federal law  enforcement and prosecutors have the tools that they need to deter  further illegal immigration.

Madam Speaker, I look forward to supporting this strong, commonsense  piece of legislation on the House floor this week as we continue to  work to make our Nation once again safe for all Americans.                          Celebrating Century Farms

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the  William and Richard Farabaugh and Joseph Burkhart farms in East Carroll  Township of Cambria County for receiving the designation of Century  Farm from the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture.

A Century Farm is a farm that has been owned by the same family for  at least 100 consecutive years, has a family member who still lives on  that farm, and has at least 10 acres of the original farmland.

William Farabaugh purchased the family farm in September 1918. He and  his wife had 10 children: 8 daughters and 2 sons. The Farabaugh family  introduced the use of silos in the area. Fifty-eight of the original  acres and the barn are still in use today.

On behalf of everyone in Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District,  I offer heartfelt congratulations to the Farabaugh and Burkhart  families and express gratitude for their enduring commitment to one of  Pennsylvania's most vital industries, and that is agriculture.                  Honoring Partsch Farm in Conemaugh Township

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the  Partsch Farm in Conemaugh Township of Cambria County for receiving the  designation of a Century Farm from the Pennsylvania Department of  Agriculture.

Cecilia Partsch's grandfather, Frank, purchased the farm in April  1924. Frank Partsch was a dairy farmer who supplied milk for processing  at Sani Dairy in Johnstown, Pennsylvania.

The original barn and house are still in use today. Cecilia Partsch's  father, Harold, took over the farm in 1972. Currently, the farm  continues to produce both beef and hay.

On behalf of everyone in Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District,  I offer heartfelt congratulations to the Partsch family and express  gratitude for the family's enduring commitment to agriculture, the  number one industry in Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District.