U.S. Elections Are for U.S. Citizens


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on the  importance of the SAVE America Act, which will come to the House floor  for a vote this week.

At the heart of our democracy is a very simple promise: Every  eligible citizen gets one vote, and every vote counts equally. That  promise is only sustainable when the public has confidence in the  system.

The SAVE America Act is centered on an indisputable principle: U.S.  elections are for U.S. citizens. This legislation will ensure that  voter registration systems accurately reflect the law and that  citizenship requirements are consistently enforced.

By requiring a photo ID in Federal elections, this congressional  action will work to prevent fraud before it even starts. Supporting the  SAVE America Act means promising every voter that their voice matters  and that their vote will not be diluted. This action signals a long  overdue step towards election integrity, which will preserve the  strength and the security of our democratic system for generations to  come.

Very simply, our democracy is worth protecting, and by passing and  enacting the SAVE America Act, we in Congress can ensure our  constituents that their vote will count.                 Congratulating Johnstown Native Dan Barefoot

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate  Johnstown native, Dan Barefoot, on earning a spot on the U.S. Olympic  Team. This week, Dan will compete in the Milano Cortina Winter Games  representing our Nation on the world stage.

A graduate of Richland High School and Penn State, Dan will compete  in the skeleton competition, which is scheduled for Thursday, February  12.

Dan's 10-year pursuit of a spot on the Olympic team began with a  Google search relating to which Olympic-style sport a novice could  train for later in life. After what he describes as the singular most  incredible and challenging journey of his life, Dan has reached the  pinnacle of his sport.

Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District is incredibly proud to  support Dan as he represents our community and our country on the  Olympic stage.

Once again, I congratulate Dan and his parents, Barry and Rebecca, on  this extraordinary accomplishment and best wishes for gold at the  Winter Games.