Dobbs V. Jackson Anniversary


Mr. CLYDE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in celebration that yesterday was the  third anniversary of the Supreme Court's Dobbs decision, which  overturned the disastrous 1973 Roe v. Wade decision, a major victory  for the pro-life movement. This decision rightfully reaffirmed that  ending the life of an unborn child is not a constitutional right. While  this was a step in the right direction, there is still much to be done  to protect the lives of our Nation's most innocent.

Modern science objectively proves that new, distinct human life  begins at the moment of conception. It is truly incredible that, with  today's technology, we know that a baby's heartbeat starts at just  about 22 days after conception, their unique fingerprints are formed at  12 weeks of gestation, and by 15 weeks, the baby is sensitive to pain.  That is why I have cosponsored the Life at Conception Act, which  legally recognizes the life and value of an unborn child regardless of  their size or level of development.

Additionally, at the start of this Congress, I reintroduced  legislation to recognize January 22, the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, as  the Day of Tears to memorialize the unborn victims of abortion.

Since the Dobbs decision, the fight to protect the unborn is far from  over, given the issue of abortion was handed down to the States.  Therefore, abortions are still occurring across the country, and the  rapid rise in access to the chemical abortion drug, mifepristone, is  deeply alarming.

It is estimated that mifepristone accounted for 63 percent of the  abortions in 2023, resulting in approximately 642,700 unborn babies  losing their lives that year.

Women and girls have been misled into believing that taking  mifepristone to induce an abortion is as safe as using Tylenol.  However, new data indicates that nearly 1 in 10 women taking the  chemical abortion pill experience serious complications, such as  sepsis, infection, hemorrhage, or another serious adverse event within  45 days of taking the drug.

Mr. Speaker, this real-world complication rate is 22 times higher  than the FDA currently acknowledges on the mifepristone label.

Additionally, the Biden-Harris administration removed the requirement  for a woman to receive these drugs in person from a healthcare  provider. This in-person requirement allowed providers to determine  gestational age, rule out life-threatening ectopic pregnancies, and  identify signs of abuse before dispensing mifepristone.

This change not only poses serious, irresponsible medical risks but  also bypasses pro-life State laws, like what we  have in Georgia, by permitting the shipping of abortion pills.

Let me give you an example. This is a package, a brown envelope. This  was ordered online with a simple filling out of a form, answering a few  questions, and putting in your name and address. It showed up about a  week later.

If you look at the return address, it is fake. It says: James Smith,  2301 L Street Northwest, Washington, D.C. That is the West End Library  here in Washington. It was postmarked from Capital District 208 here in  Washington, D.C.

In this package, in this brown envelope, are three packages. One,  two, and three are the only marks on them. They are mifepristone and  the drugs that induce an abortion. They are so easily accessed online,  sent free of charge--but to whom?

I believe that any abortion is a tragedy. I also recognize that while  mifepristone is still legal--and I hope that one day it is not legal  and is banned because it is responsible for so many murders of unborn  children. While it is still legal, for the well-being of women and  girls, we must investigate the safety and efficacy of mifepristone and  reinstate in-person dispensing requirements for the abortion drug.

Every life is a gift from God. As leaders, our greatest  responsibility is to protect the life and liberty of every person,  especially our most innocent. After all, our first and most fundamental  right is the right of life.

Think about it. Think about the first document that birthed our  Nation, the Declaration of Independence. ``We hold these truths to be  self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by  their creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are  life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these  rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just  powers from the consent of the governed.''

What was the first right mentioned? The right to life. We as a  government have a responsibility to protect that life, especially the  life of an innocent unborn child.

Abortion is not the solution. We must have compassion for both the  unborn and pregnant women who are struggling. That is why I am pleased  to know that, in Georgia alone, there are over 670 organizations that  offer support and care for pregnant women.

As we celebrate the victorious anniversary of the Dobbs decision, I  remain resolute in defending the sanctity of life and protecting the  precious unborn.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Norman)  for yielding.