Notice of Intention to Offer Resolution Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696888/notice-of-intention-to-offer-resolution-raising-a-question-of-the-privileges-of-the-house


Mr. CLYDE. Mr. Speaker, a point of order.

Mr. CLYDE. Mr. Speaker, a point of order.

Mr. CLYDE. Mr. Speaker, the point of order is you may not call the  President of the United States a felon. That is a violation.

Mr. CLYDE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend, Mr. Norman from South  Carolina, for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution censuring and  condemning Delegate Stacey Plaskett from the U.S. Virgin Islands for  inappropriate coordination with convicted  sex offender Jeffrey Epstein during a congressional hearing and  removing Delegate Plaskett from the Permanent Select Committee on  Intelligence and referring her to the Ethics Committee for further  investigation.

After 4 years of silence on this matter, there was not a peep during  the entire Biden Administration. Let me repeat that. After 4 years of  silence on this matter about Jeffrey Epstein, House Democrats are now  demanding transparency and accountability surrounding Jeffrey Epstein  and his associates.

While their fake outrage is clearly just another disgusting attempt  to smear President Trump, House Republicans are taking this matter  seriously and are working toward delivering the much-needed  transparency and accountability that the American people deserve.

This resolution is accountability page 1. During the House Oversight  Committee's ongoing investigation into Jeffrey Epstein, emails obtained  by a congressional subpoena--that is right, it was a congressional  subpoena--by the House Oversight Committee, not the discharge petition  that just got voted on, but this is the Oversight Committee's  congressional subpoena--has brought to light that in 2019, Delegate  Stacey Plaskett coordinated her line of questioning with Jeffrey  Epstein in real time over text messages during an Oversight Committee  hearing featuring testimony from Michael Cohen.

Now, who is Michael Cohen?

Michael Cohen was the disgraced former attorney of President Donald  Trump.

She was asking input from Jeffrey Epstein on how to best question  Cohen, and Cohen was himself at that time a convicted felon from 2018.

So now that Republicans are exposing Democrat ties to Jeffrey Epstein  and his vile crimes, the other side of the aisle has flipped. They  apparently no longer want transparency or accountability.

Why?

It is because they don't want the truth. They want to weaponize a  serious matter into a distraction all in an attempt to take down  President Trump and to hurt his administration and what he is doing to  Make America Great Again.

The actions taken by Delegate Plaskett reflect poorly on the House,  and this body needs to hold her accountable.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote to adopt this  resolution to show the American people that those who colluded with Mr.  Epstein, including Members of the House, will be held accountable, and  this resolution is the beginning of that.