Providing for Disposition of Senate Amendment to H.R. Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701517/providing-for-disposition-of-senate-amendment-to-hr-department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. CLYDE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the  Department of Homeland Security continuing resolution that pays all of  our brave homeland defenders and fully funds all of DHS, including ICE  and CBP. For over 40 days, my Democratic colleagues have held our  national security hostage to force their reckless, open-border, and  pro-illegal alien agenda on the American people.

Honestly, no one is surprised by this reckless stunt because, just a  few short weeks ago in this very Chamber, these radical Democrats  refused to stand for President Trump's simple statement that the first  duty of the American Government is to protect American citizens, not  illegal aliens. They showed their true colors then, and they are  continuing to show them right now.

Upholding immigration laws, securing our borders, and deporting  illegal aliens is exactly what the American people voted for. We wanted  to prevent more avoidable tragedies, like the horrific murders of Laken  Riley and Sheridan Gorman.

Democrats want to protect these monsters who are committing these  crimes. It is as simple as that. You are either with the American  citizens whom you swore an oath to serve, or you are with the illegal  aliens who shouldn't be here in the first place.

That is why the Senate bill was dead on arrival, passed in the dead  of night by a voice vote. The Senate's DHS funding bill would defund  ICE and the Border Patrol, further undermining the very agencies tasked  with protecting our homeland.

House Republicans rejected this terrible precedent, as we will not  allow the radical Democrats' un-American, open-border, illegal  foreigner-first agenda to destroy our country or dictate the  appropriations process.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to put the American people first by  supporting this DHS 60-day continuing resolution.