Dalles Watershed Development Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697754/dalles-watershed-development-act


Mr. HURD of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 655) to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to  convey certain Federal land to the City of The Dalles, Oregon, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 655

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Dalles Watershed Development       Act''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.          In this Act:

(1) City.--The term ``City'' means the City of The Dalles,       Oregon.

(2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of the Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest       Service.       SEC. 3. THE DALLES CONVEYANCE.

(a) In General.--If, not later than 1 year after the date       of the enactment of this Act, the City submits a written       request to the Secretary for conveyance of the land described       in subsection (b)(1), the Secretary shall, as soon as       practicable thereafter, convey to the City, all right, title,       and interest of the United States in and to such land.

(b) Description of Land.--

(1) In general.--The land described in this paragraph is       the parcel of real property generally depicted as ``parcel       A'' on the map, consisting of approximately 150 acres of       National Forest System land located in the Mount Hood       National Forest in Oregon.

(2) Map.--

(A) Definition.--In this section, the term ``map'' means       the map entitled ``The Dalles Conveyance Parcel A'' and dated       November 4, 2024.

(B) Minor errors.--The Secretary may correct minor errors       in the map.

(C) Availability of map.--A copy of the map shall be on       file and available for public inspection in the appropriate       offices of Forest Service.

(3) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the       National Forest System land to be conveyed under subsection       (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the       Secretary.

(c) Terms and Conditions.--The conveyance under subsection       (a) shall be--

(1) subject to valid existing rights;

(2) made without consideration;

(3) made by quitclaim deed; and

(4) subject to such additional terms and conditions as the       Secretary determines to be appropriate to protect the       interests of the United States.

(d) Administrative Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance       under subsection (a), the City shall pay all costs associated       with the conveyance, including the cost of a survey under       subsection (b)(3).

(e) Use of Conveyed Land.--

(1) In general.--The land conveyed to the City under       subsection (a) shall be used by the City for public purposes,       including for municipal water supply and use and related       infrastructure needs or expansions.

(2) Reversion.--If the land conveyed under subsection (a)       is used in a manner that is inconsistent with the requirement       of paragraph (1), all right, title, and interest in and to       the land shall revert to the United States.

Mr. HURD of Colorado.  655, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 655, sponsored by  my colleague, Representative Bentz.

This straightforward legislation would transfer 150 acres of U.S.  Forest Service land to the City of The Dalles, Oregon.

The area encompassed by the legislation includes a dam and reservoir  that the City currently operates under a special use permit from the  Forest Service.

The Crow Creek Reservoir, located in the Mount Hood National Forest,  is key to providing clean water for drinking, residential, and  commercial uses in The Dalles. In fact, the existing infrastructure  provides 80 percent of the City's annual water supply.

However, in order to access and maintain this critical water  infrastructure, the City must perpetually reapply for special use  permits from the Forest Service, a time-consuming and expensive  process.

In addition to wasting time and personnel resources, the renewal  process is estimated to cost the City at least $150,000.

Between 2010 and 2020, the population of The Dalles increased by more  than 11 percent. To address the needs of its current and future  population, the City plans to increase the Crow Creek Reservoir's  capacity from 900 to 3,000 acre-feet. Allowing the City to take full  ownership of the land within the reservoir's watershed will allow local  leaders to move ahead with planned capacity and safety improvements to  the Crow Creek Reservoir without running into red tape and wasting  taxpayer money.

This is a fiscally responsible bill that will cut costs for the local  community and for the Forest Service. A land transfer will allow the  City to advance upgrades to the Crow Creek Reservoir. H.R. 655 is a  simple, practical step that saves money immediately and decreases costs  over time by shrinking the Federal estate.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Bentz for his leadership on this  issue and for his steadfast work on behalf of his constituents.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R.

Mr. HURD of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, this legislation will eliminate  the City's need to reapply for a special use permit to access land  within its own municipal watershed and allow local leaders to move  forward with a vital expansion of its reservoir capacity, which is  necessary to serve its growing population.

Expanding the City's water supply will support the growing number of  businesses and families that call The Dalles home. This legislation is  straightforward, timely, returns power to local government, and saves  taxpayer money. I thank Representative Bentz for sponsoring this  critical measure.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 655, and I yield  back the balance of my time.