-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697814/9999


Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, the Senate is talking a lot about  healthcare right now for good reason. There are major cost increases  going up on insurance all across the country but especially for some  folks that are in ObamaCare Marketplace plans.

I talked earlier this week with a gentleman from my State who is in  his early sixties. He runs a small business, works his tail off. His  insurance plan that he has taken on, he took on in the last few years  because of the enhanced premium tax credit subsidies that were added in  2021. Those temporary tax gifts to insurance companies expire in just a  few weeks.

Now, he knew that they would expire. As he told me in our  conversation we had this week, he said he knew they were temporary, but  now he is trying to figure out what to do to find affordable healthcare  options for himself because his healthcare is going to go up about $500  a month. That is an enormous amount.

And his frustration was pretty clear. He is just looking for a plan  that he can afford. He is just looking for an option. He is not asking  for something unrealistic. He is just trying to figure out what to do.  He asked me the question: How did we get here? How did this happen?

Well, let me just walk through that because the interesting thing  about all of this is how confusing it has really been in the process.  Everyone that I talked to about healthcare, they all say: It is  incredibly confusing. I can't figure out any of this.

Let me try to explain just a couple of things we are talking about.

My Democratic colleagues are asking for a multibillion-dollar  extension, not of ObamaCare but of a subsidy that was put on top of  ObamaCare. And it doesn't apply to 320 million Americans. It applies to  about 20 million Americans. If I want to make it even more specific  than that, it is not just 20 million Americans because most of those  qualify for the full subsidy; it is just for a certain group-- typically, folks that are 50 to 64--that it applies to.

It is that particular group that are on the ObamaCare Marketplace  that are in that age bracket that are facing very high premiums that  are coming up very, very soon. It is a big deal to them, as well it  should be for any American.

Let me set the context for this. The Kaiser Family Foundation lists  the average cost for healthcare insurance on the individual market--the  average cost for healthcare insurance on the individual market--at $215  the year before ObamaCare came into effect. Let that set in for a  minute. People in this room know how much your health insurance is now.  If we went back to prior to ObamaCare's passage, the average cost for  the individual marketplace for health insurance was $215. Not so any  more. It has more than doubled--more than tripled for many people.

President Obama said at that time that ``it will cut the cost of the  typical family's premium by about $2,500 a year.''

It has not been reduced for the typical family by about $2,500 a  year. It has dramatically increased. It has become more and more  complicated. There are more and more entities that are involved in  healthcare decisions.

And the challenge for healthcare right now is the absolute complexity  that has been created in the cost that continues to overwhelm. That is  where we are as the baseline that every American is facing right now.

In 2021, my Democratic colleagues saw the skyrocketing costs. And in  what they called the American Rescue Plan during COVID, they added in  an additional subsidy on top of ObamaCare for about 10 million people.  That was called the enhanced premium tax credit that got added on top  of ObamaCare because the ObamaCare costs were skyrocketing so fast.

They called it, at the time, a temporary plan to be able to help  during COVID. But then a year later, they added another 2 years on top  of it. That is now what is expiring at the end of this year, their  temporary COVID extension. The problem is, the price continues to go up  so rapidly that now no one can afford the plan anymore.

In my State in Oklahoma, we asked our insurance commissioner to take  a 6-year snapshot and tell us what is happening to the Marketplace, the  ObamaCare Marketplace, without the subsidies. If the subsidies went  away, what was the increase? And for the commercial insurance from my  State, what changed during that time period?

For ObamaCare, the rates had gone up 198 percent in 6 years. In  commercial insurance in my State, it has gone up 29 percent--apples-to- apples comparison.

There is a very real problem with the structure of how ObamaCare  actually works. The request has been: Let's put more subsidies on top  of it, more subsidies on top of it and add billions and billions more  in taxpayer dollars to cover up the problem that is underneath. There  is a problem in the way that ObamaCare was actually created and how it  is actually operating and what it is causing not just for that group in  the Marketplace but for what it is causing for everybody else, even  people that are not in the Marketplace at all--how that is driving up  premiums.

We are debating the next 24 hours, trying to be able to come to two  sets of solutions here. My Democratic colleagues are bringing a  proposal tomorrow to say: Let's just take the subsidies that we did  during COVID and let's extend those 3 more years, and we will just do  that, no reforms, no changes, no anything else. Let's just do that for  3 more years.

It was interesting. I asked about the 3 more years and the exact  timing on that, how that would work. It is fascinating. When you pull  back the politics of that 3-year extension, the 3-year extension goes  through the end of 2028. But what they don't tell you is, it would  actually set up to announce the new insurance rates for 2029 that would  not have the subsidies anymore in it the week before the Presidential  election in 2028.

Well, that was clever. They set up a little political timebomb for  the Presidential election in 2028, saying they chose this certain date  in this certain time to do it so that right before the next  Presidential election, we would have the same argument all over again-- no reforms, no changes, political date-setting.

Republicans are actually bringing forward a proposal and saying: We  see you. We see what has been dropped on you. We see individuals in my  State and all over the country that have now fallen prey to what has  happened in ObamaCare that they can't get options for different  healthcare insurance, they can't get cheaper rates, and they certainly  can't go back to what the rates were in 2010 at $215 a month anymore  because under ObamaCare, if you are in the individual market, that is  not allowed anymore. That is absolutely prohibited in Federal law now.

So we have a very simple proposal: We do want to assist folks who are  stuck in this ObamaCare Marketplace to try to figure out how we help  them through this, but we don't want to send the dollars to the  insurance companies. That is a hole. We want to send it to the  individuals who are there and give them some greater choice on it.

So our main proposal is, yes, we want to help them, and we want to  help them immediately, but we don't want to send dollars to insurance  companies and trust in them that it is going to be taken care of. We  want to get the dollars to those particular individuals and say: Let us  help you in this process and get through this next year as we,  hopefully, reopen this whole debate about healthcare.

The second thing that we want to do is increase the options for  coverage for those individuals and increase them right away so that  they get greater flexibility in what they can choose. We trust the  American people as they are shopping in the marketplace for healthcare  insurance to be able to make better decisions.

Long term, what I would love to see is let's open up the conversation  about how we have associations of healthcare plans. Right now, the  small business owner I talked to earlier this week is limited to only  choosing things in the ObamaCare Marketplace, and the price is  absolutely skyrocketing for him. He doesn't have the option to actually  join together with other small businesses to negotiate for a better  rate. A big company can do that. If you are Walmart, you can do that,  and if you are JPMorgan Chase, you can do that, but if you are my small  business owner in Oklahoma, you cannot. They are prohibited from doing  that. Well, that is ridiculous. They should be allowed to join together  and be able to negotiate for better rates so they can get greater  options on that.

We want to help expand health savings accounts. Health savings  accounts allow individuals to actually talk to their physicians or  their hospitals and say: How much does this cost, and actually try to  find a way to be able to compete for cost on it. Greater price  transparency allows people to choose, if they have got to get an MRI, a  CT scan, or whatever it may be, to say: What are the best options to be  able to do this that actually bring the cost down?

Most of the time when people go to the hospital, they never know what  the cost is for anything. They have no idea because ``insurance'' is  covering that until, suddenly, they don't, and then it becomes a big  issue. That should be something we can all agree on as greater  flexibility and greater options on plans do nothing but help people.

There is an issue that I have worked on with several of the folks in  this room, and that deals with pharmacy benefit managers. We have got  to be able to actually land this. We all know of the rising costs of  pharmaceuticals that are out there. We all experience that, and  everybody says: What is the problem? It is the middleman in the middle  of this who is actually controlling the formulary and controlling a lot  of the pricing, and that completely hides the cost of everything on it.

The pharmacy benefit managers are destroying our independent  pharmacies in our rural areas all around the country as they continue  to make more and more profits on Wall Street. We have got to say: We  are not trying to destroy you, but you have got to stop destroying our  independent pharmacies around the country, and you have got to actually  be more transparent in the process on this.

We have a bill that is a bipartisan bill that has come out of the  Finance Committee that we have unanimous support for--tell me how often  that happens in this body--but that we can't seem to get to the floor.  We should be able to agree that, if someone is trying to dramatically  jack up the cost of pharmaceuticals on our individual constituents and  on the families in our neighborhoods and is destroying our independent  pharmacies, we should all be able to agree that that is  anticompetitive. That has got to stop. We should be able to do that.

Listen, we already passed this last July--a $50 billion amount going  to rural hospitals to stabilize those rural hospitals. We have already  engaged in ways to be able to stabilize Medicaid in the long term and  make sure that the program continues to work well. We have already  taken on some of these things to be able to make things better. We have  got to deal with the issue of individuals and their healthcare options  and their opportunities to find better insurance to be able to take  care of their healthcare.

Let's increase competition, and let's increase options for  individuals in the days ahead; but in the short term, let's at least  get immediate assistance to those folks who need the help right now by  giving dollars to those individuals, not by sending cash to the  insurance companies and setting up a political timebomb right before  the Presidential election. That doesn't sound like that is actually  helping people. That sounds like that is perpetuating the same problem  that we have dealt with already. These are options that we should be  able to have grownup conversations about and resolve. There is a way to  resolve this. Let's get busy doing it.