Authorizing Representation By the Senate Legal Counsel in the Case of Desmond Bellard V. Ronald Wyden, U.S. Senator


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690112/authorizing-representation-by-the-senate-legal-counsel-in-the-case-of-desmond-bellard-v-ronald-wyden-us-senator


Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I join my colleague in expressing some  frustration that we can't vote on the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of  Staff. It is the kind of stuff that drives people crazy back home for  an individual that is the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. Most people  back in my State of Oklahoma think this has already been done. But to  not be able to move on this, to literally have my Democratic colleagues  block it and say we are not going to allow the Chairman of the Joint  Chiefs of Staff for our military to be able to be there, it is just  another one of those moments of Washington, DC, gridlock and  frustration, especially when this person moved out of committee with a  vote of 24 to 4.

That is overwhelming bipartisan support. There is just not  controversy about this nominee. But now suddenly to be able to have a  game, to be able to say we want to be able to stall this out and maybe  block this person until after Easter, so we don't have a Chairman of  the Joint Chiefs of Staff is frustrating for people to say: Come on,  just have the vote.

So I join my colleagues on the Republican side to say: What is the  problem? Everyone knows this person is going to be voted on and is  going to be approved because there is such wide bipartisan support, but  for my Democratic colleagues to say: Nope, we want to drag this out for  weeks, I just don't think it is the right thing to do. Clearly, they  disagree, but I don't think it is the right thing to do.                  30th Anniversary of Oklahoma City Bombing

Mr. President, next week, Oklahoma and the Nation will pause for a  moment, and we will remember, nationally, for a moment, on April 19 at  9:02 in the morning.

And some people will look around and go, ``Has it been 30 years?''  and other people will say: ``What happened 30 years ago?'' because it  depends on your generation of when you were born and how old you were  or if you were even alive in 1995, but if you were alive in 1995, you  remember where you were when the news came out that there was an  explosion at a Federal building in Oklahoma City.

It was the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building. A man who was mad at  the government and determined he was going to cause an uprising of  people to take down the Federal Government pulled a Ryder truck in  front of a Federal building, loaded it with diesel fuel and with  ammonia nitrate, lit fuses, walked away, got in his car and drove away.

As he drove away, behind him, the explosion went off that killed 168  people, including 19 children who were in the daycare center on the  ground floor. And our Nation was forever changed.

We pause every year still in Oklahoma. We have never forgotten. Every  year, we think about those who were killed and those who survived and  those who were changed forever. We remember every single year, as we  will again this year on the 30th anniversary, and we will pause to  remember.

The people that are around us in Oklahoma are our neighbors, they are  our friends, but many of them are also survivors or family members of  survivors or family members of those who are lost. There are still  police officers and firefighters that have literally never been back to  that location because it is too painful to be able to return to a spot  where they carried out the bodies of their friends and neighbors.

There are individuals that their family was truly forever changed.  And now, 30 years later, they still get together and talk and visit,  catch up with each other. There are survivor networks that still engage  and still keep in contact with each other, remembering what happens  when out-of-control anger took the lives of 168 people.

On that sacred ground, there is still a quiet reflection pool. There  are 168 chairs there to remind people of the 168 lives. There is a  phenomenal museum that is next to it that people come to literally from  all over the world to study terrorism, domestic terrorism in  particular, and to be able to walk through what happened in the crime  scene and how it was so quickly resolved. We have law enforcement,  first responders, families and communities that come from everywhere  just to be able to learn and to reflect.

There are children that survived the daycare center that are now  adults. Let me give you two: Brandon and Rebecca Denny. Brandon was 3  years old, and he literally barely survived his injuries; in fact,  doctors gave him a 10 percent chance of survival, but he did. As an  adult, he works to still help and serve others.

Rebecca, she was rescued from the rubble at 2 years old. She now has  a family of her own. She speaks powerfully, still, about forgiveness  over bitterness.

They were some of those miracle babies that survived. Many of the  children around them did not.

This past week, it was really a remarkable moment that a lot of  people in this town probably missed, and I understand. There is a lot  of things going on right now. But on the south side of the Capitol,  there was a spot of dirt that was dug up there and a group of  Oklahomans, along with the Architect of the Capitol, buried a seedling  tree.

Now, that may not seem like a big deal on the Capitol grounds, but  there aren't many trees that are planted on the Capitol grounds. Many  of the trees that are on the grounds are 100 years old or some, 200.  This is a great historic place and a spot of reflection.

But in one spot there, we just planted a tree. And you may say: What  is the big deal about that tree? Well, if you are in Oklahoma, you  already know the rest of this story, but I would like to be able to  tell this body the rest of that story.

On April 19, 1995, when that truck bomb explosion took place, it took  168 lives. It destroyed the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building. Across  the street was  the Journal Record Building; it just demolished a big section of that  as well, blew out all the windows, destroyed it. In the parking lot  there in front of that building was an American elm tree. It was a  scrubby tree growing in a parking lot. If you have seen a tree in the  parking lot, you know it is not usually the healthiest looking thing,  but it was just growing there in the middle of the asphalt. But when  the explosion happened, it literally destroyed all those lives. But for  that tree, it blew literally every leaf off of that tree. But the force  of the impact and the heat of the impact was so strong, that it  literally turned the tree. The bark literally that usually has this  nice little stripe as it grows literally has a turning point in it and  around it, and everyone just assumed that tree is dead. No one paid  attention to it.

In the year of the cleanup and all of the recovery and what was  happening during that time period, no one paid attention to it, until  the next spring, that scrubby little tree in the asphalt started  sprouting. And people were shocked. It is alive. And suddenly it went  from being a scrubby tree in the parking lot that was just going to be  cleared out to being a sign of hope.

So we cleared the asphalt and everything else away from it. An  arborist came and began to fertilize it and to take care of it. That  scrubby little tree is now nicknamed ``The Survivor Tree'' now, and it  is the picture of Oklahoma after that bombing. We survived.

That scrubby little American elm tree is now enormous 30 years later.  Its branches and its leaves spread out over that site. It is the shaded  spot. And on the morning of April 19, there will be survivors and  families that will sit under its branches. And as we pause for 168  seconds and as we read the names of those who we lost, they will be  underneath that Survivor Tree thinking again of: We survived. We are  still here.

The term ``the Oklahoma standard'' was born during that time period  as neighbor helped neighbor and as we cared for each other and the  people who came to our home from all over the world, literally.

If you walk into my office, you will see a picture of the Survivor  Tree that is there. How does that seedling that we just planted and  that Survivor Tree connect? Well, that seedling is a daughter of that  Survivor Tree. A seed was literally picked up off the ground under that  Survivor Tree, was planted and grown, and now it is about 3 feet tall.  That seedling, that daughter, we just planted 30 years later at the  U.S. Capitol so that this Nation will never forget the out-of-control  anger that turned to violence and hatred.

It is our prayer from Oklahoma that, as people walk down the path  outside, that they would stop and read the plaque beside that little  seedling tree. That in the decades ahead, it will grow to be a giant  American elm, just like its parent, the Survivor Tree, and that people  would remember the lives that were lost, those who survived, and those  who were changed forever.

That is our hope. That is why that tree was planted on the Capitol  lawn this week.

My simple request for my colleagues: April 19, it is a Saturday--when  it comes, at 9:02 central time, would you just pause with us for just a  moment and remember? Join us because we will absolutely never forget.