Cloture Motion


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695311/cloture-motion


Mr. LANKFORD. I would ask for Senator Schatz and I to speak for up to  10 minutes of time, equally divided.

Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, the Senate is stuck. We have had an  enormous number of nominations that have tried to be able to work  through this body. Quite frankly, it is the same number that we have  every time when it is the first term for a new President to be able to  work its way through the body.

But this time is different. And it is not just accidentally  different; it has been intentionally different.

I understand my Democratic colleagues have problems politically with  President Trump. I get that. Respectfully, we have differences of  opinion on that. But this time it has been different. Every single  nominee has been blocked. Every single nominee has required a vote for  a motion to proceed, 2 hours of debate, and another vote.

The current status where we are right now to just do the nominees who  are backlogged, where we currently sit right now, will take about 900  hours of floor time to be able to just do those. That doesn't include  the ones who are coming next for the next nominations. We are stuck.

If every single one of them requires this kind of time, the Senate is  no longer functioning. So what we had proposed was a pretty  straightforward proposal; that is, that we actually can move nominees  in small batches--let's say 15--once they come out of committee. So  they have had vetting in committee; they had had a hearing in  committee; they have passed out of committee; they are now coming to  the floor. In the past, those individuals were then passed by what is  called en bloc or by voice vote or unanimous consent.

It is very common to be en bloc. In fact, during President Biden's  time, there were 277 nominees who moved en bloc. Do you know why?  Because Republicans allowed them to be able to move en bloc.

Do you know what is interesting? During President Trump's first term,  more than 500 nominees moved en bloc. Do you know why? Because  Democrats allowed them to move en bloc because this was normal to be  able to do. But now we are in a new political age where nothing seems  to be normal.

So we proposed a very simple thing; that this would be helpful to do  in what is called a standing rule. It would take 60 votes to be able to  move this, and we would have a standing rule to say here is how this  could be done. Up to 15 out of a committee would come to the floor en  bloc. We would have a single vote to be able to pass those 15, very  similar to how it has been done in the past. It is just structured that  way.

This was an idea that percolated around for a while and then began to  grow. Then we had multiple of our Democratic Senators who came on board  and said that that is a reasonable proposal. In fact, it is similar to  something that we proposed a couple of years ago for several Members.

So after a while of discussion, more and more Democrats came on  board. And now we have a supermajority of Members of this body right  now to be able to vote on it today who are willing to say let's vote on  it. We have a supermajority. We have plenty of folks who are willing to  be able to step up and say that is a reasonable thing to be able to do.  The problem is, it takes consent to actually bring it to the floor. It  is just a simple issue of do we have the ability to be able to vote on  this today? If we don't, we are stuck.

Now, it only takes 60. We definitely have 60 votes in this body today  to be able to pass it. What we don't have is consent to be able to  actually bring it.

We have been asked: Well, what if we just did it next week? The  challenge is this body has just broken down trust. So we are not  confident there is not going to be a next week and a next week and a  next week. In the meantime, we are still not moving nominees. We are  still stuck.

So we have asked a very simple thing: Let's move this idea today,  where we know we have 60 of our colleagues ready to be able to pass it  today, in regular order in the process. We are just asking one thing;  that is, consent to be able to do it.

I am planning to bring that request for consent in just a moment, but  I would like to be able to yield time to my colleague Senator Schatz  from Hawaii to be able to speak on this same issue because he has also  worked very hard on rules and trying to be able to make this Senate  work.

Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I want to bring a unanimous consent  request, but I would say I represent--every single Republican is in  agreement to this. Every single Republican was ready today to be able  to move on what was an agreed-upon bipartisan agreement--not by all;  understanding that. But, again, we have a supermajority of Members of  this body that are being blocked by a small group of the minority party  saying they don't want to allow consent to vote on it--just to vote on  it. So we are stuck.

Res. 384, which is at the desk. I further ask that there  be up to 30 minutes of debate on the resolution, equally divided  between the two leaders or their designees; further, that following the  use or yielding back of that time, the Senate vote on an amendment from  Senator Merkley, if offered, and following disposition of the Merkley  amendment, the Senate vote on the resolution, as amended, if amended,  with no further intervening action or debate, with 60 affirmative votes  required for adoption of the resolution.