Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LANKFORD. Madam President, 3 months ago, no one in the country-- in fact, no one in the world--had heard the term ``COVID-19.'' The term  ``coronavirus'' was around, but most folks didn't use that because it  was connected to SARS or to MERS in the past. 

  In December of 2019, an infection started in China, and it spread  rapidly through the Wuhan region. By January, there were thousands of  people affected before most of the world even knew it existed. Now,  almost every country in the world has infections. We have hundreds of  thousands of people who have had contact with this virus, and  unfortunately we have lost thousands of people worldwide. 

  In the United States, the numbers continue to increase as we are  continuing to increase the number of people we can actually test.  Fortunately, the vast majority of the people who get this virus have  little to no symptoms. It is a cold; it is a mild flu to them. But for  our vulnerable populations--our elderly populations, those with heart  issues, those with lung issues, smokers, diabetics--this can be a very,  very serious thing. 

  The challenge we face in our healthcare is that every person who  walks in to get tested is face to face with one of our healthcare  workers, especially in rural areas of our State, who may be the only  healthcare professional for that entire county. If that person--who has  not been vaccinated as well because there is no vaccine yet--is not  able to serve the rest of the population, that health situation becomes  even worse because of diminishing care. 

  We, as Americans, have taken this seriously, as we should. We are  paying attention. The younger population is spending time trying to get  away from other individuals, to self-isolate, to self-quarantine-- ``social distancing'' is the new term--to find some way to not be close  to someone else so they don't accidentally pass the virus on, because  although the virus may be within them and they are not personally  physically affected much, the effect on someone else could be pretty  dramatic. So, out of respect for others, they are trying to manage that  distance and be attentive to that. 

  There have been multiple actions from the government over the past  several months. There are the travel bans we all know very much about,  starting with China and now in multiple areas of the world, and lots of  encouragement to limit gatherings, first to 250 and then to 50 and now  to 10. Now it is a series of just keep social distancing, to make sure  you are aware of that. There have been emergency declarations. 

  CMS has changed coverage, as recently as yesterday, dealing with  issues like telehealth, making sure individuals who may have other care  needs don't have to actually go in to a healthcare professional--for  their fear of who else is sitting in the waiting room--but they can get  access to telehealth, which is a much needed change. 

  The FDA has been very aggressive in giving access to different States  to do their own testing regimens. 

  The CDC has been active in trying to get to a point where they can  get a testing system that can actually get out to the entire country.  The challenge was, early on, many other countries did tests and  developed tests with a high false-positive rate. The CDC was very  focused on trying to get as accurate as it possibly could. That meant  it took longer, and we don't have the tests out. The tests are more  accurate, but we don't have the tests in the numbers we need at the  moment we needed them, which was last week. So now we are still  struggling to catch up on testing all over the country. 

  Multiple other labs and multiple universities are also coming on  board. In  fact--it is interesting--multiple other countries are also developing  their own testing processes. In the days ahead, we will be able to  catch up on the testing so that any American could be able to  get testing, but for now, it is limited.  

  In States like my State of Oklahoma, where the virus is beginning its  acceleration--we were late in actually getting the virus coming to  Oklahoma, but now that the virus is there, it starts to accelerate, and  testing is exceptionally important to us, as it is to everyone else. 

  The Department of Transportation is engaged on things like waivers  for hours of service to allow the movement of goods all over the  country dealing with livestock and with food. 

  There has been a big push from just about every retailer in the  country to make sure they are cleaning facilities more and being open  and accessible and having hours early in the morning for those in the  most vulnerable populations so they are not shopping with people who  may have the virus and don't even know it. 

  There has been a shift around the country to encourage people to  telework or to find ways to separate in their place of work. 

  All of these things have occurred just in the last few months. Again,  3 months ago, none of us knew this term or this virus existed. All of  this is happening extremely rapidly. 

  Three weeks ago, Congress and the President agreed on a proposal--it  was a wide bipartisan proposal--to deal with additional funding for  testing, additional funding for vaccine development, additional funding  for State and local departments of health to make sure they are taking  care of that. My own State of Oklahoma has already received almost $7  million to help with what is happening in our county, and we are in  desperate need of those dollars to get that done. 

  Vaccine development is already in human trials now. It is in phase 1.  It will take multiple months to get that done, but we have already  begun that process. That is important to us. 

  The bill that was on the floor today dealt with multiple helpful  things. It expands SNAP--what some people still call food stamps, but  it is supplemental nutrition. It is assistance for those families. It  is an expansion of that. 

  It also deals with unemployment insurance benefits to make sure those  are staying consistent and those get extended to people who are going  to need them because in the past week, unemployment has dramatically  increased all over the country. In the days ahead, when we see the  numbers, we will see the difference between what is happening this week  versus the week before versus the week before that. 

  The struggle is, my phones have been filled with one other element  that is in that bill, and that deals with a mandate on small businesses  for sick leave. Small businesses in my State are closed. Many retailers  and restaurants--many small businesses are really struggling with how  they are going to pay for this when they have no income coming in right  now. They are hearing the promise of a Federal reimbursement coming to  them, but they don't know when that is coming, and they are literally  teetering on the edge right now. Their struggle: Please don't do  something that pushes us over the edge. We need help, but we don't need  a bureaucracy that is going to be slow to respond or a way that is  actually going to get us some help but help that comes to us too late. 

  I have heard these terrifying words from multiple employers: I cannot  make it with that structure. I am going to have to lay people off and  hope to be able to hire them back when this all ends. 

  For those families who are laid off and in unemployment now, this is  a very different day for them. My fear is that some of what pushed some  of those individuals over the edge into unemployment was a nudge to say  we are going to add one more mandate to you at your worst possible  economic moment. 

  The first principle we should have as Congress is, do no harm. We  need to step in and help those folks who need help. There are lots of  ideas being bantered around by the Senate and the House, from both  sides of the aisle, to figure out how we can get help as rapidly as we  can to as many people as we can. 

  This is a moment unlike what we have seen before where it is not that  the economy is crashing because of some economic foundation that is not  there; it is fear and panic that is global, that literally we are  struggling with ``what if'' and the CDC and our own governments saying  to employers: It would be best if you closed for a season. And they,  being good citizens and good neighbors, quite frankly, are complying  with that out of fear for their own business and for their own  employees. 

  I finished my day yesterday--late last night--talking to a small  business owner in Oklahoma who related to me what he is going through  right now and the struggles he is having keeping the doors open. Quite  frankly, he was fairly blunt with me to say: The things that are being  passed in the bill tomorrow will affect me, but my competitors that are  big companies--it doesn't affect them. It is already hard enough for me  as a small business to compete with them, and now I have a new mandate  on me that is not a mandate on them, and it makes it even harder, and I  don't think I will have the cash flow to be able to make this work. 

  Toward the end of the conversation, he paused and literally began to  cry, and he pulled himself together and said: I am having to call  people and tell them ``I don't have hours for you next week,'' and  these are people I care about. 

  We need to take action, but we need to take action that helps people  keep their jobs, helps people stay employed, and helps us deal with the  dip in the economy right now to help them pull back out. My fear is  that we didn't do that just now. We might have just made it worse. 

  There are important things for us to do, and many of those things we  are working on this week. We have to get help to as many people as we  can, as fast as we can. It is my hope that the Senate will continue to  stay in session--as the leader has already said and promised that it  would--until we actually come to some proposals where we have wide  bipartisan agreement that can get help rapidly to the people who need  the help the most: those workers, those individuals who are struggling,  the folks who are hourly, those folks who are waiters and waitresses,  those folks who work at the coffee shop and own the coffee shop, and  those folks in retail locations that are shut down. They need us to  stand with them, and this is our moment to do it.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT