Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LANKFORD. Madam President, in a few minutes, the Senate will vote  on the nomination of John Heil to serve as a district court judge for  Oklahoma. 

  We have three areas in Oklahoma: the Northern District, Eastern  district, and Western district. This judge position covers all three of  those, and they move to wherever there is the greatest need, and we are  in great need. This is a position that we have needed for a while, and  I am proud that John Heil has gone through this process. He was  overwhelmingly confirmed in his nomination process through committee. I  expect him to have wide bipartisan support when it passes this floor in  a few moments and look forward to him transitioning from being a great  attorney in our State to being a great judge to serve the people of  Oklahoma and the United States on the Federal bench. So I am looking  forward to that vote being completed.                                 Memorial Day  

  Madam President, in the days ahead, we will celebrate Decoration Day.  Decoration Day was first declared locally in 1866, after the Civil War.  It was a day to remember those who gave their lives in battle for our  country by decorating the graves and remembering their sacrifice. 

  Now we call it Memorial Day. We remember all of those who have given  their lives for our Nation. It is, unfortunately, not those who just  gave their lives long past. Unfortunately, it is still in the painful  present. 

  Last weekend, I sat in the agonizing funeral of TSgt Marshal Roberts,  who was killed by rocket fire just 2\1/2\ months ago. He was in the  process of getting others to safety when a rocket took his life. He is  the first Oklahoman air guardsman to ever lose his life in battle. This  Memorial Day will be very different for his wife, his daughter, their  family, and the State of Oklahoma, because it is not just a day about  sleeping in and sales on dishwashers and cars. It will evoke the memory  of TSgt Marshal Roberts and the hundreds of thousands of others like  him. They gave their everything for the sake of our liberty. Those men  and women are not forgotten. They are our heroes, and this Memorial Day  we will remember                                 Agriculture  

  Madam President, in this time, it is interesting to note that, with  all that is going on, America is still eating, and America is still  moving because there are essential workers who are still serving. They  are healthcare workers. They are grocery store workers. They are  truckers. They are folks at convenience stores, gas stations,  sanitation workers, and in power generation. They are farmers and  ranchers. They are the refineries. Yes, they are even in government-- public safety and law enforcement. 

  While the news every day covers folks who are at home waiting to  return to work, at times we forget the people who are working twice as  hard right now to be able to make sure that is even possible. And we  are grateful for what they are doing. We are grateful for the  sacrifices of their families and of the hours they are putting in. 

  But I want to highlight a couple of different groups that are unique  in this mix--some of the folks who are really and truly behind the  scenes and whom we really don't see a lot, but we see the end result of  their products. 

  Let me start with farmers and ranchers. They are folks who are on the  farm and the ranch, and they are taking care of our food because, as we  know well, food does not grow in a grocery store. It actually has to  happen somewhere by folks putting in the workout in the Sun and getting  the chance to be able to bring that crop in. 

  We are watching it happen across my State and across the country  right now. In Oklahoma, wheat is coming in, and it looks beautiful. It  is green still, but in the days ahead, as it comes in, it will be very  important to us. But it will be interesting to see this crop, if it  is not taken out by the hail that is coming in this weekend. As it  comes in, this crop will be very important to us. But this year the  challenge will be that the H2A workers who typically come in literally  from all over the world to do custom cutting are not able to come  because of the coronavirus. And the challenge will be this: Will  Americans step up when, literally, the harvest is plentiful, but the  workers are few? Will Americans step up and say: I will not let that  harvest go to waste; I will engage and bring the harvest in. 

  Folks who are in forestry--yes, forestry and logging is a crop in  Oklahoma. For those of you who haven't been there, it is the eastern  side of our State. It is incredibly important to us. We are seeing a  boom in that area, thanks to things like a great need for boxes, for  everyone who is getting all of their materials shipped to their house  right now and this small commodity we call toilet paper, for which  there seems to be a run on going on right now. 

  Cotton, corn, sorghum, beans--there are so many things that are so  important and behind the scenes. If we lose sight of that fact, we will  just miss it. 

  One of the things that has been in the news lately is livestock and  the processing of the livestock. There has been news about how  coronavirus has spread in some of those facilities. I have one of those  facilities in my State. It is Seaboard. It is a tremendous operation,  where folks have worked for decades in a tremendous place to be able to  harvest those hogs and to turn them into fabulous things like bacon and  pork chops. 

  In this location in Texas County, in Guymon, we have seen an  outbreak. The folks at Seaboard Farms have stepped up to it. Ninety- five percent of their workers have now been tested, and they are in the  process of actually doing an entirely different test all over again  just to be able to track and to be able to find, even for the people  who were negative, if they will show up positive the next time and to  make sure they are staying on top of it. But they are running at 60  percent operation right now. That may not seem like a big deal to you,  but that is about 7,000 hogs a day that are not being harvested. They  are having to be--what is euphemistically called--depopulated. That is  a tremendous loss to everybody in the entire country. 

  We are seeing major issues that are also happening with our beef  production, as we have had enormous issues on trying to harvest those  animals. 

  As we go through the process and all the challenges, it has become  extremely personal to a lot of the folks in my State. In my State, this  is not just a theory. In my State, this is actually happening to real  people. It is Jim Howard, a fourth-generation rancher, who ranches in  Jefferson County. His whole family--his brother, his wife, his  grandson, his sons-in-law--everyone is involved in the operation. They  are ranching cows, calves, and stockers. They have a food lot  operation. They have it all. But at this point, they are facing between  35 and 40 percent loss in the price of cattle. Literally, he loses  money on every single cow. 

  It is Robert Frymire, from Custer County. He is a third-generation  wheat and cattle farmer. Using today's wheat prices, even with the crop  that is coming in, he will lose $150,000 this year on his wheat crop,  not to mention what is going to happen on the beef cattle. 

  There is a reason we are trying to put solutions in the CARES Act.  There is a reason we put $19 billion there to help our food supply, and  $3 billion dollars of that has gone toward providing for our food  pantries and nonprofits and places to be able to get food out to people  so that food doesn't go to waste. But there is direct aid that is going  to farmers and ranchers to make sure we keep those operations alive  long term, because we need them to exist at the end of this. We are  grateful to be able to come alongside of them. 

  There are real challenges in the packing operations that are not new.  They have been around for a while. We are pushing in a couple of areas  to say: We have to solve a couple of these problems. Our small packing  houses that are out there pay almost $80 an hour for overtime fees.  That is $80 an hour for each inspector to do overtime. So if we have a  location like Seaboard Farms that goes down, and they want to be able  to go out to another location and to ramp up, they are actually  financially punished from being able to do that, and they can't make  the math work. We have to solve that so that we are not punishing small  to medium-sized operations for ramping up in moments when we need them.  And we need the small and medium-sized businesses to be able to ramp up  and grow larger.  

  And we have to solve the issue of the CIS Program, which is allowing  folks to be able to sell over State lines. Twenty-seven States,  including my own, have State inspection programs that are equal to the  USDA program. They have to be equal to it, but they are still not  allowed to sell over State lines until they get the CIS Program done,  and only three States have been able to complete that. This should be  logical. We should be able to solve this. 

  Those two things would allow long-term fixes for the packing house  operations. It is something we have complained about for a long time,  and we should have solved this at this moment because it has become  even more obvious. 

  The issues about energy continue to rise for us. As a nation, we are  finally energy independent--finally. We choose to buy energy from  places where we want to buy energy because we can produce it ourselves,  but we cannot go backward to a time period when we were dependent on  the Middle East again because of what has happened with COVID-19. We  have to pay attention to this. There are commonsense solutions, and I  understand full well that there are some folks who don't like fossil  fuels. I get it, but those same folks fly on planes and drive cars and  trucks. And we like wearing clothes, and we like having paint. And as  for all of those things that are disposable now, like PPE, guess what  they are made of. Petroleum. There is this whole challenge about trying  to get away from petroleum. It has been interesting to me how many  people have suddenly gone from ``let's reuse everything'' to the last 2  months saying: No, actually, we want to have disposable everything now.  Well, guess what. Those disposable items are made with petroleum  products. 

  We do need this balance. We can do it clean, but we have to be able  to keep this part of industry open and still functioning. And if the  whole system collapses, we will not be able to do that. 

  Many of you know that my State is a production State. At times, we  will have hundreds of wells for oil and gas running. Right now, in the  entire State of Oklahoma, there are 12 rigs working--12. That is the  collapse of thousands and thousands of jobs, and if those jobs and  those companies go away and do not recover, then, we are suddenly  dependent on the Middle East again. We cannot go there. We have to  resolve that. That is why the Paycheck Protection Program was opened up  to small businesses--and, yes, even energy companies--to help sustain  them for a couple of months to be able to get through this. But it is  going to be a very big challenge for them. 

  Quite frankly, there is something that is news to this body that I  want to raise. In 2007, long before I was in Congress, Congress passed  an act dealing with ethanol, mandating a certain number of gallons of  ethanol to be used every year. Well, guess what. America wasn't driving  in March and in April. That means we are not going to be close to the  number of gallons of gasoline that we normally use, but we still have a  requirement sitting out there for the number of gallons of ethanol that  have to be used this year. We literally have an energy-ticking  timebomb, based on a bad law that was written years ago dealing with  ethanol, and if we are not careful, we are going to cause even bigger  challenges in energy based on that ethanol law and the number of  gallons that are required when there is literally no way, even if we  poured it on the ground, that we can use the gallons required in that  law. 

  That is going to be an issue for us, and it is one that we need to  work cooperatively on and in a nonpartisan way to say: Let's have some  common sense in this moment to solve how we deal with our energy, lest  the prices of gasoline explode at the backside of this, not because of  undersupply but because of ethanol regulations. We  should not allow that to occur. We should be able to not only solve  that for this year but solve it long term. 

  I am grateful for the folks who are farmers and ranchers who are  working, and in energy, the folks who work behind the scenes, who make  America move, because in the days ahead, we will start moving. 

  My State has already reached phase 2 of reopening, and we continue to  see a decline in the number of cases, but those folks who were working  behind the scenes the whole time are making the difference for us.                               I further  ask that, notwithstanding the provisions of rule XXII, the cloture vote  with respect to the Badalamenti nomination occur at 1:30 p.m. tomorrow.  Further, I ask that if cloture is invoked on the nomination, the  postcloture time be deemed expired and the confirmation vote occur at  5:30 p.m. on Monday, June 1. Finally, I ask that if either of the  nominations are confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made  and laid upon the table and the President be immediately notified of  the Senate's action. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT