Government Funding


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700299/government-funding


Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, it is the end of February, but it sure  feels like the beginning because it feels like Groundhog Day. We are in  yet another partial government shutdown. We are in it right now.

What is interesting is we just had our last vote of the week, and  this is still not resolved, and Members are all heading back home as if  everything is normal, but it is not. Next week, we will have people who  work for the Department of Homeland Security not get a paycheck because  it is not funded because this body has not resolved this.

Now, I understand my Democratic colleagues want to defund ICE. I get  that. I hear from them over and over again: Let's defund ICE. And their  way of defunding ICE is to be able to cut off funding to this  particular part of our Federal budget.

But I think some of my colleagues have lost track of what this means  to be able to cut off DHS funding. It is not just cutting off ICE. In  fact, ICE is a very small portion of the Department of Homeland  Security. There are about 250,000 total employees across all entities  in the Department of Homeland Security. ICE has 21,000 of that 250,000- plus. It is a very small group. But they are determined they are going  to defund ICE.

What they are actually defunding is not just ICE. They have also  defunded U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. They have defunded  the U.S. Coast Guard. They have defunded Customs and Border  Protection--those are all the folks that actually handle customs duties  and produce coming across our border. They defunded the Cybersecurity &  Infrastructure Agency. They defunded FEMA, the Federal Emergency  Management Agency. They defunded the Federal law enforcement training  centers. They have defunded U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement-- that is ICE, what they were targeting. They have also defunded the  Secret Service. TSA--those folks that a lot of Members are going to go  check in with to get on a flight right now--they are not getting a  paycheck next week, although they are still working this week. They  defunded the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office.

Listen, this is a big deal. We just had a shutdown of 43 days--the  longest in American history. Those TSA agents lost two paychecks during  that time period. There are a lot of Americans who can't miss one and  make it; they missed two.

The TSA agent I walked past a couple of weeks ago caught me as I came  through and said: I feel like my paycheck is bipolar--I never know  whether it is going to be there or not.

All I could say to them was: I am so sorry. We are trying to get this  open.

But my Democratic colleagues are so mad at ICE and so determined that  they don't want enforcement across the country that TSA agents in my  State are not getting a paycheck.

What in the world do the TSA agents in my State have to do with the  rage against ICE? What in the world do the Coast Guard folks have to do  with the rage against ICE? What in the world do the FEMA folks that are  handling emergencies, in preparation for spring storms, and dealing  with wildfires across the country--what do they have to do with their  rage against ICE?

If we want to have an argument about ICE, let's have it, but why are  we cutting off the paychecks of folks that work for FEMA because  somebody is mad at ICE? That makes no sense to me, and it certainly  doesn't make sense to those folks at the airport in my State who work  every single day, who show up way earlier than most Americans actually  wake up and get up. They are already at their spot early that morning  taking care of passengers and making sure everybody is safe. They have  nothing to do with ICE--except now they are not getting a paycheck  because somebody is mad.

We should be able to resolve our differences in this body and not  have other people not get a paycheck because of that. I have worked  literally for years across the aisle and in conversation in this body  to be able to come up with a very simple, straightforward bill that  says: When we get to a moment that we haven't resolved everything in  funding, when we get to that moment, instead of having the government  shut down, everyone would still be paid. We would go to what is called  a continuing resolution automatically. Everyone would still get paid.  The status quo would continue except one thing: We would not leave. We  would be here, the House and the Senate, 7 days a week. We would have  to be in session and keep working until we solve the problem.

Put the pressure on us. Rather than cutting off the paycheck of  somebody who has no ability to be able to make the decision to solve  this, why don't you put the pressure on us, where it should be, to be  able to stay here until it is resolved?

Now, I want to see my family like everybody else does. There are  folks that have all kinds of issues that are happening this weekend.  Some are going on codels. Some are heading overseas. Some are going  home. Some have elections coming up. There are lots of things that are  happening this weekend, and I totally understand everyone wanting to be  able to get to those spots, but we have unfinished business. We should  be here until it is done, and we should hold harmless the folks in  Oklahoma airports who are just getting up every day and going to work  to protect our country and protect travelers. We have to figure this  out.

So we have two issues. One is, let's solve the immediate one right  now. Let's actually get the government back open, and let's actually  get people paid.

My Democratic colleagues have demanded that we have body-worn cameras  on ICE agents. We as Republicans have said: We agree.

In fact, the bill that you are blocking literally has $20 million and  a requirement to have body-worn cameras for law enforcement in the bill  that you are blocking. We agree. Body-worn cameras are helpful for law  enforcement and for the public to tell the complete story of what  actually happened.

My Democratic colleagues have demanded that we get deescalation  training for Federal officers. We as Republicans have said: Yes, we  agree with that as well.

In fact, the bill that you are blocking, that you refuse to even take  up, actually includes money for deescalation training in it. And there  is not some trick in it; it is the actual issue everyone seems to be  addressing right now.

This is about the drama of the moment and trying to be able to prove  that you oppose Trump. OK. We get it. You don't like President Trump.  But what I don't get is, why are the folks that work for the Federal  Emergency Management Agency, why are the folks that work at TSA, why  are the Coast Guard members, why are the folks that handle weapons of  mass destruction, why are the folks that handle cyber security for our  Nation--why are we not paying them while we are having this political  fight?

This may be good political drama, but for the quarter-million Federal  employees that are getting up and going to work without a paycheck this  week, it is not drama; it is a problem that we need to solve.

So let's finish up these negotiations, and let's actually pass a bill  that long term says we will never have another one of these.

I long for the day when I sit with my grandchildren one day and they  say ``Tell me about the time that the government used to shut down when  Congress had arguments,'' and I would say ``Yes, there was a time that  used to happen, but we fixed that, so that doesn't happen anymore.''

Let's solve this. We are supposed to be the adults in the room to be  able to  resolve our differences. Let's figure this out for the sake of all  those folks that are working every day to protect our Nation.