Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LANKFORD. Madam President, the country is deeply divided on  multiple issues right now. The impeachment trial is both a symptom of  our times and another example of our division. At the beginning of our  Nation, we did not have an impeachment inquiry of a President for  almost 100 years with the partisan impeachment of Andrew Johnson. After  more than 100 years, another impeachment inquiry was conducted when the  House began a formal impeachment inquiry into President Nixon in an  overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 410-4. Within a period of weeks,  President Nixon resigned before he was formally impeached. Then, just  over two decades later, President Clinton was impeached by the House,  on another mostly partisan vote leading to a partisan acquittal in the  Senate. 

  This season of our history has been referred to as the Age of  Investigations and the Age of Impeachment. We have had multiple special  counsels since 1974 over multiple topics. This is more than just  oversight; it has been a unique time in American history when the  politics of the moment have driven rapid calls for investigation and  impeachment. Over the past 3 years, the House of Representatives has  voted four times to open an impeachment inquiry: once in 2017, once in  2018, and twice in 2019. Only the second vote in 2019 actually passed  and began a formal inquiry. 

  The Mueller investigation that consumed most of 2018 and 2019  answered many questions about Russian attacks on our voting systems-- although no votes were changed--but it was also a $32 million  investigation that took more than 2 years of America's attention. For  the last 4 months the country has been consumed with impeachment  hearings and investigations. The first rumors of issues with Ukraine  arose August 28 when POLITICO published a story about U.S. foreign aid  being slow-walked for Ukraine, and then on September 18 when the  Washington Post published a story about a whistleblower report that  claimed President Trump pressured an unnamed foreign head of state to  do an investigation for his campaign. 

  Within days of the Washington Post story on September 24, Speaker  Pelosi announced that the House would begin hearings to impeach the  President, which led to the formal House vote to open the impeachment  inquiry on October 31 and then a vote to impeach the President on  December 18. But after the partisan vote to impeach the President,  Speaker Pelosi held the Articles of Impeachment for a month before  turning them over to the Senate, which began the formal trial of the  President of the United States on January 16, 2020. After hearing hours  of arguments from both House managers and the President's legal defense  team and Senators asking 180 questions to both sides, the trial  concluded February 5, 2020. 

  There are key dates to know: 

  April 21, 2019, President Zelensky is elected President of Ukraine. 

  May 21, President Zelensky sworn in. After the ceremony, President  Zelensky abolishes Parliament and calls for quick snap elections on  July 21. 

  July 21, Ukrainian Parliamentary elections. President Zelensky's  party wins a huge majority. 

  July 25, President Trump calls President Zelensky to congratulate him  and his party. 

  August 12, An unnamed whistleblower working in the U.S. intelligence  community filed a complaint that he had heard from others that the  President of the United States had tried to pressure President Zelensky  of Ukraine to investigate former Vice President Joe Biden on an  official phone call July 25, 2019. 

  August 26, the Inspector General for the Intelligence Community  declares the whistleblower report ``an urgent matter'' and asks for its  release within 7 days. The Justice Department looks over the report and  notes that although it was written by a person in the intelligence  community, it is not related to intelligence matters, so it does not  fall within the Inspector General's jurisdiction and it is forwarded on  to the Department of Justice for review. 

  August 28, POLITICO publishes a story that the annual military aid  for Ukraine is currently being slow-walked. 

  September 9, the Inspector General contacts the House Intelligence  Committee to let them know that he has not been able to release the  whistleblower report to their committee. 

  September 13, the House Intelligence Committee subpoenas the  whistleblower report. 

  September 18, the Washington Post prints a story with ``unnamed  sources'' that there is a whistleblower report about the President  talking with a foreign leader about a campaign matter. 

  September 24, the House began an informal impeachment inquiry after  Speaker Pelosi announced it at a press conference in the U.S. Capitol. 

  September 25, President Trump released the official unredacted ``read  out'' of the phone call with President Zelensky from July 25. 

  September 26, the whistleblower report is declassified and released  publicly. 

  October 31, the House formally votes along party lines for an  impeachment inquiry. 

  December 18, the House votes to impeach the President with two  articles--abuse of Power and obstruction of congress 

  January 15, Speaker Pelosi releases the Articles of Impeachment to  the Senate. 

  January 16, Senate trial on impeachment begins. 

  February 5, Senate trial concludes with acquittal on both articles. 

  Ukraine became independent in 1991 when it broke away from the Soviet  Union, but the Ukrainians have faced constant pressure from Russia ever  since. In 2014 Ukraine forced out its pro-Russia President, and Moscow  retaliated by taking over Crimea--and stealing the Ukrainian Navy--then  rolling tanks into eastern Ukraine and taking all of eastern Ukraine by  force. Russian and Ukrainian troops continue to fight every day in  eastern Ukraine. 

  The people of Ukraine face an aggressive Russia on the east and  pervasive Soviet era corruption throughout the government and the  business community. President Trump met the previous President of  Ukraine in 2017 to talk about other countries helping Ukraine with  greater military support funds and to ask how Ukraine could address  corruption on a wider scale. The two Presidents also spoke about lethal  aid--allowing the Ukrainians to buy sniper rifles, anti-tank Javelin  missiles, and other lethal supplies--to help them fight the invading  Russians. The United States also started sending a couple hundred  American troops to train Ukrainian soldiers in the far west of Ukraine. 

  On April 21, 2019, President Zelensky was overwhelmingly elected as  the new President of Ukraine. He was a sitcom actor/comedian who had no  political experience but was well known for his television show in  which he played the part of a corruption-fighting teacher who was  elected as President of Ukraine. His television popularity helped him  win the election, but when he was sworn in on May 21, he was relatively  unknown to most of the world. 

  On the same day as his inauguration, May 21, President Zelensky  abolished Parliament and called for snap elections to put his party in  power. With a new President in place and parliamentary elections in  Ukraine coming, starting in June of 2019, the President ordered foreign  aid to Ukraine to be held until the end of the fiscal year, but  agencies were informed that they should do all the preliminary work  needed before the aid was sent, so it would be ready to release at a  moment's notice. The leadership in Ukraine was not notified that there  was a hold on their foreign aid. 

  The new Parliament was elected on July 21, and President Zelensky's  party won by a landslide. By mid-August, the new Parliament was working  on anti-corruption efforts and trying to establish a high court on  corruption, which they put in place September 5, 2019. There was a  tremendous amount of uncertainty in the early days of the new  administration, but by mid-August there was clear evidence of actual  change in a country that desperately needed a new direction from its  corrupt past. 

  On July 25, when President Trump called President Zelensky, the  President congratulated President Zelensky for the big win in  Parliament and talked about ``burden-sharing''--other nations also  paying their share of support for Ukraine. The two Presidents talked  about their disapproval of the previous mbassadors to each other's  countries. But instead of following all the staff preparation notes  written by Lieutenant Colonel Vindman, the National Security Council  staffer assigned to Ukraine, and just talking about ``corruption'' in  general, the President brought up a question about Ukraine and the 2016  election interference, which I will note below. President Zelensky also  brought up to President Trump that his staff was planning to meet with  Rudy Giuliani, President Trump's personal attorney, in the coming days,  which led to a conversation about Joe Biden and the firing of the  previous prosecutor in Ukraine. 

  After the call, Lieutenant Colonel Vindman contacted an attorney at  the National Security Council to express his ``policy concerns'' about  the call. It is interesting to note that Lieutenant Colonel Vindman's  boss, Tim Morrison, was also on the call, but he did not see any  problems or concerns with the call according to his own testimony in  the House impeachment inquiry. Within a month, a whistleblower filed a  report about the call, saying he heard about the call secondhand and  was concerned about the implications of a conversation about elections  on a head-of-state call. To keep the July 25th call in context with  other news, the day before it took place July 24 Robert Mueller had  testified before Congress as the last official act to close down the  2\1/2\ year Mueller investigation and clear the President and his  campaign team of any further accusation of election interference. 

  During the impeachment trial in the Senate, the House managers  repeated over and over that the President was planning to cheat  ``again'' on the next election, but the final conclusion of the Mueller  report was that ``ultimately, the investigation did not establish that  the (Trump) Campaign coordinated or conspired with the Russian  government in its election-interference activities.'' 

  This is especially notable because for years a rumor circulated that  Ukraine was part of the 2016 election interference and that someone in  Ukraine was hiding the Democratic National Committee, DNC, server that  was hacked by the Russians in 2016. As the conspiracy theory goes, it  was actually the Ukrainians who hacked the DNC, not the Russians. This  is the ``Crowdstrike'' theory that President Trump asked President  Zelensky to help solve during the call. 

  Agencies of the U.S. intelligence community have stated over and over  that they did not believe that Ukraine was involved in the Russian  election interference from 2016. I personally agree with the  intelligence community assessment but Rudy Giuliani and multiple others  around President Trump believed there was a secret plan in 2016 to hurt  President Trump's election from Ukraine. This accusation was amplified  by bits of truth, including that the Ukrainian Ambassador to the United  States wrote an editorial in support of Hillary Clinton in 2016 right  before the election, and several other Ukrainian officials publicly  spoke out against Candidate Trump in 2016. 

  There is nothing illegal about a foreign nation speaking out for or  against a Presidential candidate, whether Hillary Clinton or Donald  Trump in 2016 or anyone else in the future. It may not be wise to take  sides before an election, but it is not illegal. Just because some  Ukrainian officials took sides  does not mean that the whole Ukrainian Government worked on a cyber  attack on our elections. But since this rumor had persisted, and it was  a new administration now in Ukraine, President Trump asked President  Zelensky to help clear up the facts if he could. That is certainly not  illegal or improper, and it is certainly not something that could help  the President in the 2020 election, especially since the 2016 Russian  election accusation had just been closed the day before. 

  The 2016 ``Crowdstrike'' theory is the issue that President Trump  asked President Zelensky to ``do us a favor'' about, not the Bidens or  Burisma. During the July 25 call after the question about  ``Crowdstrike,'' President Zelensky mentioned to President Trump that  one of his advisers would be meeting with Rudy Giuliani soon. Then,  President Trump affirmed that meeting and encouraged them to talk about  the Biden investigation and the firing of the Ukrainian prosecutor. 

  That may seem out of the blue, but in Washington, D.C., that week,  the city was buzzing about a Washington Post article that had been  written 3 days before July 22, 2019--detailing Hunter Biden's giant  salary--$83,000 per month--for doing essentially nothing for a corrupt  Ukrainian natural gas company and how it undercut Vice President  Biden's message on corruption. 

  It is important to get the context of that week to understand the  context of the phone call that day. I have no doubt that the story was  just as big of news in Kiev, Ukraine, as it was in Washington, D.C.,  that week. President Trump's personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani, had been  in and out of Ukraine since November 2018, meeting with government  officials and trying to find out more about the ``Crowdstrike'' theory  or any other Ukrainian connection to the 2016 election. During that  time, Rudy Giuliani met several former prosecutors from Ukraine who  blamed their departure on Vice President Biden. It is clear that Rudy  Giuliani was working to gain information about both of these issues in  his capacity as President Trump's private attorney. 

  It is not criminal for Rudy Giuliani to work on opposition research  for a Presidential campaign or to work on behalf of his client to clear  his name from any issues related to the 2016 campaign, which he had  done since November 2018. Some have stated that since this was  ``foreign information,'' it is illegal. That is absolutely not true. In  fact, Hillary Clinton and the Democratic National Committee in 2016  paid a British citizen, Christopher Steele, to work his contacts in  Russia to create the now debunked ``Steele Dossier,'' which the FBI  used to open its investigation into President Trump, leading directly  to the appointment of Special Counsel Mueller. That dossier was  opposition research done in Russia by a British citizen, paid for by  the Clinton campaign team. Their opposition research was not illegal,  but the use and abuse of that document by the FBI to start an  investigation was certainly inappropriate and is most likely illegal.  But the FBI warrant issue is still being investigated by the ongoing  Durham probe. 

  During the July 25, 2019, call, President Zelensky brought up the  issue of Rudy Giuliani, and President Trump replied to his statement.  You can argue that President Trump should not have discussed the issue  with President Zelensky when he brought it up, but it is certainly not  illegal or impeachable to talk about it, especially when there are  serious questions about Hunter Biden's work with Burisma. That is not a  conservative conspiracy theory; the issue of Hunter Biden's employment  in Ukraine was a problem for years at the State Department. It had been  raised to Vice President Biden when he was still in office. Every State  Department official interviewed for the Trump impeachment investigation  noted that at best it was a clear conflict of interest, and it was the  center of a huge story on corruption in the Washington Post on July 22,  2019. It had the appearance of high-level corruption by using a well- placed family member on the board of a known corrupt gas company in  Ukraine to shelter it from prosecutors. Hunter Biden had only resigned  from the Burisma board a few months before the July 25 phone call, just  prior to when his dad announced his run for the Presidency in 2019. 

  After the July 25 phone call, Attorney General Barr did not have any  followup meetings or calls with Ukrainian officials. Rudy Giuliani did  have additional conversations with Ukrainian officials, which are legal  to do since he is a private attorney representing the President.   Text of July 25, 2019 Phone Call Between Presidents Trump and Zelensky  

       The President: Congratulations on a great victory. We all       watched from the United States and you did a terrific job.       The way you came from behind, somebody who wasn't given much       of a chance, and you ended up winning easily. It's a       fantastic achievement. Congratulations. 

       President Zelensky: You are absolutely right Mr. President.       We did win big and we worked hard for this. We worked a lot       but I would like to confess to you that I had an opportunity       to learn from you. We used quite a few of your skills and       knowledge and were able to use it as an example for our       elections and yes it is true that these were unique       elections. We were in a unique situation that we were able to       achieve a unique success. I'm able to tell you the following;       the first time you called me to congratulate me when I won my       presidential election, and the second time you are now       calling me when my party won the parliamentary election. I       think I should run more often so you can call me more often       and we can talk over the phone more often. 

       The President: (laughter) That's a very good idea. I think       your country is very happy about that. 

       President Zelensky: Well yes, to tell you the truth, we are       trying to work hard because we wanted to drain the swamp here       in our country. We brought in many many new people. Not the       old politicians, not the typical politicians, because we want       to have a new format and a new type of government. You are a       great teacher for us and in that. 

       The President: Well it is very nice of you to say that. I       will say that we do a lot for Ukraine. We spend a lot of       effort and a lot of time. Much more than the European       countries are doing and they should be helping you more than       they are. Germany does almost nothing for you. All they do is       talk and I think it's something that you should really ask       them about. When I was speaking to Angela Merkel she talks       Ukraine, but she doesn't do anything. A lot of the European       countries are the same way so I think it's something you want       to look at but the United States has been very very good to       Ukraine. I wouldn't say that it's reciprocal necessarily       because things are happening that are not good but the United       States has been very very good to Ukraine. 

       President Zelensky: Yes you are absolutely right. Not only       100%, but actually 1000% and I can tell you the following; I       did talk to Angela Merkel and I did meet with her I also met       and talked with Macron and I told them that they are not       doing quite as much as they need to be doing on the issues       with the sanctions. They are not enforcing the sanctions.       They are not working as much as they should work for Ukraine.       It turns out that even though logically, the European Union       should be our biggest partner but technically the United       States is a much bigger partner than the European Union and       I'm very grateful to you for that because the United States       is doing quite a lot for Ukraine. Much more than the European       Union especially when we are talking about sanctions against       the Russian Federation. I would also like to thank you for       your great support in the area of defense. We are ready to       continue to cooperate for the next steps specifically we are       almost. ready to buy more Javelins from the United States for       defense purposes. 

       The President: I would like you to do us a favor though       because our country has been through a lot and Ukraine knows       a lot about it. I would like you to find out what happened       with this whole situation with Ukraine, they say Crowdstrike.       I guess you have one of your wealthy people . . . The server,       they say Ukraine has it. There are a lot of things that went       on, the whole situation. I think you're surrounding yourself       with some of the same people. I would like to have the       Attorney General call you or your people and I would like you       to get to the bottom of it. As you saw yesterday, that whole       nonsense ended with a very poor performance by a man named       Robert Mueller, an incompetent performance, but they say a       lot of it started with Ukraine. Whatever you can do, it's       very important that you do it if that's possible. 

       President Zelensky: Yes it is very important for me and       everything that you just mentioned earlier. For me as a       President, it is very important and we are open for any       future cooperation. We are ready to open a new page on       cooperation in relations between the United States and       Ukraine. For that purpose, I just recalled our ambassador       from United States and he will be replaced by a very       competent and very experienced ambassador who will work       hard on making sure that our two nations are getting       closer. I would also like and hope to see him having your       trust and your confidence and have personal relations with       you so we can cooperate even more so. I will personally       tell you that one of my assistants spoke with Mr. Giuliani       just recently and we are hoping very much that Mr.       Giuliani will be able to travel to Ukraine and we will       meet once he comes to Ukraine. I just wanted to assure you       once again that you have nobody but friends       around us. I will make sure that I surround myself with       the best and most experienced people. I also wanted to       tell you that we are friends. We are great friends and you       Mr. President have friends in our country so we can       continue our strategic partnership. I also plan to       surround myself with great people and in addition to that       investigation, I guarantee as the President of Ukraine       that all the investigations will be done openly and       candidly. That I can assure you. 

       The President: Good because I heard you had a prosecutor       who was very good and he was shut down and that's really       unfair. A lot of people are talking about that, the way they       shut your very good prosecutor down and you had some very bad       people involved. Mr. Giuliani is a highly respected man. He       was the mayor of New York City, a great mayor, and I would       like him to call you. I will ask him to call you along with       the Attorney General. Rudy very much knows what's happening       and he is a very capable guy. If you could speak to him that       would be great. The former ambassador from the United States,       the woman, was bad news and the people she was dealing with       in the Ukraine were bad news so I just want to let you know       that. The other thing, There's a lot of talk about Biden's       son, that Biden stopped the prosecution and a lot of people       want to find out about that so whatever you can do with the       Attorney General would be great. Biden went around bragging       that he stopped the prosecution so if you can look into it .       . . It sounds horrible to me. 

       President Zelensky: I wanted to tell you about the       prosecutor. First of all, I understand and I'm knowledgeable       about the situation. Since we have won the absolute majority       in our Parliament, the next prosecutor general will be 100%       my person, my candidate, who will be approved, by the       parliament and will start as a new prosecutor in September.       He or she will look into the situation, specifically to the       company that you mentioned in this issue. The issue of the       investigation of the case is actually the issue of making       sure to restore the honesty so we will take care of that and       will work on the investigation of the case. On top of that, I       would kindly ask you if you have any additional information       that you can provide to us, it would be very helpful for the       investigation to make sure that we administer justice in our       country with regard to the Ambassador to the United States       from Ukraine as far as I recall her name was Ivanovich. It       was great that you were the first one who told me that she       was a bad ambassador because I agree with you 100%. Her       attitude towards me was far from the best as she admired the       previous President and she was on his side. She would not       accept me as a new President well enough. 

       The President: Well, she's going to go through some things.       I will have Mr. Giuliani give you a call and I am also going       to have Attorney General Barr call and we will get to the       bottom of it. I'm sure you will figure it out. I heard the       prosecutor was treated very badly and he was a very fair       prosecutor so good luck with everything. Your economy is       going to get better and better I predict. You have a lot of       assets. It's a great country. I have many Ukrainian friends,       they're incredible people. 

       President Zelensky: I would like to tell you that I also       have quite a few Ukrainian friends that live in the United       States. Actually last time I traveled to the United States, I       stayed in New York near Central Park and I stayed at the       Trump Tower. I will talk to them and I hope to see them again       in the future. I also wanted to thank you for your invitation       to visit the United States, specifically Washington DC. On       the other hand, I also want to ensure you that we will be       very serious about the case and will work on the       investigation. As to the economy, there is much potential for       our two countries and one of the issues that is very       important for Ukraine is energy independence. I believe we       can be very successful and cooperating on energy independence       with United States. We are already working on cooperation. We       are buying American oil but I am very hopeful for a future       meeting. We will have more time and more opportunities to       discuss these opportunities and get to know each other       better. I would like to thank you very much for your support. 

       The President: Good. Well, thank you very much and I       appreciate that. I will tell Rudy and Attorney General Barr       to call. Thank you. Whenever you would like to come to the       White House, feel free to call. Give us a date and we'll work       that out. I look forward to seeing you. President Zelensky:       Thank you very much. I would be very happy to come and would       be happy to meet with you personally and get to know you       better. I am looking forward to our meeting and I also would       like to invite you to visit Ukraine and come to the city of       Kyiv which is a beautiful city. We have a beautiful country       which would welcome you. On the other hand, I believe that on       September 1 we will be in Poland and we can meet in Poland       hopefully. After that, it might be a very good idea for you       to travel to Ukraine. We can either take my plane and go to       Ukraine or we can take your plane, which is probably much       better than mine. 

       The President: Okay, we can work that out. I look forward       to seeing you in Washington and maybe in Poland because I       think we are going to be there at that time. President       Zelensky: Thank you very much Mr. President. 

       The President: Congratulations on a fantastic job you've       done. The whole world was watching. I'm not sure it was so       much of an upset but congratulations. 

       President Zelensky: Thank you Mr. President bye-bye.  

  Based on a whistleblower report about the July 25 call, the House  Intelligence Committee subpoenaed the report on September 13 and  started its impeachment inquiry on September 24. 

  In the Senate impeachment trial, House managers stated their belief  that the President had carried out a ``scheme to cheat in the 2020  election'' by withholding financial aid to Ukraine and withholding a  White House meeting with the new President of Ukraine in exchange for  Ukraine announcing it would investigate Joe Biden, Burisma, and 2016  election interference. 

  Let's discuss the facts of both.                             White House Meeting  

  There is no question that President Trump had offered a White House  meeting to President Zelensky three times: once in May on a phone call  after President Zelensky won his election, once in June in a letter,  and finally in the July 25 call after President Zelensky's party won  the parliamentary elections. But Tim Morrison--State Department  official called as a witness by the House--also testified that they  were working on heads-of-state meetings with 12 other heads of state  during that same time period. Many nations were trying to line up  meetings in the White House during the summer of 2019. 

  During the July 25 call, President Zelensky offered to instead move  their meeting from a White House meeting to a face-to-face meeting in  Warsaw, Poland, when they would both be there on September 1, 2019. The  Presidents agreed, and planning began on the meeting in August. By  August 22, the meeting planning was in full swing, as noted by emails  in the House hearing's evidence. However, Hurricane Dorian slammed into  the United States in the hours leading up to the September 1 meeting,  causing a last-minute shift to the Vice President traveling to Poland  so the President could stay in the United States to monitor hurricane  relief. 

  We know that Vice President Pence met face-to-face with President  Zelensky, and they spoke about other nations paying their fair share to  help Ukraine and the issue of corruption across Ukraine. We know from  the preparation materials and the meeting notes themselves that during  the meeting the Vice President did not bring up or discuss the issue of  Burisma, Joe Biden, or any other campaign conversation with President  Zelensky. 

  The White House found the next available time when President Trump  and President Zelensky would both be in the same place at the same time  to set up a face-to-face meeting: September 25 at the U.N. Assembly in  New York. That meeting was set up, and it took place as scheduled. 

  In the Senate impeachment trial, the House managers maintained that  only a White House meeting was sufficient and that it was being  withheld, but the facts show that President Zelensky himself floated  the idea of a meeting in Poland and that the meeting was not barred or  withheld. 

  In the early months of President Zelensky's term, there was a great  deal of concern about him, his staff, and his plans because he was an  unknown political figure. Until more was known about him, it was  entirely appropriate to show caution in coordinating a meeting, but  once his nationwide anti-corruption efforts began in August, it was  clear that face-to-face meetings were planned and carried out. 

  There was no withholding of a face-to-face meeting with President  Trump and President Zelensky. There cannot be a quid pro quo if the  meeting was not withheld from Ukrainian officials. 

  The House managers claimed that there was a secret plot to ``extort''  or ``bribe'' the leadership of Ukraine to investigate Hunter Biden in  exchange for around $400 million of U.S. aid. The aid was State  Department and foreign military aid that had been provided for the past  4 years, since Ukraine had been in a war with Russia.  

  After the Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2014 and its occupation of  Crimea and the Donbas region in eastern Ukraine, the United States  started sending aid to help the Ukrainian Government. Congress allowed  lethal and non-lethal aid to support Ukraine, but during the previous  administration, only non-lethal aid was sent. Under  President Trump's administration, it was determined that the United  States would give the leadership of Ukraine lethal aid to help them  fight off Russian tanks, which was President Zelensky's reference to  ``javelins'' in the July 25 phone call and his gratitude to President  Trump for allowing those tank killing rockets to flow to Ukraine. 

  To be clear, the theory of funds being withheld from Ukraine in  exchange for an investigation does not originate from the July 25 call  read-out. There is nothing in the text of the call that threatens the  withholding of funds in exchange for an investigation. 

  The theory originates from the fact that aid was held back by the  Office of Management and Budget, headed by the President's Acting Chief  of Staff, Mick Mulvaney, and the ``presumption'' of U.S. Ambassador to  the European Union, Gordon Sondland, that the aid must have been held  because of the President's desire to get the Biden investigation done,  since the President's attorney, Rudy Giuliani, was working to find out  more about the Biden investigation. 

  Ambassador Sondland told multiple people about his theory, but when  he finally called President Trump and asked him directly about it, the  President responded that he did not have any quid pro quo; he just  wanted the President of Ukraine to do what he ran on and ``do the right  thing.'' Obviously, people who assume the worst about President Trump  take this as a secret message that there actually was a quid pro quo,  but the most important fact is that Ambassador Sondland did not read it  that way after his call with the President. Ambassador Sondland  believed that the President was serious. Unfortunately, the White House  Counsel was never allowed to cross examine Ambassador Sondland during  the House investigation to get the facts about who he talked to and why  he came to believe for a while that there was an effort to push for  investigations in exchange for money. 

  During the Senate trial, I listened closely to the facts surrounding  the withholding of aid money to Ukraine. This was by far the most  serious charge against the President. Two key questions had to be  answered for me: Why was the aid held, and why was the aid released?  There was no question the aid was held for a of couple months. The  question was why? 

  Statements from the House witnesses during the House impeachment  inquiry answered the two key questions: The aid was held because there  was a legitimate concern about the new President of Ukraine and his  administration in the early days of his Presidency and the aid was  released on time when the new Ukrainian Parliament starting passing  anti-corruption laws in August and after Vice President Pence sat down  face to face with President Zelensky on September 1 in Poland to  discuss their progress on corruption. 

  We should not lose track of what was happening in Ukraine in 2019. A  new President was elected who was a TV actor with no political  experience and no record on how he would handle Russia or the issue of  widespread national corruption in Ukraine. He ran on a platform of  anti-corruption at all levels, but no one knew how he would govern. His  campaign was funded by a Ukrainian oligarch who owned a major media  outlet, and one of his first advisers was the former attorney for that  oligarch. 

  I personally spoke to many of the State Department officials in  Ukraine in May of 2019 and heard their concerns about the new  government. Then, newly elected President Zelensky used his power to  dissolve their Parliament the day he was sworn in and called for ``snap  elections'' in which the vast majority of the newly elected leaders  were from his newly formed party. To our State Department and the White  House, this was either a really a good sign or a really bad sign.  Either Ukraine was about to take a major change for the better with new  leadership, or this new young leader was about to assume real  centralized power. No one knew for certain in May, June, and July of  2019. Within a few weeks in August, the new Parliament got to work  passing anti-corruption laws and making significant changes in their  accountability and for the country. This was a very good sign. 

  When Vice President Pence met face to face with President Zelensky  September 1, both sides had confidence the country was taking a new  direction. On September 10 Vice President Pence and Senator Rob Portman  met with President Trump to tell him about the progress that had been  made, and both advised lifting the hold on aid. The aid was lifted the  next day, September 11. No investigation into Hunter Biden or Burisma  was ever done by Ukraine, and no part of the U.S. Department of Justice  was ever involved in any investigation of Hunter Biden or Burisma. 

  Although the aid was frozen in June, there was no public announcement  of the hold, as explained by the White House Counsel, to keep this from  becoming a public issue while the White House monitored the progress  and status of the transition in Ukraine. 

  On August 27, POLITICO published an article that noted that the  foreign aid had been held by the United States. This caused President  Zelensky's office to reach out to the State Department and ask why.  During the House impeachment proceedings, four of the House witnesses-- Ambassador Voelker, Ambassador Sondland, Ambassador Taylor, and Tim  Morrison--all testified that the Ukrainian leadership learned about the  temporary hold in aid after the POLITICO article was published. 

  The issue of the hold was also the first question from President  Zelensky to Vice President Pence when they met on September 1 in  Poland. The idea that the leadership in Ukraine had pressure placed on  them to do an investigation fails the most essential test. Did the  leadership of Ukraine even know that the aid was being held? The answer  from multiple American and Ukrainian leaders was no, they did not know  there was a hold on the aid from the White House. You cannot have  pressure to act on an investigation if they did not even know the aid  was being held. 

  It is interesting to note, when I researched the records of past  foreign aid payment dates and times to Ukraine, I found the 2019 aid  was in line with the date the 2016, 2017, and 2018 aid was sent. The  vast majority of the military aid to Ukraine was obligated in August or  September for the past 4 years. Although the aid was ready to go out  the door a couple months earlier in 2019, it was certainly not late,  based on the record of the previous 3 years. In fact, the State  Department aid was obligated September 30 in 2019, but it was obligated  September 28 in 2018. As quoted by the Ukrainian Minister of Defense,  ``The aid was held such a short time, we did not even notice.'' 

  During the 2 days of question-and-answer time, I asked a specific  question related to this issue because I felt it was important to get  the context of the aid, since there had been so much made of the issue  during the trial. Here is the full text of my question to the White  House Counsel:  

       House Managers have described any delay in military aid and       state department funds to Ukraine in 2019 as a cause to       believe there was a secret scheme or quid pro quo by the       President. In 2019, 86% of the DOD funds were obligated to       Ukraine in September, but in 2018, 67% of the funds were       obligated in September and in 2017, 73% of the funds were       obligated in September. In the State Department, the funds       were obligated September 30 in 2019, but they were obligated       September 28 in 2018. Each year, the vast majority of the       funds were obligated in the final month or days of the fiscal       year. Question: Was there a national security risk to Ukraine       or the United States from the funds going out late in       September in the two previous years? Did it weaken our       relationship with Ukraine because the vast majority of our       aid was released in September each of the last three years?  

  In response to my question, White House Counsel detailed the fact  that military aid from the United States was not for immediate use. It  was designed to help the Ukrainian military buy materials for the next  year, so it was common for the aid to be obligated at the end of the  fiscal year--September 30--and it was also common for some money to be  left unobligated and carried over into the next fiscal year, as it was  in 2019. 

  While it is easy to create an intricate story on the hold placed on  foreign aid to Ukraine, it is also clear that President Trump has  temporarily held foreign aid from multiple countries over the past 2  years, including: Afghanistan, Pakistan, Honduras, Guatemala, El  Salvador, Lebanon, and others. There is no question that a President  can withhold aid for a short period of  time, but it must be released by September 30, the end of the fiscal  year, which it was in this instance. 

  Article I, section 2 of the U.S. Constitution grants the U.S. House  of Representatives ``the sole power of impeachment,'' while article I,  section 3 states that ``the Senate shall have the sole power to try all  impeachments.'' 

  The Constitution is clear that the House does not control the Senate  process and the Senate does not control the House process; however,  during the impeachment trial of President Trump, the House tried  repeatedly to dictate to the Senate how it should conduct its trial. 

  The ``sole power to try'' means laying out rules for the trial,  including when and if to call additional witnesses or request more  documents. 

  In addition to laying out roles and responsibilities for impeachment,  our Constitution also provides basic rights for the accused. The Fifth  Amendment ensures due process. However, the receipt of due process is  not contingent upon waiving another right, like immunity or executive  privilege. But that is exactly what the House tried to force President  Trump to do. 

  The President is not above the law, but neither is the House of  Representatives. If there was a question as to the scope and proper use  of the President's right to assert immunity or executive privilege  regarding conversations he had with his closest advisers, that question  is proper for a court to determine, not Congress, and surely not the  House on its own accord. To put this in constitutional terms, the  legislative branch cannot prevent the executive branch from having  access to the judicial branch. The House wanted to move quickly and  prevent the President from ever going to court to resolve any issue.  That has never been done for a good reason, the separation of powers.  In previous legal battles with the President, it has taken months to  resolve critical issues, like Bush v. Gore in 2000 or even in the  Clinton impeachment trial, when the House took 2 months to resolve an  issue with witnesses in court. It does not have to drag on for years. 

  The House also wanted the Chief Justice of the United States to  ``rule on'' any issue quickly instead of allowing the President to go  through the courts. This would have created a new judicial executive  branch by putting all the judicial power of the nation in one person,  not in the judicial branch, as is stated in the Constitution. It would  have also ignored the text of the Constitution where it notes that the  Chief Justice ``presides'' in the court of impeachment, not  ``decides.'' The sole power of impeachment is in the Senate, not the  Senate plus the one Justice. The Chief Justice keeps the trial moving  along, based on the rules of the trial, but he or she is not a decider  of fact; that is reserved to the Senate. The House managers wanted to  ignore that part of the Constitution to move the trial faster for  expedience. We cannot ignore the Constitution or create bad precedent,  no matter which party is being tried for impeachment. 

  Further, the Sixth Amendment guarantees that the accused has the  ability to both confront the witnesses against him and to have the  assistance of counsel. The majority of the impeachment inquiry in the  House was done without a meaningful opportunity for the President to  participate, and administration witnesses were denied the ability to  have counsel present for depositions. 

  The Constitution lays out a clear separation of powers but  importantly also provides a system of checks and balances. For  something as important as impeachment, it is imperative that the  process be one that is squarely within the bounds of the Constitution  and is one that the American people can trust. Unfortunately, the  process undertaken by the House to impeach President Trump falls wildly  short of the standards put in place by our Founders. 

  Article II, section 4 of the Constitution states that ``the  President, Vice President and all civil officers of the United States,  shall be removed from office on impeachment for, and conviction of,  treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.'' 

  During the trial of President Trump, there was a lot of conversation  about what constitutes a ``high crime'' or ``misdemeanor.'' Notably,  the House did not charge the President with any crimes; rather, the  House chose to impeach the President for ``abuse of power'' and  ``obstruction of Congress.'' 

  The House theoretically could have chosen to file Articles of  Impeachment for crimes such as bribery, extortion, solicitation of  interference in an election, or violations of the Impoundments Clause  Act. For any of these crimes, the House would have had to prove  specific elements of each. Since they couldn't prove any of those  crimes, they chose to charge the President with abuse of power. As was  noted in the trial, 40 Presidents have faced accusation of abuse of  power, going back as far as George Washington. 

  The abuse of power charge for President Trump was based on  allegations that he improperly withheld aid to Ukraine and conditioned  a meeting with President Zelensky at the White House in exchange for an  investigation into former Vice President Biden and his son Hunter. Over  the course of the last 4 months, we heard the term ``quid pro quo''  used over and over again, but the facts do not show criminal quid pro  quo. As previously mentioned, President Zelensky asked to meet with  President Trump in Poland, and that meeting was set up. Further, while  the aid to Ukraine was delayed, it wasn't delayed more than it had been  the previous 2 years, and the aid was released without an  investigation--or even an announcement of one--into the Biden's. 

  The second Article of Impeachment, obstruction of Congress, had an  even weaker constitutional foundation. The investigation was announced  September 24 did not officially begin until October 31. The impeachment  vote in the House was December 18. This very short time table and the  accusation that the President refused to follow the law, honor the  courts, and that he acted like a ``King'' did not meet even the most  basic constitutional standards for justice. 

  For example, during the Mueller investigation, the President's team  fully cooperated with the investigation that included over 2,000  subpoenas and 500 witnesses, including the President's Chief of Staff,  multiple Cabinet officials, and many lower level officials who were all  made available. It was clear throughout the investigation that the  President did not like or agree with the Mueller investigation, but he  also fully cooperated with every subpoena, each witness, and every  document. In fact, they released over a million pages of documents to  the Mueller team. 

  President Trump also made his disagreement with the courts very clear  on issues like the census, whether travel restrictions can be put in  place to ensure national security, or whether particular funds can be  used to secure our southern border. But each time the President lost in  court, his administration complied with orders from the judiciary. That  is how our system of government is supposed to work. 

  When disagreements happen between the legislative branch and the  judicial branch, they usually lead to resolution, not impeachment. The  Fast and Furious investigation, which lasted more than 3 years in the  Obama administration, led to a vote in the House to hold then-Attorney  General Eric Holder in contempt, but it never led to an impeachment  inquiry, even though there was a clear and consistent refusal to  cooperate with Congress or turn over key documents for 3 years. 

  In this case, the accusation that President Trump ignored subpoenas  or refused to follow the law is not correct. The President's team made  it very clear that they would cooperate during the impeachment inquiry  with properly authorized and issued subpoenas, but the House refused to  issue subpoenas that were consistent with the law to seek resolution  for documents and witnesses. The House was focused on speed, not legal  process. 

  The House, in a rush to impeachment last fall, issued multiple  subpoenas for documents and testimony before the House had given  authority to the committees to issue subpoenas for an impeachment  inquiry, which happened October 31. Since there was no authority to  issue the subpoenas, they were not duly authorized. The House also  demanded testimony from the President's inner circle without working  through the legal questions, and the House demanded executive agency  witnesses appear without allowing them to bring agency counsel with  them. All of those  issues created very real legal and constitutional problems. Agency  individuals have always been allowed to have legal counsel with them  when they are deposed, except this time. 

  As a Member of Congress, I cannot demand the President turn over  documents or give testimony in any fashion that I would prefer just  because I have oversight responsibilities. In the same way, the  President or other executive branch officials cannot demand I turn over  my notes or provide my staff for testimony without going through the  courts and gaining a legal subpoena. Congress has vigorously and  rightfully protected its rights from unwarranted investigations from  any President and Presidents have done the same. But in all cases, the  law must be followed and the proper process must be pursued to get the  information in a legal way. 

  From the very first moments of the Senate trial, the House managers  fought for additional witnesses and documents from the President. Their  argument and justification for the second Article of Impeachment  centered on the White House's refusal to turn over documents and make  every witness available without going through the normal legal process. 

  Per the resolution adopted by the Senate, the House record was part  of the trial record. The Senate had the testimony of the witnesses the  House chose to question as part of the overall information of the  trial. The House already had 28,000 pages of documents that were part  of the evidence they submitted to the Senate, although, the House  managers admitted during the Senate impeachment trial that they still  have not released all of the documents and witness testimony that they  had gathered in their investigation to the White House Counsel or to  the Senate. We do not fully know why the House held back some of its  witness testimony and released others. 

  The House witness testimony was used extensively in the Senate trial. 

  These are the witnesses who testified live or via video in the House  and Senate Impeachment: David Holmes, Political Counselor, U.S. Embassy  Ukraine, State Department; Dr. Fiona Hill, White House Advisor,  National Security Council; David Hale, Under Secretary for Political  Affairs, State Department; Laura Cooper, Deputy Assistant Secretary of  Defense; Gordon Sondland, U.S. Ambassador to the European Union; Tim  Morison, Former White House Adviser; Kurt Voelker, Former Special Envoy  for Ukraine; LTC Alexander Vindman, National Security Council; Jennifer  Williams, aide to the Vice President; Marie Yovanovitch, Former  Ambassador to Ukraine; George Kent, Deputy Assistant Secretary of  State; Bill Taylor, Former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine.  

  The House managers repeated over and over that additional witnesses  would only take a week to depose, which is a clearly false statement.  New witnesses took longer than a week to depose in the House inquiry;  clearly it would take just as long or longer in a Senate trial. The  remaining ``wish list'' of witnesses all had clear issues that needed  to be resolved in the courts, which would take a couple of months to  resolve, which is why the House managers did not push for their  testimony in the House impeachment process. They valued speed more than  legal process. 

  House managers repeatedly stated that witnesses only took a week to  depose in the Clinton Senate impeachment trial, but they know that  during the Clinton Senate trial, all three called witnesses previously  deposed in the House inquiry or in the grand jury investigation, and  all issues of executive privilege had already been decided through the  courts. There were no new witnesses in the Senate trial of President  Clinton. Also, the Clinton White House had already had the opportunity  to cross-examine witnesses or the investigators in the Clinton  impeachment inquiry. This time, the Trump White House had been denied  that right. So, if new witnesses would be added for the Senate trial,  the White House should have the right to also cross-examine the  previous House witnesses they had been denied the right to cross  examine in the past. This would all take much longer than a week, and  the House managers knew that. 

  During the Clinton impeachment trial in the Senate, there were no  additional documents requested, only previously deposed witnesses. The  House managers did not go through the legal process to get documents,  like the Mueller investigation had done, so all of the new document  requests from the House managers would take at least 3 to 5 weeks to  complete, once a legal subpoena is delivered. It takes time to search  all databases, review the documents for classified materials, determine  any legal issues, and release them to the investigation. Once the  documents are turned over, both legal teams need time to review the  documents. Again, the House managers knew these facts, but they  continued to repeat over and over that it would only take a week to get  all the documents. 

  The first question for the Senate trial was, do we have enough  evidence and testimony to answer the questions the House presented in  their Articles of Impeachment? If the answer is yes, then we do not  need additional witnesses or documents. If the answer is no, then we do  need additional information. There were many leaks and newspaper  stories during the trial designed to push the Senate to vote to ask for  more testimony, but that did not change the primary question. We  already knew from evidence that there was no quid pro quo, no Ukrainian  investigations, and no withholding of a public meeting with President  Trump. 

  The New York Times story on January 26 and again on January 31 are  clear examples of an attempt to bring doubt on the information and  witness testimony. Both stories stated that someone had read the  pending John Bolton book manuscript and that in the book, Bolton stated  that President Trump had talked about investigations in exchange for  aid funding for Ukraine. The New York Times also wrote that the book  would state that Acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney and White House  Counsel Pat Cipollone were also a part of the scheme. I looked at both  stories closely and noticed that the reporters had not read the  manuscripts or quoted the manuscripts; they were reports from someone  who stated that they had read the manuscripts. Both stories took  significant liberties to describe the intent in the manuscripts, but  the reporter had apparently also not spoken to John Bolton. 

  On January 23, 2020, the National Security Council lawyers sent a  letter to the legal team handling the book publishing for John Bolton  to inform him that the manuscript contained some classified information  and it would need have some edits before publication in March. Then, on  January 26, the New York Times published a story that someone had  leaked some of the details of the book, but they had not released the  actual manuscript. While I am interested in seeing the actual  manuscript, I am also very aware that this selective leak was designed  by the New York Times and whoever leaked the information to influence  the ongoing trial. 

  It was clear from the earliest days of the trial that the House had a  clear political strategy as well as a courtroom strategy. During the  trial. I had the responsibility to hear the facts but also to separate  the politics from the facts. Politically, it was best for the House to  move as quickly as possible through impeachment so that vulnerable  Democratic Members could vote for impeachment and then move quickly to  other topics. But since the Presidential election is in full swing, it  was politically better for Democrats to make the Senate trial move as  slow as possible to hurt the President during the campaign. That  explains why the House did not take the time to formally request  documents or testimony from many individuals; they needed to move fast  and try to force the Senate to move slowly. It also explained why the  House passed impeachment on a party line vote, then held the Articles  of Impeachment for a month before delivering them to the Senate to  start the trial. The House managers said repeatedly that the evidence  was clear and that they had proved their case, but if that was true,  why would the Senate need to call additional witnesses? I think the  reason is that the witness process was about delay, more than facts. 

  The facts do not support the accusation in the Trump impeachment, and  it certainly did not need to come to this moment of national division.  While it was clear that the House managers  wanted to drag the trial on for months in the Senate, through the  primary election season, their case consisted of hypothetical story  lines and ``presumptions'' more than facts that warrant the removal of  a President. This does not meet what Alexander Hamilton in Federalist  65 described as the ``due weight'' for the arguments. 

  But impeachment has certainly created the division in our society  that Alexander Hamilton predicted. Over 200 years ago he wrote, ``The  prosecution [of impeachments], will seldom fail to agitate the passions  of the whole community, and to divide it into parties more or less  friendly or inimical to the accused.'' This has been an incredibly  divisive season in our Nation. It is not about one person; it is about  all of us. We individually choose how we handle disagreements with  family, friends, and people on the other side of particular issues. Our  government represents us, so it is up to us to model for our government  how to handle disagreements. 

  We are now past impeachment, and it is time to work on the issues  that matter most to the American people. As we move forward, every  American should speak out on the issues that are important to them and  the voices that speak for their point of view. But we should remember  that we have much more in common than we have that divides us. It is my  hope that our Nation does not go through a season like this again for a  very long time and that we can move past this age of impeachment to an  age of oversight and accountability. 

  I appreciate all the engagement with our office during the  impeachment proceedings. We had thousands of calls and emails over the  past month. We had hundreds of thousands of views on the nightly  Facebook Live updates each day during the trial. While not every  Oklahoman agrees with every decision I make on behalf of our State, I  am grateful most choose to be respectful in expressing their points of  view. At the end of the day, we are Oklahomans. We may not all agree on  each issue, but we can be respectful of each other in our disagreement. 

  I am honored to serve our State and Nation. We have many important  issues to address in the coming days I pray we can work on them  together for the future of our State and Nation. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT