Iran


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LANKFORD. Madam President, as we go back through the calendar  just a few months and get some context of what has been building for a  while, in May of 2019, four different vessels that were traveling just  outside of the Gulf of Oman were hit by mines laid by Iranian  leadership. In June, just a month later, two different vessels hit  Iranian mines. Those mines weren't just placed in the water flippantly;  they were actually placed on the ship. In June of 2019, a U.S. Navy  surveillance drone was flying through the Strait of Hormuz in  international airspace and was downed by an Iranian missile attack. 

  As we continue to move forward, we tracked an increase in Iranian  activity in cyber attacks across the United States, but at the same  time, individuals within our military bases in Iraq were facing more  and more of a push against them in not just an external conversation,  an actual kinetic attack. 

  Our supply lines in the fall of last year, as trucks that were  leaving from Baghdad and driving down to Kuwait for our supply lines  there, were increasingly facing improvised explosive devices, something  we had not seen in a long time. Those explosive devices were created  and placed by Shia militias with materials provided by Iran. 

  Then, in October, there were multiple attacks on our facility in  Baghdad. In November, there were multiple attacks again on our facility  in Baghdad. In December, there were multiple attacks again, each time  increasing with more and more attacks. 

  We hear that term ``attack,'' and it seems almost flippant, but we  realize, for the thousands of Americans who work in that area of that  diplomatic mission that is there in Iraq, there is a day that happens-- it could be the middle of the night, it could be the middle of the  afternoon, but a moment happens, month after month, week after week,  and sometimes within that, day after day--where the sirens go off, and  everyone on campus runs into a bomb shelter, and then the explosions  begin around the grounds. 

  These were not just random attacks. These were designed kinetic  rocket attacks coming into our Embassy that built up toward an attack  on the U.S. Embassy on December 31, where thousands of people broke  through the outer section, setting fires to the building, attacking the  facility, smashing  against the glass, trying to get into the next layer that they were not  able to penetrate--into the inner layer in the Embassy. But thousands  and thousands of rioters were moving toward the base. 

  As calm was restored on the outside and a security perimeter was  established on the outside, they could read what was written on the  walls, spray-painted now on the Embassy: ``Soleimani is our leader.'' 

  I was interested in talking to a friend of mine just a couple of  weekends ago, and he made an interesting comment to me. He said: I  didn't know who Qasem Soleimani was. I had never heard that name  before, and then I went back and started doing some research to find  out who this guy is and what he is all about. 

  His comment to me was: I went back and did some research and found  out he is a bad guy. 

  I said: Yes, you don't know the half of it. 

  Soleimani is the leader of the Quds Force for the Iranians, was  responsible for training the Shia militias in Iraq on how to kill  Americans. Over 600 Americans died because of the training and  equipping that Soleimani did for the Iraqis who were fighting against  us at that time, specifically the Shia militias that Soleimani actually  directed. 

  My neighbor was surprised to learn that Soleimani was the one who  actually organized all things with Hezbollah in Lebanon. He had  organized Hezbollah also in Iraq. He is the one who was coordinating  all that was happening in Yemen, in the civil war that is currently  ongoing in Yemen. 

  He was surprised to see that he was in Syria working with Bashar  Assad and to see all that he was doing for that ruthless leader that  murdered thousands of his own people. That was Soleimani.  

  For those of us who are tracking the direct threats against the  United States, we are very aware of who he was and what he was all  about because he was the point person to try to take the fight to the  United States. In the past 6 months, that fight had gone from an ``I am  going to try to find individuals within Hezbollah or Shia militias  somewhere to attack the United States'' to being more strategic to  bringing the attack directly from his forces under his command to try  to take the attack to us. He had become more and more overt and more  and more obsessed with attacking the United States. 

  Over the course of that time period, the Trump administration, over  and over again, sent a message to the Iranian leadership: You are  playing a very dangerous game, continually attacking American  facilities, launching rockets randomly in there, starting fires,  stirring up militias to attack us at every turn, attacking our supply  lines. If an American is killed, President Trump made it very clear,  the United States will respond. 

  In December, Soleimani pushed it to a whole new level, with a  multiple rocket attack into an American facility, killing an American  and wounding four others. The President responded with a very reasoned  response: taking an attack to where the Shia militias and Hezbollah  were storing the munitions they were using to attack us, destroying  that facility, destroying those munitions, taking the fight to four  different training facilities where they were equipping the people to  bring the attack to us but then also tracking very carefully the person  who was actually planning the next set of attacks--Soleimani himself. 

  The time came in January, when Soleimani had been traveling through  Syria, through Lebanon, working with Hezbollah, and then back into  Iraq, and he was personally meeting with another terrorist leader in  Iraq--one terrorist leader, Soleimani, leading a terrorist  organization, meeting with another terrorist leading a terrorist  organization there. Both of them were planning together and met up that  morning at the airport. A little after 4 o'clock in the morning, they  left from the airport, headed to go have their next meeting and  planning their next set of attacks. 

  At that time, the Trump administration took the opportunity, while  they were both far from civilians and no one else was on the road, to  have a surgical strike and take out two different terrorist leaders,  both in the process of planning their next attacks. 

  What has been interesting to me has been the response of the U.S.  Senate and the U.S. House and some of the debate there. We should  debate issues like this. These are difficult moments in difficult days.  We are not at war with Iran, nor should we be at war with Iran. There  are millions of peaceful people in Iran. Thousands and thousands of  those people are protesting on the streets right now in Iran against  their own government. They are furious at the corruption in their  government. They are furious that the people in Iran can't get food and  can't get fuel because the regime there is spending their money  attacking Yemen, attacking Syria, feeding money to Hezbollah and Iraq,  feeding money to Hezbollah and Lebanon. The money that should be going  to help their own people, the Iranian regime is sending out all over  the region to spur their terrorism. 

  The people there are frustrated and upset with their own government,  and they are taking it to the streets under a threat of their own life.  In the not-too-recent past, Iranians--whether it be the Green  Revolution 10 years ago or just in days past and months past--had taken  to the streets by the thousands, and some of them have faced all kinds  of retribution coming back at them. 

  We should be supporting the good people of Iran who are miserable  living under that regime. We are not at war with the people of Iran,  but we are very clear as a nation, when you are planning an attack  against us, and we are aware of that attack and you have shown the due  diligence to take prior attacks, we know you are not just thinking  about it. You are actually planning it and about to carry it out. 

  We have learned our lesson from 9/11, and for the last three  administrations, the policy has been very clear. If we know you are in  the process of bringing an attack to us in the days and weeks ahead, we  will strike first to protect American lives. We will not wait until you  kill Americans to come bring a strike to you. That is what happened  with Soleimani. 

  The debate that is happening on the floor now about a War Powers  Resolution has been interesting to me because much of the language just  affirms the current law. It almost seems to imply the Trump  administration didn't follow the law when they did. The Trump  administration continued to track an imminent threat that was coming  into the United States. There has been some argument about how imminent  is imminent. Some of my colleagues want to know that Soleimani was in  the process of carrying out an attack within the next 30 minutes, and  if he wasn't carrying out an attack immediately, in the next day or  next hours, we shouldn't respond. I will tell you, intelligence is not  that exquisite. You only know in the movies that someone is about to  attack an exact spot at an exact time. That is not real life. With  real-life intelligence, you gather information to track what you think  is coming, but you don't get exact dates and exact locations like that.  

  We knew he was planning this attack. They were zeroing in on the  locations, but he was very specific as to the Americans he was coming  after. 

  To be able to bring the attack to him and to notify Congress within  48 hours, which is the law, is consistent with the War Powers  Resolution. The President did follow the law. He was justified in being  able to carry out the strike against a known, declared terrorist  leader--in fact, two of them--in the process of planning their next  attack against Americans. 

  The key thing I join my colleagues in talking about is not trying to  be able to press back on the administration but to say that none of us  want a war in Iran, including the Trump administration. In every  conversation I have had with anyone in the administration, they have  all been very clear. They are not planning a war with Iran. They don't  want a war with Iran, but they do want Iran to stop their belligerent  terrorist activities against us, against our allies, and against any  American they seem to find in the region. I join my colleagues in  warning Iran and assuring Iran at the same time that we have no desire  for a war with the regime or with the good people of Iran. We should be  able to find a way to work together. 

  Since 1979, when this regime was coming into power, they have taken  the fight to Americans and to all of our allies. It is time we pushed  back and  said: Stop shedding blood, and let's sit down at the table and be able  to work this out. 

  In the meantime, let's not assume that Soleimani was some innocent  bystander. He had a lot of American blood on his hands. Let's take into  real life what it really means to live in Baghdad and serve in our  diplomatic mission and hour after hour run to bomb shelters as rockets  are raining down randomly on your facility. There is plenty of  provocation. Now it is time for diplomacy. Let's get this worked out. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT