Lankford, Rosen, Cramer, Menendez, Cardin Introduce Bipartisan Resolution Commemorating 75th Anniversary of Liberation of Auschwitz by Allied Forces


Today, Senators James Lankford (R-OK), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), and Ben Cardin (D-MD) announced the introduction of S.Res. 481, a bipartisan resolution commemorating the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz concentration camp by Allied Forces during World War II. The anniversary will take place on January 27th, designated by the United Nations as International Holocaust Remembrance Day. Reps. Ted Deutch (D-FL), Grace Meng (D-NY), and Lee Zeldin (R-NY) are planning to introduce bipartisan companion legislation in the House of Representatives next week.

"The Holocaust was one of humanity's darkest hours and most horrific atrocities, and we promised loudly and clearly as a nation: Never again," said Lankford. "We must stand by that promise and ensure we never again see such a depraved disregard for human life or dignity. We must continue to stand against anti-Semitism and ensure that no one is persecuted because of their faith or background at home or abroad. I am grateful for Senator Rosen's partnership in addressing anti-Semitism through education and remembrance."

"During the Holocaust, six million Jews and millions of other innocent individuals -- Poles, Soviets, Romani, Serbs, Afro-Germans, Jehovah's Witnesses, gay men and women, people with disabilities, and countless others -- were forced into concentration camps, including Auschwitz, and violently murdered," said Rosen. "We will never forget the suffering inflicted upon these individuals or on those who survived the horrors of the Holocaust. We honor this day, and the millions lost, by making a pledge that we will never allow an event like the Holocaust to occur again. "Never Again' must mean "Never Again' for anyone. From this dark past, we must band together to bring forth a brighter future, fighting anti-Semitism and hate in every form."

""Never again' should be more than just words," said Cramer. "Seventy-five years ago, good defeated evil, and commemorating that anniversary reminds us of what it costs when we refuse to combat the rising tide of anti-Semitism."

"We must never forget the lives lost in Auschwitz and the 6 million Jews who perished during the Holocaust," said Menendez. "We must continue to work together to ensure that those horrific acts are never repeated. When we see anti-Semitism or hate in this country--or anywhere--leaders across the political spectrum must call it out and speak out."

"The crimes against humanity perpetrated at Auschwitz were the most notorious of the murders and other atrocities committed in death camps and killing fields across Europe. We will do everything in our power to safeguard this history in our collective memory and work to ensure they are never repeated," said Cardin. "Seventy-five years after the liberation of Auschwitz, as we lose more and more of the few survivors, we pledge to continue to honor them and those who perished by sharing their stories, by pushing back against all forms of anti-Semitism and racism, and by ensuring the truth about this dark chapter in human history is not erased. And, with the knowledge of the Holocaust front and center, we also must work to make certain that modern-day genocides are stopped and future crimes against humanity are prevented."

BACKGROUND: Organizations supporting S.Res. 481 include the Jewish Federations of North America, the American Jewish Committee, the Simon Wiesenthal Center, the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, Agudath Israel of America, Hadassah, and the Anti-Defamation League. Text of the bipartisan resolution can be found here.

In July, Senator Rosen introduced the Never Again Education Act, bipartisan legislation that would establish a dedicated federal fund to provide teachers with resources and training necessary to teach our students the important lessons of the Holocaust. 

Last year, Senators Lankford and Rosen launched the first-ever Senate Bipartisan Task Force for Combating Anti-Semitism.