Lankford Named One of the Most Conservative Senators


Senator James Lankford (R-OK) was awarded the 2019 Award for Conservative Excellence by the American Conservative Union (ACU) Foundation for his voting record in 2019. Lankford obtained an ACU rating of 95 percent, the second-highest in the Senate.

"I am grateful Oklahomans put their trust in me to press for our conservative values as a nation, including working to find areas of common ground across the aisle," said Lankford. "As a nation it's important that we continue to pursue solutions to address debt and deficit issues, reduce federal regulations, end government shutdowns, cut red tape for our nation's small businesses, and protect free speech and religious liberty. It's important to have advocates such as ACU that share and continue to push on these same values on behalf of our nation."

In 2019 Lankford supported pro-life conservative priorities including the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act, the Protect Funding for Women's Health Care Act, and the Down Syndrome Discrimination by Abortion Prohibition Act, to name just a few. Lankford helped ensure the confirmations of qualified individuals to posts important to Oklahoma, including: Judges Jodi Dishman and Bernard Jones to the US District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma and US Attorney Tim Downing to serve Oklahoma. Lankford also supported numerous Executive Branch nominations to ensure President Trump can have qualified, vetted individuals in his Administration with the advice and consent of the Senate, as designed by the Constitution.

Lankford's bills, to protect taxpayer dollars in the federal grant process, the Grant Reporting Efficiency and Agreements Transparency (GREAT) Act, and the Representative Payee Fraud Prevention Act, to protect federal retirement benefits from fraud, both achieved final passage in the Senate and were signed into law.

"This year's Ratings demonstrate that conservatives in the House largely stood united against Pelosi's socialist plots to fundamentally transform America," said ACU Chairman Matt Schlapp. "Not only did conservative fend off the lion's share of Leftist attacks on American liberty, but the Senate also confirmed 105 judges despite Democrats' vengeful, partisan obstructionism. Tragically, lawmakers from both parties once again failed in their duty to exercise wise fiscal discipline. In these uncertain times, American are beginning to feel the steep price of electing big-government spendthrifts. 

Founded in 1964, the American Conservative Union (ACU) is the nation's oldest and largest conservative organization. ACU hosts the annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC), of which Senator Lankford spoke at last year. CPAC is the largest conference in America for conservative grassroots activism. The conference has more than 10,000 activists from all over the nation.

In 2018 Lankford was named a Taxpayers' Friend by the National Taxpayers Union (NTU) and a Hero of Main Street by the National Retail Federation (NRF).