Oklahoma Delegation Commemorates 25th Anniversary of Oklahoma City Bombing


Today, Oklahoma's Congressional Delegation joined to honor and remember the tragic loss of lives in the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Building in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma on April 19, 1995. Twenty-five years ago, the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building was the target of America's deadliest act of domestic terrorism, claiming the lives of 168 individuals, including 19 children. 

U.S. Senator Jim Inhofe: "It's hard to imagine 25 years have passed since the tragedy in Oklahoma City that shaped the people and character of our state," Inhofe said.

"I had close friends who died that day and I know so many others who lost family, friends, and loved ones. Many showed up to offer help in the aftermath and even more offered prayers and kindness. These acts of good came to be known as the Oklahoma Standard, something that lives on in all of us. Today, we take extra time to remember the one hundred and sixty-eight people lost that day and pray for their families, loved ones and the first responders who risked their lives for us all. You will not be forgotten."

U.S. Senator James Lankford: "Twenty-five years ago, on a day just like today, Oklahomans, and all of America, were struck with disbelief at the outpouring of irrational hatred on our friends and neighbors," said Lankford.

"That morning took 168 of our loved family members, our friends, our neighbors, and our co-workers. In Oklahoma, we are still surrounded by those who survived and those who were changed forever. We love them with the Oklahoma Standard and choose to stand with them to remind the world of their loss and their courage. Today, we remember those unique lives lost, the survivors and every person who ran to help on our darkest day 25 years ago."

"Twenty-five years ago, the date April 19th took on an entirely new meaning to Oklahoma. On a cloudless Wednesday morning, our communities, our state, and our nation, were brought face to face with evil," said Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03).

Congressman Lucas continued, "For many, the wounds are still painful. Every April 19th we remember the children, mothers, fathers, co-workers, and friends who lost their lives: children playing in the day care, co-workers rushing to their morning meeting, friends who had just said their last good-byes to their loved ones. But out of the ashes of evil, rose a stronger sense of community and hope. In the aftermath of the bombing, in what would become known as the Oklahoma Standard, first responders, neighbors, and individuals across our state came together to help rebuild a brighter and better future. As we remember and grieve those we lost, we also reflect on the examples set by Oklahomans on April 19th: the courage shown by our first responders, the strength of survivors and the families forever impacted, and leaders who offered hope in days of darkness. This year, on this 25th anniversary, we pause once more to honor those we lost and draw strength from a day that will forever be a catalyst for hope." 

Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04): "It is an extraordinarily somber time for Oklahomans when we remember the despicable act of domestic terror that took place in Oklahoma City on April 19, 1995. The fateful memory of that day will forever be imprinted in my mind," said Congressman Cole, who was serving as Oklahoma's Secretary of State at the time. 

"But I will also never forget how Oklahomans swiftly and compassionately responded as our state was launched without warning onto a worldwide stage. Indeed, although the tragedy was one of the darkest days our state has ever experienced, Oklahomans shone triumphantly as a beacon of hope across the nation and around the world in the days and weeks that followed. As we pause to remember the 168 innocent lives prematurely taken from us and honor those who responded so nobly, we ought to draw courage and strength from that first clear glimpse of the Oklahoma Standard that was on display 25 years ago. Even in our most dire and destructive hour, we overcame."

Congressman Markwayne Mullin (OK-02): "On Sunday, we join together to remember the victims of the Oklahoma City bombing and the loved ones left behind on that horrible day 25 years ago. As we mourn the worst act of homegrown terrorism in our country's history, we also reflect on the resiliency of Oklahomans. By continuing to live out the Oklahoma Standard, we have shown the world that no matter the tragedy, Oklahomans will always rally together and help their neighbors."

Congressman Kevin Hern (OK-01): "I'll never forget the horror, pain, and grief I felt on April 19, 1995.  It was an unthinkable act of violence and terrorism against our people. In the aftermath of the bombing, Oklahomans grew stronger and more united than ever before. Amidst heartbreaking tragedy, our communities poured out empathy and courage rather than fear. Today we fight a very different enemy, but I see the same courage that brought us through our darkest hour 25 years ago. We celebrate the memories of those who lost their lives in Oklahoma City, we honor the sacrifices of the first responders who charged towards danger when their city needed them, and we mourn with the families whose lives were irreversibly changed that day."

Congresswoman Kendra Horn (OK-05): "Twenty-five years ago, our city, our state, and our nation were shaken to the core when the deadliest act of domestic terrorism destroyed the Murrah Building, took the lives of 168 Oklahomans, and thrust our community into a spotlight we never sought," said Congresswoman Kendra Horn (OK-05). 

"In the wake of this tragedy, in true Oklahoma-fashion, first responders, community organizations, faith leaders and the people of our state stepped up to help each other. Our community demonstrated how together, we can find strength and connection even in the wake of unbearable loss. What the world discovered, and what we already knew, was that this is the Oklahoma Standard. Now a quarter century later, we pause to remember, to grieve those we lost, and celebrate the healing, strength, and resilience of Oklahoma City and our state -- though not at all as we had planned. Instead of gathering together, we are trying wrap our heads around the fact that we cannot wrap our arms around each other. And as we navigate the unique challenges of this COVID-19 crisis, the Oklahoma Standard is our North Star. We continue to come together, to support each other and we will emerge on the other side with scars and with hope that we will once again create a brighter future."