Providing Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691662/providing-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-heavy-duty-vehicle-and-engine-emission-warranty-and-maintenance-provisions-advanced-clean-trucks-zero-emission-airport-shuttle-zero-emission-power-train-certification-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision


Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I want to make a comment on the lands  bill, my frustration of where things have gone today on things.

I do want to just pause for a moment and recognize that two staff  members of the Israeli Embassy were murdered last night here in  Washington, DC, simply because they were Jewish.

The murderer literally hovered outside of the Jewish museum here in  Washington, DC, waiting for someone to walk out to murder--just a  random person, apparently just to be able to kill a Jew. And then later  screamed at the front door ``Free Palestine.''

This is anti-Semitism at its worst, and I want my Jewish friends to  be able to know we are praying for you; we are speaking out on your  behalf today; and we have not forgotten. And this kind of hatred and  anti-Semitism cannot continue in America.       Historic Greenwood District-Black Wall Street National Monument                             Establishment Act

Mr. President, today, I am also disappointed. There is a bill that is  a very simple bill that literally every single Republican has released  and said: We want to be able to move this.

This is recognition of a national monument for the Historic Greenwood  District in North Tulsa. In 1921, on May 31, overnight to June 1, there  was the worst race massacre in American history. It is a stain on our  American history, but it is also a moment to be able to look back to  and learn from.

Over 100 years ago, this race massacre, when it occurred, was pushed  under the rug and was told for generations to forget about it. We are  pulling that thread and saying: There is some benefit to not losing  track of that moment.

This particular bill is a designation as a national monument for that  Historic Greenwood District. Now, it is written very carefully and in  very close cooperation to make sure there is no eminent domain for the  Federal Government; there is no Federal takeover;  private property rights are all protected. But it puts a recognition in  this area that it is a Federal designation, just a recognition, no  property is taken over, but to say: We as a nation remember.

It is important to the people of North Tulsa because the families and  communities and the businesses in North Tulsa are literally turning  tragedy into triumph. They are looking back on that time and saying  that is what happened on that day, but don't look at just that day,  look at who we are; look at who we have been; look at who we are now  and where we are going.

This is an important piece that literally every single Republican  cleared. No struggle with this bill at all. And then my Democrat  colleagues came today, of all weeks and this day, to be able to say  they were going to block it.

So my challenge is to my Democratic colleagues, I don't know what the  fight and struggle is on this, and I don't know why this is difficult  to be able to do. We should all have agreement on this. So whatever  struggle is happening among their conference, I would encourage them to  be able to work it out so we can pass this because in the past, in this  body, this has been a unanimous issue. This should not be controversial  to say: We, as a nation, recognize what happened on that day, and we  honor the people of North Tulsa for what they are working to still  create there in the Greenwood District.

So my encouragement is, let's work out our differences today on this.  Let's get this passed and get this done.

Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I know of no further debate on the  pending item.