Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700788/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, 250 years ago--actually, 250 years ago  this summer--we wrote a letter to good King George III, and in that  letter we now call the Declaration of Independence, we complained about  foreign intervention into the activities of Americans, the colonists.  We wanted the right to be able to actually control our own destiny. We  wanted the ability to be able to speak for our own future, decide for  our own families, without having foreign interference coming across an  ocean to be able to affect us. We determined that we wanted to run our  own Nation.

Now, 250 years later, we still want to run our own Nation. We want to  make our own decisions without foreign interference, without anyone  stepping in and telling us, as Americans, whom we are going to be and  what we are going to do. We disagree with each other enough; we don't  need individuals from the outside coming in and expressing their  opinion. We handle this as Americans, and the way that we do that is  with elections.

Elections have been routinely done through the history of our country  since our Constitution was ratified in 1789. It has been a  distinguishing mark of the United States. We are the oldest functioning  constitutional democracy in the world. And in our Republic, we choose  representatives. Those representatives speak on our behalf. And if we  decide we don't like them for whatever reason, we choose different  representatives. But we, as Americans, choose our own path through our  own elected officials. That is what we do, and we do it on a regular,  consistent basis.

Now, in the earliest days, it was literally a wooden box and slips of  paper. We have improved that over the years. Step by step, decade after  decade, we have done elections a little bit differently.

Now, they are done differently all over the country on it, but we  have some basic foundational rules that are also guidance. We choose  our own leaders, but we do it the right way.

It wasn't always that way. But as we have improved, we make our  elections more transparent, better, with faster responses, giving more  trust.

Many folks in my generation will never forget the photograph of  staring at a hanging chad from the Bush election, with a person in an  election board closely staring through a magnifying glass to try to  figure out if there was a dimple on a piece of paper.

There is no election system in the country that does chads anymore  because we all determined that is a terrible idea. It is just a bad way  to be able to prove the intent of a vote. And the whole younger  generation has no idea what a hanging chad would even be because we no  longer do that anymore.

We protect the right of all individuals to vote--every American  citizen--because in the middle of the 1960s, we as a Nation passed the  Voting Rights Act, determining that every person in America has the  right to be able to vote and that would be protected, that if there  would be any jurisdiction in the country that would violate that, a  Federal court could literally step in and just say: No, every single  citizen of the country would have a protected right to vote.

In fact, if you want me to read it to you, the Voting Rights Act  actually begins with this simple statement:

All citizens of the United States who are otherwise       qualified by law to vote at any election by the people, in       any State, Territory, district, county, city, parish,       township, school district, municipality, or other territorial       subdivision, shall be entitled and allowed to vote.

But the simple statement that the Voting Rights Act begins with-- ``All citizens''--what is interesting is the Voting Rights Act  protected the ability of a court to step in and say, if some citizen is  not being allowed to vote, the courts can step in and mandate that that  actually occur. But it did not set up a way to say: Are you a citizen  at all?

It was just assumed that only citizens would actually be the ones to  vote. It is the baseline of the civil rights in that time period and in  the Voting Rights Act--that our elections would be protected only for  citizens. But this is a ``trust'' bill in that way, and there is no  ``verify.''

What we as Republicans have brought--we have brought out of the House  and brought to the floor of the Senate--is not a ``trust'' bill. It is  a ``trust and verify'' bill. It takes the next step from the Voting  Rights Act of 1965, which mandated that it would only be citizens that  would vote.

In fact, there was a penalty actually established that if you are a  noncitizen, you get up to 5 years in prison if you vote in a Federal  election. That is a big deal.

The challenge is, we have no way to be able to track it. That doesn't  actually occur anymore. So we want to just be able to bring a most  basic thing that all Americans can agree on--we would hope--that only  citizens of the United States would be able to vote, and that before  you register to vote, we would have some way to be able to show you  actually are a citizen. That is, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 said  that all of those American citizens have a protected right to be able  to vote, and they can choose to--hopefully, they do--or not. That is up  to them as an American.

So let me walk through this.

The first thing I wanted to be able to say is thank you to the State  election board folks and all the State election officials and the poll  workers that work for every election all across the country. We lose  track of this at times.

It takes almost three-quarters of a million people just to run a  Federal election--three-quarters of a million. Those are poll workers.  Those are poll watchers. Those are State election officials. Those are  folks that work behind the scenes in every county and parish, in cities  and municipalities all across the country--three-quarters of a million  people just to be able to pull together an election.

Those folks are incredibly important to be able to protect the most  basic rights of individuals to be able to vote and to protect the basic  right of one person, one vote.

Let me share this with this body. Here is how we do it in Oklahoma.  In Oklahoma, we have one of the highest rated, secure election systems  in the country--in the country. And we encourage people to come out and  to vote and to participate in the entire process.

Some of the things that we choose to do is, in all of our polling  locations and every time ballots are actually presented, there is  always a Republican and a Democrat poll worker that is always there in  every area--always--so both parties are always represented in that and  so everyone can look at each other and constantly be able to check the  system.

We are still old school. We do a piece of paper and a marker, and you  mark your ballot. And it runs through an optical scanner, and it  registers that ballot was actually fully handled. So at the end of the  night, if there is any challenge at all to that ballot, we can go back  to the paper ballots and actually count them by hand and be able to  verify all of them, because we want to make sure, every single  election, we can verify every single vote, every single time.

In fact, at the end of the night, when machines are finished, we  literally print out on a piece of paper and post on the window of the  election board location, wherever this was that the election was being  held--we actually publicly post, at the instant the election was done  that night, at 7 p.m., so that it is public information immediately how  many votes were taken in this area. So if, at some point, it shows up  later that it was a different number, everyone could see it.

We have full verification through the entire process.

In Oklahoma, we have voter ID at every single location, at every  single vote. How do we do it? If you vote in  person and you show up to vote on election day, you pull out an ID, and  you show an ID--every single person.

If you vote early, absentee--we have that all over our State in  county election boards everywhere--as you walk up, you have to pull out  an ID and to be able to show that ID to vote.

And if you are going to mail in your ballot, we welcome that, but you  have got to show ID when you actually do it. That means actually going  into a location where you can get a notary that, before you put your  ballot in the mail, it shows your envelope, you show the ID, it shows  on the envelope who the person is on it, and you actually have a notary  to do that.

We have voter ID at every single stage. We don't allow ballot  harvesting at all. We are a very, very secure system, and we are proud  of that. We want every single person to be able to vote, but we want to  make sure it is one person, one vote.

We occasionally still do have some folks who try to vote twice in  Oklahoma. I am sure that happens in other States, as well, where they  will do a request for a mail-in ballot, they will mail it in with a  notary and verify that it is them, and then, on election day, they will  show up and vote again.

During the last Presidential election, we had a little over 1.5  million people that showed up to vote on that. We found 2 people that  double-voted in multiple counties and 27 people that actually double- voted in the same county--29 folks total that double-voted in over 1.5  million people.

By the way, we didn't ignore those 29. They were all referred for  prosecution because according to Federal law--Federal law, now-- according to Federal law, it is up to 5 years in prison if you vote  twice.

So we refer folks for prosecution to say we don't allow that. We are  careful in how we do the balloting and the voting on this. But we have  a voter ID, and we walk through the process to make sure that every  person actually has that opportunity to be able to vote.

Interestingly enough, in Oklahoma, we asked a question several years  ago: How many folks showed up for jury duty and, when they showed up  for jury duty, were excused from the jury duty because they went before  the judge and said: I am not a citizen of United States?

This happens all the time, actually, where someone comes in and says:  I am not a citizen of the United States, and so I need to be excused.

They are not eligible for a jury if they are not a citizen of the  United States. We had about 40 people in Oklahoma that made that claim  and said: I am not a citizen of the United States.

But when we checked voter rolls, they were registered to vote--40.  They were excused from jury duty but were also registered to vote.

So in Oklahoma law, do you know what we do? Anytime, in any county,  if someone says, I am not a citizen of the United States in the jury  duty, that now gets turned into a list. And if they are registered to  vote, their registration gets purged because we are serious about only  Oklahoma U.S. citizens voting in Oklahoma.

Do you know why? Because 250 years ago, we fought a war against good  King George to say: We make our own decisions, not someone else outside  our country. We make our own.

So we make sure that we purge our own voter rolls. In fact, that is  State law, to be able to do that.

Listen, we have a very simple, straightforward proposition. It is  called the SAVE America Act. The two most basic features of the SAVE  America Act should not be controversial. They are simple and  straightforward.

We have to verify you are an American citizen. It is already Federal  law--already right now--that you have to be an American citizen. We  just don't verify it. So this is the ``trust and verify'' portion of  the bill. We trust you that you are an American citizen. How about we  just check?

So you have to show that you are an American citizen to be able to  register to vote.

The second part of it is you have to have ID to be able to vote.  Again, we have done this in Oklahoma for years. This can be done and  should be done, and it just shouldn't be that controversial.

I have to share, though, just as who I am as a person. Mr. President,  as a personal note of privilege on this, I had to smile when I saw the  title of our bill, when it started working its way through the very  calm House of Representatives and was sent over to us: The SAVE America  Act.

There are a lot of things that can save America, and this bill is  incredibly important. It is vital that we get it done. But just as a  personal privilege, can I just say: I personally believe what saves  America is that more people had a personal relationship with Jesus  Christ. I think that would be the greatest thing ever to be able to  save the nature of our country.

Our country has become incredibly divided and angry. People are mad  and screaming at each other and don't even know why anymore.

Two thousand years ago, a young lawyer walked up to Jesus, and said:  Rabbi, of all the teachings, of all the commandments that are out  there, what is the heaviest? What is the greatest commandment?

And he said: The biggest one is to love God with all your heart,  soul, mind, and spirit.

And then he said: You didn't ask me for two, but let me give you the  second one. The second one is just like the first one--he said--to love  your neighbor as yourself.

If we are going to save America, protecting our voting integrity is  incredibly important, and let's get that done. But if we are really  going to save America--not just a bill--I think we need to get back to  the most basic truth, to restart again and ask ourselves, as  individuals that make up a nation, if we are going to love God with all  our heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love our neighbor as ourself.

And as the old joke says, when the person says, ``Who is my  neighbor?'' the response is, ``probably the person you wish I wouldn't  say.'' That is the person who is your neighbor.

Jesus was headed toward his execution. He knew it, but the people  around him didn't. And he was heading through Jericho, and as he  approached Jericho, there was a tax collector there. His name was  Zacchaeus. He was up in a tree because he was a little guy and because  he wanted to see Jesus come by.

Now, he was a wretched guy who had stolen from everybody in town, and  everybody knew it. When Jesus saw this wretched guy, he looked at him  and he said: Why don't you come down? I want to spend some more time  with you.

And the one person in town that everybody thought Jesus would ignore,  Jesus actually pointed him out and said: I want to spend more time with  you.

At the end of the conversation, everybody looked at him and said: Why  did you spend time with that broken, depraved person?

Jesus responded: Because I came to seek and to save what was lost.  That is why.

Just a personal privilege, if we are going to talk about saving  America, maybe we should start with our own souls.

But in the meantime, as we contemplate that as individuals, why don't  we just do the most basic thing? Why don't we verify that only American  citizens are voting--because we all know it is happening, and I just  told you stories from my own State.

Why don't we just verify, as we go through the polls, to increase the  trust of all Americans for our election process? I am looking forward  to the debate on the floor this week and for folks to have the  opportunity to be able to talk this through. This is something  important that we need to be able to finish, and it is something  strongly the American people are supportive of.