Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, this week, I filed a bill, as I do  multiple different weeks. I don't come every week  to be able to talk about the bills that I file, but I want to be able  to talk about this a little bit and some context that comes into it.

I also don't come to this floor very often and read an entire bill to  this body, but I want to do that today. It is not long. It is literally  just half a page. But it reaffirms something that I think should be  pretty simple for all of us but for some reason has become  controversial in the past few decades.

Here is the whole bill. It says:

None of the funds made available under this Act may be       provided to any public institution of higher education that       denies to a religious student organization any right,       benefit, or privilege that is otherwise afforded to other       student organizations at the institution (including full       access to the facilities of the institution and official       recognition of the organization by the institution) because       of the religious beliefs, practices, speech, leadership       standards, or standards of conduct of the religious student       organization.

Now, this should be pretty simple for us as Americans. We should  treat religious organizations on a college campus the same as every  other organization. The university shouldn't be able to reach into some  organizations and say ``Because you are religious, we need to tone you  down'' or ``Because you are religious, we need to pick your leadership  for you because we want to pick your leadership.''

I will tell you, most Americans would say ``No one does that  anyway''--except they did. Under the Biden administration, this became  an issue, where multiple different colleges and universities would  reach into different religious organizations on campus and would deny  them access to be able to be on campus and use campus facilities at all  or they would say: We don't like the way you pick your leadership. You  need to have a broader perspective of leadership from multiple  different perspectives of the campus. It can't just be your particular  faith in your religious organization.

It became the most bizarre set of ideas that came out of the  Department of Education to say a Jewish organization had to pick non- Jewish leaders to be the leadership of their organization or non- Christians had to also be selected as leaders of their Christian  organization on campus.

We are like, what in the world? What happened to the basic right of  association and affiliation that is a constitutionally protected right?

That never happened to nonreligious organizations; it seemed to only  happen to religious organizations.

So while we have common agreement on this as Americans and while that  rule is now not being applied under the Trump administration, I raise a  very simple bill to say: Why can't we, as all Americans, agree that  religious organizations on college campuses should be treated exactly  the same as every other organization on any college campus? That should  be basic.

So I bring a very simple bill to be able to resolve that one big  issue and to say let's make this once and for all just a policy that we  have as Americans.

Now, I bring this up because it needs to be addressed, but I also  bring this up because next week, there is a significant event that is  going to happen all around the country--quite frankly, all around the  world--that some people won't even notice but, quite frankly, is Earth- shattering.

Thirty-five years ago, a group of students gathered around a flagpole  early in the morning to be able to pray for their school. It was in  1990. It ended up being about 46,000 total students in 4 different  States, including my State of Oklahoma, that just kind of gathered. The  word kind of spread organically that one Wednesday morning in  September, students--high school and middle school students--would just  go and do one day publicly what they do privately other days; that is,  pray for their teachers, pray for their faculty at school, pray for  each other, pray for their parents, and pray for the Nation.

So in September of 1990, around 46,000--we don't know the exact  number--students in 4 different States just quietly gathered to pray.  Now, that may not seem like a big deal, but in 1990, there was a great  debate that was still spinning on this issue. In fact, that year, that  September day, at at least one of those gatherings, the sheriff's  department came out and arrested the students for praying--praying--on  their school campus before class started.

The result of that was that the next September, a million students  showed up to pray--a million, documented. From almost every State in  America, teenagers showed up at their high school or their middle  school campus just to be able to pray. They didn't have teachers with  them; they didn't have youth pastors with them--just students. They  gathered at their pole. It was a simple thing called See You at the  Pole--just that simple. They would encourage each other just to be able  to show up that one day in September to be able to pray publicly for  their parents, for their Nation, for their campus, and for what was  going on in their community.

It became the largest student prayer movement that we know of in the  history of the Nation. Year after year in September, one Wednesday,  students from around the Nation would gather. It was about 3 years  later that it started spreading globally, to where literally students  from around the world were just going to their flagpole, and they would  just gather to be able to pray.

Now, people have said over the years: Why a flagpole? Well, it is  because every school has a flagpole, and so it became just a common  cry. It kind of seems like ``See you at the principal's office''  doesn't ring as true. But it was just like, what does every single  campus have? Every single campus has a flagpole. So that simple  statement, ``See you at the pole,'' became really a challenge to say  ``See you at a spot where we can pray.''

There is a lot going on in the country right now--a lot. There is a  lot of anger, there is a lot of frustration, and there are a lot of  questions about what happens next.

For 35 years, students have gone to their flagpole and have prayed  for the Nation. My simple request of them again this year is to do it  again. This Nation could use some prayer. This Nation could use a  generation rising up to be able to say: No one is going to stop us from  praying.

It is the most simple request that we have--to not go to government  but to go to God and say: We need your help. We need your intervention.

I am always proud of a group of students at a high school football  game that finish the game or that start the game just taking a knee to  be able to pray for each other, pray for safety, and then go out and  hit each other as hard as they possibly can on the football field. But  it is always fun for me to be able to watch the sportsmanship that  begins with two teams that gather together to pray, and it is almost  always just one player on each of the teams that drops that idea and  says: We should do this. Our team should do this.

It is not led by the coaches. It is not led by the teachers. It is  led by students that just say: Let's ask God to help us in this.

I am always impressed when I am on high school and junior high  campuses as I walk around the campus during lunch, and I see everyone  kind of gathering for lunch and all the conversation happening, and I  will see a couple students over in the corner, as they sit down at  their lunch, to be able to just bow their heads for just a simple  moment to be able to thank God for their food.

I am always impressed when I hear about groups of students that get  together on a regular basis just to be able to have Bible study  together, just to be able to pray for each other. They face a lot of  pressure. They face a lot of challenges in this day and age. It is  resetting and centering when they actually stop to say: Let's pray  about that.

I am tremendously impressed that for 35 years--now a second  generation of students are gathering at their flagpoles the fourth  Wednesday of September to be able to just pray for each other, pray for  their teachers, pray for their school, and this time, an earnest plea  to God to help our Nation.

I am proud of students of faith and how they gather to be able to  say: These days are dark, but we believe in a God who gives light, and  we will choose to be a light on our own campus and do what we can to be  able to serve each other and to be able to serve our schools.

Those are the role models that we need in a new generation. Those are  the folks that we look forward to seeing what they do in the days  ahead.

As fun as it is to me, students that are gathering this year are the  children of the first generation that gathered 35 years ago to start a  movement to be able to pray. Thirty-five years ago, I was a youth  minister. I was a part of that first See You at the Pole in 1990. I was  in leadership, helping organize students in getting the word out, to be  able to say ``What can we do''--what can we do--``to serve each other  and the Nation?'' The obvious answer began with ``Let's pray.''

See You at the Pole was born. It wasn't my idea. It was a group of  students' idea. I just got to help fan the flame.

Students of this Nation need the encouragement of this body to be  able to say ``well done'' and set a fresh new example; be the next  generation of leaders; be the people who will rise up and do what is  right; be the role models that are desperately needed; be individuals  who will actually not only have a faith but live your faith--all the  principles of the faith.

We can certainly use individuals in our Nation right now who are  living the most basic principles of loving God with all your heart,  soul, mind, and strength and loving your neighbor as yourself.

To the students of this Nation, I would encourage them to ``see you  at the pole'' next Wednesday morning.

This coming Wednesday morning, September 24, you can be assured I am  going to be parked across the street from a campus watching a group of  students pray for a Nation that needs help. I will join them and say,  ``God help us. We need your help.'' I will see you at the pole.                                  ______

By Mr. PADILLA (for himself and Mr. Schiff):

S. 2871. A bill to take certain Federal land in the State of  California into trust for the benefit of the Pit River Tribe, and for  other purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.