TAXPAYER FIRST ACT OF 2019--Continued


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, the Federal Government currently owns  about 640 million acres of land in the United States, which means 640  million acres is owned by the American people, and that is about 28  percent of all the land mass of the United States. If you round the  number up, let's say, a quarter of all the property in the United  States is owned by the Federal taxpayers. When you can break that down,  people immediately think it is all the National Park Service. Actually,  the National Park Service is a small amount of that. 

  The Bureau of Land Management holds about 244 million acres, followed  by the U.S. Forest Service with 192 million acres, Fish and Wildlife  Service with 89 million acres, and then the National Park Service right  at 80 million acres. The Department of Defense and some other agencies  hold another 34 million acres. All together, there are 640 million  acres and growing. 

  This doesn't even account for all of the land that is controlled by  the Federal Government. That is the amount just owned by the Federal  Government. That 28 percent of all the property in the United States  that is owned by the Federal Government doesn't take into account the  27 million-plus acres that are also controlled by the Federal  Government. Those are areas where they do conservation mitigation.  Those are areas where they have land in trust for other aspects. 

  All told, around 30 percent of the United States is owned or  controlled by the Federal taxpayer, by the Federal Government. That  would all be fine and good if we were managing it well, but we are not.  On those properties right now, we have almost $20 billion in deferred  maintenance backlog. That is almost $20 billion just in things that  haven't been done and where the Federal Government has proved to be a  bad land manager. 

  There is a bill that is coming this week. It is on the floor now  being debated. The conversation is about this: How do we get better at  maintaining the land that we have and how can we actually purchase  additional property? 

  There is something that has been around a long time called the Land  and Water Conservation Fund. The Land and Water Conservation Fund has  dollars set aside from offshore oil revenue to be able to purchase  areas of property. That has happened for decades now. The problem is we  haven't maintained that. Even with the property that we buy that has  maintenance issues, we don't fix the maintenance issues when we  purchase the property. 

  The proposal on the table this week is to double the amount of land  acquisitions that we have and to be able to solve the maintenance issue  that we have had for a long time. This conversation about the backlog  and maintenance has been an ongoing issue. There is finally a  resolution to it. 

  Here is the resolution. After years and years of debating a  resolution about how to reduce spending in one area so we can make sure  we can do the maintenance we need to do, the final decision was made to  be able to put a bill together that just says: Forget it; let's just  all add it to debt. Let's just completely do debt purchasing of all of  our maintenance stuff. We will figure out some decades in the future  how to be able to pay for that, rather than discerning how to pay for  it now because there is not an offset on how to be able to pay for the  maintenance. 

  The maintenance needs to be done. It is not a shock to anyone. I  brought proposals to this years ago, saying: Why don't we split the  dollars we have in the land and Water Conservation Fund, use half of  those dollars to purchase new properties and half of it just to be able  to work on maintenance? 

  That was denied. They said: No, that is an irrational approach. We  want to buy more land and figure out later how to maintain it. 

  We are at that point where we have to figure out how to maintain it  because an almost $20 billion backlog in  maintenance is rising up and screaming at us all over the country.  Instead of actually deciding how we are going to do it, this is a punt  saying we will figure it out later. 

  Here is the fiscally responsible portion of it. We are not going to  do this forever just to work on maintenance backlog. This is just for  the next 5 years that we will have additional debt. Every single year  we will spend about $2 billion, all in debt money, to be able to do  this, and then we will figure out in the sixth year how to be able to  take care of the rest. The fiscally responsible portion of this is to  say we are not doing infinite amounts of debt. It will just be the next  5 years. 

  The problem is that in the sixth year we will still have a  maintenance backlog. We will still have issues, and there is still not  a plan to pay for the first $20 billion for what is still coming. 

  My challenge is figuring out what we can do with a bill that we need  to fix. We need to be better managers of our land, but we are managing  our land by not managing our debt and not making the hard decisions  that people have to make. At your home, you can't just say: Everything  needs to be fixed, but I can't afford it; so I will take out more debt,  and I will fix everything.  

  We have to make decisions on what is going to have to wait so we can  do this because it is more important. That is the kind of thing I would  like to be able to see with this. 

  Let me run through basic ideas. They are all amendments that were  already brought up that say: Here are logical ways to be able to fix  this, beginning with the most basic of them. Take part of the money  that already exists for the Land and Water Conservation Fund to  purchase new land, and then split it, saying we are going to dedicate  dollars to maintenance and also have dollars to buy new properties. We  will not be able to buy as many as fast as we want. We will not be able  to fix as many things as we want, but we are not adding additional debt  spending to do it. These are the same decisions that families make all  the time. I would love to have the nicer car. I can have the nicer car  if I just save up for several years to get it. 

  That is one recommendation. 

  There is a second recommendation to this. There is a portion of this  that gets into the budget scheming of everything that goes on. Part of  what is happening to the Land and Water Conservation Fund is moving  it--brace yourself from budget gimmicks here--to what is called  appropriated dollars that we vote on every year to mandatory dollars  you only vote on once and every year it keeps going. Think of it like  Social Security. Social Security was voted on a long time ago and keeps  going year after year. We don't vote on it each year. It happens  because it is mandatory. 

  The idea in this bill was to move the spending from being  appropriated each year like we do with the Department of Defense or  Department of Education or Health and Human Services, to take it out of  that area and move it toward mandatory. Then they still left the funds  over in the appropriated side and said: We are also going to spend  those dollars as well. 

  The gimmick that this sets up is it allows those funds that were  spent last year to be spent on the mandatory side this year and leaves  a big hole on the normal side that will just plus-up to spend for other  things. 

  My second idea is this: If we will not split the dollars we normally  use for half of the purchase and half to maintain, at least dedicate  the dollars that were left and aren't spent on something else and spend  those on maintenance, because then we will only have half a billion  dollars of new deficit rather than what this does at $2.5 billion of  new deficit spending. 

  The first challenge is to split it. 

  The second challenge is take the dollars that were ``left over'' in  appropriated dollars and just dedicate that to only doing the  maintenance funds that need to be done. 

  The third idea is pretty simple, as well. This has a 5-year tail on  it on the maintenance, at about $2 billion a year of additional debt  spending. I would just say that if we are only going to do maintenance  for 5 years, we should only do the purchasing, which is the big chunk  of this, for 5 years, as well, so that we sunset both of them. We are  not going to have this big plus-up and more and more purchasing at the  same time we have no plan to maintain it long term. As long as we are  going to maintain it, we will also do purchasing. Just sunset it. That  seems common sense as well. 

  Here is a fourth idea. When you purchase new properties, make sure  that with the dollars that are used to purchase it, there are also  dollars set aside to fix what is broken on it. 

  We often find that when people want to sell property to the Federal  Government, it is because there are major problems on the land already,  and they can't get another private seller. So they want to sell it to  the Federal taxpayer, knowing there are problems in infrastructure on  that property. 

  We buy property with major maintenance needs already on it, and it  just backs up our backlog of maintenance even more. Put a requirement  in that says when we buy property, part of the purchase of it is also  setting aside dollars for maintenance, so we have to fix it right then,  rather than add it to the backlog of maintenance issues. That makes  common sense. 

  That also is not getting a hearing right now. I think that is a  problem. There are commonsense things that don't drive us further into  debt, that aren't going to cause years and years of problems in our  budget, that maintain the properties that we have--maybe not as fast as  we want to, but its starts getting after our backlog of maintenance-- that continue to allow us to purchase new properties, but to make sure  that we are actually managing the properties that we purchase. 

  It is a frustration for me that we are not having amendments in this  process, that we are not having the opportunity to be able to fix some  of the things that are wrong with this bill--because we do need to have  Federal lands, we do need to maintain the lands that we have, but we do  need to honor our budgets for the future, as well. 

  Why would we say we really need to maintain all of this and purchase  this, but we don't have a plan for how to do it now and so we will just  wait 6 years? We will have 5 years of debt spending, and then we will  somehow figure it out 6 years from now. 

  Five years ago we were talking about this very same issue. We haven't  come up with an answer in the past 5 years because no one has been  willing to say we have to do less so we can take responsibility for  what we have. We just want to do more and not have the accountability.  So from 5 years ago to 5 years later now, to 5 years from now, when  this bill ``expires,'' we will still have maintenance issues. 

  We need to start making hard decisions. Some of those hard decisions  deal with the budget and making choices and saying that there aren't  any options to instead saying: There are options that I may not like as  well as the ``just do everything all at once'' option. 

  But there are options on how to do this, and we should have this  debate to be able to figure out how to manage these dollars better.  Maybe we will 5 years from now. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT