-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698716/9999


Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me time to  do what is fitting and appropriate, and that is, honor the life of our  colleague, a life well lived, a Member of the House of Representatives  who did such a good job on behalf of his constituents who he  represented faithfully since coming to Congress in 2013.

Doug and I knew each other before then. We had interactions on a  number of issues that we were mutually passionate about beginning with  rural California and people who live in rural areas, which both  reflected his and my background.

He, perhaps, represented if not the, one of the largest congressional  districts by geography in California, a lot of northern and eastern  California. A lot of my colleagues when they think about California  they think of Los Angeles or the Bay Area, but we have parts of  California where the communities are a white spot in the middle of a  major highway or, you know, are 400, 600 people.

Doug was a Member's Member and a Representative who believed that his  entire constituency was his passion. He would go to some of those  remote areas to indicate and to listen on how he could be a better  Representative and make their views known here in our Nation's Capital.

I served with him the entire time that I have been on the House  Agriculture Committee, three different farm bill reauthorizations, and  he was always willing to meet halfway. Of course, we understood the ag  issues affecting California, and he was very proud, very proud to  represent the upper Sacramento River Valley and all the wonderful  people there.

When disaster struck his district with the wildfires, he was among  the first to be there with the challenges of some of the floods in Lake  Oroville and Yuba areas. He was there. He reminds us why we serve: not  only the passion, but the desire always to put our constituents first  and to help people. Let that be a role model for all of us.

Doug, we miss you. Doug had a life well lived. He was a person who  cared passionately about our country and about the people's House. May  you rest in peace. I give my condolences to your wife and your family.  I thank all of you for giving us an opportunity to serve with our  friend, Doug LaMalfa.