Food is National Security


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700544/food-is-national-security


Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, before I make my comments on a very important  issue facing our country, let us all pause for a moment to recognize  those six Americans who have lost their lives this week and their  families, realizing that they have given their all. God bless them, and  our thoughts and prayers are with their loved ones.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about something that touches every  family, as well, and every community, and that is hunger. Food, as I  always say in the House Agriculture Committee, of which I am a member,  is a national security issue. Food is a national security issue. Yet,  we too often fail to treat it that way.

When families cannot access healthy, affordable food, our communities  are weaker, our economy is weaker, and our Nation is weaker.

If we are a forced to import essential foods rather than grow them  here in America, that leaves our Nation more vulnerable in an  increasingly unstable world that we live in today.

In our San Joaquin Valley, which I represent, one of the most  productive agricultural regions in the country, farmers rise early in  the morning to put food on America's dinner table. I know. I am a  third-generation farmer and proud of it.

California produces over 400 commodities, including more than 60  percent of the Nation's fruits and vegetables. Over 80 percent of the  citrus in the Nation is produced in California, along with 75 percent  of the world's almonds and pistachios. Think about that: 75 percent in  California.

Yet, even communities that grow so much of our food, like in my  district, nearly 30 percent of the households rely on food assistance.  It is an interesting dichotomy. We have incredible food production that  puts food on every American's dinner table every night with the help of  farmworkers, yet a majority of those households, 30 percent of them in  my district, require food assistance. It is sad. They depend upon food  support for their food.

Nationwide, 48 million people face food insecurity in our country,  including 14 million children--14 million children--in the richest  Nation in the world. This is unacceptable. At the same time, we know  that grocery costs are up by as much as $400 a month for so many of our  families throughout the country.

Egg prices rose 53 percent over the year from January 2024 to January  2025.

In 2025, a gallon of whole milk averaged $4.

Ground beef prices have risen 15 percent recently and are up 63  percent since 2020.

Americans who purchase their groceries every week know that the  affordability of their food continues to become more challenging and  more difficult.

Last year, the United States Department of Agriculture canceled-- canceled--$1 billion in funding that schools and local food banks use  to purchase food directly from local farmers. It was a great program  and had a lot of merit. Why they canceled it, I do not know.

Congress also enacted cuts totaling $186 billion in food assistance  that resulted in more than 3 million people losing their food support  entirely. That is disgraceful.

Soon after, the United States Department of Agriculture terminated  the annual Household Food Security report, the very report that told us  that nearly 48 million Americans face food insecurity. What is that  about? Without reliable data, we are left without a clear picture on  who is struggling the most in our communities throughout our country.

This week, the House marked up the farm bill, an important effort  that we are supposed to do every 4 years. We are now into 5.5 years. We  tried to strengthen the nutrition programs through amendments and  legislation, but the Republicans defeated our efforts, sadly.

We must stabilize farm income, or we will allow our producers to fall  behind. Whether we invest in local food systems or just let them  disappear, food is a national security issue. The farm bill affects  grocery prices, crop insurance, school lunches, and rural economies.

Mr. Speaker, we must pass a bipartisan farm bill this year, and I am  doing everything I can by working with my colleagues across the aisle  and the Senate because food is a national security issue. That is the  bottom line.

In the Central Valley that I represent, the San Joaquin Valley,  families are spending over $1,000 a month on groceries. The  affordability question is real.

Farmers are navigating misguided tariffs policy, volatile markets,  and disease outbreaks. In the richest country in the world, we should  not accept a system where the hardest-working farmers see shrinking  margins while families struggle to afford their groceries.

Let's support our farmers. Let's feed our families. Let's feed our  children.