Renaming the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690812/renaming-the-gulf-of-mexico-to-the-gulf-of-america


Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, at a time when Americans are struggling to  afford groceries, housing, and gas, Congress should be focused on  lowering the cost of living that Americans care most about and not  renaming bodies of water.

As Sergeant Friday used to say on the show ``Dragnet": Just the  facts, ma'am.

The facts during the first 100 days of Mr. Trump's administration are  the following: The economy has shrunk; The stock market has taken a  hit; 401(k)'s that are critical for a majority of Americans' retirement  have declined; there has been a launch of a trade war that could cost  the average family in America over $4,900 a year this year alone with  no trade agreements in sight, threatening a recession.

Rather than offering solutions, my Republican friends are at this  time wasting this valuable effort on the floor by renaming the Gulf of  Mexico. I think the Gulf of America Act is an absurd bill. It is  political theater. The Gulf of Mexico has held that name for over 500  years. Spanish explorers from Spain chartered these waters hundreds of  years before the United States ever existed. Let's call this bill for  what it is. It is a vanity project.

My constituents in California's San Joaquin Valley aren't asking me  about the Gulf of Mexico. They are asking me about their healthcare,  reducing inflation, and investing in our communities. That is what they  care most about.

Congress must focus on what really matters: passing a budget, getting  a farm bill done, and delivering on the priorities the American people  sent us here to do.

If this is the best my Republican friends and the majority can do, it  is no wonder that the American people are fed up with Congress and our  numbers are so low.

Mr. Speaker, enough with political stunts. The American people  deserve better. We must work together in a bipartisan effort.                   Celebrating All Mothers on Mother's Day

Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, on Sunday, we will celebrate Mother's Day.  Throughout our country, families and friends will gather together to  recognize and pay tribute to this important day. I think for all of us  the reality is every day should be Mother's Day.

On Sunday, let us say thank you in the most meaningful way we know  how, and that is with love and affection. We should do what is  appropriate, and that is to thank those moms who throughout our lives  have made a difference.

Mr. Speaker, every day, therefore, should be Mother's Day. Let us  celebrate this day on Sunday and never forget those who brought us here  today.