Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, we live in a dangerous time. There are a  number of flash points all around the globe--in this hemisphere, in  Europe, in the Indo-Pacific--but I want to remind my colleagues today  that, still, the most dangerous thing going on around the world today  is Vladimir Putin's war against freedom and the West in Ukraine.

I would point out that for the past year, Vladimir Putin has mocked  the Ukraine peace process by steadily escalating his attacks on his  neighboring country. He has recently launched the  biggest air attack the conflict has ever seen and shown repeatedly that  he is not interested in peace talks. He gives lipservice to peace  talks, but his acts show that he is not interested.

Now, by contrast, in the last few weeks, the United States, Ukraine,  and our European friends have come together on a common negotiating  position centered on several key principles. Here are the key points:  Ukraine should not be forced to give up the sovereign territory it  deserves and it currently controls. Also, Putin should not achieve  through negotiation what he has not managed to achieve on the  battlefield, and there have been great disappointments to Putin on the  battlefield. In addition, the United States should play a role in  Ukraine's security guarantees on a permanent basis. The Senate should  ratify these guarantees if they are ever agreed to.

In the meantime, the Ukrainian people should be assisted in  continuing to fight for their freedom.

I commend President Trump, President Zelenskyy, and European leaders  for continuing to come together to reach a consensus. As we seek a just  end to this brutal, unprovoked war, I urge everyone in Washington, in  Kyiv, and in the great capitals of Europe to remain united and to  remember who we are dealing with in the form and person of Vladimir  Putin.

Vladimir Putin is unrepentant. He is ever and will always be the KGB  agent. He is a dictator with decades of bloodshed on his hands. He is  the biggest thief in the history of the world, a war criminal who  should be behind bars at this moment. And, of course, Putin is a liar.

When Vladimir Putin smiles to American negotiators, he acts as our  friend and he acts as if we believe he is our friend. We have no reason  to smile back at Vladimir Putin or trust him with anything but caution  and contempt.

After 4 years, Putin knows a Russian victory is not inevitable. More  and more, the American people see and know this. A November poll found  that 70 percent of Americans do not trust Putin to honor any peace  agreement with Ukraine.

He is cut from the same cloth as terrorists all over the world and  terrorists down through history. In Putin's attack on civilians, for  example, we see parallels with the Hamas terrorists who rampaged  through Israeli neighborhoods on October 7. The terrorists are Putin's  friends. And don't forget this, and sometimes it is not publicized as  it ought to be: Putin has abducted 20,000 Ukrainian children and  subjected many to brainwashing schemes. In these horrors, we see the  likes of Xi Jinping and his Uighur reeducation camps. Putin routinely  locks dissidents in jail, just like his kindred spirits in other  censorship regimes.

This tyrant who wants to be treated as a peer in the world's great  halls of democracy should be known by the company he keeps.

When the brutal Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad was toppled,  thankfully, where did Bashar al-Assad run? He ran for safe haven to  Moscow--that is where he went--to be under the protection of Vladimir  Putin, who seeks to make us believe that he is an honest negotiator.  Nicolas Maduro was wisely counseled to flee Venezuela. If he had run,  where would he have run? He would have run straight to Moscow. For  decades, Russia has been a friend to the murderous Cuban regime. And  now, as the Supreme Leader in Iran considers his options, where might  he go for refuge? The only place he could go is Moscow. So that is the  company Vladimir Putin keeps in current day.

But Putin even echoes the likes of Adolf Hitler. Putin routinely  talks about ``liberating'' the Russian-speaking Ukrainians living in  the Donbas and other areas of Ukraine. This is the same vile, absurd  pretext that Adolf Hitler used when he invaded the German-speaking  regions of neighboring countries in Europe, including Poland. That is  who Vladimir Putin is.

Regrettably, the people of Russia are led brutally by Putin, this  world-historical villain.

Ukrainians will continue fighting against his unprovoked attacks but  not because they hate peace. The Ukrainians will continue to fight  because their alternative is the extinction of their country.

The West needs to stand with them. We need to stand with Ukraine, and  we must keep assisting our friends. We need to send a clear message  that Putin cannot wait us out.

In December, I am grateful to say to my colleagues that Congress  overwhelmingly passed and President Donald Trump enthusiastically  signed the National Defense Authorization Act. That law extends  Ukraine's Security Assistance Initiative and our commitment to sharing  intelligence with Ukraine. Good for the President, and good for our  friends in the House and Senate.

Our allies across the Atlantic are taking the lead now, as my  colleague from Kentucky just pointed out, in financing security  assistance for Ukraine. NATO allies are buying equipment from us in the  United States and giving it to Ukraine. I certainly applaud that, as  all Americans should.

The United States should increase the air defenses and long-range  strike capabilities that we are sending to Kyiv. More than any other  capabilities, these will help show Putin his military aims are not  achievable.

For nearly 4 years, Ukrainians have demonstrated their resolve, as  they will continue to do. The West must continue to stand resolved with  them.