Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700467/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, this weekend, our Commander in Chief made  the most difficult decision a President can make. He ordered young  American servicemembers into action. My friends on the other side of  the aisle are challenging the President's choice, and they are entitled  to do so.

I do find myself amazed, from time to time, with their rhetoric on  the floor this morning and this afternoon. To hear them, apparently,  President Trump should have announced to the world that he was going to  bomb the headquarters of the Ayatollah and destroy the leadership of  Iran who has attacked the United States and killed Americans for over  four decades.

Apparently, if this war lasts as long as 5 weeks, we should agree  that we are going to fold our tents and come home and leave the job  undone. Apparently, the fact that the ruthless drug lord dictator of  Venezuela, President Maduro, is out of office is a bad thing. I  disagree with that, and I wonder how that rhetoric is going to last  through the decades. We will see.

I will vote no on the pending resolution. President Trump decided to  attack Iran. That decision was profound, deliberate, and correct. The  President understands the weight of war. He was clear-eyed about the  risks, and he was honest with the American people. From very early on  Saturday morning he said, ``We pray for every servicemember as they  selflessly risk their lives to ensure that Americans and our children  will never be threatened by a nuclear-armed Iran.''

Indeed, we must be mindful of the brave men and women deployed in  this operation. And certainly, we grieve for the six American service  men and women who died in the fighting. I also grieve for the thousands  of Americans that have died over the last 47 years at the hands of the  brutal Islamist ninth century regime in Iran. I grieve for those. We  care for the civilians caught in harm's way. And yes, we are doing our  best to get them out. War is hell, which is why we prioritize  deterrence and engage only when absolutely necessary. But when we enter  into combat, we must do so deliberately as this administration has  done.

My colleagues ask why are we doing this? The President has given at  least four goals explicitly. We are doing this to destroy Iran's  missile capabilities and their ability to produce missiles. That is a  good thing. We are doing this to annihilate the Iranian Navy; to ensure  the regime can no longer arm, direct, and fund the terrorist activities  that have gone on for over four decades; and to prevent Iran from  getting a nuclear weapon. That is why we are doing it. And that is why  I will vote against this resolution.

The facts on the ground reflect a limited set of goals. We have taken  out their air defenses and missiles systems ahead of schedule. That is  a good thing.

Last week, Iran had 11 ships in the Gulf of Oman. Today, they have  none. That is a good thing. We can expect to see airstrikes continue  until our military objectives are achieved, a task that will take  weeks, not days. But we ought to stay there long enough to get it done.

I think the President's decision was correct. For decades, the  Iranian regime has killed thousands of Americans and thousands of  citizens of our friends and allies and supported those who do. Too many  American servicemembers have lost brothers in arms to Iranian violence.  Too many parents have lost sons and daughters to Iranian aggression.

For decades, Iran has been the world's leading sponsor of terrorism-- the Houthis, Hamas, other armed groups. The regime armed, funded, and  trained terrorist groups across the region. These proxies have attacked  and killed thousands of our people--thousands of our friends.

Iran is a murderous partner of the overall ``axis of aggressors,''  which include China, Russia, and North Korea. They are all pals. They  are all allies.

The Ayatollah was a friend of the tyrants who lead those nations. He  stood with Xi Jinping. He stood with the war criminal Vladimir Putin  and Kim Jong Un. Like them, the Supreme Leader violently suppressed his  people.

The regime was hell-bent on acquiring the world's worst weapons. If  successful, they could have struck our friends, our bases, and, in  time, our homeland, Washington, DC, America.

President Trump, on the other hand, said from day one that he would  keep Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, and that is a major part of  what this is about. He knew the Ayatollah had to be stopped, and he  came to the correct conclusion that now was the time to do it. Already,  Israel had devastated Iran's proxies. Last summer, President Trump  rained down fire on Iran's nuclear facilities, and, in the past few  months, untold numbers of Iranians have stood up to the regime. The  citizens of Iran have stood up to this murderous regime in a massive  show of opposition to the Ayatollah.

Last Saturday morning, Iran had never been weaker. The time had come  for the United States and for our ally Israel to strike. President  Trump, the Commander in Chief, made that most difficult of decisions,  and I think it will stand the test of time.

This does not have to be a forever war. It is not an aimless exercise  in the Middle East. This is a measured campaign to eliminate the  Ayatollah's threat. It might take time to finish, and we are certainly  not going to put a time limit on it. But that does not make it endless.  It is, instead, a weighty, deliberate, and correct decision made to  protect the United States of America, and I shall vote no on the  resolution.