Ukraine


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690223/ukraine


Mr. WICKER. Madam President, I come to the floor today to add my  voice to the many who are commending President Trump as he works toward  peace in Ukraine.

The President recently gave the aggressor, Russian dictator Vladimir  Putin, every chance to put down his guns and end the killing. He has  done that over and over, but our President is now showing that he will  not wait on Mr. Putin forever. Every time Ukraine and the United States  have extended the hand of peace, President Putin has responded with  aggression. With one hand, Vladimir Putin always makes a show of  participating in peace talks. With the other, he has repeatedly bombed  civilians--a clear war crime, a war crime--including just on Sunday of  last week, Palm Sunday, when he bombed worshipers and children who were  playing on a public playground.

On Saturday, the day before yesterday, the President took Mr. Putin  to task for this brutality, and I commend the President for doing that.

The President said:

There was no reason for Putin to be shooting missiles into       civilian areas, cities and towns, over the last few days. It       makes me think that maybe he doesn't want to stop the war--      he's just tapping me along--and has to be dealt with       differently.

Thank you, Mr. President, for saying that.

One of the President's staunchest supporters in this body echoed that  statement just yesterday.

Senator Kennedy of Louisiana said:

[P]utin thinks that America has taken the bullet train to       chump town.

Chump town.

The President is right, and Senator Kennedy of Louisiana is right.  There is one man to blame for this war. If Vladimir Putin puts down his  guns, there will be no more war. If Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Ukraine put  down their guns, there will be no more Ukraine. That is the simple  truth, and I appreciate the President expressing that forcefully.

Then, today, GEN Jack Keane, a very respected observer and officer  and official in the Institute for the Study of War, expressed  essentially the same sentiments as Donald Trump expressed the day  before yesterday and as Senator Kennedy expressed yesterday. On FOX  News this morning, General Keane gave the President due credit for  pursuing peace in Ukraine. The general noted that President Trump,  understandably, seems to be running out of patience with Putin's  intransigence.

I know that many Members of this Chamber are running out of patience  too.

General Keane then asked a simple question: Which side has shown that  it wants a peace deal? Both sides claim they want peace, but what is  the evidence?

And here is the truth: The truth is that Ukrainian President  Volodymyr Zelenskyy has shown that he is interested in peace. He has  negotiated at length with the administration. Ukraine and its President  agreed to a 30-day cease-fire. Vladimir Putin rejected the idea.  Instead, Putin initiated an agreement to halt attacks on energy  infrastructure, and then he immediately violated that agreement. Mr.  Putin did.

Worst of all, throughout these so-called peace talks, Vladimir Putin  has repeatedly taken the lives of noncombatant civilians and pummeled  residential neighborhoods with bombs. Every statement Mr. Putin makes  should be viewed through that lens.

President Trump is right. Too many people are dying, and that  includes the Russian people who are also suffering.

The Russian people do not deserve to live under a vicious, larcenous,  trillionaire president-for-life like Vladimir Putin. So far, only one  side has worked to end violence.

This weekend, the Trump administration set a timeline for Vladimir  Putin to choose peace, and I commend them for it. I commend Secretary  of State Marco Rubio who said the President will decide soon whether  Putin is interested in actually working toward a just end to the war.

All signs indicate the answer will be no. The real answer from  Vladimir Putin will be no. Just this morning, the Russian Foreign  Ministry published words straight from the mouth of Russian Foreign  Minister Sergey Lavrov. In no uncertain terms, this high-ranking  Russian official rejected President Trump's peace deal.

So this is a pivotal week. I look forward to the President's  decision. I would remind him and my fellow colleagues: Putin cannot be  allowed to drag the United States along.

The U.S. Senate is ready to back President Trump as he stands up to  Putin, on a bipartisan basis; 50 Senators--25 Republicans and 25  Democrats--recently introduced a bill called the Sanctioning Russia Act  of 2025. Who says there is not bipartisanship in the Senate? Recently,  25 Republicans and 25 Democrats have introduced legislation that would  introduce primary and secondary sanctions against Russia and against  actors supporting Russia's aggression in Ukraine, imposing real  consequences on Putin if he continues refusing to engage in good-faith  talks with Ukraine and the United States. And he has never engaged in  any talks that were in good faith.

Putin repeatedly bombs civilians. He has forged a trail of broken  promises. He, and only he, chose--unprovoked--to start the largest land  war in Europe since World War II. Putin, and only Putin, did that.  Where in any of this has there been a showing of good faith?

On Saturday, the President suggested that Putin ``has to be dealt  with differently.'' I applaud this. My Senate colleagues applaud this.  Experienced military professionals like General Keane applaud this. The  President has been exceedingly patient, but he is correctly stating  that there should be an end.

It is time to treat Putin like the deceptive, cunning war criminal  that he is.