Housing for the 21st Century Act


Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mrs. Beatty for yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6644, also known as the  Housing for the 21st Century Act. This legislation, introduced by  Chairman Hill, Ranking Member Waters, Chairman Flood, and me, advanced  out of the Financial Services Committee by an impressive 50-1 vote.

This legislation reflects input from Democrats, Republicans, and  hundreds of organizations nationwide. If enacted, the Housing for the  21st Century Act would streamline regulations, expand affordable  housing financing, and modernize Federal housing programs to  significantly expand the Nation's housing supply. Passage of this bill  would be historic not because it is extraordinary but because it is  overdue.

For decades, chronic underbuilding in the United States has driven up  housing costs, priced millions out of homeownership, strained household  budgets, and constrained employers' abilities to attract workers.

Americans want their Representatives to act on the rising cost of  living. For most American families, the monthly housing payment is  their single largest expense. Representing about one-third of the  Consumer Price Index, housing is also the single largest component of  overall inflation.

I commend Chairman Hill, Ranking Member Waters, Chairman Flood, and  others for prioritizing good policy over bad politics on this important  matter. I am especially proud that the Housing for the 21st Century Act  includes the HOME Reform Act, which represents the most significant  update to the HOME Investment Partnerships Program since its creation.

This bill may not increase spending, but it ensures that every dollar  we do spend goes further. Although this legislation is significant, we  must view this legislation as the beginning of a new era of  accommodating the American movement of housing for all.

In the Senate, the introduction of the ROAD to Housing Act highlights  growing bipartisan cooperation on housing. I look forward to  negotiations with the Senate on a bicameral product that can make it to  the President's desk for signature and, above all, a product that would  deliver tangible results for the American people.