Recognizing the Life and Memory of Alice Kitchen


Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with immense sorrow along with  Missouri's 5th Congressional District, to commemorate the life and  legacy of a great Kansas Citian, Ms. Alice Kitchen. The fruits of  Alice's advocacy for women, children, and marginalized communities will  live on for generations to come. Alice was a force to be reckoned with,  stopping at nothing to ensure that others could live free of abuse,  injustice, and discrimination. Her undeniable impact will continue to  grace Kansas City with inspiration.

Alice's long history of advocacy began when as a high school student,  she became involved with Guadalupe Center as a volunteer in the 1950s.  As she saw the many families in predominately Hispanic neighborhoods in  Kansas City who lacked access to food, running water, and electricity  disturbed her, she questioned the morality behind sitting by when  others lived that way. After graduating from her Catholic high school,  she moved to Encino, California, where she joined the Sisters of Social  Service convent where she ministered to domestic workers in Beverly  Hills, most of whom were Mexican immigrants. These individuals, she  described, were lonely, poorly paid, and isolated. She took those  experiences and paved a life of activism. After graduating with her  master's degree in social work at the University of California--Los  Angeles (UCLA), Alice returned to Kansas City to work in a legal aid  office where she helped young, first-time offenders avoid longer  criminal records. With a love for social services, she continued her  career at Children Mercy's where she served as the director of social  services for two decades. Under her leadership, she sought funding for  specialized treatments needed by children with medical issues and  initiated programs to assist young mothers fight their battles with  addiction.

Alice was devoted to bringing light to issues she believed in, and a  full-time job was not going to hold her back. During Alice's voluntary  night shifts, she established Amethyst Place, a supportive housing  program that served mothers and children recovering from abuse,  organized neighborhood cleanups as a board member of the Kansas City  Housing Authority and assisted young mothers in obtaining health  insurance. As a volunteer co-chair of the Affordable Care Public  Education Committee in the Kansas City Metropolitan area, she advocated  for the expansion of Medicaid and accessible healthcare. In March of  2012, her efforts were recognized, and Alice received the Champion of  Change award from President Barack Obama at the White House. Gender  equity and advocating for policies that support women was another  mission that peaked Alice's interest. During her time with the League  of Women Voters and Women's Equality, she was able to educate women  voters and bring light to the disparities women were facing within  workplaces. Her fearlessness led Jane McQueeney, a friend of Kitchen,  to give testimony to the City Council in Kansas City when McQueeney was  receiving less pay when working for the federal government. Kitchen  worked with Kansas City to adopt an ordinance to prohibit  discrimination against women and to stop employers from penalizing  women with less experience.

When it was time for retirement, Alice saw it as an opportunity to do  her evening tasks full-time. At age 69, she traveled to the Mosquito  Coast of Honduras on a human rights observation mission. She took her  mission on headfirst and investigated bullet holes in boats, houses  that had burned down, and wounded villagers with her international  activist group, the Cross Border Network. Alice never stopped looking  for a way to improve the lives of others or to push anyone to their  fullest potential. She lived her life to her fullest potential, and she  continues to inspire others to do the same. In fact, she had a knack  for finding strengths in people before they did themselves and pushed  them to foster their strengths. As a woman who was one in a million,  she continued to prove to the people who surrounded her, that they were  also just as special.

Mr. Speaker, please join me in honoring the life of Alice Kitchen.  Her passing is devastating, but the legacy she leaves behind reminds us  that no matter how short life tends to be, we can still make a world of  difference. While she is not here to grace the community in Kansas City  with her valiant voice, or her indominable spirit, her soul will live  on through the extensive and beautiful legacy that she built. The  legacy she left has lit fires under enough people in Kansas City, so  they can forage through the noise and echo her advocacy, which will  keep her spirit alive for eternity.