Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


Mrs. BICE. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong support of H.R. 7148, which  contains the Defense, Labor-Health and Human Services-Education, and  Transportation-Housing and Urban Development appropriations bills.

This is a strong package, and as the vice chair of the Subcommittee  on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies,  or T-HUD, I am particularly proud of that portion of this bill. It  provides $103 billion in budget authority and supports President  Trump's America First agenda. It invests in transportation  infrastructure and housing affordability while cutting wasteful  spending and reducing the Federal bureaucracy. In fact, this bill  codifies DOGE cuts, like reducing HUD staff by 24 percent and DOT by 5  percent, helping to rightsize the Federal workforce.

When it comes to aviation safety, a top priority, FAA funding is  increased to $22.2 billion, including $10.3 billion for air traffic  control operations, $4 billion to modernize facilities and equipment,  and additional resources to hire 2,500 new air traffic controllers.  This will help keep America's skies safe.

The bill also invests $64 billion in highway infrastructure,  including $879 million for priority needs, such as addressing truck  parking shortages and resources needed to improve Tribal  transportation.

The package supports housing affordability and community development  by providing $3.3 billion for the Community Development Block Grants  and $1.25 billion for the HOME program, giving States and localities  flexible tools to expand affordable housing.

It also eliminates waste, including $929 million from the failed  California High-Speed Rail project, which has been totally mismanaged  and is completely indefensible. Nearly $1 billion in Biden-era Green  New Deal spending is redirected to critical infrastructure needs. This  is welcome news for taxpayers across the country.

Finally, and most importantly, this bill delivers direct wins for  Oklahoma's Fifth District, including fully funded runway improvements  at the Chandler and Shawnee Regional Airports and critical electric  grid upgrades in Edmond, Oklahoma.

Mrs. BICE. Mr. Chair, I urge passage of this bill.