Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Walk-In Coolers and Walk-In Freezers''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689262/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-walk-in-coolers-and-walk-in-freezers


Mrs. BICE. Mr. Speaker, I rise, obviously, in strong support of H.J.  Res. 24, legislation that I authored which uses the Congressional  Review Act to overturn regulations by the Biden administration.

I was extremely excited this morning to be notified that I have a  Statement of Administration Policy from President Trump on this  legislation, which I include in the Record.                     Statement of Administration Policy   H.J. Res. 24--Joint Resolution, Providing for Congressional Disapproval  of the Rule Submitted by the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy  Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Walk-In Coolers

and Walk-in Freezers''--Rep. Bice, R-OK, and 10 cosponsors

The Administration strongly supports passage of H.J. Res.       24, a joint resolution to disapprove the rule submitted by       the Department of Energy relating to ``Energy Conservation       Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Walk-In Coolers       and Walk-In Freezers.'' The December 23, 2024 rule adopts       amended energy conservation standards for walk-in coolers and       walk-in freezers impacting commercial vendors who store food,       beverages, flowers, and other goods that require chilling at       low temperatures.

The rule, issued in the final days of the previous       Administration, imposes complex energy conservation standards       for walk-in coolers and freezers, leading to unnecessary       costs on small businesses and everyday Americans.

If H.J. Res. 24 were presented to the President in its       current form, his senior advisors would recommend that he       sign it into law.

Mrs. BICE. In December of 2024, the Department of Energy enacted new  energy efficiency standards for walk-in coolers and freezers, equipment  vital to pharmacies, convenience stores, food processing facilities,  food banks, restaurants, and many other establishments nationwide.

These regulations will impose significant financial burdens on small  businesses, which will have to absorb major upgrade costs to meet these  new aggressive standards. At a time when our focus should be on  lowering the cost of living for our constituents, it is clear most of  these expenses will be borne by consumers in the form of increased  prices.

Mr. Speaker, furthermore, they threaten significant operational  disruption for many enterprises that rely on this equipment. We have  heard from many businesses in rural areas which will have to go through  extensive structural and electrical upgrades to accommodate the new  equipment. These same businesses have reported that getting the  refrigerators and freezers repaired is a process which is already  taking too long and is expensive and will become even more so.

For businesses looking to enter underserved markets, this will be  another barrier in doing so. For businesses operating on a narrow  profit margin, this could be what sends them under.

Recognizing these detrimental impacts, I fought against the adoption  of this rule and expressed my disapproval last year during the public  comment period. Like many of the rules handed down by the Biden  administration, this effort will have a harsh economic impact while  failing to achieve its own stated goal.

DOE estimates that the rule would carry a minimum price tag of nearly  $1 billion with minimal energy usage reduction. My colleague mentioned  that it would be a savings of $6 billion over 30 years. What he didn't  mention is the cost of replacement equipment with these new energy  efficiency standards could be tens of thousands of dollars, adding up  to billions and billions of dollars that are going to be borne by these  businesses.

I am grateful President Trump has taken the decisive action to halt  these rules by having the Department of Energy postpone the effective  date of these standards, providing breathing room for businesses.  However, more work needs to be done; and Congress has a role to play.

My resolution seeks to ensure that these overreaching regulations are  permanently overturned. By doing so, we will protect small businesses  from unnecessary compliance costs and preserve the diversity of choice  available to consumers.

This action aligns with our broader commitment to roll back  burdensome regulations that stifle economic growth and infringe upon  individual freedoms. In fact, according to the National Association of  Manufacturers, in 2022, the total cost of regulations is estimated at  over $3 trillion.

We cannot continue to allow burdensome regulations on every aspect of  our lives and our businesses. I urge my colleagues to support H.J. Res.  24, legislation that will reduce burdens on businesses and serve the  best interests of the American people.