Repeal Requirement for Congressional Research Service to Prepare Annotated Constitution and Supplements in Hardbound Version


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689324/repeal-requirement-for-congressional-research-service-to-prepare-annotated-constitution-and-supplements-in-hardbound-version


Mrs. BICE. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1234) to direct the Librarian of Congress to promote the more  cost-effective, efficient, and expanded availability of the Annotated  Constitution and pocket-part supplements by replacing the hardbound  versions with digital versions.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1234

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. REPEAL REQUIREMENT FOR CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH                     SERVICE TO PREPARE ANNOTATED CONSTITUTION AND                     SUPPLEMENTS IN HARDBOUND VERSION.

(a) Repeal.--The first section of Public Law 91-589 (2       U.S.C. 168) is amended--

(1) by striking ``the Librarian of Congress'' and inserting       ``(a) subject to subsection (b), the Librarian of Congress'';       and

(2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

``(b)(1) Upon the completion of the October 2031 term of       the Supreme Court and upon the completion of each tenth       October term of the Supreme Court thereafter, the Librarian       of Congress shall have prepared a digital decennial revised       edition of the Constitution Annotated, which shall contain       annotations of all decisions theretofore rendered by the       Supreme Court construing provisions of the Constitution, in       place of the hardbound decennial revised edition of the       Constitution Annotated described in subsection (a)(3).

``(2) Upon the completion of the October 2025 term of the       Supreme Court and upon the completion of each subsequent       October term of the Supreme Court beginning in an odd-      numbered year (the final digit of which is not a 1), the       Librarian shall have prepared a digital cumulative pocket-      part supplement to the most recent decennial revised edition       of the Constitution Annotated, which shall contain cumulative       annotations of all such decisions rendered by the Supreme       Court which were not included in the most recent revised       edition of the Constitution Annotated, in place of the       hardbound editions of the cumulative pocket-part supplement       described in subsection (a)(4).''.

(b) Ensuring Availability of Digital Versions.--Section 2       of Public Law 91-589 (2 U.S.C. 168a) is amended--

(1) by striking ``All hardbound'' and inserting ``(a) All       hardbound''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

``(b)(1) The digital decennial revised editions of the       Constitution Annotated prepared under subsection (b)(1) of       the first section of this Joint Resolution and the digital       cumulative pocket-part supplements prepared under subsection       (b)(2) of the first section of this Joint Resolution shall be       available at a public website of the Library of Congress.

``(2) The Librarian of Congress shall ensure the continuing       availability of the documents referred to in paragraph (1) to       Congress and the public.''.

(c) Repeal of Additional Printing Requirements.--

(1) Mandatory printing of additional copies.--Section 3 of       Public Law 91-589 (2 U.S.C. 168b) is amended--

(A) by striking ``There shall be printed'' and inserting       ``(a) There shall be printed''; and

(B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

``(b) Subsection (a) does not apply after completion of the       October 2025 term of the Supreme Court, and the Librarian of       Congress shall provide the decennial revised editions of the       Constitution Annotated and the cumulative pocket part       supplements prepared under this Joint Resolution exclusively       in a digital format available at a public website of the       Library of Congress.''.

(2) Printing of additional copies pursuant to concurrent       resolution.--Section 4 of Public Law 91-589 (2 U.S.C. 168c)       is repealed.

Mr. Speaker, this is the Constitution Annotated, or CONAN, as it is  better known today, weighing 8 pounds, 14 ounces.

Its origins date back to 1797 when Congress passed legislation  requiring every Member of Congress to be provided with a copy of the  Constitution. These copies were eventually expanded to include Supreme  Court case citations so that Members could see which clauses of the  Constitution the Court used in deciding cases.

However, as the number of citations grew by hundreds, the copies  became less useful to Members because most had no idea what the cases  were about and what questions were before the Court.

So, in 1921, Congress began requiring reprints of the Constitution to  include explanatory language that would make sense of the case  citations throughout. This format is still used today.

Initially, CONAN was printed every 10 years or so, but by 1970,  Members began to complain that it was outdated almost as soon as it was  printed. They addressed this by requiring that paperbound supplements  to CONAN be printed every 2 years. Since 1972, that is what we have  done: print a hardbound version of CONAN every 10 years and a  paperbound supplement every 2 years.

CONAN obviously has a rich history, dating back over two centuries.  Nothing about H.R. 1234 erases or changes this history.

The Constitution provides the framework for our government, and  understanding that framework and how the Supreme Court has applied it  to its decisions over the years is as essential today as it was 200  years ago.

What has changed, however, is the way people get their information.  Today, most of us rely on digital sources for the most up-to-date  information, whether it is news, airfares, the weather, or Supreme  Court case citations.

According to the GPO, the number of print copies of CONAN requested  in 2012 by the House, Senate, and the Joint Committee on Printing was  just over 1,000. Ten years later, in 2022, the number of requested  copies dropped to just 659.

It is no coincidence that this drop in requests coincides with the  2019 launch of a digital version of CONAN. Over the past 5 years, the  CONAN website has become an invaluable resource to individual citizens,  schools, libraries, and, of course, Congress.

It has received more than 28 million visits since it was created and  features hundreds of pages of constitutional analysis and content. The  site is publicly accessible, easy to search, provides links to Supreme  Court decisions, and, perhaps most importantly, is updated in real time  by the CRS.

All of this raises the question of why are we wasting taxpayer  dollars printing this giant, hardcover version of CONAN, along with the  paperbound supplements, when a superior, digital version already  exists?

According to the CBO, replacing this version of CONAN with a digital  version would reduce the Library of Congress' operating costs by $4  million over the next 4 years.

Eliminating the print requirement will also eliminate inefficient use  of CRS staff time. Requiring CRS staff to spend countless hours  formatting and paginating the print version of CONAN does not support  the work of Congress, nor does it benefit our constituents.

Mr. Speaker, replacing the CONAN print requirement with a digital  requirement is a no-brainer. The digital version provides Members and  other users with the most up-to-date information and constitutional  analysis available at a significant cost savings to taxpayers.

History shows that Congress has consistently taken steps to ensure  that CONAN meets the evolving needs of Members and other users. Passing  H.R. 1234 is a logical next step in maintaining CONAN's relevancy and  usefulness, both to Congress and to the American people.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 1234.  I urge quick action in the Senate, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

I thank the ranking member, Mr. Morelle, for his support and  bipartisanship in coauthoring this legislation with me.

This is an easy win for taxpayers, saving taxpayers $4 million using  a digital versus the current printed version.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support from my colleagues, and I yield back the  balance of my time.