Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690005/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mrs. BICE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the  Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act, or the SAVE Act.

Mr. Speaker, under President Biden, nearly 5 million illegal aliens  were released into the United States. Biden's failure at the southern  border has diluted the voting power that is reserved for only American  citizens. This crisis is not only a national security concern but one  that can seriously alter the outcome of our elections.

Just this past election cycle, both the States of Alabama and  Virginia removed thousands of registered voters who were not American  citizens. Securing our elections is of paramount importance, and we  must ensure that it is easy to vote and hard to cheat.

The SAVE Act will strengthen our election administration, improve  voter confidence, and ensure that American elections are only for  American citizens. Specifically, it amends the National Voter  Registration Act to require States to obtain proof of citizenship when  an individual registers to vote.

Mr. Speaker, let me be clear. This legislation does not prohibit  married women from voting, and the absurd narrative of this has gotten  out of control.

Mr. Speaker, when someone changes their name, just as I have when I  got married, they have to provide their birth certificate and a  marriage certificate. This is already required when you update your ID,  your Social Security records, and, yes, your voter registration, too.

When your name is legally changed, it updates across government  systems. REAL IDs, passports, and other valid forms of ID mentioned in  the SAVE Act are sufficient proof of citizenship. Your birth  certificate doesn't have to match your current ID.

I will add this: The claim is that it will disenfranchise married  women and others who might have to change their names because the  documentation might show two different names, but the SAVE Act itself  addresses this point in the text. Page 14, line 9 directs the States to  create a process for addressing this exact issue.

I find myself asking: Why are the Democrats refusing to take steps to  safeguard our elections and protect the votes of every single American  citizen?

Mr. Speaker, I strongly support the SAVE Act, and I look forward to  voting for it. I encourage my colleagues to do the same.