Stop Illegal Entry Act of 2025


Mrs. BICE. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of my legislation,  H.R. 3486, the Stop Illegal Entry Act.

Let me first start by saying I think it is rich that we stand here on  the House floor and are lectured by the other side of the aisle about  immigration issues when they had the last 4 years to actually address  this problem. They want to deflect, as my colleague from Kansas  mentioned. Let's talk about all the other things that have been  happening in the country instead of the actual issue at hand.

Under the Biden administration, over 10 million illegal immigrants  entered this country. This includes countless numbers of murderers,  rapists, child traffickers, smugglers, and individuals from countries  that support terrorism. Customs and Border Patrol caught 400  individuals on the terrorist watch list, leaving us the question of who  else was allowed to enter this country undetected.

That is why the Stop Illegal Entry Act is so important. The  legislation seeks to discourage migrants from coming to the U.S.  illegally and keeps criminal aliens who disregard Federal immigration  law out of our American communities.

It is vital that law enforcement officers and Border Patrol officers  have the tools they need to hold dangerous criminals accountable and  safeguard our communities, and this legislation does just that.

President Trump has delivered on his promise to secure the border,  and this legislation provides the tools needed to uphold our laws and  remove dangerous criminals.

On that note, I was also encouraged to see a statement of  administrative support from the Office of Management and Budget stating  that if the legislation were presented to the President, his advisers  would recommend that he sign it into law.

Finally, I am not an attorney, but I thank my friend, Congressman  Knott, for his support in helping get this legislation through the  Judiciary Committee. As a former prosecutor, I know he understands the  importance of strong policies that safeguard our communities and  empower law enforcement.

Madam Speaker, I include in the Record the Statement of  Administration Policy.                     Statement of Administration Policy

H.R. 3486--the Stop Illegal Entry Act of 2025--Rep. Bice, R-OK, and                              five cosponsors

The Administration strongly supports passage of H.R. 3486,       the Stop Illegal Entry Act of 2025. The previous       administration allowed an unprecedented invasion of illegal       immigration, resulting in the influx of limitless criminal       aliens--including murderers, rapists, child traffickers and       smugglers, drug dealers, and more--entering the United States       and further enriching foreign terrorist cartels. President       Trump took immediate action to seal and secure the border.       Now, to ensure long term border security and deter the most       heinous illegal criminal aliens from attempting to re-enter       the United States, there must be stronger criminal penalties       to prevent illegal re-entry following removal.

H.R. 3486 will help discourage the most dangerous criminals       from trying to enter, or re-enter, our country by increasing       severe criminal and financial penalties. Specifically, the       bill would raise the maximum penalty from two years to five       years of imprisonment for any illegal alien convicted of       reentering the United States.

The best deterrent against these violent criminals       attempting re-entry is the possibility of lengthy jail time.       Seventy percent of the aliens charged for illegal reentry in       2023 had criminal records. For example, an off-duty Customs       and Border Patrol officer was shot in the face in New York       City in July by an illegal alien who was deported and       reentered under the previous administration. Last December, a       Guatemalan illegal alien, who was previously deported under       the first Trump Administration and later illegally re-      entered, was indicted for lighting a woman on fire and       burning her to death on a New York City subway.

Additionally, H.R. 3486 cracks down on the smuggling of       illicit drugs across the border, often through cartel       organizations, by imposing the possibility of up to fifteen       years in prison for illegal aliens convicted of three or more       misdemeanors involving drugs or harm against others, or for       illegal aliens who attempt to reenter after being removed       three times. An illegal alien who commits a felony would face       the chance of life in prison.

If H.R. 3486 were presented to the President in its current       form, his advisors would recommend that he sign it into law.

Mrs. BICE. Madam Speaker, I urge the passage of this important  legislation to hold those accountable that are here illegally.