Housing for the 21st Century Act


Mr. Cleaver, along with Mr. Flood, worked hard to reauthorize and  reform HOME, which is in this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6644, the Housing for the 21st  Century Act.

I certainly applaud Ranking Member Waters and Chairman Flood for  working together and for the inclusiveness of this package. I am proud  to have five affordable housing bills included in this overwhelmingly  bipartisan package.

One of my bills makes key provisions to the HOME program at HUD to  ease compliance for small properties and to recognize community land  trusts as eligible HOME fund recipients.

The package also expands foreclosure mitigation counseling to  delinquent borrowers and raises the public welfare investment, or PWI,  cap to 20 percent to free up capital for historic investments in  affordable housing and community development.

Among other community bank reforms, H.R. 6644 includes my bill to  modernize the treatment of reciprocal deposits to help small- and mid- size banks, like Fifth Third Bank, Huntington Bank, KeyBank, improve  liquidity and better compete for large accounts.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, it includes a measure that I have long  championed in Congress, a bill to codify the financial agent mentor- protege program at the Treasury to help small banks and minority  deposit institutions, or MDIs, survive. We also have one AdelFi bank in  my district, and I thank them for all the work that they have done with  that. It will also help them survive and thrive.

Lastly, again, I thank Ranking Member Waters and Chairman Hill for  their leadership on this package, and I urge my colleagues to support  the package.

Mrs. BEATTY.

H.R. 6644 represents an important first step, a strong bipartisan  one, in our fight to ensure affordable, decent housing for everyone in  America. It provides a critical foundation for us to end the affordable  housing and homelessness crisis.

This bill would update and improve existing Federal housing programs  by expanding local development opportunities and modernizing existing  housing programs in communities across the country. It will also  support community financial institutions to meet the housing needs in  their communities.

I am pleased to advance this legislation to the floor with Ranking  Member Waters, Chairman Hill, Mr. Flood, and Mr. Cleaver, and I am  proud that it includes 20 housing provisions and five banking  provisions championed by committee Democrats. This bill is a true  testament, Mr. Speaker, to bipartisanship.

I, again, urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield back  the balance of my time.