Restoring Enhanced Premium Tax Credits


Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, let me first say thank you to my colleague  from Virginia, Congresswoman Jennifer McClellan, for yielding to me and  for leading this Special Order hour. I also thank our chairwoman,  Congresswoman Yvette Clarke from Brooklyn, New York.

You heard her as she came to the floor, Mr. Speaker, sharing with us  the value, the importance of why we are here tonight. You have also  heard it, not just tonight but for weeks, we have come to this floor.

Mr. Speaker, the question you should ask yourself is: Why are we  here? Why are we standing here and telling these stories? These are  stories that I am sure people in your district and your colleagues have  heard also.

Well, we come tonight because we want America to know how important  our work is, but more importantly, we want America to know that  Democrats are standing up for them. We are united in this single cause  because it is our top priority.

Tonight, we share the stories of our constituents. We do it as a  reminder that others turn away from the struggle, but the Congressional  Black Caucus leans in, standing in the gap for families who can't  afford for Congress to look the other direction.

Mr. Speaker, I rise to share the human cost of allowing the  Affordable Care Act healthcare tax credits to expire. I rise on behalf  of the families of the Third Congressional District that I serve in the  great State of Ohio.

I rise on behalf of the families across this Nation. I rise on behalf  of the 18-plus million Black Americans that the members of the  Congressional Black Caucus serve.

Mr. Speaker, I also rise on behalf of the 82 million Americans that  the Congressional Black Caucus serves. Families, Mr. Speaker, who sit  at the kitchen table late at night wondering which bill they can pay  and which bill must wait.

If Congress fails to act, 35,000 people in my district will see their  healthcare costs rise. Let me just give you an example. For a 60-year- old couple, earning $85,600, annual premiums will rise by almost 300  percent. It is unthinkable.

Mr. Speaker, 15,000 people in my district will lose their healthcare  altogether because of Republicans' refusal to extend the tax credits.  Small businesses make up 48 percent of the ACA marketplace consumers.

I have heard colleagues on both sides of the aisle talk about how it  is the small business owners who are the economic engines that make  this America work. They are the backbone of communities, communities  like my community in the Third Congressional District.

If I could go back and remind you, Mr. Speaker, and all those who are  listening, it was the Democrats with our American Rescue Plan who  expanded the promise of the Affordable Care Act to make healthcare more  affordable. I could take you back to 1965, Mr. Speaker, when then, too,  we were dealing with healthcare, and it was the government body that  came up with Medicaid and Medicare to make sure that we protected the  American people and provided not just for the wealthy, but for all, for  the least of us.

Tonight, I want to put a face on it, Mr. Speaker. I want to lift up  two Ohioans who put names to these numbers. You see, it is not about  the politics, as our chairwoman said. It is about people. It is about  everyday people.

Let me tell you the story of Tracie, a small business owner, who  wrote that her family's premiums have tripled. Before the tax credit,  they were paying over $1,000 a month just to stay insured. With two  children in college, she wrote: Our family relies on these subsidies  just to support our students and pay our bills. We don't live  extravagantly. Please, Congresswoman, keep fighting for us.

Let me tell you the story of Mark, a 60-year-old husband and a part- time worker. He told me his ACA premiums will rise $11,000 in 2026. He  may have to return to full-time work out of fear that he and his wife  will be left without healthcare.

Mr. Speaker, I could tell you story after story and put a face on it.  I could tell you the stories from across this wonderful America that we  live in. We all have stories.

Healthcare is not about Democrats and Republicans. It is about  people. Tonight, we come to this Chamber, to this floor, the House of  the people, to share with you the stories because we want hope. We want  to provide hope to the American people. We want to be able to tell them  that they don't stand alone. We want to be able to tell them that we  really believe that we can make a difference, that we can provide  affordable, quality healthcare for everyday people.

Mr. Speaker, Democrats stood united, as you know, for more than 40  days during the Republican-caused shutdown to prevent this, but here we  are. Republicans refuse to negotiate.

Healthcare, Mr. Speaker, is a lifeline for families who have upheld  their end of the bargain even when Republican policies have not upheld  theirs.

Mr. Speaker, my ask is very simple, and here it is: Congress must  act. Congress must restore these tax credits and protect affordable  healthcare.

Mr. Speaker, I guess the question really is, what do we say to that  family? What is the answer that we say that we cannot negotiate? What  is the answer that we say to them that we cannot bring it to this  floor? What is it that you would like me to say to the American people?  What is it my colleagues on the other side that don't stand united with  us for the people want me to say to the American people? I guess that  is why week after week after week, we come to this floor for Special  Order hours.

Mr. Speaker, I want you to know how important this is that we go out  into our districts and because we know people are making a decision  between healthcare, feeding their families, and putting a roof over  their head. I could  tell you the stories of my colleagues. I could tell you the stories of  colleagues who have gone into hospitals and healthcare clinics and  volunteered services. I can tell you that I have bagged and boxed food  for people. I have contributed, like many of my colleagues, to make  sure that when people have to pay for their healthcare and they are  trying to decide if they can buy groceries that we are coming to their  rescue.

Tonight, I end with asking you not to come to our rescue as Democrats  but come to the rescue of the American people, and let us make a  difference by negotiating and having an American healthcare plan that  will make sure that all individuals can have affordable healthcare.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for this Special Order hour. I  thank her for her brilliance and her tenacity that she comes here and  stands and tells the stories and leads us so hopefully we will be able  to make a difference.