Wosb Accountability Act


Mr. LaLOTA. Mr. Speaker, the fundamental question this bill addresses  is: Should a Federal contract intended for women go to men and  fraudsters, or should a Federal contract intended for women-owned small  businesses actually go to women?

Fortunately, even though we Republicans and Democrats disagree on a  lot in this Chamber, we agree that the contracts meant for women should  go to women.

Yet, right now, under Federal law, companies can simply self- certify--check a box claiming to be a woman-owned small business--and  still count toward the Federal Government's goals.

That means bad actors can game the system, take contracts they don't  deserve, and rob real women entrepreneurs of the opportunities meant  for them. That is wrong, and that is exactly the kind of Washington  loophole I am working to close.

Self-certification invites fraud. In fact, the Small Business  Administration's own inspector general has repeatedly warned about the  risks of fraud under self-certification. This was especially apparent  with the SBA's COVID-19 lending programs, where fraudulent self- certification led to billions of dollars in losses.

That is why I am proud to support the WOSB Accountability Act, a  bipartisan effort that ensures contracts meant for women go to women.

This legislation is straightforward, Mr. Speaker. It puts an end to  the days of businesses just claiming they are women-owned without  having to prove it.

Under this bill, only certified and verified women-owned small  businesses would count toward the Federal Government's contracting  goals, just like it should be. It is high time we address this issue  and empower women in business by ensuring the system works for them,  not against them.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Velazquez, my fellow New Yorker,  for partnering with me on this important piece of legislation. It is  time we stop allowing fraudsters to steal opportunities meant for  legitimate women entrepreneurs. I urge all of my colleagues to support  the WOSB Accountability Act.