Gop Creating Chaos in Electoral System


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689394/gop-creating-chaos-in-electoral-system


Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, we are witnessing yet another shameful  attack on the fundamental rights of millions of Americans.

House Republicans are forcing a vote this week on the so-called SAVE  Act, a bill that does nothing to stop inflation from driving up grocery  prices, nothing to end Donald Trump's trade war that is pummeling the  stock market, and nothing to protect Americans' retirements. Instead,  this is a messaging bill, sloppily written and dangerously flawed,  designed to create confusion and chaos in our electoral system rather  than strengthen it.

The SAVE Act claims to prevent noncitizens from voting in Federal  elections. At first glance, that may seem logical, if not for the fact  that it is already illegal and has been for decades. Noncitizens caught  voting in Federal elections already face deportation and even jail  time.

Time and again, when pressed for evidence of widespread noncitizen  voting, Republicans have failed to produce a single credible example.  The reason? Because the problem they claim to be solving simply doesn't  exist.

Why are we here today? Why are we debating a bill that addresses a  nonexistent problem while hardworking American families are struggling  with rising costs and economic insecurity? Because Republicans in  Congress don't have real solutions. Rather than addressing the issues  that matter, like lowering grocery costs and helping families get  ahead, they are prioritizing a bill that disenfranchises millions of  American women.

Roughly 69 million women, about 25 percent of eligible voters in our  country, have IDs that do not match their birth certificates, usually  because they changed their name once they got married. Under this bill,  if they don't have a passport--and half of Americans don't--they  wouldn't be able to register to vote.

Think about that: Tens of millions of women, the backbone of our  families and our communities, stripped of their right to vote simply  because they got married.

Imagine a woman who has voted in every election since she turned 18,  who pays her taxes, who contributes to her community. One day, she  learns that because her name changed when she got married, she is  suddenly unable to register to vote in her State.

No amount of documentation, no Social Security card, no marriage  license, no previous voter registration will satisfy the requirements  of this bill unless she possesses an updated passport or a birth  certificate that matches her current name.

This isn't just bureaucratic nonsense. It is an outrageous attack on  the rights of women across our country.

The worst part, Madam Speaker, is that Republicans have known that  this was an issue with this bill for years, and they have done nothing  to fix it. They either don't care that millions of American women will  be stripped of their right to vote or that has been their goal all  along. Either way, this is going to create chaos in every State in  America, and it is going to make it harder for Americans to participate  in their democracy.

It appears to be the latest in a long series of tactics, like polling  place closures and gerrymandering, designed to silence voters that  Republican politicians don't think they can win.

That is not how democracy works. You don't get to silence millions of  Americans just because they might not like your policies. You represent  them, too.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to reject this dangerous  legislation and protect the rights of every eligible voter in the  country because our democracy is strongest when every voice is heard  and every vote is counted.