Youth Poisoning Protection Act


Mrs. TRAHAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, as well  as his leadership and that of Chair Bilirakis on this important issue.

Mr. Speaker, I introduced the Youth Poisoning Protection Act  alongside Representative  Mike Carey because we are facing an urgent  and deeply troubling trend, the promotion of sodium nitrite, a toxic  chemical, as a method to die by suicide.

In 2022, The New York Times revealed the existence of online suicide  forums that don't just discuss suicide, they promote it. Anonymous  users on these platforms encourage vulnerable children and young adults  to end their lives, and they often suggest using this chemical to do  it.

Now, most Americans have never heard of sodium nitrite, but for  families who have lost loved ones, it is something they will never  forget. In lower concentrations, it is a chemical used safely to cure  meats and fish, but in higher concentrations it is deadly. For the few  who have survived attempts to end their lives using sodium nitrite,  they report agonizing pain as the chemical deprives their body of  oxygen.

After learning how easy it is to purchase high-concentration sodium  nitrite, my office worked with retailers to limit access to businesses  with a proven use for the chemical, but some sites still openly market  it as part of a so-called suicide kit to people in crisis.

There is no Federal law that allows us to stop this. That is where  this bipartisan legislation comes in. The Youth Poisoning Protection  Act would restrict sales of sodium nitrite above 10 percent  concentration to businesses with verified industrial or commercial use.  That threshold is based on expert recommendations for safe handling and  won't interfere with legitimate industries like food processing.

This bill is focused and reasonable. It targets bad actors who are  exploiting a loophole to profit off tragedy, and it does so without  burdening responsible businesses. That is why, last Congress, this bill  passed the Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously before passing it  here on the floor with overwhelming support. Now we must finish the  job.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the Youth Poisoning  Protection Act.