Recognizing Temple Beth Sholom's 80 Years of Service


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701491/recognizing-temple-beth-sholoms-80-years-of-service


Ms. LEE of Nevada. Mr, Speaker, I rise today to recognize and  celebrate a milestone for the Jewish community in southern Nevada-- Temple Beth Sholom marking 80 years of service, to be celebrated at  their ``A Night in Jerusalem'' event taking place on April 26, 2026.

Temple Beth Sholom was the first Jewish congregation to be  established in southern Nevada, and its members and programs continue  to play an integral part in the development of Las Vegas.

Founded in the era of the Boulder Dam, the Temple's story mirrors Las  Vegas' evolution. From its humble beginnings to the present, it has  blossomed into a vibrant community, fostering deep roots and an  unyielding commitment to Jewish heritage.

As Temple Beth Shalom celebrates 80 years, this milestone carries  deeper meaning in Hebrew tradition, where the number 80 corresponds to  the letter Peh, symbolizing the ``mouth'' and the power of voice. This  anniversary reflects not only a legacy of faith, tradition, and  community, but also the enduring voice of a congregation that has  uplifted generations, shared stories, and strengthened connection  across time.

``A Night in Jerusalem'' honors this legacy, bringing together  culture, history, and community in a celebration that reflects both the  richness of the past and the promise of the future. Just as Peh  represents expression and continuity, this moment marks Temple Beth  Shalom's ongoing commitment to being a voice of unity, faith, and  inspiration for years to come.

Under the current leadership of Rabbi Felipe Goodman, Temple Beth  Sholom promotes the role of the synagogue in Jewish life, encourages  members to perform acts of kindness and charitable assistance, observe  rituals, and be involved in the community.

On this historic occasion, I ask my colleagues to join me in  congratulating Temple Beth Sholom and its dedicated members who  contribute to its enduring legacy in southern Nevada.