Recognizing Temple Sinai's 18th Birthday Mazel Fest


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701493/recognizing-temple-sinais-18th-birthday-mazel-fest


Ms. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and  celebrate a milestone for the Jewish community in southern Nevada-- Temple Sinai's 18th Birthday Mazel Fest taking place on April 11, 2026.

In 1992, former members of Beth Am established Adat Ari El. They had  humble beginnings, with around 15 families and held services in a  storefront with a visiting Rabbi.

Throughout the years, the Temple Sinai family has remained a vibrant,  thriving community that holds close its core values and vision of  worship, is vested in the community, and is alive with congregants and  students who are enriching the lives of others.

Temple Sinai is a community treasure for our families, with multiple  touch points throughout the Jewish life cycle, from preschool to  exclusive senior programming. Their vision reflects the passion,  dedication, and commitment of its congregational family to look forward  and strive to attain its goals for the future.

As Temple Sinai celebrates 18 years, this milestone carries deeper  meaning in Hebrew tradition, where the number 18 symbolizes ``Chai,''  the Hebrew word for life. Because Hebrew letters have numerical values  (gematria), the letters chet (8) and yud (10) add up to 18, making it a  lucky number representing life, vitality, and good fortune.

Under the current leadership of Rabbi Ilana G. Baden, Cantor David  Perper, and all its staff, Temple Sinai is a cornerstone of our strong,  vibrant Jewish community across the valley. They are a beacon of hope,  compassion, soulful worship, and lifelong education providing a  sanctuary for spiritual growth, cultural celebration, and community  engagement.

On this historic occasion, I ask my colleagues to join me in  congratulating Temple Sinai and its dedicated members who contribute to  its enduring legacy in southern Nevada.