In Memory of Mr. Adrian Earl Jenkins, Sr.


Mr. BISHOP. Mr. Speaker, I rise with a heavy but grateful heart to  honor the life of Mr. Adrian Earl Jenkins, Sr.--a gentle giant of  faith, family, and fearless service, whose quiet strength lifted a  community for more than 9 decades. A funeral service celebrating his  remarkable life was held on January 29, 2026, at Mount Zion Baptist  Church in Albany, Georgia.

Adrian Earl Jenkins, Sr. was born May 7, 1928, in LaGrange, Georgia,  to Julia Byrd and was primarily raised by his aunt and uncle, William  and Jesse Pattilo. His hands told his story: strong from teaching  generations of students, callused from building a home and other  community structures with his own labor and tender from holding  grandchildren and comforting neighbors in times of need. Grounded in  faith, he lived out many callings--student, soldier, husband, father,  teacher, farmer, deacon, activist, and friend--with humility and  devotion.

After graduating from East Depot High School in LaGrange, he enrolled  at Tuskegee Institute in Tuskegee, Alabama, but his studies were  interrupted when he was drafted to serve in the United States Army  during the Korean Conflict. Mr. Jenkins returned from the War,  determined to finish his education, which he did at Albany State  College. He obtained a Bachelor of Science in Education and dedicated  his life to teaching. For more than 34 years he shaped minds and  modeled dignity, discipline, and love in the Thomas County and  Dougherty County School Systems. His students remember lessons far  beyond academics on how to live with honor and purpose.

In 1958 he and Mary Frances Royal joined hearts in marriage, a  steadfast partnership of 56 years. Family was his pride--his son Adrian  Jenkins, Jr., his late daughter Sharon Jenkins Hicks, grandchildren and  great-grandchildren, who will carry his laughter, his stories, and his  legacy forward.

For over 60 years Mr. Jenkins served Mount Zion Baptist Church as a  deacon, offering his time, prayer, wisdom and treasure. As a proud  member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. for 70 years, he embodied  the fraternity's ideals of manly deeds, scholarship, and love for all  mankind and was honored by the Gamma Omicron Lambda Chapter as  ``Brother of the Year.'' He helped build and sustain institutions that  mattered, including the Albany Civil Rights Museum as a founding board  member, overseer of the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority house in Albany and  numerous other community meeting places. He labored untiringly without  seeking the spotlight.

Mr. Jenkins was also a quiet but steady force in the struggle for  civil rights, supporting carpools during the bus boycott, aiding  desegregation of the lunchroom at Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital and  practicing ordinary acts of courage that yielded extraordinary change.

He loved the land--raising chickens and hogs and living the words of  Psalm 128:2, eating the fruit of his labor, and blessing those at his  table. Though accomplished, he sought no title. He simply wanted to  make a difference,  following the example of Jesus by choosing understanding over  intolerance, love over hate, benevolence over selfishness, and humility  over arrogance.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join my wife Vivian, and me,  along with the more than 765,000 people of Georgia's 2nd Congressional  District in honoring the life and legacy of Adrian Earl Jenkins, Sr.  Our city, our Nation and the world are better because he walkdd among  us. We mourn his loss but celebrate a life whose enduring legacy is  written in the lives he touched: teachers inspired to teach, children  who learned they mattered, neighbors who found courage, and a family  that will carry his love forward.

May his memory be a blessing. May his soul rest in peace, and may his  example continue to inspire lives of service, faith, and love.