Recognizing First African Baptist Church's 185th Anniversary


Mr. BISHOP. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor and pleasure to extend  heartfelt congratulations to the congregation of First African Baptist  Church in Columbus, Georgia, as they celebrate a remarkable 185 years  of faith and community. This great occasion will be marked by a  celebration at the church on Sunday, August 10, 2025, at the church in  Columbus.

Founded in 1840 by enslaved individuals in the antebellum South,  First African Baptist Church began in a building located at the corner  of Third Avenue and Twelfth Street, just a few blocks from the  Chattahoochee River. This sanctuary was previously used by First  Baptist Church, which was established in 1829 as Columbus's first  church.

Although founded by enslaved people, First African Baptist Church was  initially pastored by white ministers during its first twenty-two  years. Demonstrating a spirit of love and acceptance for all,  regardless of race, the church welcomed anyone in Columbus seeking to  worship. By 1858, the church had baptized 731 members--390 white and  341 black.

Throughout its history, the church relocated three times to  accommodate a growing congregation alongside the development of  Columbus. Its second location was a frame building at the corner of St.  Clair and Front Streets, now known as Eleventh and Front. In 1881, the  Georgia General Assembly granted land at Eleventh Street and Sixth  Avenue, leading to the church's renaming as Six Avenue Baptist Church.  This site is now occupied by Golden Foundry and Machine Company.

The current church home, located at the corner of Fifth Avenue and  Ninth Street, was established in 1915, at which time the church adopted  its name, First African Baptist Church. Today, as we celebrate its  185th Anniversary, the legacy of this congregation stands as a  testament to its resilience and commitment to faith. Over the years,  the church has undergone several renovations, reflecting its evolving  mission. Under the leadership of Reverend Roderick B. Green and his  dynamic wife and First Lady, Lynn Hall-Green, First African Baptist  Church continues to grow, driven by a vision of holistic transformation  and continual improvement in Christ.

The scripture tells us in Matthew 16:18 that Jesus said, ``Upon this  rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail  against it.''

The story of First African Baptist Church, which began with a small  group of devoted worshipers 185 years ago, is truly inspiring. It  embodies the dedication and perseverance of a congregation that has put  its love and trust in the Lord through both joyful and challenging  times.

Mr. Speaker, I invite my colleagues to join me in honoring First  African Baptist Church in Columbus, Georgia, for its rich history of  faith, unity, and service to the community, as they continue to come  together to worship our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.