Prohibiting Voting By Noncitizens in District of Columbia Elections


Mr. FROST. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I strongly oppose H.R. 884, which would repeal a law  duly enacted by the District of Columbia because D.C. should be free to  govern its own local matters.

Republicans claim that Congress has a constitutional duty to  legislate on local D.C. matters, but this is historically and legally  incorrect. Republicans legislate on local D.C. matters only when they  think they can score political points, such as by demonizing  immigrants.

Where is this passion and work on affordable housing for D.C.  residents? Where is this impassioned work on ending gun violence for  D.C. residents? They only bring it up to the floor when they think they  can score political points, taking away the democratic rights of people  here in D.C. and home rule.

The Framers expected Congress to establish a local government for  D.C., and Congress has established various forms of local government  for D.C. since 1802.

The Supreme Court has held that Congress may delegate to D.C.  legislative authority over local D.C. matters. In 1973, Congress passed  the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, which gave D.C. an elected  chief executive and an elected legislature, the Mayor and the D.C. City  Council. The purpose of the Home Rule Act is to ``grant to the  inhabitants of the District of Columbia powers of local self- government'' and ``relieve Congress of the burden of legislating upon  essentially local District matters.'' H.R. 884 contravenes the purpose  of the Home Rule Act.

D.C.'s Local Resident Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2022 allows D.C.  residents who are not yet U.S. citizens to vote only in local  elections--namely, for Mayor, members of the city council, the State  Board of Education, attorney general, advisory neighborhood  commissioner, and ballot measures.

The D.C. law does not allow noncitizens to vote in Federal elections,  which is a crime under Federal law.

Regardless of your views on the merits of noncitizen voting for local  elections, we have to acknowledge that D.C. is not the first nor are  they the only jurisdiction in our country to allow this. At various  points throughout American history, Congress and 40 States have allowed  noncitizens to vote in local, State, and territorial elections,  including the home State of the sponsor of this bill.

Congress did not prohibit noncitizens from voting in Federal  elections until 1996, and today, about 20 municipalities allow  noncitizens to vote in local elections.

I also want to address very specific concerns that we are hearing  from our Republican colleagues. Number one, they are concerned that  foreign diplomats might vote in local D.C. elections. We believe,  number one, that that is highly unlikely, both because they have to  renounce their right to vote in their home country and because D.C. has  no authority over Federal matters and has only limited local self- government.

In D.C., the penalty for voter fraud includes imprisonment for up to  5 years. To be eligible to vote in D.C., a person must maintain their  residency in D.C. for at least 30 days before the election and cannot  claim voting residence or the right to vote in any State, territory, or  country.

In a letter to Congress, the D.C. Board of Elections made it clear  that to vote in a D.C. local election, a foreign diplomat would have to  ``effectively renounce their right to vote in their country of  origin.'' The board noted that a foreign diplomat would have to ``swear  under penalty of law through the D.C. registration application that  that person is not claiming voting residence in another country.''

The board also noted that an embassy address could not be used to  register to vote since it is considered a commercial or business  address and that a foreign passport cannot be used to register to vote  since it does not contain a residential address in D.C.

While Republicans are concerned about foreign diplomats voting in  local elections, I wonder if they are aware that currently in this  country, United States citizens who are registered under the Foreign  Agents Registration Act are currently allowed to vote in elections at  all levels of government in the United States, including Federal  elections. That is right. Registered foreign agents who are currently  U.S. citizens can vote anywhere in the United States.

Republicans are also concerned that undocumented immigrants might  vote in local D.C. elections. That is highly unlikely because the D.C.  voter roll is a public record, and undocumented immigrants likely will  not want to identify themselves, including their addresses.

In closing, the House of Representatives is considering the wrong  D.C. voting rights bill here today. Republicans claim that voting is a  core right or privilege of American citizenship. Not only is that  historically incorrect, but as I described earlier, it is also  hypocritical.

Republicans have fought tooth and nail to defeat legislation that  would give the American citizens who reside in D.C. voting  representation in the House and Senate. We, of course, continue to push  for D.C. statehood.

Madam Speaker, I urge the House to reject H.R. 884 and, instead, to  pass H.R. 51.

Mr. FROST. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, the gentleman just asked our constituents to ask us  what we think about this issue. I think the better thing would be for  the gentleman to ask his constituents what they care about. I promise  this issue will not be in the top 3 or 10 things that they want us to  focus on.

At the same time, they are pushing a bill to take away healthcare  from 15 million Americans. Give me a damn break.

D.C. believes in universal adult suffrage, that all adult D.C.  residents, regardless of their immigration status, are subject to D.C.  laws and taxation and must register with the Selective Service System.  D.C. believes they deserve a say in the local laws that govern them and  how their local taxes are spent.

Congress should not decide which residents are fit to govern on local  D.C. matters. I promise the gentleman that if he spoke with his own  constituents, they don't give a damn.

Norton).

Mr. Speaker, I think it is interesting because the gentlewoman who  just spoke said this is about preserving ``our elections.''

This is not about our elections. It is not about my election. It is  not about her election, being from New York. It is about the elections,  the local elections, of residents of D.C. It is not  about hers or mine. It is about their local elections.

I think it is interesting because I don't know what happened. My  Republican colleagues always like to talk about limited Federal  Government. My Republican colleagues always like to talk about how  important local governance is. Yet, they want to rip it away from the  people in this city.

My question is: How many doors have they knocked on in D.C.? Have  they knocked on a single door? Have they spoken with a single resident,  a person who lives here, about what they care about? No, they are using  this Chamber and these bills to score national political points on  local issues.

Mr. Speaker, the other thing the gentlewoman said is that this is  about protecting the sanctity of citizen voting. Like every other  issue, Republicans want our people to believe that in order to protect  us, we have to take something away from somebody else. That is how we  protect the sanctity of voting for citizens. We have to take something  away from D.C. that they voted for when, right in front of us, if we  want to protect the sanctity of citizen voting in D.C., then we know  what we have to do. It is D.C. statehood.

We have to ensure that citizens in D.C. are able to have a fully  voting Representative in the United States Congress and have full  representation in this country.

That is what we do to protect the sanctity of citizen voting in  Washington, D.C. We don't encroach on decisions that the people here  have made locally.

Mr. Speaker, I don't want to hear about our elections. Local D.C.  elections are not my elections. They are not their elections unless  they live here. The local D.C. elections are about the residents of  this area.

Mr. Speaker,

Mr. Speaker, once again, my Republican colleagues want to deflect on  this issue focusing on undocumented immigrants. Undocumented immigrants  are unlikely to vote in local D.C. elections.

Again, why?

It is because the D.C. voter roll is public record. Undocumented  immigrants are not going to want to identify themselves, including  their address, where they live.

Noncitizen voting, again, this is consistent in a lot of  jurisdictions across the entire country. We talked about 20  municipalities doing this to allow universal adult suffrage, the  ability for people to take part in local elections.

The other thing, really quick, that one of my Republican colleagues  brought up that the purpose of this bill is to: ``Stop diluting the  voices of American citizens.'' What is really diluting the voice of  American citizens are voter suppression laws like we see in the South  and like we see in Florida where I am from: poll taxes, voter roll  purges, and voter intimidation. That is what is diluting the voice of  American citizens.

I haven't heard a single Republican in this debate talk about  ensuring that citizens who live in D.C. can have full representation in  Congress.

Where is that?

I bring it up again. In every issue Republicans want to talk about  protecting us by taking away stuff from other people. They never want  to talk about giving citizens what they deserve. The citizens of D.C.  deserve to have full representation in the United States Congress.

Mr. Speaker,

Mr. Speaker, if the esteemed chair from Wisconsin would indulge me,  he brought up a set of laws in Georgia, which I thought was very  interesting, talking about what we need to do. However, I would yield  30 seconds to the chair if he could let me know who voted for those  laws that were enacted in Georgia.

Mr. FROST. I yield to the gentleman from Wisconsin.

Mr. FROST. Reclaiming my time. I am curious what body wrote the  legislation, voted on the legislation, and sent it to the Governor's  desk?

Mr. FROST. I yield to the gentleman from Wisconsin.

Mr. FROST. Reclaiming my time. The reason I ask the gentleman is he  brings up a law in Georgia that was written by the elected  representatives of the legislature voted into office by the people of  Georgia.

My Republican colleagues would have us believe that today a lot of  Democrats are going to vote for a bill to give noncitizens the ability  to vote in D.C.

That is not what we are voting on. We are not voting on a bill to do  something. We are voting on a bill to allow something to stay in place  which was voted into action by the elected representatives of the local  government of D.C.

That is what we are doing here today. We are not voting to give  noncitizens the ability to vote. We are just saying: Let D.C. make  their own local laws just like they did in Georgia, just like the  esteemed chair brought up earlier.

The other thing I want to mention that was brought up has to do with  the length of residency to vote. D.C.'s length of residency requirement  is not a unique thing. To vote in D.C., yes, a person has to be a  resident for at least 30 days before an election, but to vote in  Kentucky, for example, a person has to be a resident for at least 28  days.

I haven't heard our esteemed chair of the Committee on Oversight and  Government Reform complain about the laws in Kentucky. In fact, under  the National Voter Registration Act of 1993, States cannot set a voter  registration deadline for Federal elections more than 30 days before an  election.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, as I mentioned here today, no matter what my  Republican colleagues say, they want to frame this as the Democrats  voting to do something here today. We are not voting to let noncitizens  vote in D.C. today. What we are voting to do is allow D.C. to make  their own decisions. That is something my Republican colleagues used to  talk a lot about, home rule, the ability for localities and people to  elect their representatives to a body and those representatives to do  something.

If my friend has a problem with local D.C. laws, then pick up a damn  clipboard, go knock on doors, and try to change it in D.C. To do it  from this institution, I think is shameful.

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.