Providing for Consideration of H.R. Improving Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Leosa Reform Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Federal Law Enforcement Officer Service Weapon Purchase Act of 2025


Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I think it is really interesting that one of  my colleagues from Florida just brought up a  terrible mass shooting that happened at Florida State University, which  is horrible. Part of the reason I ran for Congress is to end gun  violence.

When he brought up the shooting, I thought it was interesting because  he left out one of the most important parts. He brought up that he  never wants to see one of these shootings happen again, but he left out  how the shooter got his gun.

The shooter got his gun from his stepmother, and it was a retired  service weapon that was not kept in a safe way. He stole the gun, the  retired service weapon, from his stepmother, and then he went to  Florida State University and murdered two people and wounded six  others.

Mr. Speaker, I bet you that that same gentleman who talked about that  shooting is going to vote ``yes'' later on H.R. 2255 which I deeply  oppose.

Just 1 month later, after this former service weapon was used to  carry out a mass shooting and kill people at Florida State University,  Republicans here in Congress are pushing the Federal Law Enforcement  Officer Service Weapon Purchase Act, which would flood the gun market  with even more former service weapons without any additional  precautions, zero safe storage and zero background checks. In every  State, a police officer would be able to purchase an older gun from  their department at a discounted price.

House Republicans would not even consider my amendment to encourage  caution by letting people hold law enforcement agencies accountable  with what is done with the weapon. The United States already has the  highest number of mass shootings in the world, and gun violence is the  leading cause of death for children in this country.

So I am glad that one of my Republican colleagues from Florida wants  to make sure that the shootings don't happen again.

Let's start by ensuring that we block this bill, H.R. 2255, so that  way police officers don't even have to respond to a mass shooting in  the first place. I am done with talking about how we are going to  handle these things after they happen. Let's talk about how we are  going to prevent these shootings from happening in the first place.