Expiration of New Start


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699032/expiration-of-new-start


Ms. TITUS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Foster for having this  Special Hour on such an important topic.

Mr. Speaker, I have seen the movie ``A House of Dynamite'' as well as  ``Oppenheimer'' the previous year, which introduced a lot of people in  the moviegoing world to the development of our first atomic bomb at the  Manhattan Project.

It is very important that we go from popular culture to real history  and talk about this in terms of the destruction that will occur if we  do not continue the New START treaty.

I am a former political science professor. I have taught and written  about the history of nuclear weaponry. I am now a Member of Congress,  representing southern Nevada. A lot of testing is right in our own  backyard. Over the years, I have learned quite a bit about our nuclear  legacy, both good and bad.

Nevada was the focal point of nuclear development throughout the Cold  War. Over four decades, the Nevada test site, which is located about  100 miles north of downtown Las Vegas, hosted over 900 nuclear tests,  more than any other place in the country.

Throughout the 1950s, the visible mushroom clouds often loomed in the  distance. They could be seen from the strip, and they became part of a  tourist attraction there in southern Nevada.

These tests were conducted for a number of reasons. They were to  better understand the power and effects of nuclear weapons, what were  the consequences, how could we make them bigger, and how could we make  them cleaner. All of these things were part of that testing.

The test site became a real player and had a major role in shaping  our policies, both nationally and internationally, regarding testing  and nonproliferation.

The radiation given off by more than 100 atmospheric tests had  devastating impacts, however. It wasn't a tourist attraction to those  downwinders who were exposed. That fallout caused cancer and premature  deaths for thousands across the West.

That is what prompted me to introduce the PRESUME Act. It would  ensure that radiation-exposed veterans, who did war games there at the  test site, could receive their rightful benefits from the VA.

Furthermore, there were 800 underground tests that sometimes vented,  and radioactive contaminants came out in the air or the water table.  That is a problem we are still dealing with today. Some of you may know  the story of the Baneberry shot.

Last year, the Nevada Legislature passed a resolution urging the  Federal Government to maintain the moratorium on nuclear weapons  testing. That has been in effect since 1992. They cited risk of  environmental damage and also health hazards from what had been caused  by testing before.

My colleagues may remember that in 2020, the first Trump  administration called for a resumption of nuclear testing in the breach  of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Back then, I led the  charge in the FY 2021 NDAA process to ensure that that didn't happen  and that we couldn't resume that testing in the United States.

Pardon my bad French, but ``the more things change, the more they  stay the same''; ``plus ca change, plus c'est la meme chose.''

On October 29, 2025, just last year, Trump announced that he was  directing the Department of Defense to again resume nuclear testing in  a disastrous policy reversal. It is really not surprising because it is  in Project 2025, which is the policy blueprint of this disastrous  administration.

Just look on page 399, and you will see that Project 2025 calls for  the rejection of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty once again.  It would allow testing here at home but would also give a green light  to other nuclear powers around the world to start doing the same.

This would put us on a disastrous collision course of catastrophic  proportions with Russia and China. It would allow the proliferation of  these weapons to nonnuclear States that seek its development. It would  also put the health of Nevadans once again in jeopardy.

By foolishly announcing his intention to resume nuclear explosives  testing, Trump will trigger a dangerous nuclear arms race that could  blow apart our strategy for the last decades and any kind of nuclear  nonproliferation treaty.

There is no technical national security or political reason for us to  resume nuclear testing. If a power resumes testing because the U.S. is  abandoning the moratorium, those countries will develop new types of  warheads, close the technical and scientific advantage that we have  always had, and be a detriment to our national security.

Furthermore, scientists are already doing groundbreaking experiments  and simulations, as our professor knows. They test the existing  stockpile to make sure it is safe, secure, and reliable. These  subcritical tests are done without an explosion of any kind.

The last time a nuke was tested was 2017 by North Korea. That was a  good while ago, the longest period since 1945 that we have gone without  a nuclear test. Are we really the ones who want to break that record  and start testing again?

For these reasons, I introduced the RESTRAIN Act to prohibit the  resumption of explosive nuclear testing and prevent any funds from  going toward Trump's misguided policy.

Amidst all this nuclear saber-rattling, the New START treaty that we  are here to talk about tonight, which is the last remaining arms  control agreement between the U.S. and Russia, expires in just 21 days.  That treaty caps deployed strategic nuclear warheads at 1,550 each and  limits deployed systems for delivery to 700 per side.

Without this treaty in force, there would be no legally binding  limits on the size or composition of the U.S. and Russia strategic  nuclear arsenals. This would be the first time in over half a century.

Without limits, both countries could expand their nuclear forces  without constraint and potentially trigger a renewed arms race  internationally just like we had during the Cold War. Letting that  treaty lapse without a successor closes the door on incremental  progress toward broader, multilateral nuclear arms control.

If President Trump really wants to be the President of peace and  really thinks he deserves the Nobel Peace Prize, he would stop invading  and threatening to invade other countries, he would drop the idea of  resuming nuclear testing, and he would make tangible, necessary steps  to prevent New START from expiring, to make sure the catastrophic  consequences of a new nuclear arms race are averted.

Unless there is dramatic action, the world will be a much more  dangerous place after February 4. We cannot let that happen.

Again, I thank Mr. Foster for his time and for allowing me to join  him on this important topic.