Marking the 15th Annual International Day Against Nuclear Tests


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694764/marking-the-15th-annual-international-day-against-nuclear-tests


Ms. TITUS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to mark the 15th annual International  Day Against Nuclear  Tests on August 29th, and to commend the Republic of Kazakhstan for its  role in working collaboratively with the United States to pursue  nuclear disarmament and our shared nonproliferation goals. In doing so,  our two countries have preserved peace, stability, and a world free  from the ever-present threat of nuclear conflict.

When the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991, it left behind 35,000  nuclear weapons at sites across the Eurasian landmass. With thousands  of nuclear-armed ICBMs in places like Belarus and Ukraine, the newly- formed Republic of Kazakhstan inherited the world's fourth-largest  nuclear arsenal, which was also home of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test  site. From Semipalatinsk's establishment in 1946 to its decommission in  1995, Soviet authorities carried out 468 nuclear tests at the test  site. The total impact of these tests between 1949 and 1963 was 2,500  times more powerful than the atomic bomb the U.S. dropped on Hiroshima.  The toxic radioactive fallout these tests yielded caused irreparable  damage to more than 1.3 million people in Kazakhstan and severe  ecological harm to the area surrounding the test site.

In 1989, before the dissolution of the Soviet Union, anti-nuclear war  activists in Kazakhstan established the Nevada-Semipalatinsk Movement.  This grassroots initiative supported by victims of Nevada's own nuclear  legacy sought the closure of Semipalatinsk and the cessation of nuclear  testing. Of the 18 planned detonations in 1989, 11 were stopped thanks  to the group's committed advocacy and resilience. The Nevada- Semipalatinsk Movement underscores the bond and shared history between  Nevadans and Kazakhs.

Despite any strategic advantage that retention of the Soviet Union's  arsenal may have provided to Kazakhstan, its leadership understood the  potential political, humanitarian, and environmental ramifications of  its development. On August 29, 1991, Kazakhstan made the historic and  noble decision to close the Semipalatinsk test site. In its place, the  National Nuclear Center of Kazakhstan was established to assist in  eliminating the infrastructure for the storage and use of nuclear  weapons. It would also provide scientific and technical support for the  peaceful use of atomic energy.

In 1992, Kazakhstan ratified the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty  (START 1) and a few years later, all of Kazakhstan's 104 ICBMs were  safely removed and destroyed. The Kazakh government doubled-down on its  commitment to global peace, security, and nonproliferation by becoming  a party to the Treaty on Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons in 1993,  a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency in 1994, and a  cosigner of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty in 1996.

Meanwhile, in partnership with the United States, Kazakhstan removed  1,322 pounds of highly enriched uranium from the Ulba Metallurgical  Plant under the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. As  part of this program, our two countries took monumental steps to remove  residual materials and technologies related to weapons of mass  destruction in Kazakhstan, signaling a major shift in the global  security and political paradigm and building momentum that catalyzed  the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty.

In 2010, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution  calling for an International Day Against Nuclear Tests. Thus, August  29th was selected to commend and recognize Kazakhstan's honorable  decision to close the Semipalatinsk test site and renounce nuclear  weapons.

With Cold War-style nuclear saber-rattling becoming the new norm, it  is important, on this International Day Against Nuclear Tests, to  highlight the successful steps taken by the United States and  Kazakhstan to mitigate the dangers of nuclear weapons, institute global  nonproliferation regimes, and adhere to international norms around  nuclear testing.