Nuclear Testing Opposition


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696970/nuclear-testing-opposition


Ms. TITUS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to voice my opposition to  President Trump's announcement that the United States will resume  explosive nuclear testing.

Nevada was the focal point of nuclear development during the Cold  War. Over four decades, the Nevada Test Site, which is located just 100  miles north of Las Vegas, hosted over 900 nuclear  tests, more than any other place in the country. Throughout the 1950s,  visible mushroom clouds often rose over the desert and could be seen in  the distance by people who came to enjoy all Las Vegas had to offer.

These tests were conducted to better understand the powers and  effects of nuclear weapons, and the site played a major role in shaping  national and international policies involving nuclear testing and  nonproliferation.

The radiation, however, given off by the more than 100 atmospheric  tests had devastating impacts on those downwind. The fallout caused  cancer and premature deaths for thousands across the Southwest. That is  why earlier this year, I introduced the PRESUME Act, which would ensure  that radiation-exposed veterans who had been exposed to this radiation  would receive their rightful benefits from the VA.

In addition, the 800 underground tests sometimes vented, letting out  radioactive contaminants into the air and the groundwater supply. These  are problems we are still dealing with today. Radioactivity levels in  the water are declining over time, but elements such as plutonium and  uranium are likely to pose risks for thousands of years.

You may remember in 2020, the first Trump administration called for a  resumption of nuclear testing at the Nevada Test Site. This was in  breach of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Back then, in  response to that, I led the charge to the FY21 NDAA process to ensure  that nuclear testing would not be resurrected in the U.S., but ``the  more things change, the more they stay the same''; ``plus ca change,  plus c'est la meme chose.''

On October 29, just this year, Trump announced that he is directing  the Department of Defense to resume nuclear testing in a disastrous but  not surprising policy reversal. This is because it is mentioned in  Project 2025.

On page 399 of Project 2025, which is the blueprint for the Trump  administration, you see a call for the rejection of the Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. This would not only allow nuclear testing here  at home but will give the green light to countries around the world to  resume and do the same.

The result would put us on a collision course of catastrophic  proportions with Russia and China. It would undermine the entire arms  control regime, and it would allow proliferation of these weapons into  nonnuclear states. At the same time, it would, again, put the health of  Nevadans in jeopardy.

In fact, we have already seen that Putin has directed his forces to  prepare to resume nuclear testing. Just this week, The Washington Post  reported that China is rapidly expanding and modernizing its  infrastructure at the nuclear testing site in Xinjiang province.

There is no technical, national security, or political reason for the  U.S. to resume nuclear testing. At the test site, we already do  groundbreaking experiments and simulations with our existing stockpile  to make sure our arsenal is safe, secure, and reliable. All this is  done without any explosion. It is a scientific experiment called  subcritical and is far more helpful to understanding how the weapon  will perform than setting off an explosion in the desert.

Our leadership on arms control and nonproliferation has clearly come  to an end, and the world is becoming a more dangerous place. Note: For  the first time ever, the U.S. was the only country to vote ``no'' on a  recent U.N. resolution supporting the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty. You know, not even North Korea voted ``no'' on this provision,  so what kind of signal does that send?

Amidst all this nuclear testing saber-rattling, the New START Treaty,  which is the only remaining arms control agreement between the U.S. and  Russia, is set to expire in just 77 days.

For these reasons, I have introduced the Renewing Efforts to Suspend  Testing and Reinforce Arms Control Initiative Now, the RESTRAIN Act.  This would prohibit the resumption of nuclear testing. I urge my  colleagues to join me in supporting this and getting this passed before  we begin another arms race.