Opposition to Explosive Nuclear Testing


Ms. TITUS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to voice my opposition to President  Trump's announcement that the United States will resume explosive  nuclear weapons testing. As a former political science professor,  scholar of history of nuclear weaponry, and now a Member of Congress  representing Southern Nevada, I have learned a thing or two about our  nuclear legacy.

Nevada was the focal point of nuclear development during the Cold  War. Over four decades, the Nevada Test Site, which is located just 100  miles north of Las Vegas, hosted over 900 nuclear tests--more than any  other location in the United States. Throughout the 1950s, visible  mushroom clouds often loomed in the distance as people enjoyed all that  Las Vegas had to offer. These tests were conducted to better understand  the power and effects of nuclear weapons, and the site played a major  role in shaping national and international policies regarding nuclear  testing and non-proliferation.

The radiation given off by the more than 100 atmospheric tests,  however, had devastating impacts on those downwind. The fallout caused  cancer and premature deaths for thousands across the West. That's why I  introduced the PRESUME Act which would ensure radiation-exposed  veterans receive their rightful benefits from the VA. The 800  underground tests sometimes vented out radioactive contaminants  entering the air and the groundwater supply, a problem that we are  still dealing with today.

Earlier this year, the Nevada state legislature passed a resolution  urging the federal government to maintain the moratorium on nuclear  weapons testing that went into effect in 1992, citing risks of  environmental damage and health hazards from previous tests at the  Nevada National Security Site.

You may remember, in 2020 the first Trump Administration called for a  resumption of nuclear testing in breach of the Comprehensive Nuclear  Test Ban Treaty. Back then, I led the charge in the FY21 NDAA process  to ensure that explosive nuclear testing could not be resurrected in  the United States.

But the more things change, the more they stay the same. Plus ca  change, plus c'est la meme chose.

On October 29, Trump announced that he is directing the Department of  Defense to resume nuclear testing in a disastrous policy reversal, but  not surprising as this is featured in Project 2025--the policy  blueprint for the Trump Administration. On page 399, Project 2025 calls  for the rejection of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. This would not  just allow nuclear testing here at home but will also give the green  light to other nuclear powers around the world to do the same. The  result would put us on a collision course of catastrophic proportions  with Russia and China, allow the proliferation of these weapons to non- nuclear states that seek its development, and put the health of  Nevadans once again in jeopardy.

By foolishly announcing his intention to resume nuclear explosive  testing, Trump will trigger a dangerous nuclear arms race that would  blow apart the nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. In fact, Vladimir Putin  has already directed his forces to prepare a resumption of nuclear  testing and, just this week, the Washington Post reported that China is  rapidly expanding and modernizing infrastructure at its nuclear testing  site in the Xinjiang Province.

There is no technical, national security, or political reason for the  U.S. to resume nuclear explosive testing. If a nuclear power resumes  testing because the U.S. is abandoning the testing moratorium, those  countries will develop new types of warheads and close the scientific  and technical advantage we have always enjoyed in warhead design. It  would be a net detriment to U.S. national security. Furthermore, at the  Nevada National Security Site, scientists do groundbreaking experiments  and simulations on our existing stockpile to make sure our nuclear  arsenal is safe, secure, and reliable. These sub-critical tests are  done without an explosion of any kind.

With the President's announcement, we have abandoned our leadership  position in arms control and non-proliferation. Note: For the first  time ever, the U.S. was the only country to vote no on a recent UN  resolution supporting the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty and the global  nuclear testing moratorium. Not even North Korea opposed it. What kind  of signal does this send? Amidst all this nuclear saber-rattling, the  New START treaty, which is  the last remaining arms control agreement between the United States and  Russia, expires in exactly 77 days.

For these reasons, I introduced the RESTRAIN Act to prohibit the  resumption of explosive nuclear testing and prevent any funds from  going toward Trump's misguided policy.

Nevadans are overwhelmingly opposed to the resumption of explosive  testing. In a 2024 study done by Searchlight Research, 73 percent of  Nevadans said they are opposed to explosive nuclear testing on any  kind.

President Trump may think that testing will make the country safer,  but in reality, it puts the whole world in jeopardy and makes Nevadans  sicker in the process. I urge all of my colleagues to join me and  cosponsor my RESTRAIN Act.