Sloan Canyon Conservation and Lateral Pipeline Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698163/sloan-canyon-conservation-and-lateral-pipeline-act


Ms. TITUS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues for their kind words of  support. I, too, am rising today in support of this bill, H.R. 972,  that I brought before you. It is the Sloan Canyon Conservation and  Lateral Pipeline Act.

As we barrel toward record low water projections at Lake Mead and the  increasing risk of prolonged drought due to climate change, there is no  time to waste in securing water reliability for southern Nevadans.

My bill would allow a portion of the Southern Nevada Water  Authority's Horizon Lateral water pipeline project to tunnel beneath  Sloan Canyon National Conservation Area. This pipeline will increase  water reliability for over a million southern Nevadans. It will fortify  the region's water infrastructure against potential outages, and it  will minimize disruptions and impacts to the surrounding communities.

The proposed underground route beneath the Sloan Canyon National  Conservation Area is estimated to save southern Nevadans at least $200  million, while minimizing disturbances to both residents and the local  environment.

This route for the Horizon Lateral water pipeline also ensures the  water delivery system's redundancy in emergency situations, and it  offers flexibility to accommodate the needs of a growing community.

Finally, this legislation expands the Sloan Canyon National  Conservation Area by 9,290 acres to enhance the preservation of the  desert landscapes and habitat unique to southern Nevada.

I call that a win-win-win. It is no wonder that my legislation  received bipartisan support in the House Natural Resources Committee,  and I thank my colleagues for that. It is also supported by businesses,  conservationists, and the Southern Nevada Water Authority.

Mr. Speaker, I thank you for your attention to this, and I urge my  colleagues to vote ``yes'' today on this critical legislation for  southern Nevada's water future.