Welcoming His All-Holiness Bartholomew I, Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695407/welcoming-his-all-holiness-bartholomew-i-ecumenical-patriarch-of-constantinople


Ms. TITUS. Mr. Speaker, as a Vice Co-Chair of the Hellenic Caucus and  a proud Greek-American, I rise today to welcome His All-Holiness  Bartholomew I, Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople, to the United  States, the spiritual leader of the Orthodox Christian community around  the world. His All-Holiness's visit to Washington, D.C. and New York is  yet another demonstration of his commitment to peace, his see, and the  millions of Orthodox Christians in the United States.

Born Demetrios Arhondonis in 1940 on the island of Imvros (today,  Gokceada, Turkey), His All-Holiness Bartholomew was elected in October  1991 as the 270th Archbishop of the 2000-year-old Church founded by the  Apostle Andrew. His formal office is Archbishop of Constantinople-New  Rome and Ecumenical Patriarch, a historic title dating to the sixth  century. The Ecumenical Patriarch received his elementary and secondary  education in Imvros and Istanbul. After completing undergraduate  studies at the historic Theological School of Halki, he pursued  graduate studies at the Pontifical Oriental Institute of the Gregorian  University in Rome (Italy), the Ecumenical Institute in Bossey  (Switzerland), and the University of Munich (Germany). His doctoral  dissertation, submitted to the University of Athens (Greece), was in  the field of Canon Law, and he was a founding member of the Society of  Canon Law of the Oriental Churches. Ordained to the Diaconate in 1961  and to the Priesthood in 1969, he served as Assistant Dean at the  Theological School of Halki (1968 to 1972) before his appointment as  Personal Secretary to the late Ecumenical Patriarch Demetrios (1972 to  1990) as well as his election as Metropolitan of Philadelphia (1973)  and, subsequently, Metropolitan of Chalcedon (1990).

His see, the Ecumenical Patriarchate, once possessed holdings as vast  as the Vatican but has been reduced to a small, besieged enclave in a  decaying corner of Istanbul called the Phanar (Lighthouse). Almost all  of its property has been seized by successive Turkish governments, its  schools have been closed, and its prelates are taunted by extremists  who demonstrate almost daily outside the Patriarchate, calling for its  ouster from Turkey. The Patriarch himself is often jeered and  threatened when he ventures outside his walled enclave. He is  periodically burned in effigy by Turkish chauvinists. Petty bureaucrats  take pleasure in harassing him, summoning him to their offices to  question him about irrelevant issues, blocking his efforts to make  repairs in the few buildings still under his control, and issuing  veiled threats about what he says and does when he travels abroad. The  Turkish government as a whole follows a policy that deliberately  beIittles him, refusing to recognize his ecumenical status as the  spiritual leader of a major religious faith.

In September 1955, when Bartholomew was studying in Istanbul, he  witnessed a massive pogrom against the city's Greek neighborhoods that  left them looking ``like the bombed parts of London during the Second  World War,'' as one British journalist reported. While the police  ``stood idly by or cheered on the mob,'' according to a report of the  U.S. consul, 4,000 Greek shops and 2,000 homes were sacked and  plundered, 38 churches were burned to the ground and 35 more  desecrated, and 52 schools were destroyed. More than a dozen people  were killed and scores were injured during the riots, beginning a cycle  of violence and intimidation that has seen Istanbul's Greek population  reduced from 200,000 when the riots erupted to less than 2,000 today.

At a time when hostility and misunderstanding between the Christian  and Muslim worlds have reached a deadly standoff, Patriarch  Bartholomew, who speaks seven languages including Turkish, has made a  deliberate effort to reach out to Muslims throughout the Middle East.  ``It is our strong belief that Orthodox Christians have a special  responsibility to assist East-West rapprochement,'' he noted. ``For,  like the Turkish Republic, we have a foot in both worlds.'' Pointing  out that Orthodox Christians have a 550-year history of co-existence  with Muslims in the Middle East, he has initiated a series of meetings  with Muslim leaders throughout the region in what he calls ``a dialogue  of loving truth.'' To strengthen that dialogue, he has traveled to  Libya, Syria, Egypt, Iran, Jordan, Azerbaijan, Qatar, and Bahrain, and  met political and religious figures in those countries, whom no other  Christian hierarch has ever visited. As a result, the Patriarch has  created more bridges between Christianity and Islam than any other  prominent Christian leader.

The Patriarch's concerns are not just limited to interfaith conflicts  but have expanded to embrace all of God's creation. He has shown such  concern for the environment that he has become widely known as ``the  Green Patriarch.'' He famously declared shortly after he assumed the  ecumenical throne in 1991 that ``crime against the natural world is a  sin.'' Human beings and the environment, he stated, ``compose a  seamless garment of existence, a multicolored cloth, which we believe  to be woven in its entirety by God.'' The world, he told a 1997  conference of environmentalists in Santa Barbara, California, ``is not  ours to use for our own convenience. It is God's gift of love to us,  and we must return his love by protecting it and all that is in it.''

To back up his words with action, Bartholomew launched a series of  initiatives to raise worldwide concern for the environment. In 1992 he  proposed to all Orthodox churches that September 1st be celebrated as a  special day of prayer for the environment. In 1995 he started a series  of environmental conferences, inviting prominent scientists, political  leaders, theologians, ecologists, and journalists to embark on weeklong  trips to examine the destruction that pollution has caused on major  waters. Designed to draw international attention to the ecological  degradation of the areas they visit, five such floating conferences  have taken place in the past decade to the Black Sea, the Aegean, the  Adriatic, the Baltic and the Danube River. For his work to combat  pollution, the Patriarch was chosen in 2002 to receive Norway's Sophie  Prize, the most important international award given for leadership on  the environment. He donated the $100,000 prize money to the poor  children of Ethiopia, Greece, and Turkey. ``We are losing time,''  Bartholomew warned while accepting the award, ``and the more we wait,  the more difficult and irreparable the damage.''

Although his efforts have brought him little relief from his problems  in Turkey, they have been recognized around the world, including by the  U.S. Congress, which gave him its highest award, the Congressional Gold  Medal, in a ceremony in the Capitol. ``The greatest lesson about  America lies under this magnificent dome,'' he told the assembled  legislators. ``The Pentagon embodies might, but the Capitol embodies  right. In these halls, different points of view meet and are reconciled  . . . And--most important to the Orthodox Church during many dark  ages--in these halls human rights are preserved and human dignity is  enhanced.''

Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew is a leading figure in the dialogues  of the Abrahamic Faiths--Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, and his  presence in Washington, D.C. is an extraordinary opportunity to  highlight the positive role that religious leaders of his stature bring  to the myriad causes we in Congress grapple with each day.

In addition to welcoming His All-Holiness to the United States and  recognizing his lifetime of service and commitment to peace, I also ask  that the House join me in congratulating Patriarch Bartholomew for  receiving this year's Templeton Prize. Established in 1972, the  Templeton Prize honors individuals whose exemplary achievements advance  Sir John Templeton's philanthropic vision: harnessing the power of the  sciences to explore the deepest questions of the universe and  humankind's place and purpose within it. At this year's ceremony, His  All-Holiness will be honored for ``pioneering efforts to bridge  scientific and spiritual understandings of humanity's relationship with  the natural world [which] have brought together people of different  faiths to heed a call for stewardship of creation.''

It is my hope that His All-Holiness's trip is not only a resounding  success, but brings with it a message for all of us as legislators to  recommit ourselves to complementing his vital work of building bridges,  protecting God's creation, and advancing the cause of peace around the  world.