Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. MRVAN. Mr. Chairman, I thank the ranking member for yielding me  time.

Mr. Chairman, as an elected official, one of the greatest honors of  my career has been standing shoulder to shoulder with veterans of  northwest Indiana. I have worked tirelessly to ensure they receive the  world-class care and benefits they have bravely earned in service to  our Nation.

Indiana's First Congressional District is home to nearly 40,000  veterans. Every single day, I fight to ensure that the Department of  Veterans Affairs fulfills its sacred promise to those who wore the  uniform. That means making sure the VA has the staffing, resources, and  funding necessary to deliver the high-quality care that our heroes  deserve.

It is with deep regret and strong conviction that I oppose this  proposal because it fails our veterans. It fails to meet the  obligations we owe those who answered the call of duty.

In particular, I have heard the voices of veterans and their families  in northwest Indiana, voices filled with concern and fear. They are  worried that the cuts to VA staffing will strip away access to critical  care and essential services. We cannot and must not allow that  to happen.

Our Nation made a promise. We must honor it with action and not empty  words.

I have also heard from veterans who have continued their mission of  service by joining the Federal workforce only now to face uncertainty  about their futures. These patriots, who once defended our freedoms,  now work to uphold the very institutions they once served in uniform.  Nearly 30 percent of the Federal workforce is made up of veterans.  Cutting staff just doesn't jeopardize care. It threatens the jobs and  livelihoods of those who have already sacrificed so much for this  country.

I stand ready for the debate ahead. Let's be clear: These cuts are  coming at exactly the wrong time. Instead of reducing services, we  should be expanding them in the wake of the Honoring our PACT Act.

Veterans exposed to toxic substances deserve swift justice. Right  now, the average time for processing a claim is 165 days. Over 2.3  million claims have been submitted, and more than 6,000 of those  veterans are right in my district, Indiana's First Congressional  District. That number represents hope and progress.

I have to ensure and uphold a duty to the brave men and women who  have served.