Providing for Consideration of S. Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law- Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699934/providing-for-consideration-of-s-veterans-accessibility-advisory-committee-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-undersea-cable-protection-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-securing-americas-critical-minerals-supply-act


Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, the SAVE America Act makes it  harder for Americans to vote. As a member of the Subcommittee on  Elections, my responsibility is to protect access at the ballot box,  not to restrict it.

That is why I offered several comments and amendments to preserve  online voter registration, ensure due process when an eligible citizen  is denied the right to vote, mandate that citizenship only needs to be  proven once, and allow the use of an expired passport to register to  vote.

My amendments sought to limit the harm that this bill would cause and  ensure that every citizen had accessible and secure ways to register  and cast a ballot. This seems normal to me. This isn't about ID. This  is about access. This is about procedures that will minimize the  inconvenience to the United States citizens to cast their ballots.

Despite these facts, Republicans on the Rules Committee unanimously  blocked these amendments from even being considered. That tells you  everything you need to know. This isn't about making it easier for  Americans to vote. It isn't about so-called election integrity. It is  about tilting the playing field.

Republicans are losing support because voters aren't buying their  ideas. Instead of changing their policies, they are trying to silence  the American people at the ballot box. It is not working for their  rigged, gerrymandered districts. It is not working for this effort to  try to preclude people from registering to vote.

If Republicans really cared about people registering to vote, they  would have online voter registration. The majority would make it to  where people didn't have to go to one registrar's office in the middle  of a county only during working hours when they are working their own  shifts and they are not able to get there. How are people expected to  register to vote under these rules?

If my Republican colleagues really cared, they would open it up. They  would make online registration the rule and the law of the land.

It is shameful. It is undemocratic. I urge my colleagues in this  Chamber to vote ``no'' on this bill.