Republicans' Assault on American Arts, Culture, and Public Knowledge


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691316/republicans-assault-on-american-arts-culture-and-public-knowledge


Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today we are seeing a full scale  assault on the arts, culture, and public knowledge in America by Trump  and Republicans in this Congress.

The administration has made it clear: They are not just trying to  defund NPR, PBS, or make changes to the Library of Congress, they are  trying to dismantle every institution that informs, educates, and  inspires the American people.

From Sesame Street to the Smithsonian, from symphony halls to small- town libraries, Republicans are waging a culture war on anything they  cannot control.

Their goal is simple: Erase facts, silence independent voices,  replace them with partisan noise, and use them as propaganda machines  to spread disinformation and continue to divide our Nation.

The latest example is President Trump's removal of Dr. Carla Hayden  as Librarian of Congress, a respected public servant with decades of  experience, and his illegal installation of personal attorney, Todd  Blanche, in her place. He is not a librarian or a scholar but only a  Trump loyalist.

It doesn't stop there. Republicans have repeatedly pushed to zero out  funding for NPR, a lifeline for rural news and local journalism. They  have attacked PBS, which brings educational programming to children who  don't have access to cable or broadband.

For decades, American children have learned from Big Bird and Elmo.  These aren't just TV characters. They have become part of the joys of  growing up in this country, and Republicans want to deny our kids the  joy and the opportunity to learn for generations in the future.

These cornerstones of our civic life belong to the public. Arts and  culture should not be partisan. They are how we tell our stories. They  are how we learn. They are how we connect across communities, across  cultures, and across language. They are worth defending.

Congress must protect these institutions. We must safeguard NPR, PBS,  and the Library of Congress from being turned into propaganda tools. We  must make clear that knowledge, truth, and creativity are not the  enemies of democracy, but instead, they are its very foundation.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans in this House are proposing a budget that  includes devastating cuts to Medicaid.  These are cuts they know will negatively impact their constituents,  just like they would mine in north Texas.

This isn't about balancing a budget, responsibly cutting spending, or  making government more efficient. This is about trying to balance the  books on the backs of working families, children, seniors, and people  with disabilities.

In Texas, these healthcare cuts will be catastrophic. We already have  the highest uninsured rate in the country, with nearly 5 million people  in Texas lacking health coverage. Mr. Speaker, one in four Texas  children rely on Medicaid or CHIP, and more than one-half of Texas  births are covered by Medicaid.

These cuts would gut funding for rural hospitals, eliminate access to  care for thousands of Texans with disabilities, and put even more  pressure on emergency rooms that are already stretched very thin,  causing hospitals to close and making it even harder to find care.

It is cruel. It is reckless. It is part of a broader agenda that  prioritizes tax breaks for Trump and his friends over healthcare for  the people who need it the very most.

Instead of expanding Medicaid like we should have done over a decade  ago, Republicans are trying to dismantle this basic-needs program  altogether.

I won't stand by while they try to take healthcare away from Texans  who need it most. I will fight tooth and nail to protect Medicaid, to  protect our hospitals, and to make sure no Texan is left behind simply  because they are sick, struggling, or don't make enough money to exceed  the meager income limits for Medicaid.

Republicans should be working with us to build a stronger, more  equitable health system instead of destroying the one lifeline millions  of Texans rely on.

Mr. Speaker, Medicaid is the foundation of our healthcare system. It  is good for business. It is good for our economy, and it is good for  the American people.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to  join Democrats in defense of this vital program.