Respect for Science and Pursuit of Truth


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695652/respect-for-science-and-pursuit-of-truth


Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about a  topic that should transcend partisanship: respect for science and the  pursuit of truth.

History shows us that when nations embrace science, they grow  stronger. When they suppress it, they grow weaker and often less free.

Throughout our history, we have witnessed dictators and authoritarian  leaders suppress science and knowledge because it threatened their  rule.

In Nazi Germany, Jewish scientists were forced out of universities,  and research was put under complete control of the government. The  result was not only the loss of a generation of brilliant minds but a  society in which truth itself was subjugated to government propaganda.

In Stalin's Soviet Union, biology was condemned as ``bourgeois  science.'' Researchers who insisted on facts rather than ideology were  imprisoned, killed, or sent to work in slave labor.

Even as far back as Mao's Cultural Revolution, China dismantled  academic institutions, silenced experts, and elevated loyalty over  knowledge. Generations lost their chance at education, and the nation's  progress was stunted.

Mr. Speaker, if we do not learn from our history, we are doomed to  repeat it. We are witnessing the same pattern repeating in our own  lifetime.

In Hungary, Viktor Orban has taken over universities, closed  independent institutions, and forced academic programs to shut down  when they contradict his political goals.

In Russia, Vladimir Putin has jailed scientists and censored  research, all to preserve the illusion of control and strength.

What these regimes have in common is simple: They know that science,  at its core, is a challenge to authoritarianism. Science is a search  for truth. It cannot be dictated by politicians, so when science  becomes an affront to the goals of authoritarian leaders, they attack  it, suppress it, deny it, and replace it with propaganda and  misinformation.

Here at home, Donald Trump is following the same playbook. He has  mocked climate scientists, dismissed decades of evidence, even as  Americans suffer record floods, droughts, and wildfires.

Donald Trump has undermined doctors and public health officials by  putting the Nation's leading vaccine denier in charge of our public  health. Trump has promoted unproven cures for diseases, cut billions in  critical research funding, and dismantled advisory boards that create  avenues for government to work with scientists to make good policy.

In his 2026 budget, Trump is proposing to eliminate funding for the  Administration for Community Living, which supports older and disabled  Americans; the Department of Health and Human Services' Prevention and  Public Health Fund; the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Trust Fund;  the Pediatric Brain Tumor Consortium, an association of 16 academic  centers and children's hospitals dedicated to trials of novel  treatments for pediatric brain cancer; and so much more.

We need to understand why this is happening and why Republicans in  this Congress are supporting it. These attacks are not random. They are  deliberate, and they prove a tendency by this President to emulate the  authoritarians of the past and present.

Trump's goal is to erode trust in experts, replace facts with  loyalty, and convince Americans that only one man and one government  can be trusted to define what is right and what is wrong. When a leader  can erase truth and rewrite reality, they can justify anything. They  can jail opponents. They can seize power and ignore the judges and the  rule of law. They undermine the very essence of democracy itself.

Mr. Speaker, science is not partisan. It is not our political enemy.  It is a safeguard against lies and misinformation. When our Nation's  top leaders attack it, they are not only rejecting evidence. They are  rejecting accountability.

America has always been strongest when we embrace discovery and not  denial. When we put researchers, innovators, and problem-solvers to  work--from curing polio to sending humans to the Moon and leading  breakthroughs in clean energy and technology--our greatness has always  come from empowering science, not mocking it.

Trump and Republicans are working to gut these critical advancements.  Their tactics echo the worst chapters of history, and they mirror the  tactics of authoritarian regimes today. If we fail to call this out, we  risk normalizing it.

I believe the American people know what is at stake. They know that  progress, safety, and freedom depend on science and truth, and truth  cannot be dictated from a bully pulpit.

Defending science means defending democracy. It is about making sure  our children inherit a nation that values evidence over propaganda and  freedom over fear.

We cannot let authoritarians' attack on truth take root here. We  cannot let science become the casualty of politics because if we do,  history shows us exactly where that road will lead.