Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690011/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the  Republicans' voter suppression act.

I want to give Republicans one chance to actually fulfill the  rhetoric that they are spouting to the American people, which is  actually giving people the right to vote.

I appreciate efforts to ensure that our elections are safe and free  from foreign interference and that only U.S. citizens can vote.  However, one of my concerns with this bill is, as it is written, it  does not allow for mail or online voter registration.

This bill, let me be perfectly clear, requires hardworking American  people who go to work at 8 in the morning and who don't get off until 5  p.m. to go in person to a voter registration office, to take off work  to go in person to register to vote.

That is why I have offered an amendment to have online voter  registration. There are millions of servicemembers and their families  serving our country overseas, individuals with disabilities, and  seniors who are unable to vote in person. Why are we keeping these  barriers for eligible citizens when the world is evolving around us?

We live in modern times, and so many of our lives happen online for  daily activities. We can pay our bills and we can pay our taxes online.  You can apply for college, a car, a home, and everything else online.

For this reason, at the appropriate time, I will offer a motion to  recommit  this bill back to committee. If the House rules permitted, I would have  offered the motion with my commonsense amendment to this bill.

My amendment would ensure Americans could still register to vote and  prove their citizenship online or by mail. This is a simple,  commonsense amendment, and it would make certain that we can care for  the people who can't get out of their homes and that this Congress is  not depriving any eligible citizens of their right to vote.

Republicans have refused this amendment. Republicans are refusing  your ability to go and make it easy for citizens to register to vote in  this country. Republicans can now vote to pass this amendment.

Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the  desk.

Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.