Tragic Storms in Texas


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693655/tragic-storms-in-texas


Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with a heavy heart to  mourn the loss of so many lives across Texas. We lost the hope of our  future, so many children, so many beautiful girls, who just went to  camp to have a good time, to bond with their friends, and to have that  time that we all cherish from our memories of our own childhood.

Too many lives have been lost. We have the responsibility as members  of government to have a look at why, what happened, what could we do  better, and how can we make sure that things like this never, ever,  ever happen again.

What we know, unfortunately, is that partisan politics had a role.  Republicans have historically denied the ongoing effects of climate  change and what is happening in our country.

Over the last decade, we have had more and more intense storms,  unexpected, throughout the entire country, but surely in Texas. We have  had freezes that have killed hundreds of people, and now we had a 1-in- 100-year catastrophic rainstorm that produced horrific floods and  tragic loss of life.

What happened in this policy is that Republicans at every level of  government in our State failed the people of Texas. At the local level,  they refused to have support grants from the Biden administration that  would have put in place critical sirens and warning equipment that  would have warned these kids at this camp to get out, flee, and seek  higher ground.

What we know is that communities that accepted these resources, they  all survived. The warnings worked. This community didn't want to accept  help from a Democrat, and now we have hundreds of people who are dead.

Requests were made from the State to help, ultimately, and our  Governor denied requests three times for over a million dollars each  time that they would have, again, tried to provide warning equipment,  again failing.

Now what we have in our Federal Government is FEMA. FEMA is designed  to be there as a last resort for communities when these unimaginable  tragedies strike. FEMA trains and provides our first responders, the  first line of defense, the people that go in and risk their lives at a  time when it is most dangerous. They can't do it alone, and FEMA  provides critical training, resources, and supplementation.

FEMA is designed to have an immediate response within a minimum of 15  hours. However, under President Trump and his canceling of FEMA,  defunding FEMA, firing FEMA employees, terminating hundreds of FEMA  employees, it was over 72 hours before critical resources were brought  into Texas. Mr. Speaker, 72 hours is critical when you are floating in  a river and you need help. In these situations, 72 hours make the  difference between life and death, and Trump and our Federal Government  failed.

After Katrina, we saw how inadequate FEMA can be sometimes. We saw  the disaster of government when it didn't work. Congress put in place  some measures to repeal and increase FEMA. One of those was you have to  hire an experienced administrator of FEMA, somebody who knows what they  are doing, because this isn't a time to play around. This  administration hired as the director of FEMA somebody who never even  knew whether or not a hurricane season existed, somebody who has no  experience in this area.

Homeland Security Secretary Noem put in place measures, cost-cutting  measures, that catastrophically impacted what the response was in this  situation. Phone calls were never answered. The day after this flood  happened, she canceled the contracts of the people who answer the phone  when you call for help. That is not the response that this government  needs, and we have to do better.

I am calling upon my Republican colleagues, I am calling upon  everyone in this Congress to have us come together because these  tragedies don't just affect Texas. They can affect all of us. Weather  is violent, fierce, and deadly, and it is indiscriminate about where it  strikes, but we have the ability to fix it. I call on my colleagues to  come together. Let's make it better and let's make sure that these  tragedies don't happen again.