Understanding Tariffs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689098/understanding-tariffs


Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I recognize that most Americans  are not economists, trade experts, or well versed in the intricacies of  tax policy. If you will, I want to take this opportunity to sort of  ``Schoolhouse Rock'' tariffs. Let's talk about what they are, how they  work, and how they impact Americans and their families.

Tariffs are taxes on imported goods, plain and simple. When the  government slaps a tariff on a product, it makes the product more  expensive to buy from other countries.

Take your sneakers. Most sneakers are made with rubber, synthetic  fabrics, and leather, stuff that gets imported from China and other  places. Let's say the government puts a tariff on those materials. That  is an extra included tax on materials that make up the sneakers.

Now these products become more expensive to make, and the way that  companies make up for that is passing that cost on to the consumer. A  pair of sneakers that cost $30 might now cost $50 after tariffs are  imposed. You now have to work more to get more money and then pay more  for the same exact pair of sneakers.

The idea of tariffs is to protect American businesses and jobs. The  reality, though, is, as you can see with the sneaker example, it often  backfires. Other countries hit back with their own tariffs, hurting  American manufacturers and workers.

Now, are tariffs always bad? The answer is no. When used correctly,  tariffs can be a powerful tool. They can protect American jobs, boost  key industries, and stop countries like China from flooding our market  with cheap, low-quality goods.

When a country imposes tariffs strategically on industries we need to  rebuild, like steel and manufacturing and technology, we can give  American businesses the breathing room to compete and grow. When  foreign countries play dirty with unfair trade practices, tariffs can  be a productive way to respond to that.

Here is the key: Tariffs have to be smart. When used correctly,  tariffs can defend American industry. When used incorrectly, though,  they are just another tax on working people. Right now, the Trump  administration is using tariffs in the wrong way, and their actions are  causing costs to skyrocket for families in Texas and all American  families.

To be clear, Trump's tariffs on Canada and Mexico are nothing but a  tax on American businesses and consumers. They are two of our biggest  trading partners. For example, Mexico is Texas' largest trading  partner, accounting for one-third of our State's exports. In 2023,  trade between Texas and Mexico totaled more than $272 billion. We trade  so many products with our neighbors to the south that families in Texas  use every day, like tomatoes, greens, avocados, car parts, electronics,  plastics, and the list goes on. With Canada, Texas buys steel and  lumber to build homes to ensure families have a roof over their heads.

All of these products will have higher costs, and the only ones who  will pay more are the families and businesses that buy them. Instead of  strengthening those relationships with our neighbors, Trump's tariffs  are making everything more expensive for us.

What do we get in return? Absolutely nothing. American companies  didn't suddenly stop buying from Canada or Mexico. They just have to  pay more to do it. Meanwhile, those countries have hit back with their  own tariffs, hurting Americans across the board. Instead of using  tariffs for smart trade policy, Trump is using them as a political  stunt that punishes the very people it claims to help.

Madam Speaker, these tariffs are self-inflicted wounds on the  American economy. We see this every day in the stock market with the  market value falling by trillions of dollars over the past few weeks.  Those in their twenties, thirties, and forties have lost tons of money  in their 401(k).

I should also mention something else because I know there is  something more sinister going on. Right now, we have Elon Musk in the  White House. He has been our president since January 20, calling all  the shots and using President Trump as his puppet.

These tariffs will benefit his businesses because they are being  imposed on Elon's competition. This is a clear conflict of interest. It  is wrong, and it is a display of the grift and the greed that the Trump  administration has ushered into this White House.

None of this is about helping American families. None of this is  about lowering costs. This is about Trump and Musk settling scores,  causing chaos, and making sure they line their pockets on the backs of  Americans and the middle class.

Madam Speaker, we need to end these reckless tariffs and get back to  lowering costs for the people we serve.