Jeremy and Angel Seay and Sergeant Brandon Mendoza Protect Our Communities From Duis Act of 2025


Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 530,  I call up the bill (H.R. 875) to amend the Immigration and Nationality  Act to provide that aliens who have been convicted of or who have  committed an offense for driving while intoxicated or impaired are  inadmissible and deportable, and ask for its immediate consideration in  the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. MOORE of Alabama.  875.

Mr. Speaker, today we consider a simple, commonsense bill that says  if you are a guest in our country and you drive drunk, you should, in  fact, be deported.

To the average American, passing this bill is a no-brainer. Even in a  polarized time, Democrats should be able to join Republicans to  unanimously support such reasonable legislation. After all, deporting  dangerous criminals is a rational, normal, and coherent step that this  House should take. Unfortunately, I am skeptical that we will see much  agreement from my Democratic colleagues on this bill.

Regardless, I am thankful the House is considering H.R. 875, the  Jeremy and Angel Seay and Sergeant Brandon Mendoza Protect our  Communities from DUIs Act, a bill that I introduced last Congress and  again this Congress.

Every 45 minutes, that is how often someone in the United States dies  in a crash involving an alcohol-impaired driver.

In 2022 alone, there were 13,524 alcohol-impaired driving fatalities.  In 2020, drunk driving crashes led to nearly 400,000 injuries.

Those crashes do not discriminate, Mr. Speaker. The victim could be  me, it could be you, it could be anyone in our families or in our  communities.

This issue hits close to home for me. There was a newlywed couple  from my hometown of Enterprise, Alabama, named Angel and Jeremy Seay. I  knew this couple personally. I knew their family. I played ball with  their dad. Angel and Jeremy were riding a motorcycle together when, out  of nowhere, an illegal alien under the influence of alcohol collided  into the newlyweds with his pickup. Their lives were cut short by this  senseless act.

Tragedies like this are not uncommon across this country. In December  of 2023, an illegal alien killed a 46-year-old woman and her 16-year- old son in Broomfield, Colorado, when he drove his truck up to 100  miles an hour and ran into the victims' vehicle, causing it to then  crash into a tree. Despite having five previous DUI convictions, a  Boulder, Colorado, county judge sentenced this illegal alien to  probation, community service, and work release on December 8, 2023, in  relation to two of those convictions, just 4 days before the drunk  driver crashed and killed the mother and her son.

Another case to consider is from Florida, where just earlier this  year an illegal alien from Mexico was arrested for his third DUI after  he hit and killed a kindergartner. In Texas, in December of 2024, an  illegal alien killed a 7-year-old girl after he drove drunk, crashed  into a car that was being driven by the girl's mother.

Just months earlier, under the Biden-Harris administration, ICE had  lifted a detainer which had previously been lodged against this illegal  alien after he was arrested for assaulting a family member in June of  2024.

H.R. 875 makes commonsense changes to immigration laws to make an  alien who is convicted or who admits driving under the influence  inadmissible. It also makes an alien convicted of doing so removable.  In fact, 59 Democrats voted in favor of this legislation when I brought  it to the House floor last February.

If you are a guest in our country and you drive drunk, you should be  removed from this country, period.

Drunk drivers are involved in 31 percent of all crash deaths in this  country. On average, drunk driving killed roughly 11,000 people in the  United States every year between 2012 and 2022. Yet, current  immigration law does not make aliens inadmissible or removable if they  drive drunk and recklessly break our laws.

My colleagues across the aisle will undoubtedly argue that this bill  is unnecessary because current law already makes DUI inadmissible and a  deportable offense. However, if that is the case, then why would they  oppose this bill? Even more, their claim that this bill is redundant  could not be further from the truth.

Although some aliens who commit DUIs, such as those who kill or  injure innocent victims, may be found inadmissible or removable, but  the vast majority of the aliens with DUI convictions escape immigration  consequences. In fact, on its website just last year, the Biden-Harris  administration's U.S. Customs and Border Protection clearly stated: ``A  single driving under the influence (DUI) conviction is not grounds to  deny entry into the United States.''

Moreover, the Board of Immigration Appeals has held that a ``simple  DUI offense'' is not a crime involving moral turpitude that would make  an alien removable from the United States. Yet, as we know, any drunk  driving event can lead to death, with consequences that are far from  what they call simple.

We shouldn't have to wait for repeat drunk drivers to injure someone  or kill before they are deported. That is why H.R. 875 is so  imperative. It creates safer streets and safer communities for all of  us.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the  gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Carter), my good friend.

Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the  gentleman from California (Mr. McClintock).

Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Madam Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my  time.

Madam Speaker, I would remind our colleagues that 59 Democrats voted  for this legislation last February when I brought it. We cannot wait  until an illegal driving drunk kills a family member or a member of our  community.

Time and time again, Mothers Against Drunk Driving say that on a DUI,  normally it is 80 times they have driven drunk before they are actually  caught. Statistics show that it is at least a dozen times that people  drive drunk before they are caught.

In Florida, that is why we saw the third time an illegal had a DUI  was when he killed a kindergartner. The fifth time in Colorado, the  judge released him 4 days before an illegal killed a mother and her 16- year-old son.

A friend of mine, a judge who is no longer on the bench, texted me  the other night and thanked me for this piece of legislation. He said  that in the last administration, he knew in the courtroom when that  illegal got the DUI and he turned him over to ICE, they went out, they  got in a white van, and they drove off. They did not detain him.

Time and time again, our communities are suffering because we are not  taking these people and holding them to account and getting them out of  this country.

I encourage my colleagues to get behind this legislation. Americans  look to Congress for solutions to real problems. Despite what my  colleagues on the other side have argued today, drunk driving by aliens  is an issue in this country that must be addressed. This bill does so.

Making guests in our country inadmissible to and removable from the  United States, because they have endangered our communities by driving  drunk, is just plain common sense.

The Jeremy and Angel Seay and Sergeant Brandon Mendoza Protect Our  Communities from DUI Act of 2025 is straightforward.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support it, and I yield back the  balance of my time.