-9999


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1804, the 7(a) Loan Agent  Oversight Act.

The 7(a) loan program is the SBA's largest traditional lending  program, providing access to capital for small businesses that cannot  find it elsewhere. In fiscal year 2024, SBA approved more than 70,000  loans, totaling more than $31 billion.

Loan agents are an integral part of the 7(a) lending program, helping  to facilitate access to capital for small businesses by connecting  borrowers with SBA lenders or by offering other products. As of 2020,  these agents helped facilitate 11 percent of the loans administered.

Unfortunately, some dishonest loan agents can contribute to fraud,  casting a stain on the SBA's largest lending program and, ultimately,  hurting borrowers and lenders alike.

As SBA increases its reliance on loan agents, it is essential that  the agency have proper oversight of their involvement to minimize  fraud. This will ensure that competent and honest agents can help  screen borrowers, prepare forms, and better reach communities that need  this capital most.

That is why this bill is so essential. The 7(a) Loan Agent Oversight  Act would require SBA to establish a registration system that collects  data on 7(a) loan agents to better track and evaluate the performance  of loans for each individual agent.

Mr. McGARVEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues, Mr. Meuser and Mrs.  McIver, for working together in a bipartisan way on behalf of  strengthening the SBA's flagship 7(a) loan program.

For too long, a few bad actors have damaged one of the most  successful small business capital access programs in the Federal  Government. By giving the SBA the tools and authority it needs, we can  root out bad behavior and minimize fraud without punishing loan agents  that are acting in good faith on behalf of their clients and helping  small businesses access the capital they need to grow.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 1804, and I yield back  the balance of my time.