Fighting Dhs Immigration Raids


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697454/fighting-dhs-immigration-raids


Mr. McGARVEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, this isn't an abstract issue. I am hearing every single  day from constituents who are too afraid to go to the grocery store, to  go to school, to go to church, and to go to work. I am hearing from  nonprofits that are already stretched too thin while feeding our hungry  neighbors and are facing even more demand now that Trump is targeting  food assistance and breadwinners are being snatched off of the street.

This is the impact of the Trump administration's cruelty, a yearlong  tirade against immigrants in this country that has blown way past just  targeting violent criminals.

At home in Louisville, we don't have national troops in our backyard  or ICE performing public raids, but it is the quiet, steady increase in  arrests and profiling and detentions that has been devastating to our  community.

So many Louisvilleans, regardless of status, are afraid of being  profiled, attacked, or violently detained just because of how they  look. Masked agents are targeting parents in the pickup lines of their  school. They are dragging mothers out of their cars. They are smashing  windows to arrest old men, separating families in the middle of the  night, and zip tying children.

They are using immigration hearings and check-ins as setups and  defying court orders, and then our neighbors are being shipped off to  countries where they have never even been. They are being held in  detention centers with unspeakable, inhumane conditions with no due  process, no access to attorneys, and no path forward.

This is not immigration policy. This is cruelty for the sake of  cruelty and political theater with real-life consequences.  Indiscriminate arrests do not make anyone safer. Masked agents with  assault rifles and zero accountability don't give anyone peace of mind.  This cruelty doesn't serve anyone.

This isn't just happening in cities that you see on your TV screens.  As we have heard tonight, this is happening everywhere.

Mr. Speaker, to my colleagues across the aisle whose districts run on  the backs of immigrant labor, whose neighbors are just as scared as  mine, who are noticeably silent on this issue, where are you? Why  aren't you protecting your constituents? Why aren't you fighting for  the people who you represent because what you allow your government to  do to someone else, they will one day do to you. Speak up.