Medal of Honor Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my support for H.R. 695, the Medal of  Honor Act.

To join the armed services is an act of profound selflessness. On the  Veterans' Affairs Committee, we recognize the sacrifice and service of  every servicemember who, in the face of uncertainty and danger, took  the oath and chose to commit themselves to a higher purpose.

While every individual servicemember makes sacrifices and dedicates  themselves to this path of honor, there are a select few who  distinguish themselves from the rest.

The Medal of Honor cannot be won. It must be earned through extreme  selflessness and bravery. We recognize this distinguished service with  our Nation's highest military honor, the Medal of Honor.

From the first awardee to the most recent, Medal of Honor recipients  have demonstrated their unwavering commitment to serve above and beyond  the call of duty, even to their own death.

There have been 43 Kentuckians who were awarded the Medal of Honor. I  will just talk about one, Sergeant John C. Squires, a Louisville native  who went from Male High School to the United States Army and served in  Italy in World War II.

It was in April of 1944, in the Italian countryside, that Squires  braved automatic gunfire, artillery, and mortar  fire to carry messages through barbed wire and over minefields, to  organize troops, and bring reinforcements to the front line. With total  disregard for his own well-being, he fought German soldiers day and  night.

He was killed in action. He lies in rest at Zachary Taylor National  Cemetery in Louisville, and a bronze statue of Squires sits atop the  Kentucky Medal of Honor Memorial.

Squires is one of just 3,538 Medal of Honor recipients in our  history. From all who have been awarded, for all of those who earned  this honor, they do so through the acts of service that are incredible.

There is no paycheck that could repay their sacrifice and no thank- you letter that could truly convey our Nation's gratitude. We cannot  ever hope to repay this debt, but we can show our fullest support for  them and their surviving spouses and families by increasing their  annual compensation.

The Medal of Honor Act ensures that servicemembers and their  surviving spouses get an increased pension for their sacrifice, an  increase that properly reflects the gravity of their service.

Currently, the payment of $1,619.34 a month is deeply inadequate.  Medal of Honor recipients go above and beyond the call of duty. It is  only right that we honor their sacrifice with compensation that truly  reflects their extraordinary actions.

These heroes continue to serve, speaking throughout the country and  inspiring our citizens in schools and beyond. They continue to carry  the mantle of courage, sacrifice, patriotism, citizenship, integrity,  and commitment here at home.

There is nothing we can pay them that will ever match their  sacrifice, but voting for this act is a step toward recognizing their  service, courage, and enduring legacy. It is about showing them not  just with words but with action that they are seen and valued and that  they will never ever be forgotten.

Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 695.

Mr. McGARVEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in  supporting H.R. 695, and I yield back the balance of my time.