Muhammad Ali American Boxing Revival Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701209/muhammad-ali-american-boxing-revival-act-of-2026


Mr. McGARVEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Muhammad Ali  American Boxing Revival Act. The term ``GOAT'' gets thrown around a lot  these days. In fact, my middle school son came home recently asking us  to buy him a pair of GOAT sweatpants.  There is a movie that just came out produced by Steph Curry called  ``GOAT.''

But in Louisville, Kentucky, we know that there is only one Greatest  of All Time: Muhammad Ali. His three world titles, his gold medals, his  footwork, his showmanship and charisma, they made him an icon inside  the ring. His work outside the ring, which is arguably more impressive,  cemented that legacy.

He was the GOAT.

Ali often said that he was: the onliest boxer in history who people  asked questions like a Senator. It is only fitting that Congress named  the bill in his honor when they set out to reform the boxing industry.  We do so again today as we consider further reforms.

The first Ali acts in 1996 and 2000 secured significant reforms for  boxers--guaranteeing transparency, protecting fighter safety, trying to  erect a firewall between promoters and managers--but American boxing  remains fractured and favors the interests of sanctioners and promoters  over the fighters themselves.

I think that is why a boxing landscape that produced eight  heavyweight gold medalists in the 10 Olympics between 1952 and 1988 has  not produced a single one since.

Today's bill is a step in the right direction, and I will vote  ``yes.'' But like Ranking Member Scott and Representative Omar, I  believe there is more work to do on this bill before it gets to the  President's desk.

Boxing lifted Cassius Clay from Smoketown and gave Muhammad Ali to  the world. That is a legacy worth fighting for.

I thank my colleagues and my dear friend Lonnie Ali who continues to  fight for boxers and for her late husband's legacy.