Recognizing the Extraordinary Life of Dixie Demuth


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695585/recognizing-the-extraordinary-life-of-dixie-demuth


Mr. McGARVEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and celebrate the  legacy and remarkable life of a Louisville hometown hero, Dixie Demuth,  who fought for equality for women in Kentucky and left a permanent mark  on our city and commonwealth.

Born in 1917 in the famous Samuels House in Samuels, Kentucky, Dixie  moved to Louisville with her mother in 1933 at the height of the Great  Depression. From an early age, she worked in restaurants and bars,  learning the trade in popular downtown spots until she opened her own  place on 5th Street in Louisville. She called it Dixie's Elbow Room.  Although Dixie was allowed to own and run a bar, a two-hundred-year-old  Kentucky law prohibited women from working as bartenders or even  sitting at bars. Dixie decided that just  wasn't right, and, in 1968, she hired her very first woman bartender  and served a woman seated at her bar--her own adult daughter, in fact.

The Kentucky Alcohol Beverage Control Board came down hard and fast,  incensed not only that she was breaking the law but also that she  openly advertised her rulebreaking in the hope that other bar owners  would join her fight, but no one did. Though the ABC shut her down and  took her liquor license, Dixie did not give up the fight. Found guilty  of violating the antiquated state law, Dixie appealed her sentence and  brought her case to the Kentucky Court of Appeals, who decided in her  favor in 1972, calling the law ``invidious and arbitrary.'' Her quiet  revolution behind the counter became a landmark victory for women's  rights in the commonwealth and across the country.

At 100 years old, when asked why she decided to take her bold stand,  Dixie remembered: ``I said this is ridiculous, I'm going to change  that, so I did.'' Dixie died in 2020 at the age of 102, but her legacy  lives on. In 2023, she was inducted into the Kentucky Bourbon Hall of  Fame, which recognizes sacrifice and determination in the bourbon  industry. Louisville Mayor Craig Greenberg recently unveiled a new  historical marker, part of the Louisville Metro Historical Marker  Program, placed where her bar once stood, ensuring that future  generations will learn about Dixie's fight and victory.

As a co-chair of the Congressional Bourbon Caucus, and as a proud son  of Louisville, I am grateful for the path Dixie paved for the bourbon  industry and the many women who work in it. Mr. Speaker, I ask the  House of Representatives to join me in honoring the life and legacy of  Dixie Demuth, as well as to celebrate the unveiling of the historical  marker that enshrines her in our city's history.