Recognizing the Retirement of Sergeant Major Troy E. Black


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694958/recognizing-the-retirement-of-sergeant-major-troy-e-black


Mr. McGARVEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and recognize an  extraordinary American patriot, Sergeant Major Troy E. Black, United  States Marine Corps, on the occasion of his retirement following a  distinguished 37-year career in faithful service to our Nation.

Sergeant Major Black's journey began in Louisville, Kentucky, where  the values of duty, discipline, and perseverance were instilled early  in his life. In July 1988, he answered the call to serve and reported  to Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island. There, he began a journey  that would span nearly four decades and see him rise to the highest  enlisted ranks in the Marine Corps and in our Armed Forces.

After completing infantry school and earning his military  occupational specialty as an 0331-Machine Gunner, Sergeant Major Black  trained at Marine Security Force School before deploying aboard the USS  Forrestal (CV-59) in support of Operation Just Cause. He deployed again  in 1990 with the 3rd Battalion, 5th Marines to Kuwait during Operation  Desert Shield and Desert Storm.

From the beginning, Sergeant Major Black distinguished himself not  only through valor in combat but also as a dedicated mentor and leader.  He served as a two-time drill instructor at Parris Island, ultimately  rising to the roles of Senior Drill Instructor, Drill Instructor School  Instructor, and Drill Master of the Recruit Training Regiment. It was  there, fittingly at the very birthplace of Marine transformation, that  he met his wife Stacie, herself a proud Marine who would later retire  as a First Sergeant.

Following the tragic attacks on our Nation on September 11, 2001,  Sergeant Major Black deployed repeatedly to the frontlines of the  Global War on Terror. With the 2nd Battalion, 1st Marines, he completed  two combat deployments to Iraq during Operation Iraqi Freedom, and  later, with the 3rd Battalion, 7th Marines, he deployed twice more to  Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom.

In one unforgettable moment of heroism, Sergeant Major Black ran  through uncleared territory to rescue a wounded Marine struck by an  IED. For this act of extraordinary courage under fire, he was awarded  the Bronze Star Medal with Combat ``V'', a testament to his unwavering  commitment to those he led.

His exceptional leadership culminated in his appointment as the 19th  Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps, the highest enlisted position in  that service, and subsequently as the 5th Senior Enlisted Advisor to  the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the most senior enlisted  position in the entire U.S. Armed Forces.

Over the course of nearly four decades, Sergeant Major Black's work  has had an immeasurable impact on our Joint Forces servicemembers and  the civilian employees of the Department of Defense. His dedication to  the mission, to the men and women and then families who accomplish it,  and his tireless efforts to lead from the front, have contributed to  the safety and security of all Americans. Today, his legacy lives on  through the Black family, with their daughter, Corporal Are'wynn Black,  following in her parents' footsteps in the Marine Corps.

On behalf of a grateful Nation, I offer my deepest thanks and best  wishes to Sergeant Major Troy Black, to 1st Sergeant Major Stacie  Black, and to their entire family as they begin this well-earned new  chapter.