-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696605/9999


Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, 2 weeks ago, I came to the floor in  support of a bill that we were going to vote on, a motion to proceed  called the Shutdown Fairness Act. It is a pretty simple bill. The name  pretty well describes exactly what it is. It is trying to be fair  during these dysfunctional shutdowns. Any of the Federal workers who  are forced to work because they are in our military, they are in  Federal law enforcement, they are TSA, or they are air traffic  controllers--they are keeping this Nation and Americans safe--if we are  going to force them to work, at a minimum, let's make sure we pay them  and pay them on time.

I came down in as nonpartisan a manner as I possibly could and  literally begged the other side to just join us, vote to proceed to the  bill.

They had some objections to it, things that I was willing to address.  For example, my bill only addressed workers that were forced to work.  They wanted to include furloughed workers. I said on the floor: I am  happy to add that as an amendment. I think, working with my conference,  I can get the conference to support it as well.

It wasn't quite that easy, but in the end, we overcame objections  within our conference to adding furloughed workers.

So we have completely amended the bill now. We have added furloughed  workers.

In the meantime, surprising to me, we had Federal employee worker  unions reach out to us, asking what they could do to help pass this  bill. They are sick and tired of being used as pawns in this political  dysfunction here. They are tired of it.

One of the things that definitely appealed to them once I added the  furloughed workers was that my bill makes it permanent. My bill says:  We will never use you again as a pawn in the political gamesmanship  that is being played out right now.

I am happy to report that the Shutdown Fairness Act, as I now amended  it by adding furloughed workers, is supported by the American  Federation of Government Employees, the Federal Managers Association,  the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the National Air  Traffic Controllers Association.

We tragically had a plane go down early in the week. I am not saying  it is because of air traffic control, but we understand the danger. We  have to understand the risks we are taking in not paying air traffic  controllers so we can fully man our air towers and keep our airspace  safe.

The International Association of Fire Fighters supports my bill. The  Association of Flight Attendants does.

Again, one of the main reasons they support my bill is, in addition  to the fact that we added furloughed workers, my bill makes this  permanent.

191, S. 3012. I further ask  that the Johnson substitute amendment at the desk be considered and  agreed to; that the bill, as amended, be considered read a third time  and passed; and that the motion to reconsider be considered made and  laid upon the table.

Again, I came down here 2 weeks ago. I modified my bill quite  dramatically. We entered talks immediately with the  Senator from Delaware and the Senator from Michigan. Within those  talks--again, 2 weeks ago--they were accusing my bill of giving the  President all this additional authority. In discussions staff to staff,  they admitted there is no additional authority I am giving to the  President in this bill whatsoever.

This bill is completely silent on Presidential authority in terms of  who he can furlough. As a matter of fact, everybody is included, every  employee is now included. There is no discretion whatsoever in terms of  who is furloughed, who gets brought back to work, who gets paid. They  all get paid. The Senator from Michigan is well aware of this.

Those discussions, I would say, petered out within a few days. I  don't know if they are emboldened; just digging their heels in they are  going to continue this shutdown; don't feel they are getting blamed for  it; don't have much pressure on them.

Here we are 2 weeks later, and they want to redline the bill. Well,  in that 2 weeks, we have had our bill examined exhaustively by our  leadership, by OMB, by the unions. Our bill is in a really good place  right now. We tried to think of everything. No Federal employee would  be excluded from this.

The Senator from Michigan says my bill allows the President to pick  and choose. That is total hogwash. Again, every Federal employee,  including contractors, gets paid. There is no picking and choosing.  That is completely false. Money transfers? What is he talking about?  More power? There is no power. It is completely silent in terms of  Presidential authority. These are false arguments.

This is further evidence of the gamesmanship the Democrats are  playing with people's lives. They are the party of Big Government. They  have, in effect, taken a family member hostage.

I see our leader on the floor here. He has been doing everything he  possibly can to help Democrats release their own hostage, open up the  government.

Once you do that, we are more than happy to talk to you about how do  we repair the damage done by ObamaCare and transition to a system that  works.

But they are playing politics. They are using Federal employees and,  quite honestly, the American public right now, whose flights are being  delayed, whose skies are less safe--they are using public employees and  the American public as pawns in this grotesque display of partisanship.

My bill is very simple. It is backed by the public sector unions,  which generally don't support things I am putting forward.

If the Senator insists on objecting to this, preventing these people,  these workers, these people who keep us safe, from getting paid in this  round, my guess is that we will take a vote on this to proceed to the  bill. The problem with that is it will take much more time.

If we can pass this by unanimous consent right now, we could send it  over to the House. The Speaker has already indicated that if we pass  the Shutdown Fairness Act, he will bring his people back. They are on  48-hour call. We could have this passed by Monday. Our skies would be  safer again. Federal employees would be treated fairly. They would be  paid. And they will never ever be used as pawns in this kind of  grotesque partisan gamesmanship.

So I will not modify my request.

Mr. JOHNSON. Absolutely.

Mr. JOHNSON. In reclaiming my time briefly, let me emphasize the fact  that if you pass this now--again, to the Senator from Michigan, I am  literally begging him: Do not object. Do not object. It is still going  to take a couple of days to actually pass this. If we have to go the  route of a motion to proceed and getting on the bill, that is going to  take quite some time. Our skies can't remain at this level right now.  We can't continue with these airport delays. We can't continue to use  public sector employees and the American public as pawns in this  partisan gamesmanship.

So, literally, I think the Senator knows me. He knows I am saying  this in good faith: Please do not object. Let this bill pass so the  House can come back, and the President can sign this into law, and  these good people who are being forced to work or who have been  furloughed can get the pay they deserve. Again, today, tomorrow, and in  the future, they will be assured they will never ever be used like  pawns in these partisan games.

Again, I underscore that I will not modify my request.

Mr. JOHNSON. Will the Senator yield?

Mr. JOHNSON. Again, let me correct--I hate to say--falsehoods that  were presented here in the Chamber.

My bill is completely silent in terms of Presidential authority.

To the Senator from Michigan, I know they want to put language in  there to restrict Presidential authority, but the fact of the matter  is--and I made him well aware of this--that it is a bill that would  never be signed into law.

So if the Senator is serious about actually paying the workers, he  will recognize that fact and admit that my bill is completely silent.  It does not add and it does not detract from Presidential authority.  There is nothing in the bill that does that.

Secondly, we have tried to come to accommodations with a number of  Senators on the other side for a couple of weeks, but they have pretty  much fallen on deaf ears.

Again, I know it is unfortunate that he objected right now. If we  proceed and vote and actually get on the bill--and I hope, at least, we  do that--that will take quite some time. So it seems he has already  objected.

What I am happy to do--not happy; I am very disappointed I am going  to have to do this--is to look at their language. If it is acceptable-- again, if he is doing anything with Presidential authority in the way  of adding or detracting, it won't be signed into law; it will be a  fruitless exercise. But if we accept their language--we will look at  it, and then maybe--maybe--we can come back down here and do another  unanimous consent request and pass this today. That is what I hope we  can do.

So we will look at the language. It is very unfortunate we didn't  pass it right now, but maybe later this afternoon, we can do so.

Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I came to the floor 2 weeks ago with a  completely nonpartisan, very sincere attempt with a bill that we call  the Shutdown Fairness Act to simply pay the Federal workers whom we  were requiring to work, the finest among us: the members of our  military, people in Federal law enforcement, TSA, and air traffic  controllers to keep our skies safe.

Now, when I was asking the Senate to proceed to that bill, the  Senator from Maryland offered an alternative. He called it the True  Shutdown Fairness Act. The main difference is that his was only going  to be for 1 year. My bill is permanent--permanently stops using Federal  employees and the American public as pawns in these sick partisan  games.

The other difference was my bill is focusing on the people we are  forcing to work. His bill added furloughed workers. So on the floor 2  weeks ago, I said if you are serious about passing this bill, if you  are serious about stopping--he said, he can't punish Federal employees  for our dysfunction.

If you are serious about that, I told the Senator from Maryland, vote  to get on the bill. I will include that; I will convince our conference  to include furloughed workers. Get on the bill. We will amend it. We  will get this passed, and we will start paying people.

He rejected that offer. Now, we started having discussions. His staff  immediately acknowledged the fact that my bill did not in any way,  shape, or form impact the President's authority in terms of determining  who was furloughed, who gets included in a reduction in force. It was  silent. Even though they falsely accused my bill of giving the  President greater authority, it didn't.

I came to the floor again today to pass an amended bill with  furloughed workers--by the way, a bill that is now supported by the  American Federation of Government Employees--I believe that is the  largest public employee union; the Federal Managers Association; the  Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association; the National Air Traffic  Controllers Association--and we are going to have the Senator from  Texas come down and talk about what is happening with air travel as we  speak; the International Association of Firefighters; and the  Association of Flight Attendants. These are public sector unions that  generally don't support Republican legislation.

What they particularly like about my bill is the fact that it is  permanent. It prevents Federal workers and, quite honestly, the broader  American public from being used as pawns again in these sick political  games being played right now with their lives.

So, in a few minutes, we are going to proceed to vote on a motion to  proceed to my original bill. That is how this works. The leader voted  no so he can bring it up for reconsideration. So we have to bring that  bill up. We already have the language for the substitute amendment,  which includes furloughed workers, that has been vetted by, quite  honestly, both Democrat and Republican Senate offices, by the Office of  Management and Budget, and by the public sector unions, which have come  out in support for it.

This is a bill that is ready for prime time. This is a bill that is  ready to be passed tonight. Now, it is unfortunate that we couldn't  pass it by unanimous consent because had we done that, the House is on  a 48-hour callback, and they will come back. The Speaker has already  said they will pass this in the House. And we get our military members,  air traffic controllers, these Federal workers who keep us safe--we can  get them paid.

So again, I am just asking--I am actually pleading with my colleagues  on the other side of the aisle to please vote to proceed to this bill.  We will substitute an amendment that includes furloughed workers. We  can pass this tonight. If we vote to proceed, we can then vote for  unanimous consent to waive all time agreements, and we could even pass  this yet tonight. Make our skies safer.

But I know the Senator from Alaska has a few words to say, and I know  the Senator from Texas will as well.

I yield to the Senator from Alaska.

Mr. JOHNSON. I want to thank the Senator from Alaska. He has been so  dedicated. He has been so tenacious in making sure that the finest  among us, the men and women of our military, get paid and then, you  know, signing on to my effort to broaden this to all Federal employees.  Again, as he said, they shouldn't have to go to food banks and they  shouldn't have to go to DoorDash to pay their child's tuition or feed  their family.

But we had a chilling report from the Senator from Texas, the chair  of the Commerce Committee, in terms of what is happening with air  traffic control in terms of our skies. But before we turn to the  Senator from Texas, the Senator from Wyoming has a few words to speak  on this bill.

Mr. JOHNSON. I appreciate the remarks from the Senator from Wyoming.  I know people are coming down here to vote, but there are no time  restrictions, and this is extremely important. We have a number of  Senators who want to speak to this issue. We should give them time to  speak--hopefully, to convince our colleagues on the other side to,  again, be fair: Think about what your vote means to people that don't  want to be used as pawns.

I believe, again, that the Senator from Texas, our chairman of the  Commerce Committee, he has got some pretty, as I said, chilling  information to relate to the American public, based on what is  happening, if we do not pay air traffic controllers.

The Senator from Texas.

Mr. JOHNSON. I want to thank Senator Cruz for his sobering remarks.

This Chamber should be full. It would be nice if our Democratic  colleagues were here to listen. I hope they are listening on their TVs  in their office.

God, I hope it literally doesn't take planes falling out of the sky.  Tonight, you can continue your shutdown, but you can vote to pay the  air traffic controllers so that is far less likely. If you vote no and,  God forbid, it actually happens, can you live with yourself?

I came to the floor 2 weeks ago in as nonpartisan a fashion as I  possibly could, begging Democrats to pay people that are forced to work  that are keeping our skies safe, that are keeping our Nation safe. Two  weeks later, we haven't done it.

This isn't partisan.

Search your conscience. Ask yourself, honest to God, if a plane,  another plane--a plane has fallen out of the sky. I am not saying it is  because of air traffic control, but you heard of 500 safety instances.  Our air traffic control system is already antiquated. Can you live with  yourself if another plane falls out of the sky and more people  needlessly die because we are short of air traffic controllers?

I know the Senator from Alaska has a couple more comments. Then we  will turn it over to the Senator from Florida.

Mr. JOHNSON. I thank the Senator from Alaska and yield to the Senator  from Florida.

Mr. JOHNSON. I want to thank the Senator from Florida.

I see the Senator from Michigan. I believe he wants to speak to this  bill. We will have the last word.

Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I am not quite sure what planet the  Senator from Michigan comes from, but here on planet Earth, when you  read the actual language of the bill, none of these phantom provisions  exist in there. But I will go through those point for point before we  call for the final vote.

Right now, I think the Senator from Nebraska has a few points he  wants to make.

Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I appreciate the comments from the  Senator from Nebraska.

I think the Senator from Utah would also like to speak to the bill.

Mr. JOHNSON. I want to thank the Senator from Utah for his remarks.

Mr. President, I don't want to spend time refuting all of the  misrepresentations from the Senator from Michigan in terms of what  phantom provisions he claims are in my bill. There is no slush fund. It  is completely silent on Presidential authority. I know some people want  to reduce authority, but that is a bill that won't be signed. If you  want to pay the Federal workers, if you want to stop punishing them for  our dysfunction, if you want to stop using them as pawns in this  political game, that is a demand you have to drop.

The money appropriated in this bill will go to pay workers. That also  is a false argument.

But if you are not quite satisfied with the language, which has been  out there--and we have been trying to work and get feedback for 2  weeks, and we have gotten excellent feedback from leadership, from  discussions on both sides of the aisle, from OMB, trying to perfect  this thing--the solution is get on the bill. Get on the bill and offer  an amendment. Keep talking to us. Don't close it down.

We heard from a number of our Republican colleagues. We heard from  the Senator from Michigan. Obviously, passions are running high. But  there is a great deal of frustration, certainly, on our side when the  other side simply won't take yes for an answer.

I came down here 2 weeks ago in as nonpartisan a stance as I possibly  could be because, as the Senator from Michigan stated, we all agree  that these people ought to be paid. So the way to do that is not to  offer a bill on unanimous consent that has no chance of being signed  into law; the way to do that is to vote to proceed tonight to this  bill.

If we could iron out our differences, we could yield back time and  get this thing passed that the Speaker of the House has already said he  would come back and pass. We are so close.

I realize there may be hard partisans. I know there are liberal  unions that have now come out against us. But the bulk of the public  sector unions are for it. They prefer my bill over anything else. They  may also support it because this is permanent. This ends using the  Federal workforce and, quite honestly, the American public as pawns in  these partisan games for all time. Again, the American Federation of  Government Employees, the Federal Managers Association, the Federal Law  Enforcement Officers Association, the National Air Traffic Controllers  Association--again, I hope our Democratic colleagues listened to  Senator Cruz's chilling and sobering remarks just a few minutes ago;  the International Association of Fire Fighters; and the Association of  Flight Attendants.

This bill has support because it makes so much sense. It is fair.

We had three Democrats join us 2 weeks ago. There are two other  Democrats who have voted for the House CR. That brings us up to a total  of 58. Now, we voted against this because we didn't have furloughed  workers. We have added furloughed workers. So hopefully those two will  join us.

I have talked to enough Democrat Senators trying to get their input,  trying to get this passed. I know there are Democrat Senators who want  to vote for this bill, who can vote for this bill.

So putting all partisanship aside, again, I want to appeal to your  better  angels. Search your conscience. Sign on to the bill. Vote for a bill  that ends using Federal workers and the American public as pawns.

The Senator from Maryland said last week: Let's not punish Federal  workers for our dysfunction.

I think my closing argument has to be to go back to what the Senator  from Texas was talking about--the air traffic controllers and that  situation. Five hundred safety issues were reported recently in our  skies.

Search your conscience. Can you imagine--I mean, honestly, think  about it. Imagine what the one Democrat staffer said: We are going to  cling to this until planes fall out of the sky.

Think about how you would feel if, God forbid, a plane--another  plane--fell out of the sky and people died. How could you live with  yourself?

Now, again, you can continue the shutdown. I mean, that is your  political choice. You can continue to vote against the very reasonable  House continuing resolution. But you can still vote to pay Federal  workers. You can vote to make sure that air traffic controllers get  back to their stations and keep our skies as safe as possible. You can  vote to dramatically reduce the chance that a plane will fall out of  the sky. We just need two more of you; two more of our colleagues on  the other side of the aisle who are working with, quite honestly, folks  on this side, trying to end the shutdown; just two of those whom I  spoke to that I thought would vote for this. I am begging you--two  more.

Let's get on this bill. Let's pay Federal workers. Let's make our  Nation safer. Let's do the fair thing. Let's do the right thing. Let's  vote to proceed to this bill and get it passed.