Gianforte, Johnson Release Roadmap for Reform


Today, the Republican Study Committee (RSC) released Power, Practices, Personnel: 100+ Commonsense Solutions to Better Government (click here to download the full report). Spearheaded by RSC Government Efficiency, Accountability, and Reform (GEAR) Task Force Chairman Greg Gianforte (R-Mont.) and RSC Chairman Mike Johnson (R-La.), the solutions-oriented plan is a conservative blueprint for reforming the federal bureaucracy to provide Americans with a more efficient, effective, and accountable government.

RSC's plan focuses on three key pillars:

Power: Reforming Government Power StructuresEnacting policies to restore the balance of power between the three co-equal branches of government and reclaim congressional power ceded to unelected bureaucrats

Practices: Reforming Government PracticesAdvancing both broad institutional reforms and targeted solutions to eliminate waste, duplication, and inefficiency across the federal government

Personnel: Reforming Government Personnel PoliciesEmbracing lessons learned from the current economic boom to encourage innovation, improve morale, and increase the effectiveness of our dedicated federal workers

"As an entrepreneur and businessman, I know how important it is to make a business more efficient, deliver a high-quality product to customers, and mentor and develop a high-performing staff. The federal government should operate the same way. Our commonsense, three-step proposal provides a roadmap with over 100 solutions to achieve that goal," Congressman Gianforte said. "Working with experts, lawmakers, and members of the Trump administration, our Government, Efficiency, and Reform Task Force developed an actionable, nonpartisan plan to reclaim government from unelected bureaucrats, make the federal government more efficient and accountable to taxpayers, and further develop our dedicated federal workers so they can deliver better results for the American people.

"The federal government is too large; it does too many things; and what it does, it usually does not do very well. Congress created this problem. The Republican Study Committee has the resolve and the solutions to fix it," said Chairman Johnson. "Good government shouldn't be a partisan issue. Everyone in Congress should agree that the egregious items we've identified in this report -- including millions of dollars in payments to the deceased, thousands of unused office buildings, and a federal government that has literally lost count of the number of programs it runs -- are unacceptable. This commonsense plan is a roadmap to a federal government that is more efficient, effective, and accountable. We owe it to the millions of Americans who fund this government to work together to put it into action."