Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I am glad that this unfortunate chapter  in American history is over. The strength of our Republic lies in the  fact that, more often than not, we settle our political differences at  the ballot box, not on the streets or battlefield and not through  impeachment. 

  Just last year, Speaker Pelosi said that any impeachment ``would have  to be so clearly bipartisan in terms of acceptance of it.'' And in  1998, Representative Nadler, currently a House impeachment manager,  said, ``There must never be . . . an impeachment substantially  supported by one of our major political parties and largely opposed by  the other . . . Such an impeachment would lack legitimacy, would  produce divisiveness and bitterness in our politics for years to come .  . .'' 

  And yet, that is exactly what House Democrats passed. I truly wish  Speaker Pelosi, Chairman Nadler, and their House colleagues would have  followed their own advice. 

  As I listened to the House managers' closing arguments, I jotted down  adjectives describing the case they were making: angry, disingenuous,  hyperbolic, sanctimonious, distorted--if not outright dishonest--and  overstated; they were making a mountain out of a molehill. 

  Congressman Schiff and the other House managers are not stupid. They  had to know that their insults and accusations--that the President had  threatened to put our heads on a pike, that the Senate was on trial,  that we would be part of the coverup if we didn't cave to their demand  for witnesses--would not sway Republican Senators. No, they had another  goal in mind. They were using impeachment and their public offices to  accomplish the very thing they accused President Trump of doing,  interfering in the 2020 election. 

  Impeachment should be reserved for the most serious of offenses where  the risk to our democracy simply cannot wait for the voters' next  decision. That was not the case here. 

  Instead, the greater damage to our democracy would be to ratify a  highly partisan House impeachment process that lacked due process and  sought to impose a duty on the Senate to repair the House's flawed  product. Caving to House managers' demands would have set a dangerous  precedent and dramatically altered the constitutional order, further  weaponizing impeachment and encouraging more of them. 

  Now that the trial is over, I sincerely hope everyone involved has  renewed appreciation for the genius of our Founding Fathers and for the  separation of powers they incorporated into the U.S. Constitution. I  also hope all the players in this national travesty go forward with a  greater sense of humility and recognition of the limits the  Constitution places on their respective offices. 

  I am concerned about the divisiveness and bitterness that Chairman  Nadler warned us about. We are a divided nation, and it often seems the  lines are only hardening and growing farther apart. But hope lies in  finding what binds us together--our love of freedom, our faith, our  families. 

  We serve those who elect us. It is appropriate and necessary to  engage in discussion and debate to sway public opinion, but in the end,  it is essential that we rely upon, respect, and accept the public's  electoral decisions. 

  The November 18, 2019, letter responds to Nunes' and Jordan's request  to provide information regarding my firsthand knowledge of events  regarding Ukraine that were relevant to the impeachment inquiry. The  January 22, 2020, article was referenced in my question to the House  managers and counsel to the President during the 16-hour question and  answer phase of the impeachment trial. Specifically, that question  asked: ``Recent reporting described two NSC staff holdovers from the  Obama administration attending an `all hands' meeting of NSC staff held  about two weeks into the Trump administration and talking loudly enough  to be overheard saying, `we need to do everything we can to take out  the president.' On July 26, 2019, the House Intelligence Committee  hired one of those individuals, Sean Misko. The report further  describes relationships between Misko, Lt. Col. Vindman, and the  alleged whistleblower.  Jim Jordan,      Ranking Member,      Committee on Oversight and Reform.      Hon. Devin Nunes,      Ranking Member, Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. 

       Dear Congressman Jordan and Congressman Nunes: I am writing       in response to the request of Ranking Members Nunes and       Jordan to provide my first-hand information and resulting       perspective on events relevant to the House impeachment       inquiry of President Trump. It is being written in the middle       of that inquiry--after most of the depositions have been       given behind closed doors, but before all the public hearings       have been held. 

       I view this impeachment inquiry as a continuation of a       concerted, and possibly coordinated, effort to sabotage the       Trump administration that probably began in earnest the day       after the 2016 presidential election. The latest evidence of       this comes with the reporting of a Jan. 30, 2017 tweet (10       days after Trump's inauguration) by one of the       whistleblower's attorneys, Mark Zaid: ``#coup has started.       First of many steps. #rebellion. #impeachment will follow       ultimately.'' 

       But even prior to the 2016 election, the FBI's       investigation and exoneration of former Secretary of State       Hillary Clinton, combined with Fusion GPS' solicitation and       dissemination of the Steele dossier--and the FBI's       counterintelligence investigation based on that dossier--laid       the groundwork for future sabotage. As a result, my first-      hand knowledge and involvement in this       saga began with the revelation that former Secretary of State       Hillary Clinton kept a private e-mail server. 

       I have been chairman of the Senate Committee on Homeland       Security and Governmental Affairs (HSGAC) since January 2015.       In addition to its homeland security portfolio, the committee       also is charged with general oversight of the federal       government. Its legislative jurisdiction includes federal       records. So when the full extent of Clinton's use of a       private server became apparent in March 2015, HSGAC initiated       an oversight investigation. 

       Although many questions remain unanswered from that       scandal, investigations resulting from it by a number of       committees, reporters and agencies have revealed multiple       facts and episodes that are similar to aspects of the latest       effort to find grounds for impeachment. In particular, the       political bias revealed in the Strzok/Page texts, use of the       discredited Steele dossier to initiate and sustain the FBI's       counterintelligence investigation and FISA warrants, and       leaks to the media that created the false narrative of Trump       campaign collusion with Russia all fit a pattern and indicate       a game plan that I suspect has been implemented once again.       It is from this viewpoint that I report my specific       involvement in the events related to Ukraine and the       impeachment inquiry. 

       I also am chairman of the Subcommittee on Europe and       Regional Security Cooperation of the Senate Foreign Relations       Committee. I have made six separate trips to Ukraine starting       in April 2011. Most recently, I led two separate Senate       resolutions calling for a strong U.S. and NATO response to       Russian military action against Ukraine's navy in the Kerch       Strait. I traveled to Ukraine to attend president-elect       Volodymyr Zelensky's inauguration held on May 20, and again       on Sept. 5 with U.S. Sen. Chris Murphy to meet with Zelensky       and other Ukrainian leaders. 

       Following the Orange Revolution, and even more so after the       Maidan protests, the Revolution of Dignity, and Russia's       illegal annexation of Crimea and invasion of eastern Ukraine,       support for the people of Ukraine has been strong within       Congress and in both the Obama and Trump administrations.       There was also universal recognition and concern regarding       the level of corruption that was endemic throughout Ukraine.       In 2015, Congress overwhelmingly authorized $300 million of       security assistance to Ukraine, of which $50 million was to       be available only for lethal defensive weaponry. The Obama       administration never supplied the authorized lethal defensive       weaponry, but President Trump did. 

       Zelensky won a strong mandate--73%--from the Ukrainian       public to fight corruption. His inauguration date was set on       very short notice, which made attending it a scheduling       challenge for members of Congress who wanted to go to show       support. As a result, I was the only member of Congress       joining the executive branch's inaugural delegation led by       Energy Secretary Rick Perry, Special Envoy Kurt Volker, U.S.       Ambassador to the European Union Gordon Sondland, and Lt.       Col. Alexander Vindman, representing the National Security       Council. I arrived the evening before the inauguration and,       after attending a country briefing provided by U.S. embassy       staff the next morning, May 20, went to the inauguration, a       luncheon following the inauguration, and a delegation meeting       with Zelensky and his advisers. 

       The main purpose of my attendance was to demonstrate and       express my support and that of the U.S. Congress for Zelensky       and the people of Ukraine. In addition, the delegation       repeatedly stressed the importance of fulfilling the election       mandate to fight corruption, and also discussed the priority       of Ukraine obtaining sufficient inventories of gas prior to       winter. 

       Two specific points made during the meetings stand out in       my memory as being relevant. 

       The first occurred during the country briefing. I had just       finished making the point that supporting Ukraine was       essential because it was ground zero in our geopolitical       competition with Russia. I was surprised when Vindman       responded to my point. He stated that it was the position of       the NSC that our relationship with Ukraine should be kept       separate from our geopolitical competition with Russia. My       blunt response was, ``How in the world is that even       possible?'' 

       I do not know if Vindman accurately stated the NSC's       position, whether President Trump shared that viewpoint, or       whether Vindman was really just expressing his own view. I       raise this point because I believe that a significant number       of bureaucrats and staff members within the executive branch       have never accepted President Trump as legitimate and resent       his unorthodox style and his intrusion onto their ``turf.''       They react by leaking to the press and participating in the       ongoing effort to sabotage his policies and, if possible,       remove him from office. It is entirely possible that Vindman       fits this profile. 

       Quotes from the transcript of Vindman's opening remarks and       his deposition reinforce this point and deserve to be       highlighted. Vindman testified that an ``alternative       narrative'' pushed by the president's personal attorney, Rudy       Giuliani, was ``inconsistent with the consensus views of       the'' relevant federal agencies and was ``undermining the       consensus policy.'' 

       Vindman's testimony, together with other witnesses' use of       similar terms such as ``our policy,'' ``stated policy,'' and       ``long-standing policy'' lend further credence to the point       I'm making. Whether you agree with President Trump or not, it       should be acknowledged that the Constitution vests the power       of conducting foreign policy with the duly elected president.       American foreign policy is what the president determines it       to be, not what the ``consensus'' of unelected foreign policy       bureaucrats wants it to be. If any bureaucrats disagree with       the president, they should use their powers of persuasion       within their legal chain of command to get the president to       agree with their viewpoint. In the end, if they are unable to       carry out the policy of the president, they should resign.       They should not seek to undermine the policy by leaking to       people outside their chain of command. 

       The other noteworthy recollection involves how Perry       conveyed the delegation concern over rumors that Zelensky was       going to appoint Andriy Bohdan, the lawyer for oligarch Igor       Kolomoisky, as his chief of staff. The delegation viewed       Bohdan's rumored appointment to be contrary to the goal of       fighting corruption and maintaining U.S. support. Without       naming ``Bohdan, Secretary Perry made U.S. concerns very       clear in his remarks to Zelensky. 

       Shortly thereafter, ignoring U.S. advice, Zelensky did       appoint Bohdan as his chief of staff. This was not viewed as       good news, but I gave my advice on how to publicly react in a       text to Sondland on May 22: ``Best case scenario on COS:       Right now Zelensky needs someone he can trust. I'm not a fan       of lawyers, but they do represent all kinds of people. Maybe       this guy is a patriot. He certainly understands the       corruption of the oligarchs. Could be the perfect guy to       advise Zelensky on how to deal with them. Zelensky knows why       he got elected For now, I think we express our concerns, but       give Zelensky the benefit of the doubt. Also let him know       everyone in the U.S. will be watching VERY closely.'' 

       At the suggestion of Sondland, the delegation (Perry,       Volker, Sondland and me) proposed a meeting with President       Trump in the Oval Office. The purpose of the meeting was to       brief the president on what we learned at the inauguration,       and convey our impressions of Zelensky and the current       political climate in Ukraine. The delegation uniformly was       impressed with Zelensky, understood the difficult challenges       he faced, and went into the meeting hoping to obtain       President Trump's strong support for Zelensky and the people       of Ukraine. Our specific goals were to obtain a commitment       from President Trump to invite Zelensky to meet in the Oval       Office, to appoint a U.S. ambassador to Ukraine who would       have strong bipartisan support, and to have President Trump       publicly voice his support. 

       Our Oval Office meeting took place on May 23. The four       members of the delegation sat lined up in front of President       Trump's desk. Because we were all directly facing the       president, I do not know who else was in attendance sitting       or standing behind us. I can't speak for the others, but I       was very surprised by President Trump's reaction to our       report and requests. 

       He expressed strong reservations about supporting Ukraine.       He made it crystal clear that he viewed Ukraine as a       thoroughly corrupt country both generally and, specifically,       regarding rumored meddling in the 2016 election. Volker       summed up this attitude in his testimony by quoting the       president as saying, ``They are all corrupt. They are all       terrible people. . . . I don't want to spend any time with       that.'' I do not recall President Trump ever explicitly       mentioning the names Burisma or Biden, but it was obvious he       was aware of rumors that corrupt actors in Ukraine might have       played a part in helping create the false Russia collusion       narrative. 

       Of the four-person delegation, I was the only one who did       not work for the president. As a result, I was in a better       position to push back on the president's viewpoint and       attempt to persuade him to change it. I acknowledged that he       was correct regarding endemic corruption. I said that we       weren't asking him to support corrupt oligarchs and       politicians but to support the Ukrainian people who had given       Zelensky a strong mandate to fight corruption. I also made       the point that he and Zelensky had much in common. Both were       complete outsiders who face strong resistance from entrenched       interests both within and outside government. Zelensky would       need much help in fulfilling his mandate, and America's       support was crucial. 

       It was obvious that his viewpoint and reservations were       strongly held, and that we would have a significant sales job       ahead of us getting him to change his mind. I specifically       asked him to keep his viewpoint and reservations private and       not to express them publicly until he had a chance to meet       Zelensky. He agreed to do so, but he also added that he       wanted Zelensky to know exactly how he felt about the       corruption in Ukraine prior to any future meeting. I used       that directive in my Sept. 5 meeting with Zelensky in       Ukraine. 

       One final point regarding the May 23 meeting: I am aware       that Sondland has testified that President Trump also       directed the delegation to work with Rudy Giuliani. I have no       recollection of the president saying that during the meeting.       It is entirely possible he did, but because I do not work for       the president, if made, that comment simply did not register       with me. I also remember Sondland staying behind to talk to       the president as the rest of the delegation left the Oval       Office. 

       I continued to meet in my Senate office with       representatives from Ukraine: on June       13 with members of the Ukrainian Parliament's Foreign Affairs       Committee; on July 11 with Ukraine's ambassador to the U.S.       and secretary of Ukraine's National Security and Defense       Council, Oleksandr Danyliuk; and again on July 31 with       Ukraine's ambassador to the U.S., Valeriy Chaly. At no time       during those meetings did anyone from Ukraine raise the issue       of the withholding of military aid or express concerns       regarding pressure being applied by the president or his       administration. 

       During Congress' August recess, my staff worked with the       State Department and others in the administration to plan a       trip to Europe during the week of Sept. 2 with Senator Murphy       to include Russia, Serbia, Kosovo and Ukraine. On or around       Aug. 26, we were informed that our requests for visas into       Russia were denied. On either Aug. 28 or 29, I became aware       of the fact that $250 million of military aid was being       withheld. This news would obviously impact my trip and       discussions with Zelensky. 

       Sondland had texted me on Aug. 26 remarking on the Russian       visa denial. I replied on Aug. 30, apologizing for my tardy       response and requesting a call to discuss Ukraine. We       scheduled a call for sometime between 12:30 p.m. and 1:30       p.m. that same day. I called Sondland and asked what he knew       about the hold on military support. I did not memorialize the       conversation in any way, and my memory of exactly what       Sondland told me is far from perfect. I was hoping that his       testimony before the House would help jog my memory, but he       seems to have an even fuzzier recollection of that call than       I do. 

       The most salient point of the call involved Sondland       describing an arrangement where, if Ukraine did something to       demonstrate its serious intention to fight corruption and       possibly help determine what involvement operatives in       Ukraine might have had during the 2016 U.S. presidential       campaign, then Trump would release the hold on military       support. 

       I have stated that I winced when that arrangement was       described to me. I felt U.S. support for Ukraine was       essential, particularly with Zelensky's new and inexperienced       administration facing an aggressive Vladimir Putin. I feared       any sign of reduced U.S. support could prompt Putin to       demonstrate even more aggression, and because I was convinced       Zelensky was sincere in his desire to fight corruption, this       was no time to be withholding aid for any reason. It was the       time to show maximum strength and resolve. 

       I next put in a call request for National Security Adviser       John Bolton, and spoke with him on Aug. 31. I believe he       greed with my position on providing military assistance, and       he suggested I speak with both the vice president and       president. I requested calls with both, but was not able to       schedule a call with Vice President Pence. President Trump       called me that same day. 

       The purpose of the call was to inform President Trump of my       upcoming trip to Ukraine and to try to persuade him to       authorize me to tell Zelensky that the hold would be lifted       on military aid. The president was not prepared to lift the       hold, and he was consistent in the reasons he cited. He       reminded me how thoroughly corrupt Ukraine was and again       conveyed his frustration that Europe doesn't do its fair       share of providing military aid. He specifically cited the       sort of conversation he would have with Angela Merkel,       chancellor of Germany. To paraphrase President Trump: ``Ron,       I talk to Angela and ask her, `Why don't you fund these       things,' and she tells me, `Because we know you will.' We're       schmucks. Ron. We're schmucks.'' 

       I acknowledged the corruption in Ukraine, and I did not       dispute the fact that Europe could and should provide more       military support. But I pointed out that Germany was opposed       to providing Ukraine lethal defensive weaponry and simply       would not do so. As a result, if we wanted to deter Russia       from further aggression, it was up to the U.S. to provide it. 

       I had two additional counterarguments. First, I wasn't       suggesting we support the oligarchs and other corrupt       Ukrainians. Our support would be for the courageous       Ukrainians who had overthrown Putin's puppet, Viktor       Yanukovich, and delivered a remarkable 73% mandate in       electing Zelensky to fight corruption. Second, I argued that       withholding the support looked horrible politically in that       it could be used to bolster the ``Trump is soft on Russia''       mantra. 

       It was only after he reiterated his reasons for not giving       me the authority to tell Zelensky the support would be       released that I asked him about whether there was some kind       of arrangement where Ukraine would take some action and the       hold would be lifted. Without hesitation, President Trump       immediately denied such an arrangement existed. As reported       in the Wall Street Journal, I quoted the president as saying,       ``(Expletive deleted)--No way. I would never do that. Who       told you that?'' I have accurately characterized his reaction       as adamant, vehement and angry--there was more than one       expletive that I have deleted. 

       Based on his reaction, I felt more than a little guilty       even asking him the question, much less telling him I heard       it from Sondland. He seemed even more annoyed by that, and       asked me, ``Who is that guy''? I interpreted that not as a       literal question--the president did know whom Sondland was--      but rather as a sign that the president did not know him       well. I replied by saying, ``I thought he was your buddy from       the real estate business.'' The president replied by saying       he barely knew him. 

       After discussing Ukraine, we talked about other unrelated       matters. Finally, the president said he had to go because he       had a hurricane to deal with. He wrapped up the conversation       referring back to my request to release the hold on military       support for Ukraine by saying something like, ``Ron, I       understand your position. We're reviewing it now, and you'll       probably like my final decision.'' 

       On Tuesday, Sept. 3, I had a short follow up call with       Bolton to discuss my upcoming trip to Ukraine, Serbia and       Kosovo. I do not recall discussing anything in particular       that relates to the current impeachment inquiry on that call. 

       We arrived in Kyiv on Sept. 4, joining Taylor and Murphy       for a full day of meetings on Sept. 5 with embassy staff,       members of the new Ukrainian administration, and Zelensky,       who was accompanied by some of his top advisers. We also       attended the opening proceedings of the Ukrainian High Anti-      Corruption Court. The meetings reinforced our belief that       Zelensky and his team were serious about fulfilling his       mandate--to paraphrase the way he described it in his speech       at the High Anti-Corruption Court--to not only fight       corruption but to defeat it. 

       The meeting with Zelensky started with him requesting we       dispense with the usual diplomatic opening and get right to       the issue on everyone's mind, the hold being placed on       military support. 

       He asked if any of us knew the current status. Because I       had just spoken to President Trump, I fielded his question       and conveyed the two reasons the president told me for his       hold. I explained that I had tried to persuade the president       to authorize me to announce the hold was released but that I       was unsuccessful. 

       As much as Zelensky was concerned about losing the military       aid, he was even more concerned about the signal that would       send. I shared his concern. I suggested that in our public       statements we first emphasize the universal support that the       U.S. Congress has shown--and will continue to show--for the       Ukrainian people. Second, we should minimize the significance       of the hold on military aid as simply a timing issue coming a       few weeks before the end of our federal fiscal year. Even if       President Trump and the deficit hawks within his       administration decided not to obligate funding for the       current fiscal year, Congress would make sure he had no       option in the next fiscal year--which then was only a few       weeks away. I also made the point that Murphy was on the       Appropriations Committee and could lead the charge on       funding. 

       Murphy made the additional point that one of the most       valuable assets Ukraine possesses is bipartisan congressional       support. He warned Zelensky not to respond to requests from       American political actors or he would risk losing Ukraine's       bipartisan support. I did not comment on this issue that       Murphy raised. 

       Instead, I began discussing a possible meeting with       President Trump. I viewed a meeting between the two       presidents as crucial for overcoming President Trump's       reservations and securing full U.S. support. It was at this       point that President Trump's May 23 directive came into play. 

       I prefaced my comment to Zelensky by saying, ``Let me go       out on a limb here. Are you or any of your advisers aware of       the inaugural delegation's May 23 meeting in the Oval Office       following your inauguration?'' No one admitted they were, so       I pressed on. ``The reason I bring up that meeting is that I       don't want you caught off-guard if President Trump reacts to       you the same way he reacted to the delegation's request for       support for Ukraine.'' 

       I told the group that President Trump explicitly told the       delegation that he wanted to make sure Zelensky knew exactly       how he felt about Ukraine before any meeting took place. To       repeat Volker's quote of President Trump: ``They are all       corrupt. They are all terrible people. . . . I don't want to       spend any time with that.'' That was the general attitude       toward Ukraine that I felt President Trump directed us to       convey. Since I did not have Volker's quote to use at the       time, I tried to portray that strongly held attitude and       reiterated the reasons President Trump consistently gave me       for his reservations regarding Ukraine: endemic corruption       and inadequate European support. 

       I also conveyed the counterarguments I used       (unsuccessfully) to persuade the president to lift his hold:       (1) We would be supporting the people of Ukraine, not corrupt       oligarchs, and (2) withholding military support was not       politically smart. Although I recognized how this next point       would be problematic, I also suggested any public statement       Zelensky could make asking for greater support from Europe       would probably be viewed favorably by President Trump. 

       Finally, I commented on how excellent Zelensky's English       was and encouraged him to use English as much as possible in       a future meeting with President Trump. With a smile on his       face, he replied, ``But Senator Johnson, you don't realize       how beautiful my Ukrainian is.'' I jokingly conceded the       point by saying I was not able to distinguish his Ukrainian       from his Russian. 

       This was a very open, frank, and supportive discussion.       There was no reason for       anyone on either side not to be completely honest or to       withhold any concerns. At no time during this meeting--or any       other meeting on this trip--was there any mention by Zelensky       or any Ukrainian that they were feeling pressure to do       anything in return for the military aid, not even after       Murphy warned them about getting involved in the 2020       election--which would have been the perfect time to discuss       any pressure. 

       Following the meeting with Zelensky and his advisers,       Murphy and I met with the Ukrainian press outside the       presidential office building. Our primary message was that we       were in Kyiv to demonstrate our strong bipartisan support for       the people of Ukraine. We were very encouraged by our       meetings with Zelensky and other members of his new       government in their commitment to fulfill their electoral       mandate to fight and defeat corruption. When the issue of       military support was raised, I provided the response I       suggested above: I described it as a timing issue at the end       of a fiscal year and said that, regardless of what decision       President Trump made on the fiscal year 2019 funding, I was       confident Congress would restore the funding in fiscal year       2020. In other words: Don't mistake a budget issue for a       change in America's strong support for the people of Ukraine. 

       Congress came back into session on Sept. 9. During a vote       early in the week, I approached one of the co-chairs of the       Senate Ukraine Caucus, U.S. Sen. Richard Durbin. I briefly       described our trip to Ukraine and the concerns Zelensky and       his advisers had over the hold on military support. According       to press reports, Senator Durbin stated that was the first       time he was made aware of the hold. I went on to describe how       I tried to minimize the impact of that hold by assuring       Ukrainians that Congress could restore the funding in fiscal       year 2020. I encouraged Durbin, as I had encouraged Murphy,       to use his membership on the Senate Appropriations Committee       to restore the funding. 

       Also according to a press report, leading up to a Sept. 12       defense appropriation committee markup, Durbin offered an       amendment to restore funding. On Sept. 11, the administration       announced that the hold had been lifted. I think it is       important to note the hold was lifted only 14 days after its       existence became publicly known, and 55 days after the hold       apparently had been placed. 

       On Friday, Oct. 4, I saw news reports of text messages that       Volker had supplied the House of Representatives as part of       his testimony. The texts discussed a possible press release       that Zelensky might issue to help persuade President Trump to       offer an Oval Office meeting. Up to that point, I had       publicly disclosed only the first part of my Aug. 31 phone       call with President Trump, where I lobbied him to release the       military aid and he provided his consistent reasons for not       doing so: corruption and inadequate European support. 

       Earlier in the week, I had given a phone interview with       Siobhan Hughes of the Wall Street Journal regarding my       involvement with Ukraine. With the disclosure of the Volker       texts, I felt it was important to go on the record with the       next part of my Aug. 31 call with President Trump: his       denial. I had not previously disclosed this because I could       not precisely recall what Sondland had told me on Aug. 30,       and what I had conveyed to President Trump, regarding action       Ukraine would take before military aid would be released. To       the best of my recollection, the action described by Sondland       on Aug. 30 involved a demonstration that the new Ukrainian       government was serious about fighting corruption--something       like the appointment of a prosecutor general with high       integrity. 

       I called Hughes Friday morning, Oct. 4, to update my       interview. It was a relatively lengthy interview, almost 30       minutes, as I attempted to put a rather complex set of events       into context. Toward the tail end of that interview, Hughes       said, ``It almost sounds like, the way you see it, Gordon was       kind of freelancing and he took it upon himself to do       something that the president hadn't exactly blessed, as you       see it.'' I replied, ``That's a possibility, but I don't know       that. Let's face it: The president can't have his fingers in       everything. He can't be stage-managing everything, so you       have members of his administration trying to create good       policy.'' 

       To my knowledge, most members of the administration and       Congress dealing with the issues involving Ukraine disagreed       with President Trump's attitude and approach toward Ukraine.       Many who had the opportunity and ability to influence the       president attempted to change his mind. I see nothing wrong       with U.S. officials working with Ukrainian officials to       demonstrate Ukraine's commitment to reform in order to change       President Trump's attitude and gain his support. 

       Nor is it wrong for administration staff to use their       powers of persuasion within their chain of command to       influence policy. What is wrong is for people who work for,       and at the pleasure of, the president to believe they set       U.S. foreign policy instead of the duly elected president       doing so. It also would be wrong for those individuals to       step outside their chain of command--or established       whistleblower procedures--to undermine the president's       policy. If those working for the president don't feel they       can implement the president's policies in good conscience,       they should follow Gen. James Mattis' example and resign. If       they choose to do so, they can then take their disagreements       to the public. That would be the proper and high-integrity       course of action. 

       This impeachment effort has done a great deal of damage to       our democracy. The release of transcripts of discussions       between the president of the United States and another world       leader sets a terrible precedent that will deter and limit       candid conversations between the president and world leaders       from now on. The weakening of executive privilege will also       limit the extent to which presidential advisers will feel       comfortable providing ``out of the box'' and other frank       counsel in the future. 

       In my role as chairman of the Senate's primary oversight       committee, I strongly believe in and support whistleblower       protections. But in that role, I am also aware that not all       whistleblowers are created equal. Not every whistleblower has       purely altruistic motives. Some have personal axes to grind       against a superior or co-workers. Others might have a       political ax to grind. 

       The Intelligence Community Inspector General acknowledges       the whistleblower in this instance exhibits some measure of       ``an arguable political bias.'' The whistleblower' s       selection of attorney Mark Zaid lends credence to the ICIG's       assessment, given Zaid's tweet that mentions coup, rebellion       and impeachment only 10 days after Trump's inauguration. 

       If the whistleblower's intention was to improve and       solidify the relationship between the U.S. and Ukraine, he or       she failed miserably. Instead, the result has been to       publicize and highlight the president's deeply held       reservations toward Ukraine that the whistleblower felt were       so damaging to our relationship with Ukraine and to U.S.       national security. The dispute over policy was being resolved       between the two branches of government before the       whistleblower complaint was made public. All the complaint       has accomplished is to fuel the House's impeachment desire       (which I believe was the real motivation), and damage our       democracy as described above. 

       America faces enormous challenges at home and abroad. My       oversight efforts have persuaded me there has been a       concerted effort, probably beginning the day after the       November 2016 election, to sabotage and undermine President       Trump and his administration. President Trump, his       supporters, and the American public have a legitimate and       understandable desire to know if wrongdoing occurred directed       toward influencing the 2016 election or sabotaging Trump's       administration. The American public also has a right to know       if no wrongdoing occurred. The sooner we get answers to the       many unanswered questions, the sooner we can attempt to heal       our severely divided nation and turn our attention to the       many daunting challenges America faces.            Sincerely,                                                       Ron Johnson,      United States Senator.                                   ____                [From RealClearInvestigations, Jan. 22, 2019]   Whistleblower Was Overheard in '17 Discussing With Ally How To Remove                                   Trump                              (By Paul Sperry)  

       Barely two weeks after Donald Trump took office, Eric       Ciaramella--the CIA analyst whose name was recently linked in       a tweet by the president and mentioned by lawmakers as the       anonymous ``whistleblower'' who touched off Trump's       impeachment--was overheard in the White House discussing with       another staffer how to remove the newly elected president       from office, according to former colleagues. 

       Sources told RealClearInvestigations the staffer with whom       Ciaramella was speaking was Sean Misko. Both were Obama       administration holdovers working in the Trump White House on       foreign policy and national security issues. And both       expressed anger over Trump's new ``America First'' foreign       policy, a sea change from President Obama's approach to       international affairs. 

       ``Just days after he was sworn in they were already talking       about trying to get rid of him,'' said a White House       colleague who overheard their conversation. 

       ``They weren't just bent on subverting his agenda,'' the       former official added. ``They were plotting to actually have       him removed from office.'' 

       Misko left the White House last summer to join House       impeachment manager Adam Schiff's committee, where sources       say he offered ``guidance'' to the whistleblower, who has       been officially identified only as an intelligence officer in       a complaint against Trump filed under whistleblower laws.       Misko then helped run the impeachment inquiry based on that       complaint as a top investigator for congressional Democrats. 

       The probe culminated in Trump's impeachment last month on a       party-line vote in the House of Representatives. Schiff and       other House Democrats last week delivered the articles of       impeachment to the Senate, and are now pressing the case for       his removal during the trial, which began Tuesday. 

       The coordination between the official believed to be the       whistleblower and a key Democratic staffer, details of which       are disclosed here for the first time, undercuts the       narrative that impeachment developed spontaneously out of the       ``patriotism'' of an ``apolitical civil servant.'' 

       Two former co-workers said they overheard Ciaramella and       Misko, dose friends and Democrats held over from the Obama       administration, discussing how to ``take out,'' or remove,       the new president from office within days of Trump's       inauguration. These co-workers said the president's       controversial Ukraine phone call in July 2019 provided the       pretext they and their Democratic allies had been looking       for. 

       ``They didn't like his policies,'' another former White       House official said. ``They had a political vendetta against       him from Day One.'' 

       Their efforts were part of a larger pattern of coordination       to build a case for impeachment, involving Democratic leaders       as well as anti-Trump figures both inside and outside of       government. 

       All unnamed sources for this article spoke only on       condition that they not be further identified or described.       Although strong evidence points to Ciaramella as the       government employee who lodged the whistleblower complaint,       he has not been officially identified as such. As a result,       this article makes a distinction between public information       released about the unnamed whistleblower/CIA analyst and       specific information about Ciaramella. 

       Democrats based their impeachment case on the whistleblower       complaint, which alleges that President Trump sought to help       his re-election campaign by demanding that Ukraine's leader       investigate former Vice President Joe Biden and his son       Hunter in exchange for military aid. Yet Schiff, who heads       the House Intelligence Committee, and other Democrats have       insisted on keeping the identity of the whistleblower secret,       citing concern for his safety, while arguing that his       testimony no longer matters because other witnesses and       documents have ``corroborated'' what he alleged in his       complaint about the Ukraine call. 

       Republicans have fought unsuccessfully to call him as a       witness, arguing that his motivations and associations are       relevant--and that the president has the same due-process       right to confront his accuser as any other American. 

       The whistleblower's candor is also being called into       question. It turns out that the CIA operative failed to       report his contacts with Schiff's office to the intelligence       community's inspector general who fielded his whistleblower       complaint. He withheld the information both in interviews       with the inspector general, Michael Atkinson, and in writing,       according to impeachment committee investigators. The       whistleblower form he filled out required him to disclose       whether he had ``contacted other entities''--including       ``members of Congress.'' But he left that section blank on       the disclosure form he signed. 

       The investigators say that details about how the       whistleblower consulted with Schiff's staff and perhaps       misled Atkinson about those interactions are contained in the       transcript of a closed-door briefing Atkinson gave to the       House Intelligence Committee last October. However, Schiff       has sealed the transcript from public view. It is the only       impeachment witness transcript out of 18 that he has not       released. 

       Schiff has classified the document ``Secret,'' preventing       Republicans who attended the Atkinson briefing from quoting       from it. Even impeachment investigators cannot view it       outside a highly secured room, known as a ``SCIF,'' in the       basement of the Capitol. Members must first get permission       from Schiff, and they are forbidden from bringing phones into       the SCIF or from taking notes from the document. 

       While the identity of the whistleblower remains       unconfirmed, at least officially, Trump recently retweeted a       message naming Ciaramella, while Republican Sen. Rand Paul       and Rep. Louie Gohmert of the House Judiciary Committee have       publicly demanded that Ciaramella testify about his role in       the whistleblower complaint. 

       During last year's closed-door House depositions of       impeachment witnesses, Ciaramella's name was invoked in       heated discussions about the whistleblower, as       RealClearInvestigations first reported Oct. 30, and has       appeared in at least one testimony transcript. Congressional       Republicans complain Schiff and his staff counsel have       redacted his name from other documents. 

       Lawyers representing the whistleblower have neither       confirmed nor denied that Ciaramella is their client. In       November, after Donald Trump Jr. named Ciaramella and cited       RCI's story in a series of tweets, however, they sent a       ``cease and desist'' letter to the White House demanding       Trump and his ``surrogates'' stop ``attacking'' him. And just       as the whistleblower complaint was made public in September,       Ciaramella's social media postings and profiles were scrubbed       from the Internet.                           `Take Out' the President  

       An Obama holdover and registered Democrat, Ciaramella in       early 2017 expressed hostility toward the newly elected       president during White House meetings, his co-workers said in       interviews with RealClearInvestigations. They added that       Ciaramella sought to have Trump removed from office long       before the filing of the whistleblower complaint. 

       At the time, the CIA operative worked on loan to the White       House as a top Ukrainian analyst in the National Security       Council, where he had previously served as an adviser on       Ukraine to Vice President Biden. The whistleblower complaint       cites Biden, alleging that Trump demanded Ukraine's newly       elected leader investigate him and his son ``to help the       president's 2020 reelection bid.'' 

       Two NSC co-workers told RCI that they overheard Ciaramella       and Misko--who was also working at the NSC as an analyst--      making anti-Trump remarks to each other while attending a       staff-wide NSC meeting called by then-National Security       Adviser Michael Flynn, where they sat together in the south       auditorium of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, part       of the White House complex. 

       The ``all hands'' meeting, held about two weeks into the       new administration, was attended by hundreds of NSC       employees. 

       ``They were popping off about how they were going to remove       Trump from office. No joke,'' said one ex-colleague, who       spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive       matters. 

       A military staffer detailed to the NSC, who was seated       directly in front of Ciaramella and Misko during the meeting,       confirmed hearing them talk about toppling Trump during their       private conversation, which the source said lasted about one       minute. The crowd was preparing to get up to leave the room       at the time. 

       ``After Flynn briefed [the staff] about what `America       first' foreign policy means, Ciaramella turned to Misko and       commented, 'We need to take him out,' '' the staffer       recalled. ``And Misko replied, `Yeah, we need to do       everything we can to take out the president.' '' 

       Added the military detailee, who spoke on condition of       anonymity: ``By `taking him out,' they meant removing him       from office by any means necessary. They were triggered by       Trump's and Flynn's vision for the world. This was the first       `all hands' [staff meeting] where they got to see Trump's       national security team, and they were huffing and puffing       throughout the briefing any time Flynn said something they       didn't like about `America First.' '' 

       He said he also overheard Ciaramella telling Misko,       referring to Trump, `We can't let him enact this foreign       policy.' '' 

       Alarmed by their conversation, the military staffer       immediately reported what he heard to his superiors. 

       ``It was so shocking that they were so blatant and       outspoken about their opinion,'' he recalled. ``They weren't       shouting it, but they didn't seem to feel the need to hide       it.'' 

       The co-workers didn't think much more about the incident. 

       ``We just thought they were wacky,'' the first source said.       ``Little did we know.'' 

       Neither Ciaramella nor Misko could be reached for comment. 

       A CIA alumnus, Misko had previously assisted Biden's top       national security aide Jake Sullivan. Former NSC staffers       said Misko was Ciaramella's closest and most trusted ally in       the Trump White House. 

       ``Eric and Sean were very tight and spent nearly two years       together at the NSC,'' said a former supervisor who requested       anonymity. ``Both of them were paranoid about Trump.'' 

       ``They were thick as thieves,'' added the first NSC source.       ``They sat next to each other and complained about Trump all       the time. They were buddies. They weren't just colleagues.       They were buddies outside the White House.'' 

       The February 2017 incident wasn't the only time the pair       exhibited open hostility toward the president. During the       following months, both were accused internally of leaking       negative information about Trump to the media. 

       But Trump's controversial call to the new president of       Ukraine this past summer--in which he asked the foreign       leader for help with domestic investigations involving the       Obama administration, including Biden--gave them the opening       they were looking for. 

       A mutual ally in the National Security Council who was one       of the White House officials authorized to listen in on       Trump's July 25 conversation with Ukraine's president leaked       it to Ciaramella the next day--July 26--according to former       NSC co-workers and congressional sources. The friend,       Ukraine-born Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman, held Ciaramella's       old position at the NSC as director for Ukraine. Although       Ciaramella had left the White House to return to the CIA in       mid-2017, the two officials continued to collaborate through       interagency meetings. 

       Vindman leaked what he'd heard to Ciaramella by phone that       afternoon, the sources said. In their conversation, which       lasted a few minutes, he described Trump's call as ``crazy,''       and speculated he had ``committed a criminal act.'' Neither       reviewed the transcript of the call before the White House       released it months later. 

       NSC co-workers said that Vindman, like Ciaramella, openly       expressed his disdain for Trump whose foreign policy was       often at odds with the recommendations of ``the       interagency''--a network of agency working groups comprised       of intelligence bureaucrats, experts and diplomats who       regularly meet to craft and coordinate policy positions       inside the federal government. 

       Before he was detailed to the White House, Vindman served       in the U.S. Army, where he once received a reprimand from a       superior officer for badmouthing and ridiculing America in       front of Russian soldiers his unit was training with during a       joint 2012 exercise in Germany. 

       His commanding officer, Army Lt. Col. Jim Hickman,       complained that Vindman, then a major, ``was apologetic of       American culture, laughed about Americans not being educated       or worldly and really talked up Obama and globalism to the       point of [It being] uncomfortable.'' 

       ``Vindman was a partisan Democrat at least as far back as       2012,'' Hickman, now retired, asserted. ``Do not let the       uniform fool you. He is a political activist in uniform.'' 

       Attempts to reach Vindman through his lawyer were       unsuccessful.  

       July 26 was also the day that Schiff hired Misko to head up       the investigation of Trump, congressional employment records       show. Misko, in turn, secretly huddled with the whistleblower       prior to filing his Aug. 12 complaint, according to multiple       congressional sources, and shared what he told him with       Schiff, who initially denied the contacts before press       accounts revealed them. 

       Schiff's office has also denied helping the whistleblower       prepare his complaint, while rejecting a Republican subpoena       for documents relating to it. But Capitol Hill veterans and       federal whistleblower experts are suspicious of that account. 

       Fred Fleitz, who fielded a number of whistleblower       complaints from the intelligence community as a former senior       House Intelligence Committee staff member, said it was       obvious that the CIA analyst had received coaching in writing       the nine-page whistleblower report. 

       ``From my experience, such an extremely polished       whistleblowing complaint is unheard of,'' Fleitz, also a       former CIA analyst, said. ``He appears to have collaborated       in drafting his complaint with partisan House Intelligence       Committee members and staff.'' 

       Fleitz, who recently served as chief of staff to former       National Security Adviser John Bolton, said the complaint       appears to have been tailored to buttress an impeachment       charge of soliciting the ``interference'' of a foreign       government in the election. 

       And the whistleblower's unsupported allegation became the       foundation for Democrats' first article of impeachment       against the president. It even adopts the language used by       the CIA analyst in his complaint, which Fleitz said reads       more like ``a political document.''                                 Outside Help  

       After providing the outlines of his complaint to Schiff's       staff, the CIA analyst was referred to whistleblower attorney       Andrew Bakaj by a mutual friend ``who is an attorney and       expert in national security law,'' according to the       Washington Post, which did not identify the go-between. 

       A former CIA officer, Bakaj had worked with Ciaramella at       the spy agency. They have even more in common: like the 33-      year-old Ciaramella, the 37-year-old Bakaj is a Connecticut       native who has spent time in Ukraine. He's also contributed       money to Biden's presidential campaign and once worked for       former Sen. Hillary Clinton. He's also briefed the       intelligence panel Schiff chairs. 

       Bakaj brought in another whistleblower lawyer, Mark Zaid,       to help on the case. A Democratic donor and a politically       active anti-Trump advocate, Zaid was willing to help       represent the CIA analyst. On Jan. 30, 2017, around the same       time former colleagues say they overheard Ciaramella and       Misko conspiring to take Trump out, Zaid tweeted that a       ``coup has started'' and that ``impeachment will follow       ultimately.'' 

       Neither Bakaj nor Zaid responded to requests for an       interview. 

       It's not clear who the mutual friend and national security       attorney was whom the analyst turned to for additional help       after meeting with Schiff's staff. But people familiar with       the matter say that former Justice Department national       security lawyer David Laufman involved himself early on in       the whistleblower case. 

       Also a former CIA officer, Laufman was promoted by the       Obama administration to run counterintelligence cases,       including the high-profile investigations of Clinton's       classified emails and the Trump campaign's alleged ties to       Russia. Laufman sat in on Clinton's July 2016 FBI interview.       He also signed off on the wiretapping of a Trump campaign       adviser, which the Department of Justice inspector general       determined was conducted under false pretenses involving       doctored emails, suppression of exculpatory evidence, and       other malfeasance. Laufman's office was implicated in a       report detailing the surveillance misconduct. 

       Laufman could not be reached for comment. 

       Laufman and Zaid are old friends who have worked together       on legal matters in the past. ``I would not hesitate to join       forces with him on complicated cases,'' Zaid said of Laufman       in a recommendation posted on his LinkedIn page. 

       Laufman recently defended Zaid on Twitter after Trump       blasted Zaid for advocating a ``coup'' against him. ``These       attacks on Mark Zaid's patriotism are baseless, irresponsible       and dangerous,'' Laufman tweeted. ``Mark is an ardent       advocate for his clients.'' 

       After the CIA analyst was coached on how to file a       complaint under Intelligence Community whistleblower       protections, he was steered to another Obama holdover--former       Justice Department attorney-turned-inspector general Michael       Atkinson, who facilitated the processing of his complaint,       despite numerous red flags raised by career Justice       Department lawyers who reviewed it. 

       The department's Office of Legal Counsel that the complaint       involved ``foreign diplomacy,'' not intelligence, contained       ``hearsay'' evidence based on ``secondhand'' information, and       did not meet the definition of an ``urgent concern'' that       needed to be reported to Congress. Still, Atkinson worked       closely with Schiff to pressure the White House to make the       complaint public. 

       Fleitz said cloaking the CIA analyst in the whistleblower       statute provided him cover from public scrutiny. By making       him anonymous, he was able to hide his background and       motives. Filing the complaint with the IC inspector general,       moreover, gave him added protections against reprisals, while       letting him disclose classified information. If he had filed       directly with Congress, it could not have made the complaint       public due to classified concerns. But a complaint referred       by the IG to Congress gave it more latitude over what it       could make public.                         Omitted Contacts With Schiff  

       The whistleblower complaint was publicly released Sept. 26       after a barrage of letters and a subpoena from Schiff, along       with a flood of leaks to the media. 

       However, the whistleblower did not disclose to Atkinson       that he had briefed Schiff's office about his complaint       before filing it with the inspector general. He was required       on forms to list any other agencies he had contacted,       including Congress. But he omitted those contacts and other       material facts from his disclosure. He also appears to have       misled Atkinson on Aug. 12, when on a separate form he       stated: ``I reserve the option to exercise my legal right to       contact the committees directly,'' when he had already       contacted Schiff's committee weeks prior to making the       statement. 

       ``The whistleblower made statements to the inspector       general under the penalty of perjury that were not true or       correct,'' said Rep. John Ratcliffe, a Republican member of       the House Intelligence Committee. 

       Ratcliffe said Atkinson appeared unconcerned after the New       York Times revealed in early October that Schiff's office had       privately consulted with the CIA analyst before he filed his       complaint, contradicting Schiff's initial denials. Ratcliffe       told RealClearlnvestigations that in closed door testimony on       Oct. 4, ``I asked IG Atkinson about his `investigation' into       the contacts between Schiff's staff and the person who later       became the whistleblower.'' But he said Atkinson claimed that       he had not investigated them because he had only just learned       about them in the media. 

       On Oct. 8, after more media reports revealed the whistle       blower and Schiff's staff had concealed their contacts with       each other, the whistleblower called Atkinson's office to try       to explain why he made false statements in writing and       verbally, transgressions that could be punishable with a fine       of up to $10,000, imprisonment for up five years, or both,       according to the federal form he signed under penalty of       perjury. 

       In his clarification to the inspector general, the       whistleblower acknowledged for the first time reaching out to       Schiff's staff before filing the complaint, according to an       investigative report filed later that month by Atkinson. 

       ``The whistleblower got caught,'' Ratcliffe said. ``The       whistleblower made false statements. The whistleblower got       caught with Chairman Schiff.'' 

       He says the truth about what happened is documented on       pages 53-73 of the transcript of Atkinson's eight-hour       testimony. Except that Schiff refuses to release it. 

       ``The transcript is classified `Secret' so Schiff can       prevent you from seeing the answers to my questions,''       Ratcliffe told RCI. 

       Atkinson replaced Charles McCullough as the intelligence       community's IG. McCullough is now a partner in the same law       firm for which Bakaj and Zaid work. McCullough formerly       reported directly to Obama's National Intelligence Director,       James Clapper, one of Trump's biggest critics in the       intelligence community and a regular agitator for his       impeachment on CNN.                           Hidden Political Agenda?  

       Atkinson also repeatedly refused to answer Senate       Intelligence Committee questions about the political bias of       the whistleblower. Republican members of the panel called his       Sept. 26 testimony ``evasive.'' Senate investigators say they       are seeking all records generated from Atkinson's       ``preliminary review'' of the whistleblower's complaint,       including evidence and ``indicia'' of the whistleblower's       ``political bias'' in favor of Biden. 

       Republicans point out that Atkinson was the top national       security lawyer in the Obama Justice Department when it was       investigating Trump campaign aides and Trump himself in 2016       and 2017. He worked closely with Laufman, the department's       former counterintelligence section chief who's now aligned       with the whistleblower's attorneys. Also, Atkinson served as       senior counsel to Mary McCord, the senior Justice official       appointed by Obama who helped oversee the FBI's Russia       ``collusion'' probe, and who personally pressured the White       House to fire then National Security Adviser Flynn. She and       Atkinson worked together on the Russia case. Closing the       circle tighter, McCord was Laufman's boss at Justice. 

       As it happens, all three are now involved in the       whistleblower case or the impeachment process. 

       After leaving the department, McCord joined the stable of       attorneys Democrats recruited last year to help impeach       Trump. She is listed as a top outside counsel for the House       in key legal battles tied to impeachment, including trying to       convince federal judges to unblock White House witnesses and       documents. 

       ``Michael Atkinson is a key anti-Trump conspirator who       played a central role in transforming the `whistleblower'       complaint into the current impeachment proceedings,'' said       Bill Marshall, a senior investigator for Judicial Watch, the       conservative government watchdog group that is suing the       Justice Department for Atkinson's internal communications       regarding impeachment.  

       Atkinson's office declined comment.                          Another `Co-Conspirator'?  

       During closed-door depositions taken in the impeachment       inquiry, Ciaramella's confederate Misko was observed handing       notes to Schiff's lead counsel for the impeachment inquiry,       Daniel Goldman--another Obama Justice attorney and a major       Democratic donor--as he asked questions of Trump       administration witnesses, officials with direct knowledge of       the proceedings told RealClear Investigations. Misko also was       observed sitting on the dais behind Democratic members during       last month's publicly broadcast joint impeachment committee       hearings. 

       Another Schiff recruit believed to part of the clandestine       political operation against Trump is Abby Grace, who also       worked closely with Ciaramella at the NSC, both before and       after Trump was elected. During the Obama administration,       Grace was an assistant to Obama national security aide Ben       Rhodes. 

       Last February, Schiff recruited this other White House       friend of the whistleblower to work as an impeachment       investigator. Grace is listed alongside Sean Misko as senior       staffers in the House Intelligence Committee's ``The Trump-      Ukraine Impeachment Inquiry Report'' published last month. 

       Republican Rep. Louie Gohmert, who served on one of the       House impeachment panels, singled out Grace and Misko as       Ciaramella's ``co-conspirators'' in a recent House floor       speech arguing for their testimony.``These people are at the       heart of everything about this whole Ukrainian hoax,''       Gohmert said. ``We need to be able to talk to these people.'' 

       A Schiff spokesman dismissed Gohmert's allegation. 

       ``These allegations about our dedicated and professional       staff members are patently false and are based off false       smears from a congressional staffer with a personal vendetta       from a previous job,'' said Patrick Boland, spokesman for the       House Intelligence Committee. ``It's shocking that members of       Congress would repeat them and other false conspiracy       theories, rather than focusing on the facts of the       president's misconduct.'' 

       Boland declined to identify ``the congressional staffer       with a personal vendetta.'' 

       Schiff has maintained in open hearings and interviews that       he did not personally speak with the whistleblower and still       does not even know his identity, which would mean the       intelligence panel's senior staff has withheld his name from       their chairman for almost six months. Still, he insists that       he knows that the CIA analyst has ``acted in good faith,'' as       well as ``appropriately and lawfully.'' 

       The CIA declined comment. But the agency reportedly has       taken security measures to protect the analyst, who has       continued to work on issues relating to Russia and Ukraine       and participate in interagency meetings.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT