Johnson, Rosen Introduce Bill to Strengthen U.S. Leadership on 5G Standards Setting


U.S. Sens. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) and Jacky Rosen (D-Nev.) introduced the Promoting United States Wireless Leadership Act of 2020 Thursday, legislation that will help the U.S. win the race to 5G by strengthening U.S. leadership in international standards-setting bodies for 5G networks.

"Winning the race to 5G is one of America's top economic and national security priorities. It is critical that the U.S. take the lead in developing standards to ensure 5G network security and maintain U.S. competitiveness in wireless connectivity and innovation. If we as a nation do not lead on this issue, China will fill the void. This legislation will help ensure we don't concede leadership to China as 5G technology continues to develop," said Sen. Johnson.

"Our global economic competitiveness depends on our participation in setting the standards for the next generation of communications networks," said Sen. Rosen. "Nevada is an innovative state and will depend on these networks to push us to the future in everything from computing to telemedicine. I will continue to support legislation that ensures that the United States is at the forefront of innovation so that we continue to lead the world in wireless technology."

Text of the bill Sens. Johnson and Rosen introduced can be found here.

Background on Sen. Johnson's 5G work:

June 2019: Sen. Johnson sent a letter to the Commerce Department and introduced a resolution emphasizing America's national priority of leading the world in the development and deployment of 5G wireless technology.October 2019: Sen. Johnson held a hearing at his Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee to examine the national security and economic challenges in competing with China and Chinese-supported telecommunications companies, as well as other global competitors, in the race toward 5G wireless networks.November 2019: Sen. Johnson, with the chairmen and ranking members of the Intelligence, Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, Foreign Relations and Armed Service Committees, sent a letter to incoming National Security Adviser Robert O'Brien urging him to designate a senior coordinator for the effort to deploy 5G.