Johnson Talks Blue Star Subpoena and Oversight on "Outnumbered Overtime With Harris Faulkner'


In an interview on "Outnumbered Overtime With Harris Faulkner" Wednesday, U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), the chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, discussed the committee's Blue Star subpoena vote and continuing oversight efforts.

"All of my committee members know, Democrats and Republicans, realize the vast majority of our committee work is focused on the COVID-19 crisis  We have held multiple hearings, we are briefed multiple times per week by administration officials."

"This [Blue Star subpoena] was actually requested on a bipartisan basis when they delayed the subpoena for Andrii Telizhenko -- [a bipartisan group of committee members said] so if you want the Blue Star records why don't you just subpoena Blue Star? We said okay we will, and then when it comes down to subpoenaing Blue Star, all of the sudden they object and they throw a bit of a hissy fit there. You know, trust me, this is not something -- I didn't want this to be a big deal. I just want to get the information. I just wanted to get those records."

"[Blue Star Strategies] have not complied with our request for information. Recently they've given us a few more pieces, but we know it's not even close to being complete. Blue Star Strategies is a Democrat-run consulting firm, and they were engaged by Burisma, the corrupt oil company, to burnish their image here and to use their connections.  It is not my fault that Hunter Biden and Joe Biden are somehow connected to a very corrupt oil company and that Blue Star Strategies represented them."

"We're going to continue to work with Senator Graham and Senator Grassley and anybody that has information about what all happened here. The American people have a right to know. It's just tragic it's taken more than three years, that Special Counsel Mueller turned a blind eye to the abuse within the FBI, that Christopher Wray hasn't really cleaned up that organization -- the American people have a right to know."