One Big Beautiful Bill Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693195/one-big-beautiful-bill-act


Mr. Speaker, here we are again--Yogi Berra once said that it is deja  vu all over again--debating this bill in the middle of the night. This  crowd must love prime time in Guam.

This has been the worst process of the worst bill I have ever seen  during my decade in Congress.

This is not what our Founders intended--far from it. While the  process stinks, the substance is even worse. The bill still kicks 17  million Americans off their healthcare and makes record cuts to  Medicaid, record cuts to the Affordable Care Act, and record cuts to  Medicare.

That is not all. It kicks off 4\1/2\ million from nutrition  assistance, mostly seniors and children. Why? It is to help subsidize  massive tax cuts that mostly go to the top 1 percent.

Of course, all of those cuts, over $1.5 trillion worth, don't come  close to paying for the more than $5 trillion worth of tax cuts. Who  pays the remainder? Our national credit card does.

Here we are, actually voting not just for the biggest loss of  healthcare in American history, but the biggest increase in our  national debt in American history.

Mr. Speaker, I have no idea what in the world the crowd that was  holding out got for holding out. Does anyone know? It is a complete  mystery to me and to the American people, but one thing is clear. There  is one group making out as a result of this bill: the billionaire  class.

Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to discuss this big,  disgusting billionaire bailout bill.

This year, I have traveled the State of New Jersey, hearing from the  constituents of my three GOP colleagues.

I spoke to some of the 178,000 people in Representative Van Drew's  district on NJ FamilyCare who will lose their coverage; some parents of  the nearly 100,000 children in Representative Smith's district who are  at risk of losing their NJ FamilyCare health coverage; and some of the  11,000 seniors in Representative Kean's district who are worried about  their nursing homes having to shut down.

What I heard from all of those constituents in those three districts  was that they are very disappointed that they were not able to  communicate with their Representatives because their Representatives  were hiding from them because they could not justify their support of  this big, disgusting billionaire bailout.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues from New Jersey to listen to  their constituents and vote ``no.'' May God forgive those who do not do  for the least among us.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.  Balint), a distinguished member of the  House Committee on the Budget.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much  time remains on each side.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.  Kaptur), a distinguished member of the  Budget Committee.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.  Craig), the ranking member of the  Agriculture Committee.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.  Pelosi), the Speaker emerita of the  House.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my  time.

This has been a very long day after many, many days that have  stretched into the night to the following morning, such as this one,  after a very long 6 months on this bill.

What really matters in these next few moments is that the decision we  have been entrusted by the American people to make will have  ramifications for millions of our fellow Americans and indeed for our  country for decades to come.

There may not be a lot of people able to watch at 4:05 in the  morning, but in just a few short hours, some of them on Medicaid will  be waking up and turning on the news to find out if what we did here  tonight means they are about to lose it. Some of the people who get  their healthcare from the ACA exchanges will be turning on their TV to  find out what we have done in these next few minutes and if they will  still be able to have healthcare.

The folks like my dad, who are on Medicare, who are writing in,  emailing, calling us, saying don't cut Medicare, they will find out in  a few moments whether or not we have pushed through the biggest cut to  Medicare in American history.

The kids who rely on SNAP, the nutrition assistance program, may not  quite understand it, but make no mistake about it: What we are about to  do in the next few minutes here will have a profound effect on their  lives, not to mention the millions of Americans who may not be on  Medicaid, Medicare, SNAP, or the ACA, but who rely on a hospital in a  rural area, who now may see that hospital close because of the cuts  that are in this piece of legislation.

Of course, for many years to come, we and our kids and our grandkids  are going to be saddled with even more debt in order to afford tax cuts  for those who need them the least. This is not just bad economics. I  believe it is immoral.

I would remind us that the Congressional Budget Office, just last  week, found in the final analysis of this bill, when all of its  component parts are summed together, that the bottom third of  households would be poorer, the middle of the country would be no  better off, and the biggest benefit would go to the top 1 percent of  Americans.

This legislation makes the poor poorer, the rich richer, and the  middle class left behind.

On behalf of the millions of Americans who are relying on us to hold  firm on behalf of this side of the aisle, we say: Hell, no. Vote ``no''  on this bill.