Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency of the Department of the Treasury Relating to the Review of Applications Under the Bank Merger Act; Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Review of Final Rule Reclassification of Major Sources As Area Sources Under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act''; and Waiving A Requirement of Clause 6(A) of Rule Xiii with Respect to Consideration of Certain Resolutions Reported From the Committee on Rules


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691513/providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-office-of-the-comptroller-of-the-currency-of-the-department-of-the-treasury-relating-to-the-review-of-applications-under-the-bank-merger-act-providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-review-of-final-rule-reclassification-of-major-sources-as-area-sources-under-section-112-of-the-clean-air-act-and-waiving-a-requirement-of-clause-6a-of-rule-xiii-with-respect-to-consideration-of-certain-resolutions-reported-from-the-committee-on-rules


Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member  for yielding time to discuss our proposal.

Late Sunday night, the House Budget Committee, on which I serve as  ranking member, passed out, with only Republican votes, a draconian tax  bill that cuts almost 14 million Americans off their healthcare and  ensures a few million more lose their food assistance.

You might ask yourself why. The reason is, in order to help pay for  tax cuts for billionaires.

Interestingly, we were originally supposed to pass this on Friday,  but on Friday, around lunchtime, enough hard-line conservative members  on the Budget Committee withheld their votes and voted ``no,'' not  because they objected to 14 million Americans losing their healthcare,  not because they objected to millions more losing their food  assistance, but because they looked at those numbers and said: Well,  that is a good start.

We want those numbers to go up. We want even more people to lose  their healthcare and more people to lose their food assistance.

The vote went down Friday. We come back Sunday night, and suddenly  the vote is called again. I raised the question as a parliamentary  inquiry. I simply asked: What has changed? What deals have been made?  The American people deserve to know. We, as Members, on both sides of  the aisle, deserve to know before casting our votes.

I was assured that nothing had changed. There were no agreements  made.

Then the very next Republican speaker, who is one of those hard-line  conservatives, gave the game away and said he was flipping his vote  because of the agreements that were made. Backroom deals deny the  American people the transparency that they deserve.

One of the things we keep hearing on the other side of the aisle is  that we need to get this done, otherwise taxes will go up on the  American people. Apparently, the President said that today while he was  here in this building. It is completely false.

Just this past week, Democrats introduced an amendment that would  ensure the extension of the tax cuts for every American making under a  billion dollars. Every Democrat voted yes. Every Republican voted no.  This really is about the tax cuts for billionaires.

Now, the President has also said: he would ``love and cherish  Medicaid.''

My Republican friends, all of those included who have said that they  would protect Medicaid, they have an opportunity to prove it. Right now  at the well of the House Chamber is a discharge petition that would  force a vote on my legislation, the Hands Off Medicaid and SNAP Act. It  would stop permanently these outrageous cuts from happening. It would  preserve healthcare.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, it would ensure these cuts do  not happen. Right now we have 211 signatures, all from Democrats. We  just need a few Republican Members to sign that discharge petition, and  we will be able to love and cherish Medicaid as well as SNAP. That is  all it would take, just a few Republican Members to save healthcare for  millions and millions of Americans and save food assistance for  millions more.

I think it is clear, Mr. Speaker, the difference in priorities  between this side of the aisle and the other side. It is the Members on  this side of the aisle that are fighting to save healthcare for the  American people, and it is our friends on the other side of the aisle  who are fighting for the billionaire class.