Recognizing the Retirement of Paula McKinney-Rainey


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700318/recognizing-the-retirement-of-paula-mckinney-rainey


Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and  congratulate Paula McKinney-Rainey, both a constituent of mine and a  valued member of my staff, as she retires from the House of  Representatives next month.

Paula is a proud Philadelphian and is an alumnus of Penn State  University, as well as an active member of Alpha Kappa Alpha. Prior to  joining my office in 2015, she had extensive experience working in  state and local governments as well as the nonprofit sector in a  variety of capacities. Paula was a Management Analyst in the County of  Los Angeles Chief Administration Office before spending several years  serving Pennsylvanians in roles with the Pennsylvania Department of  Community and Economic Development and the Governor's Office of Housing  and Community Revitalization.

Through Paula's almost eleven years of service in my office, she has  helped thousands of constituents with a variety of issues. Through her  extraordinary efforts, Paula has demonstrated outstanding care and  empathy for those she serves. Over the years, she has also been an  indispensable community representative on my behalf, providing  countless constituents and stakeholders with information on how our  office and their government can help them in their moment of need.

In addition to her role in my office, Paula is also a longtime  dedicated community leader. For more than twenty years, she has served  as a Philadelphia Committeeperson in the city's 61st Ward, working  thirteen hour days at polling stations every Election Day to help  educate voters.

Mr. Speaker, I hope all my colleagues will join me to congratulate  Paula on her retirement, thank her for her exceptional career as a  civil servant, and commend her on her unwavering commitment to not just  the City of Philadelphia, but to our entire Nation.