Recognizing the Life and Service of Donald Michael Wittenberg


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700894/recognizing-the-life-and-service-of-donald-michael-wittenberg


Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the  life of Donald Michael Wittenberg, a Philadelphia community leader and  constituent of Pennsylvania's 2nd Congressional District who passed  away on March 5th. Don's leadership in the Philadelphia community  cannot be overstated, and I am incredibly grateful for his friendship  over many years, as well as the contributions he has made to our city.

Don graduated from Olney High School in 1964 and Temple University in  1969 with bachelor's and master's degrees in education. He would go on  to serve as an educator within the School District of Philadelphia for  42 years. He taught at Meade, McClure, Rowen, and Leeds Middle Schools,  served as an Auxiliary Principal at Kenderton and Hanna Elementary  Schools, and as the Principal of Pennell and Franklin Elementary  Schools. Don completed his career as an Educational Facilities Planner  for the school district's central office.

Don's impact on the Philadelphia community, however, went beyond the  classroom and the thousands of students he served. He has served as a  member, Treasurer, and President of B'nai B'rith Educators Unit, an  organization dedicated to supporting Jewish educators in Philadelphia.  He was the Curator for the Holocaust Awareness Museum and Education  Center for 25 years and was honored by the Columbus Forum as the first  recipient of their Unity Award for promoting cultural awareness.

Honoring Don's life and service as an educator and community leader  would not be complete without also paying tribute to him as a beloved  husband to his wife, Bonnie, and the late Louellan, father to Steven  and Jan, and grandfather to Lillian, Aidan, and Leo. I offer my deepest  condolences to the Wittenberg family and their friends, and I will  continue to hold them in my prayers.

Mr. Speaker, it is altogether fitting that the House recognizes Don  for his exceptional life and thanks him for his leadership in the  Philadelphia community and education system.