Recognizing Bernie Prazenica's Retirement As President and General Manager of Wpvi-Tv


Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate  Bernie Prazenica on his retirement as President and General Manager of  WPVI-TV, Philadelphia's most-watched local news and entertainment  television station.

A graduate of Temple University, Prazenica's illustrious 43-year  career in television saw stops in Pittsburgh, Richmond, and Raleigh  before he returned to Philadelphia in 1994. He would go on to serve as  the President and General Manager of WPVI beginning in 2007, making him  the longest-serving General Manager in the station's history.

Throughout the entirety of his tenure, Prazenica played a critical  role in maintaining WPVI's status as the home of the most-watched local  news broadcast in Philadelphia, Action News, a title which the station  and program have held for nearly 50 years. In 2009, he oversaw the  construction of a state-of-the-art, 110,000 square foot digital  broadcasting facility next to the station's previous home. His  unwavering commitment to his work has ensured that throughout his  tenure, the station has remained at the forefront of producing  groundbreaking news, brought into countless homes across the Delaware  Valley every single day.

Prazenica is also an active participant in Philadelphia's business,  cultural and philanthropic communities. He has actively served on many  boards, including those of the Pennsylvania Association of  Broadcasters, the Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce, and the  Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Corporate Council. He has  previously chaired the Police Athletic League and Temple University's  Klein College Board of Advisors. In 2009, Prazenica was recognized by  Philadelphia Magazine as one of the City's 75 Most Influential People  and, in 2024, he was inducted into the Broadcast Pioneers of  Philadelphia Hall of Fame.

Mr. Speaker, it is altogether fitting that the House recognizes  Bernie Prazenica for his exceptional career and congratulates him on  his well-deserved retirement.