Awning Safety Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692747/awning-safety-act-of-2025


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1767) to require the Consumer Product Safety Commission to  promulgate a mandatory consumer product safety standard with respect to  retractable awnings.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1767

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Awning Safety Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY STANDARD FOR RETRACTABLE                     AWNINGS.

(a) Consumer Product Safety Standard Required.--Not later       than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act,       the Consumer Product Safety Commission shall promulgate,       under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, a final       consumer product safety standard for fixed and freestanding       retractable awnings within the jurisdiction of the Commission       to protect against the risk of death or serious injury       related to the hazards associated with such awnings,       including the risk of death or serious injury related to the       awning unexpectedly opening and striking a person while       removing the bungee tie-downs for the cover of the awning.

(b) CPSC Determination of Scope.--The Consumer Product       Safety Commission shall specify the types of retractable       awning devices within the jurisdiction of the Commission that       are within the scope of subsection (a) as part of a standard       promulgated under this section, as reasonably necessary to       protect against hazards associated with retractable awnings.

(c) Treatment of Standard.--A consumer product safety       standard promulgated under subsection (a) shall be treated as       a consumer product safety rule promulgated under sections 7       and 9 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2056 and       2058).

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1767, the Awning Safety  Act of 2025, led by my good friend, Representative Balderson.

This legislation directs the Consumer Product Safety Commission to  establish a consumer product safety standard for retractable awnings to  help prevent serious injuries and deaths.

Motorized awnings pose a known hazard to the public, so the CPSC  issued a recall covering 270,000 units following reports of injuries  and one tragic death unfortunately. These preventable incidents occur  when the tie-downs on the awning unexpectedly release, causing the  awning to strike the consumer.

Coming from the State of Florida, I know how important this is, and I  know how popular awnings are, but they have to be safe for consumers.  Consumers should not have to fear that their awning might suddenly  spring open and cause harm. This bill will make sure they won't have  that problem.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this particular bill. I  commend the primary sponsor, my good friend, Mr. Balderson, from the  great State of Ohio.

H.R. 1767 should be passed by this body and sent over to the Senate.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support this particular  piece of legislation in memory of Dr. Michael Hnat, a cherished part of  the Energy and Commerce Committee family, who tragically lost his life,  as has been said, in an awning accident. I thank his family for joining  us here today.

Mr. Speaker, let's pass this good bill in his memory, and I yield  back the balance of my time.