Charlotte Woodward Organ Transplant Discrimination Prevention Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692719/charlotte-woodward-organ-transplant-discrimination-prevention-act


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1520) to prohibit discrimination on the basis of mental or  physical disability in cases of organ transplants.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1520

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Charlotte Woodward Organ       Transplant Discrimination Prevention Act''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Auxiliary aids and services.--The term ``auxiliary aids       and services'' has the meaning given the term in section 4 of       the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C.       12103).

(2) Covered entity.--The term ``covered entity'' means any       licensed provider of health care services (including licensed       health care practitioners, hospitals, nursing facilities,       laboratories, intermediate care facilities, psychiatric       residential treatment facilities, institutions for       individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities,       and prison health centers), and any transplant hospital (as       defined in section 121.2 of title 42, Code of Federal       Regulations or a successor regulation), that--

(A) is in interstate commerce; or

(B) provides health care services in a manner that--

(i) substantially affects or has a substantial relation to       interstate commerce; or

(ii) includes use of an instrument (including an instrument       of transportation or communication) of interstate commerce.

(3) Disability.--The term ``disability'' has the meaning       given the term in section 3 of the Americans with       Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102).

(4) Human organ.--The term ``human organ'' has the meaning       given the term in section 301(c) of the National Organ       Transplant Act (42 U.S.C. 274e(c)).

(5) Organ transplant.--The term ``organ transplant'' means       the transplantation or transfusion of a donated human organ       into the body of another human for the purpose of treating a       medical condition.

(6) Qualified individual.--The term ``qualified       individual'' means an individual who, with or without a       support network, provision of auxiliary aids and services, or       reasonable modifications to policies or practices, meets       eligibility requirements for the receipt of a human organ.

(7) Reasonable modifications to policies or practices.--The       term ``reasonable modifications to policies or practices''       includes--

(A) communication with persons responsible for supporting a       qualified individual with postsurgical or other care       following an organ transplant or related services, including       support with medication;

(B) consideration, in determining whether a qualified       individual will be able to comply with health requirements       following an organ transplant or receipt of related services,       of support networks available to the qualified individual,       including family, friends, and providers of home and       community-based services, including home and community-based       services funded through the Medicare or Medicaid program       under title XVIII or XIX, respectively, of the Social       Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq., 1396 et seq.), another       health plan in which the qualified individual is enrolled, or       any program or source of funding available to the qualified       individual; and

(C) the use of supported decision-making, when needed, by a       qualified individual.

(8) Related services.--The term ``related services'' means       services related to an organ transplant that consist of--

(A) evaluation;

(B) counseling;

(C) treatment, including postoperative treatment, and care;

(D) provision of information; and

(E) any other service recommended or required by a       physician.

(9) Supported decision-making.--The term ``supported       decision-making'' means the use of a support person to assist       a qualified individual in making health care decisions,       communicate information to the qualified individual, or       ascertain a qualified individual's wishes. Such term       includes--

(A) the inclusion of the individual's attorney-in-fact or       health care proxy, or any person of the individual's choice,       in communications about the individual's health care;

(B) permitting the individual to designate a person of the       individual's choice for the purposes of supporting that       individual in communicating, processing information, or       making health care decisions;

(C) providing auxiliary aids and services to facilitate the       individual's ability to communicate and process health-      related information, including providing use of assistive       communication technology;

(D) providing health information to persons designated by       the individual, consistent with the regulations promulgated       under section 264(c) of the Health Insurance Portability and       Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2 note) and other       applicable laws and regulations governing disclosure of       health information;

(E) providing health information in a format that is       readily understandable by the individual; and

(F) working with a court-appointed guardian or other person       responsible for making health care decisions on behalf of the       individual, to ensure that the individual is included in       decisions involving the health care of the individual and       that health care decisions are in accordance with the       individual's own expressed interests.

(10) Support network.--The term ``support network'' means,       with respect to a qualified individual, 1 or more people who       are--

(A) selected by the qualified individual or by the       qualified individual and the guardian of the qualified       individual, to provide assistance to the qualified individual       or guidance to that qualified individual in understanding       issues, making plans for the future, or making complex       decisions; and

(B) who may include the family members, friends, unpaid       supporters, members of the religious congregation, and       appropriate personnel at a community center, of or serving       the qualified individual.       SEC. 3. PROHIBITION OF DISCRIMINATORY POLICY.

The board of directors described in section 372(b)(1)(B) of       the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 274(b)(1)(B)) shall       not issue policies, recommendations, or other memoranda that       would prohibit, or otherwise hinder, a qualified individual's       access to an organ transplant solely on the basis of that       individual's disability.       SEC. 4. PROHIBITION OF DISCRIMINATION.

(a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), a covered       entity may not, solely on the basis of a qualified       individual's disability--

(1) determine that the individual is ineligible to receive       an organ transplant or related services;

(2) deny the individual an organ transplant or related       services;

(3) refuse to refer the individual to an organ transplant       center or other related specialist for the purpose of receipt       of an organ transplant or other related services; or

(4) refuse to place the individual on an organ transplant       waiting list.

(b) Exception.--

(1) In general.--

(A) Medically significant disabilities.--Notwithstanding       subsection (a), a covered entity may take a qualified       individual's disability into account when making a health       care treatment or coverage recommendation or decision, solely       to the extent that the disability has been found by a       physician, following an individualized evaluation of the       potential recipient, to be medically significant to the       receipt of the organ transplant or related services, as the       case may be.

(B) Construction.--Subparagraph (A) shall not be construed       to require a referral or recommendation for, or the       performance of, a medically inappropriate organ transplant or       medically inappropriate related services.

(2) Clarification.--If a qualified individual has the       necessary support network to provide a reasonable assurance       that the qualified individual will be able to comply with       health requirements following an organ transplant or receipt       of related services, as the case may be, the qualified       individual's inability to independently comply with those       requirements may not be construed to be medically significant       for purposes of paragraph (1).

(c) Reasonable Modifications.--A covered entity shall make       reasonable modifications to policies or practices (including       procedures) of such entity if such modifications are       necessary to make an organ transplant or related services       available to qualified individuals with disabilities, unless       the entity can demonstrate that making such modifications       would fundamentally alter the nature of such policies or       practices.

(d) Clarifications.--

(1) No denial of services because of absence of auxiliary       aids and services.--For purposes of this section, a covered       entity shall take such steps as may be necessary to ensure       that a qualified individual with a disability is not denied a       procedure associated with the receipt of an organ transplant       or related services, because of the absence of auxiliary aids       and services, unless the covered entity can demonstrate that       taking such steps would fundamentally alter the nature of the       procedure being offered or would result in an undue burden on       the entity.

(2) Compliance with other law.--Nothing in this section       shall be construed--

(A) to prevent a covered entity from providing organ       transplants or related services       at a level that is greater than the level that is required by       this section; or

(B) to limit the rights of an individual with a disability       under, or to replace or limit the scope of obligations       imposed by, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42       U.S.C. 12101 et seq.) including the provisions added to such       Act by the ADA Amendments Act of 2008, section 504 of the       Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), section 1557 of       the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C.       18116), or any other applicable law.

(e) Enforcement.--

(1) In general.--Any individual who alleges that a       qualified individual was subject to a violation of this       section by a covered entity may bring a claim regarding the       allegation to the Office for Civil Rights of the Department       of Health and Human Services, for expedited resolution, as       appropriate.

(2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection is       intended to limit or replace available remedies under the       Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et       seq.) or any other applicable law.       SEC. 5. APPLICATION TO EACH PART OF PROCESS.

The provisions of this Act--

(1) that apply to an organ transplant, also apply to the       evaluation and listing of a qualified individual, and to the       organ transplant and post-organ-transplant treatment of such       an individual; and

(2) that apply to related services, also apply to the       process for receipt of related services by such an       individual.       SEC. 6. EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.

Nothing in this Act shall be construed to supersede any       provision of any State or local law that provides greater       rights to qualified individuals with respect to organ       transplants than the rights established under this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1520, the  Charlotte Woodward Organ Transplant Discrimination Prevention Act led  by my good friend Mrs. Cammack. She is on a roll.

This legislation prohibits healthcare providers and other entities  from denying an individual's access to organ transplants based solely  on the basis of an individual's disability.

According to the National Council on Disability, such denials are  usually based on assumptions regarding the patient's quality of life  and misinterpretations surrounding the ability for these individuals to  comply with postoperative care.

Though existing Federal laws prohibit organ transplant centers from  discriminating on the basis of disability, there is limited enforcement  and a lack of Federal guidance to ensure patients are protected.

No one should be denied access to an organ transplant just because  they have a disability. H.R. 1520 clarifies that individuals with  disabilities shall not be denied an organ transplant or related  services based solely on the individual's disability and includes an  expedited review and enforcement mechanism through the Department of  Health and Human Services' Office of Civil Rights.

This is a must-pass bill. We must protect individuals, our  constituents, and in some cases family members, with disabilities. They  should not be discriminated against.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting in favor of  H.R.

Mr. BILIRAKIS.

Mr. Speaker, there is no cost. There is no cost to this particular  bill, and it is necessary.

Mr. Speaker, the bottom line is that you cannot put a price on the  value of life. As a matter of fact, no one should determine a person's  quality of life, as far as I am concerned.

God bless Charlotte for advocating on behalf of this bill and, of  course, my good friends Mrs. Cammack and Mrs. Dingell. We have to get  this done. Time is of the essence.

Mr. Speaker, it is a responsible thing to do, and I yield back the  balance of my time.