Foreign Adversary Communications Transparency Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690265/foreign-adversary-communications-transparency-act


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 906) to direct the Federal Communications Commission to  publish a list of entities that hold authorizations, licenses, or other  grants of authority issued by the Commission and that have certain  foreign ownership, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 906

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Foreign Adversary       Communications Transparency Act''.       SEC. 2. LIST OF ENTITIES HOLDING FCC AUTHORIZATIONS,                     LICENSES, OR OTHER GRANTS OF AUTHORITY AND                     HAVING CERTAIN FOREIGN OWNERSHIP.

(a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall publish on       the internet website of the Commission a list of each       entity--

(1) that holds a license issued by the Commission pursuant       to--

(A) section 309(j) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47       U.S.C. 309(j)); or

(B) the Act of May 27, 1921 (47 U.S.C. 34 et seq.; commonly       known as the ``Cable Landing Licensing Act'') and Executive       Order 10530 (3 U.S.C. 301 note; relating to the performance       of certain functions vested in or subject to the approval of       the President); and

(2) with respect to which--

(A) a covered entity holds an equity or voting interest       that is required to be reported to the Commission under the       ownership rules of the Commission; or

(B) an appropriate national security agency has determined       that a covered entity exerts control, regardless of whether       such covered entity holds an equity or voting interest as       described in subparagraph (A).

(b) Rulemaking.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall issue rules       to obtain information to identify each entity--

(A) that holds any authorization, license, or other grant       of authority issued by the Commission (other than a license       described in subsection (a)(1)); and

(B) with respect to which a covered entity holds an equity       or voting interest that is required to be reported to the       Commission under the ownership rules of the Commission.

(2) Placement on list.--Not later than 1 year after the       Commission issues the rules required by paragraph (1), the       Commission shall place each entity described in such       paragraph on the list published under subsection (a).

(c) Paperwork Reduction Act Exemption.--A collection of       information conducted or sponsored by the Commission to       implement this section does not constitute a collection of       information for the purposes of subchapter I of chapter 35 of       title 44, United States Code (commonly referred to as the       ``Paperwork Reduction Act'').

(d) Annual Updates.--The Commission shall, not less       frequently than annually, update the list published under       subsection (a), including with respect to any entity required       to be placed on such list by subsection (b)(2).

(e) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Appropriate national security agency.--The term       ``appropriate national security agency'' has the meaning       given such term in section 9 of the Secure and Trusted       Communications Networks Act of 2019 (47 U.S.C. 1608).

(2) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal       Communications Commission.

(3) Covered country.--The term ``covered country'' means a       country specified in section 4872(f)(2) of title 10, United       States Code.

(4) Covered entity.--The term ``covered entity'' means--

(A) the government of a covered country;

(B) an entity organized under the laws of a covered       country; and

(C) a subsidiary of an entity described in subparagraph       (B), regardless of whether the subsidiary is organized under       the laws of a covered country.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 906, the Foreign Adversary  Communications Transparency Act, led by the gentleman from Virginia  (Mr. Wittman), my good friend.

Entities with ties to our adversaries--China, Russia, Iran, and North  Korea--are threats to our communications networks, unfortunately, but  it is a reality.

This legislation requires the FCC to publish a list of those entities  holding a license, authorization, or other authority granted by the  FCC. Understanding which adversaries are in our networks and the  threats they pose, is necessary to securing our networks.

I thank Representative Wittman, a great Member, for his leadership on  this bill, which passed last Congress by voice vote, and I urge my  colleagues to support this very important and necessary bill. I reserve  the balance of my time, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I commend Representative  Wittman and Representative Castor for their good work on this  particular bill, and I urge passage. I yield back the balance of my  time.