Future Uses of Technology Upholding Reliable and Enhanced Networks Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690229/future-uses-of-technology-upholding-reliable-and-enhanced-networks-act


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2449) to direct the Federal Communications Commission to  establish a task force to be known as the ``6G Task Force'', and for  other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2449

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Future Uses of Technology       Upholding Reliable and Enhanced Networks Act'' or the       ``FUTURE Networks Act''.       SEC. 2. 6G TASK FORCE.

(a) Establishment.--Not later than 120 days after the date       of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall establish       a task force to be known as the ``6G Task Force''.

(b) Membership.--

(1) Appointment.--The members of the Task Force shall be       appointed by the Chair.

(2) Composition.--To the extent practicable, the membership       of the Task Force shall be composed of the following:

(A) Representatives of companies in the communications       industry, except companies that are determined by the Chair       to be not trusted.

(B) Representatives of public interest organizations or       academic institutions, except public interest organizations       or academic institutions that are determined by the Chair to       be not trusted.

(C) Representatives of the Federal Government, State       governments, local governments, or Tribal Governments, with       at least one member representing each such type of       government.

(c) Report.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date on       which the Task Force is established under subsection (a), the       Task Force shall publish in the Federal Register and on the       website of the Commission, and submit to the Committee on       Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate, a report on sixth-generation       wireless technology, including--

(A) the status of industry-led standards-setting bodies in       setting standards for such technology;

(B) possible uses of such technology identified by       industry-led standards-setting bodies that are setting       standards for such technology;

(C) any limitations of such technology (including any       supply chain or cybersecurity limitations) identified by       industry-led standards-setting bodies that are setting       standards for such technology; and

(D) how to best work with entities across the Federal       Government, State governments, local governments, and Tribal       Governments to leverage such technology, including with       regard to siting, deployment, and adoption.

(2) Draft report; public comment.--The Task Force shall--

(A) not later than 180 days after the date on which the       Task Force is established under subsection (a), publish in       the Federal Register and on the website of the Commission a       draft of the report required by paragraph (1); and

(B) accept public comments on such draft and take such       comments into consideration in preparing the final version of       such report.

(d) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Chair.--The term ``Chair'' means the Chair of the       Commission.

(2) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal       Communications Commission.

(3) Not trusted.--

(A) In general.--The term ``not trusted'' means, with       respect to an entity, that--

(i) the Chair has made a public determination that such       entity is owned by, controlled by, or subject to the       influence of a foreign adversary; or

(ii) the Chair otherwise determines that such entity poses       a threat to the national security of the United States.

(B) Criteria for determination.--In making a determination       under subparagraph (A)(ii), the Chair shall use the criteria       described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 2(c) of       the Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Act of 2019       (47 U.S.C. 1601(c)), as appropriate.

(4) State.--The term ``State'' has the meaning given such       term in section 3 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47       U.S.C. 153).

(5) Task force.--The term ``Task Force'' means the 6G Task       Force established under subsection (a).

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, H.R. 2449, the FUTURE  Networks Act led by Representative Matsui and Representative Allen.

United States leadership in 6G technology is critical for both our  economic and national security.

This bill would direct the FCC to establish a 6G Task Force made up  of both public and private-sector participants to develop a report on  the standards development process and possible uses of sixth-generation  technology. This task force will ensure that the United States has a  unified position to cement our leadership in 6G, which is so critical.

This legislation has strong bipartisan support.

Mr. BILIRAKIS.  Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

I commend Representative Allen, the vice chair of the Communications  and Technology Subcommittee; Representative Matsui, the ranking member;  and also my good friend, Mr. Walberg, for this very important bill. I  encourage Members to vote ``yes'' on this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.