Global Investment in American Jobs Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692697/global-investment-in-american-jobs-act-of-2025


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1679) to direct the Secretary of Commerce, in coordination  with the heads of other relevant Federal departments and agencies, to  conduct an interagency review of and report to Congress on ways to  increase the global competitiveness of the United States in attracting  foreign direct investment.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1679

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Global Investment in       American Jobs Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

It is the sense of Congress that--

(1) the ability of the United States to attract foreign       direct investment from responsible private-sector entities       based in trusted countries is directly linked to the long-      term economic prosperity, global competitiveness, and       security of the United States;

(2) it is a top national priority to enhance the global       competitiveness, economic prosperity, and security of the       United States by--

(A) removing unnecessary barriers to foreign direct       investment from responsible private-sector entities based in       trusted countries and the jobs that such investment creates       throughout the United States;

(B) promoting policies to ensure the United States remains       the premier global destination to invest, hire, innovate,       provide services, and manufacture products;

(C) promoting policies to ensure the United States remains       the global leader in developing and deploying cutting-edge       technologies, such as self-driving vehicle technology,       artificial intelligence, Internet of Things, quantum       computing, blockchain; and

(D) promoting policies that maintain and expand resilient       supply chains and reduce the dependence of the United States       on supply chains from China;

(3) maintaining the United States commitment to an open       investment policy with private-sector entities based in       trusted countries encourages other countries to reciprocate       and enable the United States to open new markets abroad for       United States companies and their products;

(4) while foreign direct investment by responsible private-      sector entities based in trusted countries can enhance the       United States economic strength, policies regarding foreign       direct investment should reflect security interests and       should not disadvantage domestic investors or companies;

(5) United States efforts to attract foreign direct       investment from responsible private-sector entities based in       trusted countries should be consistent with efforts to       maintain and improve domestic standard of living;

(6) as digital information becomes increasingly important       to the United States economy and the development of new       technologies and services that will be crucial to the       country's competitiveness in the 21st century global economy,       barriers including data localization and infringement of       intellectual property rights must be further addressed; and

(7) foreign direct investment by companies or other       entities owned, directed, supported, or influenced by the       Chinese Communist Party is a threat to U.S. security and       merits an aggressive policy framework to protect U.S.       interests, jobs, intellectual property, and security.       SEC. 3. FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT REVIEW.

(a) Review.--The Secretary of Commerce and the Comptroller       General of the Government Accountability Office, in       consultation with the Federal Interagency Investment Working       Group established by Executive Order 13577 and in       consultation with the heads of other relevant Federal       departments       and agencies, shall conduct an interagency review of the       global competitiveness of the United States in attracting       foreign direct investment from responsible private-sector       entities based in trusted countries and addressing key       foreign trade barriers that firms in advanced technology       sectors face in the global digital economy.

(b) Specific Matters To Be Included.--The review conducted       pursuant to subsection (a) shall include a review of the       following:

(1) The current economic impact of foreign direct       investment in the United States, with particular focus on       manufacturing, services, trade (with an emphasis on digital       trade), and U.S. jobs.

(2) Trends in global cross-border investment and data flows       and the underlying factors for such trends.

(3) Federal Government policies that facilitate foreign       direct investment attraction and retention from responsible       private-sector entities based in trusted countries.

(4) Foreign direct investment as compared to direct       investment by domestic entities.

(5) Foreign direct investment that takes the form of       greenfield investment as compared to foreign direct       investment relating to merger and acquisition activity.

(6) The unique challenges posed by foreign direct       investment, particularly acquisitions, in the United States       by State-owned or State-backed enterprises, especially from       State-directed economies, including companies or other       entities owned, directed, supported, or influenced by the       Chinese Communist Party.

(7) Specific information on the prevalence of investments       made by State-owned or State-backed enterprises, especially       from State-directed economies, including companies or other       entities owned, directed, supported, or influenced by the       Chinese Communist Party, with a particular focus on       investments relating to manufacturing, services, trade (with       an emphasis on digital trade), and jobs.

(8) How other trusted countries are dealing with the       challenge of State-directed and State-supported investment       and whether there are opportunities to work with like-minded       nations to address such challenge.

(9) Ongoing Federal Government efforts to improve the       investment climate and facilitate greater levels of foreign       direct investment in the United States from responsible       private-sector entities based in trusted countries.

(10) Innovative and noteworthy initiatives by State and       local government to attract foreign investment from       responsible private-sector entities based in trusted       countries.

(11) Initiatives by other countries to identify best       practices for increasing global competitiveness in attracting       foreign direct investment from responsible private-sector       entities based in trusted countries.

(12) The impact that protectionist policies by other       countries, including forced data localization rules, forced       localization of production, industrial subsidies, and the       infringement of intellectual property rights, have on the       advanced technology economy of the United States and the       ability for United States located firms to develop innovative       technologies.

(13) Other barriers to the ability of the United States to       compete globally in an increasingly connected and digital       global economy, including, the use of technical barriers to       trade, country-specific standards for technology products and       digital services.

(14) The adequacy of efforts by the Federal Government to       encourage and facilitate foreign direct investment in the       United States.

(15) Efforts by the Chinese Communist Party to circumvent       existing laws to gain access to U.S. markets, foreign direct       investment responsible private-sector entities based in       trusted countries, or intellectual property.

(c) Limitation.--The review conducted pursuant to       subsection (a) shall not address laws or policies relating to       the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States.

(d) Public Comment.--Before--

(1) conducting the review pursuant to subsection (a), the       Secretary shall publish notice of the review in the Federal       Register and shall provide an opportunity for public comment       on the matters to be covered by the review; and

(2) the submission of the report pursuant to subsection       (e), the Secretary shall publish the proposed findings and       recommendations in the Federal Register and shall provide an       opportunity for public comment.

(e) Report to Congress.--Not later than one year after the       date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in       coordination with the Federal Interagency Investment Working       Group and the heads of other relevant Federal departments and       agencies, shall submit to Congress a report on the findings       of the review required pursuant to subsection (a) and include       recommendations for increasing the global competitiveness of       the United States in attracting foreign direct investment       from responsible private-sector entities based in trusted       countries in a manner that strengthens or maintains the       security, labor, consumer, financial, or environmental       protections of the United States.

(f) Definitions.--In this Act:

(1) Responsible private-sector entity.--The term       ``responsible private-sector entity'' means an entity that       the Secretary of Commerce determines is--

(A) not organized under the laws of a foreign adversary;       and

(B) not owned, controlled, or otherwise subject to the       influence of, a foreign adversary.

(2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of Commerce.

(3) Trusted country.--The term ``trusted country'' means a       country that is not determined by the Secretary of Commerce       to be a of the United States.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1679, the Global  Investment in American Jobs Act of 2025. This is being led by the  gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Evans), my good friend and a very  effective Member of Congress.

This bill directs the Secretary of Commerce and the Comptroller  General to conduct a review and report on ways to increase and attract  foreign direct investment, or FDI, from trusted countries.

The United States is currently a global leader in deployment of  emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence, autonomous  vehicles, blockchain, and many more. To maintain that leadership, we  must continue to foster an environment that encourages our allies and  trusted global partners to invest here at home.

By removing barriers and showing the world that the U.S. is the  premier destination for investment, innovation, manufacturing, and  deployment, the U.S. will cement itself as the global leader of the new  age of technological advancements.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in favor of this  particular bill, H.R. 1679.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I encourage a ``yes'' vote on  this particular bill.