Recognizing Joan Moore


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690776/recognizing-joan-moore


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions that Joan Moore has made through her work with Gulfside  Healthcare Services. Since February 2022, Joan Moore has touched the  lives of over 10,000 hospice patients and their families through giving  her time, talent, and treasure with Gulfside Hospice. With a servant's  heart, Joan quietly, yet passionately finds ways to support one of the  most vulnerable groups in her community--the elderly. Joan's journey  into volunteering began later in life. At nearly 79 years old, instead  of slowing down, she stepped up when she heard Gulfside needed  volunteers. In just three years, she has donated more than 3,650 hours  of her time to Gulfside Hospice.

Inspired by her mother, a longtime hospice volunteer, Joan has always  felt a deep connection to those in hospice care. Facing her own health  challenges, including chronic pain and limited mobility, only deepened  her empathy. Now retired from a successful career in sales and as a  former actress and model, Joan remains driven to stay active and give  back.

She began by helping with clerical tasks in Gulfside's Philanthropy  department and soon joined the Women for Gulfside group in May 2022.  Since then, she has played a key role in fundraising efforts supporting  programs that rely entirely on donations, such as care for uninsured  patients, family bereavement support, and Pet Peace of Mind,  which helps hospice patients care for their pets. Joan also contributes  to Gulfside's four major annual fundraising events, offering hands-on  help, inkind donations, and support wherever it's needed. In 2024, Joan  made a generous gift to the Raising Hope for Hospice capital campaign  to help build a new in-patient unit in New Port Richey. The soon-to- open Gulfside Center for Hospice Care will provide 24-hour support for  patients in their final days, meeting a critical need, thanks in part  to donors, like Joan. Now nearly 82, Joan's energy, wit, and compassion  continue to inspire everyone she meets. While many her age focus on  slowing down, Joan stays energized and youthful by serving others. Her  mind is always on how to help--then doing exactly that. Joan is truly a  Hero Among Us. As she puts it, ``I started volunteering to help others  but never realized it would help me too. It has given me more joy than  I could ever imagine. Volunteering for hospice saved my life, and I  hope it does the same for others too.''

It is clear Joan Moore has made a profoundly positive impact on our  commuity, and I am grateful for her service. May we all strive to serve  our communities with the same dedication and humility.