Recognizing Mr. William ``bill'' Humphrey


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701466/recognizing-mr-william-bill-humphrey


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize one of my  outstanding constituents, Mr. William ``Bill'' Humphrey, a dedicated  volunteer whose leadership and service have made a profound impact  through Seniors in Service AmeriCorps Seniors RSVP Pasco.

Bill exemplifies the critical role volunteers play in supporting  communities that often have nowhere else to turn. As a site coordinator  for the VITA tax preparation program, he ensures that seniors and low- income residents in Pasco County have access to free, reliable, and  trustworthy tax preparation services. His dedication is evident the  moment you walk into his site--Bill manages a fast-paced, nonstop  workflow, coordinating appointments, assisting clients, and supporting  volunteers with unwavering focus and commitment to the mission.

Bill's service begins long before tax season. He takes on essential  behind-the-scenes responsibilities, including training volunteers and  setting up appointment scheduling systems, phone lines, and outreach  materials so that individuals in need can easily access these services.  The clients he serves are often seniors on restricted budgets or  working individuals who rely on VITA as their only safe and accessible  option. Bill ensures that every client is treated with dignity and  receives the guidance and support they need. Beyond tax preparation,  Bill's commitment to community extends to advocating for vulnerable  neighbors. In past years, he helped protect a blind veteran from being  taken advantage of, demonstrating the same protective and community- minded spirit he brings to all his work today. Bill's leadership,  consistency, and dedication strengthen both clients and volunteers,  enhancing the reach and impact of the VITA program across Pasco County.

For his tireless service, steadfast leadership, and meaningful impact  on the lives of countless neighbors, I am proud to recognize Mr.  William ``Bill'' Humphrey as a 2026 Hero Among Us. I ask my colleagues  to join me in honoring his extraordinary commitment and the lasting  difference he has made in our community.