Recognizing Ms. Judy Awe


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701259/recognizing-ms-judy-awe


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize one of my  constituents, Ms. Judy Awe, for her tireless service to our community.  Judy serves as both the current and past President of the Pregnancy &  Family Life Center (PFLC) of Citrus County's Board of Directors. Since  joining the Center in 2022, she has dedicated over 760 volunteer hours,  serving as both Board President and receptionist one day each week. As  Board President, Judy has provided exceptional leadership, guiding the  governing body in the operation, management, and strategic growth of  the Center. Under her stewardship, the PFLC has flourished, expanding  its reach and impact across the community. Her steadfast commitment to  supporting women and families facing unplanned pregnancies has earned  her deep respect and admiration throughout Citrus County.

Judy works closely with the Executive Director to identify priorities  that address the growing material and mental health needs of pregnant  women. In her weekly role as receptionist, she is the warm, welcoming  face of the PFLC. Her kind smile, encouraging words, and problem- solving skills create a comforting environment for every client. In  2025 alone, the Center conducted 2,139 client visits, and eighteen  women chose life for their babies thanks to the compassionate support  they received.

Together, with two other exceptional volunteers, Lisa and Wanda, Judy  embodies the heart of the PFLC mission--compassion, service, and  unwavering support for women and families. Their dedication ensures  that every client who walks through the door receives not only  essential resources but also dignity, hope, and encouragement for the  future. For their enduring dedication, compassionate hearts, and  profound impact on their community, I am honored to recognize Ms. Judy  Awe as a 2026 Hero Among Us. I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring  her unwavering commitment, selfless leadership, and the profound,  lasting impact she has made on our community.