Recognizing Patricia Schneider


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691836/recognizing-patricia-schneider


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions that Ms. Patricia Schneider has made to our community  through her volunteerism with the Pregnancy & Family Life Center. Ms.  Schneider is part of a team of selfless and dedicated women who have  worked at the Center in Inverness for several years. Their roles  include working each week in the food pantry and clothing room. Last  year, 472 clients were served, and more than 65,000 pounds of food was  distributed. These critical volunteers also ensure families receive  essential items for their infants and young children to include:  formula, diapers, pull ups, baby wipes and wash, as well as age  specific clothing. In 2024, more than 44,000 diapers and 9,500 items of  clothing were distributed. These volunteers have a `can do' attitude no  matter how large the challenge.

They also have tremendous teamwork. They sort through all donations,  retain those appropriate for a pregnancy center and then share other  serviceable items with community partners. Ms. Schneider also makes  personal birthday cards for each client to help them feel connected.  When volunteers are united in an important mission, it naturally  fosters camaraderie which is great for anyone who works or volunteers  at the Center. All of these women maintain a loving demeanor and greet  each client with a warm smile and conversation (and sometimes a hug).  The Center's clients feel welcomed and cared for because of the lived  values of love, respect, compassion, and family centeredness that is  regularly displayed by these dedicated volunteers. The benefit to the  community is great and the impact far reaching.

It is clear that Patricia Schneider has made a profoundly positive  impact on our community, and I am grateful for her service. May we all  strive to serve our communities with the same dedication and humility.