Recognizing Ms. Peggy Gause


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701207/recognizing-ms-peggy-gause


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  extraordinary contributions of an exceptional volunteer in my district,  Ms. Peggy Gause. Since 2012, Peggy has devoted 14 years of her time and  talent to helping Friends Grief Services provide programs and resources  to people of all ages who have experienced loss and grief.

Following the sudden death of her husband and daughter, Peggy reached  out to help others as a way to heal herself. She has provided  invaluable clerical support and record management assistance, including  entering information into electronic records, answering phones,  assisting with reports, and couriering interoffice mail. Peggy also  serves on the organization's Advisory Board, actively participates in  fundraising activities, and continues to advocate for grief services.

Peggy has served as President of L.I.F.T. (Living Information for  Today), a support group for widows and widowers sponsored by Dignity  Memorial. She has helped create programs that foster social  connections, such as ``Game Day'' and ``Cafe Break,'' and recently  coordinated Friends Grief Services' first Arts & Crafts Fair.  Affectionately known in the office as ``Peggy H2O'' to distinguish her  from another volunteer, she exemplifies dedication, compassion, and  selfless service. Peggy's tireless work reflects her commitment to  helping others navigate grief and loss. She is an exceptional volunteer  and a true hero in our community.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing Ms. Peggy  Gause for her outstanding contributions and unwavering dedication to  Friends Grief Services. For her inspirational commitment to others, I  am proud to honor Ms. Gause as a 2026 Heroes Among Us for Florida's  12th Congressional District. Her compassion, energy, and leadership  have made a lasting impact, and our community is stronger because of  her efforts.