Recognizing Jerry Phillips


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690791/recognizing-jerry-phillips


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions that Jerry Phillips has made through his volunteerism  with the Area Agency on Aging of Pinellas and Pasco Counties. Jerry  Phillips began his journey with the SHINE program in 2013 and with his  easy manner and tremendous amount of patience he has put Pasco &  Pinellas residents at ease about their Medicare options. SHINE,  (Serving Health Insurance Needs of Elders) is a statewide, volunteer- based program offering free Medicare and Health insurance education,  counseling, and assistance to people with Medicare and their families  and caregivers.

Since 2013, Jerry has demonstrated his commitment and dedication to  serving seniors through the SHINE Program. Jerry has provided more than  2,000 hours volunteering since 2013. He continues to educate seniors  and people with disabilities about Medicare ensuring they have the best  possible  healthcare. Since 2013, Jerry has also served as the Pasco County Local  Coordinator for SHINE Volunteers within the Area Agency on Aging as  well as a Florida Statewide SHINE Trainor. He has traveled around the  state for the Florida Department of Elder Affairs educating SHINE  Volunteers. Jerry is a true advocate and can be relied on to accept any  challenges that arise.

In addition to Volunteering with the SHINE program he is a Lay Pastor  in his church and has spent time assisting with Metropolitan  Ministries, the Shepard Center in Tarpon Springs, Cares Senior Center,  and other non-profit organizations. He also volunteers with the  Supervisor of Elections and as an election worker during the voting  season. In addition to his volunteer work, his wife Phyllis, who is his  high school sweetheart of 50+ years, and his children and grandchildren  keep him busy.

It is clear Jerry Phillips has made a profoundly positive impact on  our community, and I am grateful for his service. May we all strive to  serve our communities with the same dedication and humility.