Recognizing Mr. Robert ``bob'' Morgan


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701154/recognizing-mr-robert-bob-morgan


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions of a dedicated community leader in my district, Mr.  Robert ``Bob'' Morgan. A seasoned financial services executive, Bob has  over 40 years of experience in mortgage banking and consumer credit  risk management. A nine-year resident of Brooksville, Florida, Bob has  brought his expertise in leadership, risk management, and strategic  analysis to active community service. Since 2024, he has served as a  Hernando County Citizen Advocate and, in June 2025, was appointed to  the Hernando County DOGE Committee, where he reviews county operations,  expenditures, and policies to promote efficiency and reduce government  waste. Bob also serves on the Habitat for Humanity Gulfside--Hernando  County Leadership Advisory Council, appointed in June 2025, supporting  the organization's mission by engaging with the community and helping  evaluate prospective homeowners.

Through his advocacy and guidance, Bob has helped provide affordable  homeownership for eight Hernando County families in 2025 and 2026. Bob  is also actively involved in his local church community, volunteering  with various church projects and serving as a member of the Knights of  Columbus. He previously served on the Hernando County Planning & Zoning  Commission, reviewing land use, zoning, and comprehensive plan matters.  A graduate of Benedictine College with a B.A. in Business and a minor  in Economics, Bob continues to lend his expertise to both industry and  community organizations. Bob Morgan's commitment to public service and  his efforts to strengthen our community reflect a dedication to  improving the lives of those around him. His leadership, generosity,  and engagement make him a true asset to Hernando County.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing Mr. Robert  Morgan for his exemplary contributions to our community. For his  tireless work and dedication to improving the lives of others, I am  proud to honor Mr. Morgan as a 2026 Heroes Among Us recipient for  Florida's 12th Congressional District.