Recognizing Susan Pugh


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692185/recognizing-susan-pugh


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions that Ms. Susan Pugh has made to our community through her  volunteerism with the Pregnancy & Family Life Center. Ms. Pugh is part  of a team of selfless and dedicated women who have worked at the Center  in Inverness for several years. Their roles include working each week  in the food pantry and clothing room. Last year, 472 clients were  served, and more than 65,000 pounds of food was distributed. These  critical volunteers also ensure families receive essential items for  their infants and young children to include: formula, diapers, pull  ups, baby wipes and wash, as well as age specific clothing. In 2024,  more than 44,000 diapers and 9,500 items of clothing were distributed.  These volunteers have a `can do' attitude no matter how large the  challenge. They also have tremendous teamwork. They sort through all  donations, retain those appropriate for a pregnancy center and then  share other serviceable items with community partners. Ms. Pugh also  takes donated blankets which can't be used for infants or children to  the local animal shelter along with donated dog food. When volunteers  are united in an important mission, it naturally fosters camaraderie  which is great for anyone who works or volunteers at the Center. All of  these women maintain a loving demeanor and greet each client with a  warm smile and conversation (and sometimes a hug). The Center's clients  feel welcomed and cared for because of the lived values of love,  respect, compassion, and family centeredness that is regularly  displayed by these dedicated volunteers. The benefit to the community  is great and the impact far reaching.

It is clear that Susan Pugh has made a profoundly positive impact on  our community, and I am grateful for her service. May we all strive to  serve our communities with the same dedication and humility.