Recognizing Kimberly Godding Brooks


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions that Ms. Kimberly Godding Brooks has made to our  community through her volunteerism. Since 2008, 17 years, Kimberly  Godding Brooks has volunteered her time and talents to support Friends  of Citrus and the Nature Coast Grief Services for children. Kimberly  started as a Volunteer Coordinator, for Camp Good/Teen Encounter, a  grief support camp for kids and teens who have experienced a loss.  Trained volunteers provide therapeutic activities, in a camp setting,  and help children share their stories with peers, whereby strengthening  their ability to cope. Kimberly was Branch Manager with a local bank  which donated backpacks to all campers. When Kimberly married Robert  Brooks, she quickly recruited him to become a Camp Volunteer. Kimberly  and Robert use ``Lifelines'', an exercise using strings and dark  glasses, that block vision, to help children build self-confidence and  ``find their way''. When Kimberly's mom, Lynn Godding, moved to our  area, Kimberly quickly recruited her as a volunteer for the camp  ``kitchen team.'' In 2018, Kimberly and Robert's daughter Coral was  born. She began attending volunteer events, meetings, workshops and  camps with her parents. Coral became an official volunteer at age 6 and  serves as a role model for other camp kids. She participates in local  fundraising activities. Kimberly is still employed as a bank Branch  Manager. She serves on the organization's Advisory Board, actively  participates in fundraising activities and continues to advocate for  Camp Good Hope/Teen Encounter and other grief  support services in our community, along with her husband, mom and, of  course, Coral. Volunteering has become a Godding/Brooks ``family  affair''! Kimberly is truly an example of an outstanding volunteer and  a Hero in our Community.

It is clear that Kimberly Godding Brooks has made a profoundly  positive impact on our community, and I am grateful for her service.  May we all strive to serve our communities with the same dedication and  humility.