Recognizing Donna Telesco


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692146/recognizing-donna-telesco


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions that Donna Telesco has made as a volunteer with United  Way of Hernando County. Donna not only coordinated relief supplies  inventory at our Family Resource Center (FRC) daily for 2 weeks, she  was a lead volunteer when it came to identifying unmet needs and  residential trends as individuals impacted began to open up regarding  their level of destruction. She prepped supply bags, organized  inventory, communicated with other volunteers, and showed up each day  with a smile, ready and willing to help however needed. In preparation  for Hurricane Milton, just a few short weeks later, Donna helped the  organization pack up thousands of relief and recovery items onto a 40  foot trailer. She and her husband patiently waited on stand-by for the  storm to pass and roads to clear, offering to help again when needed.  With Milton severely damaging the East side of the county, the  Withlacoochee River began to overflow at a historic rate, leaving many  Ridge Manor families with limited access to their homes. As the United  Way's team set up a POD (Point of Distribution) of basic necessities,  washer/dryer, showers, hot meals, and MRE and water distribution, Donna  and her husband Billy volunteered daily, connecting with every  distraught resident along the way. When United Way activated its FRC in  Ridge Manor, Donna oversaw operations for distribution at the center-- prepackaging food and toiletry bags, creating a procedure to collecting  and filling the needs, and organizing all items donated to us and  distributed out. This effort took place daily for 30 days. Without  Donna and her ability and willingness to coordinate, far fewer people  would have been helped. As the holidays came and went, Donna kept in  touch, wanting to donate her time with us in ``blue skies'' as well.  She completed the agency's stringent 3-day VITA (Volunteer Income Tax  Assistance) training in December and became IRS certified to assist  low-to-moderate income families throughout tax filing season. Donna  volunteers her time as a tax preparer, working one on one with  families, at 3 of 5 Hernando preparation sites, equaling a total of 5  days a week since February (logging over 135 TD). This doesn't include  her endless hours assisting the organization with event prep,  administrative services, and partnership planning. Donna works  beautifully in a group setting, as well as independently being able to  complete projects. She is thoughtful, caring, and always going one step  beyond you would expect someone to.

It is clear Donna Telesco has made a profoundly positive impact on  our community, and I am grateful for her service. May we all strive to  serve our communities with the same dedication and humility.