Recognizing Ms. Lisa Wright


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701323/recognizing-ms-lisa-wright


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize one of my  constituents, Ms. Lisa Wright for her tireless service to our  community. Lisa has been an invaluable volunteer at the Pregnancy &  Family Life Center (PFLC) of Citrus County since 2022, contributing  over 1,300 hours of service across multiple roles. Every Monday  morning, Lisa uses her own truck to drive to the Food Bank in  Homosassa, where she picks up and delivers a pallet of food to stock  the Center's pantry. She checks donations for freshness, organizes  them, and ensures they are stored properly. In 2025, the Center  distributed 83,000 pounds of food to clients. Affectionately known as  the ``workhorse'', Lisa's strength, resilience, and work ethic are  unmatched. No task is too large--she tackles mountains of donations,  food boxes, and diapers with remarkable efficiency. Even after a  significant surgery, Lisa quickly returned to volunteer work,  demonstrating her deep love and dedication to the Center.

Lisa also plays a key role in client interactions, ensuring that  every woman who visits the Center feels seen, valued, and cared for,  and that each family receives the food and personal items they need.  Together, Judy, Lisa, and Wanda embody the heart of the PFLC mission-- compassion, service, and unwavering support for women and families.  Their dedication ensures that every client who walks through the door  receives not only essential resources, but also dignity, hope, and  encouragement for the future.

Together, with two other exceptional volunteers, Judy and Wanda, Lisa  embodies the heart of the PFLC mission--compassion, service, and  unwavering support for women and families. Their dedication ensures  that every client who walks through the door receives not only  essential resources but also dignity, hope, and encouragement for the  future. For  their enduring dedication, compassionate hearts, and profound impact on  their community, I am honored to recognize Ms. Lisa Wright as a 2026  Hero Among Us. I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring her  unwavering commitment, selfless leadership, and the profound, lasting  impact she has made on our community.