Recognizing Francis ``frank'' Androski, Roy Grenawalt, and Hans Derkatsch


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701277/recognizing-francis-frank-androski-roy-grenawalt-and-hans-derkatsch


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  extraordinary contributions of three remarkable veterans in my  district: Francis ``Frank'' Androski, retired United States Air Force;  Roy Grenawalt, retired United States Army; and Hans Derkatsch, retired  United States Army. These men have taken the values they learned in  military service--discipline, dedication, and a commitment to others-- and applied them to serving their community in meaningful ways.

Through their work with Friends Grief Services, they provide programs  and resources to people of all ages who have experienced loss and  grief. Frank faithfully picks up and delivers mail, ensuring the  organization's daily operations run smoothly. Hans brings healing and  wellness to the community by teaching beginner yoga classes, helping  participants find balance and peace during difficult times. All three  gentlemen serve on the Advisory Board, contributing to planning  activities and supporting fundraising efforts to expand the reach of  Friends Grief Services.

But their greatest accomplishment is the compassion, support, and  guidance they provide to those navigating loss. Their dedication  embodies the mission of Friends Grief Services, and it is why they are  affectionately known as the ``Wise Men of Friends'' Support Groups. I  am grateful for their service--not only to our country, but also to our  community. Their example reminds us that leadership, selflessness, and  care for others continue long after military service ends.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in acknowledging their  unwavering commitment to serving others and supporting the mission of  Friends Grief Services. For their extraordinary generosity and  dedication, I am proud to recognize Francis Androski, Roy Grenawalt,  and Hans Derkatsch as 2026 Heroes Among Us for Florida's 12th  Congressional District. They are truly an inspiration, and I am  grateful for their efforts.