Recognizing Emily Mazzaro


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690622/recognizing-emily-mazzaro


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions that Emily Mazzaro has made to our community through her  volunteer service at Double Branch Elementary School. Emily is the PTA  President at Double Branch Elementary School. There is no job too big  or too small for her to take on. She can be seen most days on campus  before the bell rings, whether volunteering in the media center  assisting students, collaborating with staff members about the needs  that they have and how she can assist them, or orchestrating amazing  events for within the school community. This year alone, Emily has  spearheaded large events such as our Rancher Roundup (school carnival)  with a multitude of vendors from the community, and a variety of small  and large fundraisers such as Build a Buddy that created revenue for  technology needs, recess carts for all grade levels, and a backdrop  with the school logo for special events with students. Under her  leadership, the PTA also supports classroom needs with teacher grants,  where teachers can individually or as a team request funds. She also  supported the school's new PBIS House system with custom flags and t- shirts for all staff members, handmade by her. Just last year, the PTA  donated over $10,000 to the media center to refresh its library with  new books. These are just a few of the examples of the programs and  initiatives that Emily leads. We are so blessed that if we voice a  need, Emily responds quickly to fill it. In addition to being so  hardworking, Emily is just a pleasure to work with. She always has a  smile on her face and is ready with a quick joke to make those around  her laugh. The entire staff adores her and is so appreciative of her  efforts in making Double Branch a wonderful place for students to learn  and grow. Emily is an integral part of the Double Branch school climate  and culture.

It is clear Emily Mazzaro has made a profoundly positive impact on  our community, and I am grateful for her service. May we all strive to  serve our communities with the same dedication and humility.