Rural Broadband Protection Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690153/rural-broadband-protection-act-of-2025


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2399) to require the Federal Communications Commission to  establish a vetting process for prospective applicants for high-cost  universal service program funding.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2399

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Rural Broadband Protection       Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. VETTING PROCESS FOR PROSPECTIVE HIGH-COST UNIVERSAL                     SERVICE FUND APPLICANTS.

Section 254 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.       254) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``(m) Vetting of High-Cost Fund Recipients.--

``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection--

``(A) the term `covered funding' means any new offer of       high-cost universal service program funding, including       funding provided through a reverse competitive bidding       mechanism provided under this section, for the deployment of       a broadband-capable network and the provision of supported       services over the network; and

``(B) the term `new covered funding award' means an award       of covered funding that is made based on an application       submitted to the Commission on or after the date on which       rules are promulgated under paragraph (2).

``(2) Commission rulemaking.--Not later than 180 days after       the date of enactment of this subsection, the Commission       shall initiate a rulemaking proceeding to establish a vetting       process for applicants for, and other recipients of, a new       covered funding award.

``(3) Contents.--

``(A) In general.--In promulgating rules under paragraph       (2), the Commission shall provide that, consistent with       principles of technology neutrality, the Commission will only       award covered funding to applicants that can demonstrate that       they meet the qualifications in subparagraph (B).

``(B) Qualifications described.--An applicant for a new       covered funding award shall include in the initial       application a proposal containing sufficient detail and       documentation for the Commission to ascertain that the       applicant possesses the technical, financial, and operational       capabilities, and has a reasonable business plan, to deploy       the proposed network and deliver services with the relevant       performance characteristics and requirements defined by the       Commission and as pledged by the applicant.

``(C) Evaluation of proposal.--The Commission shall       evaluate a proposal described in subparagraph (B) against--

``(i) reasonable and well-established technical, financial,       and operational standards, including the technical standards       adopted by the Commission in orders of the Commission       relating to Establishing the Digital Opportunity Data       Collection (WC Docket No. 19-195) (or orders of the       Commission relating to modernizing any successor collection)       for purposes of entities that must report broadband       availability coverage; and

``(ii) the applicant's history of complying with       requirements in the Commission and       other government broadband deployment funding programs.

``(D) Penalties for pre-authorization defaults.--In       adopting rules for any new covered funding award, the       Commission shall set a penalty for pre-authorization defaults       of at least $9,000 per violation and may not limit the base       forfeiture to an amount less than 30 percent of the       applicant's total support, unless the Commission demonstrates       the need for lower penalties in a particular instance.''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2399, the Rural Broadband  Protection Act led by my good friend, Representative Houchin.

The Federal Communications Commission's Universal Service Fund  provides funding for broadband networks in our rural communities.

The Rural Broadband Protection Act requires the FCC to establish a  process for upfront vetting of providers seeking USF funds. It also  directs the FCC to set penalties for providers that do not meet their  commitments. This will ensure that USF recipients deliver on their  promise to serve our rural communities.

I thank Representative Houchin for leading this particular bill, and  I urge my colleagues to support it.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I commend Representative Houchin and  Representative Kelly on this bipartisan bill. It is necessary that we  pass this.

In closing, I encourage a ``yes'' vote, and I yield back the balance  of my time.