Securing Semiconductor Supply Chains Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690162/securing-semiconductor-supply-chains-act-of-2025


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2480) to require SelectUSA to coordinate with State-level  economic development organizations to increase foreign direct  investment in semiconductor-related manufacturing and production.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2480

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Securing Semiconductor       Supply Chains Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. SELECTUSA DEFINED.

In this Act, the term ``SelectUSA'' means the SelectUSA       program of the Department of Commerce established by       Executive Order No. 13577 (76 Fed. Reg. 35715).       SEC. 3. FINDINGS.

Congress makes the following findings:

(1) Semiconductors underpin the United States and global       economies, including manufacturing sectors. Semiconductors       are also essential to the national security of the United       States.

(2) A shortage of semiconductors, brought about by the       COVID-19 pandemic and other complex factors impacting the       overall supply chain, has threatened the economic recovery of       the United States and industries that employ millions of       United States citizens.

(3) Addressing current challenges and building resilience       against future risks requires ensuring a secure and stable       supply chain for semiconductors that will support the       economic and national security needs of the United States and       its allies.

(4) The supply chain for semiconductors is complex and       global. While the United States plays a leading role in       certain segments of the semiconductor industry, securing the       supply chain requires onshoring, reshoring, or diversifying       vulnerable segments, such as for--

(A) fabrication;

(B) advanced packaging; and

(C) materials and equipment used to manufacture       semiconductor products.

(5) The Federal Government can leverage foreign direct       investment and private dollars to grow the domestic       manufacturing and production capacity of the United States       for vulnerable segments of the semiconductor supply chain.

(6) The SelectUSA program of the Department of Commerce, in       coordination with other Federal agencies and State-level       economic development organizations, is positioned to boost       foreign direct investment in domestic manufacturing and to       help secure the semiconductor supply chain of the United       States.       SEC. 4. COORDINATION WITH STATE-LEVEL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                     ORGANIZATIONS.

Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of       this Act, the Executive Director of SelectUSA shall solicit       comments from State-level economic development       organizations--

(1) to review--

(A) what efforts the Federal Government can take to support       increased foreign direct investment in any segment of       semiconductor-related production;

(B) what barriers to such investment may exist and how to       amplify State efforts to attract such investment;

(C) public opportunities those organizations have       identified to attract foreign direct investment to help       increase investment described in subparagraph (A); and

(D) resource gaps or other challenges that prevent those       organizations from increasing such investment; and

(2) to develop recommendations for--

(A) how SelectUSA can increase such investment       independently or through partnership with those       organizations; and

(B) working with countries that are allies or partners of       the United States to ensure that foreign adversaries (as       defined in section 8(c)(2) of the Secure and Trusted       Communications Networks Act of 2019 (47 U.S.C. 1607(c)(2)))       do not benefit from United States efforts to increase such       investment.       SEC. 5. REPORT ON INCREASING FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT IN                     SEMICONDUCTOR-RELATED MANUFACTURING AND                     PRODUCTION.

Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of       this Act, the Executive Director of SelectUSA, in       coordination with the Federal Interagency Investment Working       Group established by Executive Order No. 13577 (76 Fed. Reg.       35715; relating to establishment of the SelectUSA       Initiative), shall submit to the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee       on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a       report that includes--

(1) a review of the comments SelectUSA received from State-      level economic development organizations under section 4;

(2) a description of activities SelectUSA is engaged in to       increase foreign direct investment in semiconductor-related       manufacturing and production; and

(3) an assessment of strategies SelectUSA may implement to       achieve an increase in such investment and to help secure the       United States supply chain for semiconductors, including by--

(A) working with other relevant Federal agencies; and

(B) working with State-level economic development       organizations and implementing any strategies or       recommendations SelectUSA received from those organizations.       SEC. 6. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS.

No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated for       the purpose of carrying out this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2480, the  Securing Semiconductor Supply Chains Act of 2025, led by Representative  Landsman.

This legislation directs the Department of Commerce's SelectUSA  program to coordinate with State-level economic development  organizations to increase foreign direct investment in semiconductor- related manufacturing and production.

Semiconductors are critical to our national security and economic  prosperity, yet recent shortages have exposed vulnerabilities in our  supply chains. By fostering investment in domestic semiconductor  production, this bill aims to enhance supply chain resilience and  reduce dependence on foreign sources.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting in favor of  H.R.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I encourage a ``yes'' vote on this  particular bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.