Secure Space Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690259/secure-space-act-of-2025


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2458) to amend the Secure and Trusted Communications  Networks Act of 2019 to prohibit the Federal Communications Commission  from granting a license or United States market access for a  geostationary orbit satellite system or a nongeostationary orbit  satellite system, or an authorization to use an individually licensed  earth station or a blanket-licensed earth station, if the license,  grant of market access, or authorization would be held or controlled by  an entity that produces or provides any covered communications  equipment or service or an affiliate of such an entity, and for other  purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2458

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Secure Space Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON GRANT OF CERTAIN SATELLITE LICENSES,                     UNITED STATES MARKET ACCESS, OR EARTH STATION                     AUTHORIZATIONS.

(a) In General.--The Secure and Trusted Communications       Networks Act of 2019 (47 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) is amended--

(1) by redesignating sections 10 and 11 as sections 11 and       12, respectively; and

(2) by inserting after section 9 the following:       ``SEC. 10. PROHIBITION ON GRANT OF CERTAIN SATELLITE                     LICENSES, UNITED STATES MARKET ACCESS, OR EARTH                     STATION AUTHORIZATIONS.

``(a) In General.--The Commission may not grant a license       for, or a petition for a declaratory ruling to access the       United States market using, a geostationary orbit satellite       system or a nongeostationary orbit satellite system, or an       authorization to use an individually licensed earth station       or a blanket-licensed earth station, if such license, grant       of market access, or authorization would be held or       controlled by--

``(1) an entity that produces or provides any covered       communications equipment or service; or

``(2) an affiliate (as defined in section 3 of the       Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 153)) of an entity       described in paragraph (1).

``(b) Definitions.--In this section:

``(1) Blanket-licensed earth station.--The term `blanket-      licensed earth station' means an earth station that is       licensed with a geostationary orbit satellite system or a       nongeostationary orbit satellite system.

``(2) Gateway station.--The term `gateway station' means an       earth station or a group of earth stations that--

``(A) supports the routing and switching functions of a       geostationary orbit satellite system or a nongeostationary       orbit satellite system;

``(B) may also be used for telemetry, tracking, and command       transmissions;

``(C) does not originate or terminate communication       traffic; and

``(D) is not for the exclusive use of any customer.

``(3) Individually licensed earth station.--The term       `individually licensed earth station' means--

``(A) an earth station (other than a blanket-licensed earth       station) that sends a signal to, and receives a signal from,       a geostationary orbit satellite system or a nongeostationary       orbit satellite system; or

``(B) a gateway station.''.

(b) Applicability.--Section 10 of the Secure and Trusted       Communications Networks Act of 2019, as added by subsection       (a), shall apply with respect to the grant of a license,       petition, or authorization on or after the date of the       enactment of this Act.

(c) Rules.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Federal Communications Commission       shall issue rules to implement section 10 of the Secure and       Trusted Communications Networks Act of 2019, as added by       subsection (a).

Mr. BILIRAKIS.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2458, the Secure Space Act.

Advancements in satellite technology have enabled broadband internet  to be deployed at commercial scale. We must protect these systems from  foreign adversaries. The Secure Space Act would prohibit the Federal  Communications Commission from granting a license for geostationary  orbit and nongeostationary orbit satellite systems if they are owned or  controlled by an entity that provides communications equipment that  pose an unacceptable risk to U.S. national security. That is common  sense.

I thank Chairman Guthrie and Ranking Member Pallone for their  leadership on this particular bill, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I urge a ``yes'' vote on this  particular bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.