Shandra Eisenga Human Cell and Tissue Product Safety Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692768/shandra-eisenga-human-cell-and-tissue-product-safety-act


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1082) to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services  to conduct a national, evidence-based education campaign to increase  public and health care provider awareness regarding the potential risks  and benefits of human cell and tissue products transplants, and for  other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1082

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Shandra Eisenga Human Cell       and Tissue Product Safety Act''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Human cell and tissue product.--The terms ``human cell       and tissue product'' and ``human cell and tissue products''       have the meaning given the term ``human cells, tissues, or       cellular or tissue-based products'' in section 1271.3(d) of       title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor       regulations).

(2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of Health and Human Services.

(3) Tissue reference group.--The term ``Tissue Reference       Group'' means the Tissue       Reference Group of the Food and Drug Administration.       SEC. 3. HUMAN CELL AND TISSUE PRODUCTS TRANSPLANT PUBLIC                     AWARENESS CAMPAIGN.

The Secretary shall support the development and       dissemination of educational materials to inform health care       professionals and other appropriate professionals about       issues surrounding--

(1) organ, tissue, and eye donation, including evidence-      based methods to approach patients and their families;

(2) the availability of any donor screening tests; and

(3) other relevant aspects of donation.       SEC. 4. CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR                     HUMAN CELL AND TISSUE PRODUCTS.

Section 368 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.       271) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``(d)(1) Any person who, on or after the date of the       enactment of the Shandra Eisenga Human Cell and Tissue       Product Safety Act, violates a requirement of subparts C or D       of section 1271 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, (or       successor regulations) with respect to human cell or tissue       products regulated under section 361 shall be liable to the       United States for a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed       the sum of--

``(A)(i) $20,000 for each violation; and

``(ii) in the case of a violation that continues after the       Secretary provides written notice to such person, $20,000 for       each subsequent day on which the violation continues; and

``(B) an amount equal to the retail value of the human cell       and tissue products that are the subject of the violation.

``(2) The total civil penalty under paragraph (1) may not       exceed $10,000,000 for all such violations adjudicated in a       single proceeding.

``(3) In this subsection, the term `human cell and tissue       products' has the meaning given the term `human cells,       tissues, or cellular or tissue-based products' in section       1271.3(d) of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (or       successor regulations).''.       SEC. 5. STREAMLINING REGULATORY OVERSIGHT OF HUMAN CELL AND                     TISSUE PRODUCTS.

(a) Information on Human Cell and Tissue Products.--

(1) Website.--The Secretary, acting through the       Commissioner of Food and Drugs, shall publish on the public       website of the Food and Drug Administration--

(A) educational materials about the Tissue Reference Group;       and

(B) best practices for obtaining a timely, accurate       recommendation regarding human cell and tissue products from       the Tissue Reference Group.

(2) Public information.--Not later than 1 year after the       date of the enactment of this Act, and annually for the       subsequent 3 years, the Secretary, acting through the       Commissioner of Food and Drugs, shall publish on the public       website of the Food and Drug Administration--

(A) the number of human cell and tissue establishments that       registered with the Food and Drug Administration on or after       January 1, 2019;

(B) the number of inspections conducted by the Food and       Drug Administration of human cell and tissue establishments       on or after January 1, 2019, including a comparison of the       number of inspections for blood establishments with the       number of inspections for such human cell and tissue       establishments;

(C) the number and type of inquiries to the Tissue       Reference Group in the preceding year; and

(D) the average response time for submissions to the Tissue       Reference Group in the preceding year, including average       initial and final response time.

(3) Education.--The Secretary, acting through the       Commissioner of Food and Drugs, shall, with respect to the       regulation of human cell and tissue products--

(A) provide information to relevant stakeholders, including       industry, tissue establishments, academic health centers,       biomedical consortia, research organizations, and patients;       and

(B) conduct workshops and other interactive and educational       sessions for such stakeholders to help support regulatory       predictability and scientific advancement, as appropriate.

(b) Human Cell and Tissue Product Scientific and Regulatory       Updates.--Section 3205 of the Food and Drug Omnibus Reform       Act of 2022 (title III of division FF of Public Law 117-328)       is amended by striking ``best practices'' and all that       follows through ``other cellular therapies'' and inserting       ``best practices on generating scientific data necessary to       further facilitate the development of certain human cell-,       tissue-, and cellular-based medical products (and the latest       scientific information about such products), namely, stem       cell and other cellular therapies''.

(c) Public Docket.--Not later than 60 days after the date       of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a       public docket to receive written comments related to--

(1) the approaches recommended for discussion during the       public workshop described in section 3205 of the Food and       Drug Omnibus Reform Act of 2022 (title III of division FF of       Public Law 117-328); and

(2) modernizing the regulation of human cell and tissue       products, including considerations associated with assessing       minimal manipulation and homologous use (as such terms are       defined in section 1271.3 of title 21, Code of Federal       Regulations (or successor regulations)) of human cell and       tissue products.

(d) Report to Congress.--Not later than September 30, 2026,       the Secretary shall summarize the approaches discussed in the       public workshop described in section 3205 of the Food and       Drug Omnibus Reform Act of 2022 (title III of division FF of       Public Law 117-328) and the public docket described in       subsection (c), and develop recommendations regarding the       regulation of human cell and tissue products, including       provisions under sections 1271.10(a) and 1271.3 of title 21,       Code of Federal Regulations, taking into account--

(1) regulatory burden;

(2) scientific developments;

(3) access to human cell and tissue products regulated       under section 361 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.       264); and

(4) protecting public health.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1082, the Shandra  Eisenga Human Cell and Tissue Product Safety Act, led by my good friend  Chairman Moolenaar from the great State of Michigan. This bill was  borne out of a heartbreaking tragedy that we hope will never be  repeated again.

In 2023, a Michigan constituent died from tuberculosis caused by a  contaminated bone graft. This bill would require the HHS Secretary to  conduct a national educational campaign to increase public and  healthcare provider awareness regarding the risks and benefits of human  cell and tissue transplants.

It would also require FDA to streamline the regulatory oversight of  these particular products, including by publishing educational  materials and best practices and by conducting workshops and public  stakeholder sessions.

Ultimately, H.R. 1082 will increase public awareness, patient safety,  and public trust in these lifesaving medical products to help ensure  that preventable tragedies, like the unfortunate death of Ms. Eisenga,  do not ever occur again.

This bill passed the House unanimously last December, and I look  forward to its timely passage once again so that we can get it to the  Senate.

Mr. Speaker, let's pass this very critical bill, H.R. 1082, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. BILIRAKIS.  I am very proud to serve  under his leadership.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I encourage a ``yes'' vote on  this particular piece of legislation, and I yield back the balance of  my time.