Transparency in Charges for Key Events Ticketing Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690175/transparency-in-charges-for-key-events-ticketing-act


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1402) to require sellers of event tickets to disclose  comprehensive information to consumers about ticket prices and related  fees, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1402

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Transparency In Charges for       Key Events Ticketing Act'' or the ``TICKET Act''.       SEC. 2. ALL INCLUSIVE TICKET PRICE DISCLOSURE.

Beginning 180 days after the date of the enactment of this       Act, it shall be unlawful for a ticket issuer, secondary       market ticket issuer, or secondary market ticket exchange to       offer for sale an event ticket unless the ticket issuer,       secondary market ticket issuer, or secondary market ticket       exchange--

(1) clearly and conspicuously displays the total event       ticket price, if a price is displayed, in any advertisement,       marketing, or price list wherever the ticket is offered for       sale;

(2) clearly and conspicuously discloses to any individual       who seeks to purchase an event ticket the total event ticket       price at the time the ticket is first displayed to the       individual and anytime thereafter throughout the ticket       purchasing process; and

(3) provides an itemized list of the base event ticket       price and each event ticket fee prior to the completion of       the ticket purchasing process.       SEC. 3. SPECULATIVE TICKETING BAN.

(a) Prohibition.--Beginning 180 days after the date of the       enactment of this Act, a ticket issuer, secondary market       ticket issuer, or secondary market ticket exchange that does       not have actual or constructive possession of an event ticket       shall not sell, offer for sale, or advertise for sale such       event ticket.

(b) Services Permitted.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), a       secondary market ticket issuer or secondary market ticket       exchange may sell, offer for sale, or advertise for sale a       service to an individual to obtain an event ticket on behalf       of such individual if the secondary market ticket issuer or       secondary market ticket exchange complies with the following:

(1) Does not market or list the service as an event ticket.

(2) Maintains a clear, distinct, and easily discernible       separation between the service and event tickets that       persists throughout the entire service selection and       purchasing process.

(3) Clearly and conspicuously discloses before selection of       the service that the service is not an event ticket and that       the purchase of the service does not guarantee an event       ticket.       SEC. 4. DISCLOSURES.

A ticket issuer, secondary market ticket issuer, or       secondary market ticket exchange--

(1) if offering an event ticket for resale, shall provide a       clear and conspicuous statement, before a consumer purchases       the event ticket from the ticket issuer, secondary market       ticket issuer, or secondary market ticket exchange, that the       issuer or exchange is engaged in the secondary sale of event       tickets;

(2) shall not state that the ticket issuer, secondary       market ticket issuer, or secondary market ticket exchange is       affiliated with or endorsed by a venue, team, or artist, as       applicable, including by using words like ``official'' in       promotional materials, social media promotions, or paid       advertising, unless a partnership agreement has been executed       or the issuer or exchange has the express written consent of       the venue, team, or artist, as applicable; and

(3) shall not include the name of the venue, including any       misspelling of any such name, in a domain name, or any       subdomain thereof, in the URL of the secondary market ticket       issuer or secondary market ticket exchange unless authorized       by the owner of the venue.       SEC. 5. REFUND REQUIREMENTS.

(a) Cancellation.--Beginning 180 days after the date of the       enactment of this Act, if an event is canceled or postponed       (except for a case in which an event is canceled or postponed       due to a cause beyond the reasonable control of the issuer,       including a natural disaster, civil disturbance, or otherwise       unforeseeable impediment), a ticket issuer, secondary market       ticket issuer, or secondary market ticket exchange shall       provide the purchaser of an event ticket from the issuer or       exchange for the canceled or postponed event, at a minimum--

(1) if the event is cancelled, a full refund for the total       event ticket price;

(2) subject to availability, if the event is postponed for       not more than 6 months and the original event ticket is no       longer valid for entry to the rescheduled event, a       replacement event ticket for the rescheduled event in the       same or a comparable location once the event has been       rescheduled; or

(3) if the event is postponed for more than 6 months, at       the option of the purchaser--

(A) a full refund for the total event ticket price; or

(B) if the original event ticket is no longer valid for       entry to the rescheduled event, a replacement event ticket       for the rescheduled event in the same or a comparable       location once the event has been rescheduled.

(b) Disclosure of Guarantee and Refund Policy Required.--      Beginning 180 days after the date of the enactment of this       Act, a ticket issuer, secondary market ticket issuer, or       secondary market ticket exchange shall disclose clearly and       conspicuously to a purchaser before the completion of an       event ticket sale the guarantee or refund policy of such       ticket issuer, secondary market ticket issuer, or secondary       market ticket exchange, including under what circumstances       any refund issued will include a refund of any event ticket       fee.

(c) Disclosure of How To Obtain a Refund Required.--      Beginning 180 days after the date of the enactment of this       Act, a ticket issuer, secondary market ticket issuer, or       secondary market ticket exchange shall provide a clear and       conspicuous explanation of how to obtain a refund of the       total event ticket price.       SEC. 6. REPORT BY THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION ON BOTS ACT OF                     2016 ENFORCEMENT.

Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of       this Act, the Commission shall submit to Congress a report on       enforcement of the Better Online Ticket Sales Act of 2016       (Public Law 114-274; 15 U.S.C. 45c), including any       enforcement action taken, challenges with enforcement and       coordination with State Attorneys General, and       recommendations on how to improve enforcement and industry       compliance.       SEC. 7. ENFORCEMENT.

(a) Unfair or Deceptive Act or Practice.--A violation of       this Act shall be treated as a violation of a rule defining       an unfair or deceptive act or practice under section       18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C.       57a(a)(1)(B)).

(b) Powers of Commission.--

(1) In general.--The Commission shall enforce this Act in       the same manner, by the same means, and with the same       jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable       terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15       U.S.C. 41 et seq.) were incorporated into and made a part of       this Act.

(2) Privileges and immunities.--Any person who violates       this Act shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to       the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal Trade       Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.).

(3) Authority preserved.--Nothing in this Act shall be       construed to limit the authority of the Commission under any       other provision of law.       SEC. 8. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Artist.--The term ``artist'' means any performer,       musician, comedian, producer, ensemble or production entity       of a theatrical production, sports team owner, or similar       person.

(2) Base event ticket price.--The term ``base event ticket       price'' means, with respect to an event ticket, the price of       the event ticket excluding the cost of any event ticket fees.

(3) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal       Trade Commission.

(4) Event.--The term ``event'' means any live concert,       theatrical performance, sporting event, show, or similarly       scheduled live activity, that is--

(A) taking place in a venue with a seating or attendance       capacity exceeding 200 persons;

(B) open to the general public; and

(C) promoted, advertised, or marketed in interstate       commerce, or for which event tickets are generally sold or       distributed in interstate commerce.

(5) Event ticket; ticket issuer.--The terms ``event       ticket'' and ``ticket issuer'' have the meaning given those       terms in the Better Online Ticket Sales Act of 2016 (Public       Law 114-274).

(6) Event ticket fee.--The term ``event ticket fee''--

(A) means a charge for an event ticket that must be paid in       addition to the base event ticket price in order to obtain an       event ticket from a ticket issuer, secondary market ticket       issuer, or secondary market ticket exchange, including any       service fee, charge and order processing fee, delivery fee,       facility charge fee, tax, and any other charge; and

(B) does not include any charge or fee for an optional       product or service associated with the event that may be       selected by a purchaser of an event ticket.

(7) Optional product or service.--The term ``optional       product or service'' means a product or service that an       individual does not need to purchase to use or take       possession of an event ticket.

(8) Resale; secondary sale.--The terms ``resale'' and       ``secondary sale'' mean any sale of an event ticket that       occurs after the initial sale of the event ticket by a ticket       issuer.

(9) Secondary market ticket exchange.--The term ``secondary       market ticket exchange'' means any person that in the regular       course of trade or business of that person operates a       platform or exchange for advertising, listing, or selling       resale tickets, on behalf of itself, vendors, or a secondary       market ticket issuer.

(10) Secondary market ticket issuer.--The term ``secondary       market ticket issuer'' means any person, including a ticket       issuer, that resells or makes a secondary sale of an event       ticket to the general public in the regular course of the       trade or business of the person.

(11) Total event ticket price.--The term ``total event       ticket price'' means, with respect to an event ticket, the       total cost of the event ticket, including the base event       ticket price and any event ticket fee.

(12) URL.--The term ``URL'' means the uniform resource       locator associated with an internet website.

(13) Venue.--The term ``venue'' means a physical space at       which an event takes place.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1402, the  Transparency In Charges for Key Events Ticketing Act, or the TICKET  Act. I am proud to lead this bill alongside the ranking member, my good  friend, Ms. Schakowsky.

This legislation is about empowering consumers and ensuring fans can  enjoy live events by improving ticket price transparency.

H.R. 1402 requires all platforms selling event tickets to show the  complete price, with all required fees, right from the start. People  budget, Mr. Speaker, for these games, concerts, or what have you. They  need to know up front what the price is going to be. It also guarantees  customers can get their money back if an event is canceled or  rescheduled. It also cracks down on misleading ticket sites. It is a  great bill.

This bill further prohibits the sale of tickets the seller doesn't  yet have, a practice known as speculative selling. Eliminating this  tactic helps level the playing field so more fans have a fair shot at  attending events. They deserve that.

I urge my colleagues to join me in voting in favor of this very good  bill, H.R. 1402.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the remarks of the  gentlewoman from Illinois. I just want to say it has been great working  with Representative Schakowsky on a number of bills over the years. She  has really been very cooperative, and we are doing good things for the  American consumer.

I will also say that this is a very profamily bill. We have got to  get our kids out to some of these ball games and some of these concerts  together as a family, but it is very difficult to budget when you don't  know exactly what the price is going to be ultimately.

I want to commend some of the artists such as Kid Rock. He will buy  the tickets and give them to people that deserve those tickets that  otherwise would not be able to afford them. My good friend Tony  Orlando, as well, does this. They are just wonderful artists that do so  much for our country, particularly our military and our veterans.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I encourage a ``yes'' vote in  the memory of Bill Pascrell who did such a wonderful job on this  particular issue. I am glad we are getting it across the finish line.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage a ``yes'' vote on this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.