Wastewater Infrastructure Pollution Prevention and Environmental Safety Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692751/wastewater-infrastructure-pollution-prevention-and-environmental-safety-act


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2269) to require certain products to be labeled with ``Do  Not Flush'' labeling, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2269

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Wastewater Infrastructure       Pollution Prevention and Environmental Safety Act'' or the       ``WIPPES Act''.       SEC. 2. ``DO NOT FLUSH'' LABELING.

(a) In General.--A covered entity shall label a covered       product clearly and conspicuously with the label notice and       symbol, in accordance with subsections (b) and (c).

(b) Requirements.--

(1) Cylindrical packaging.--In the case of a covered       product sold in cylindrical or near-cylindrical packaging,       and intended to dispense individual wipes--

(A) the symbol and label notice shall be displayed on the       principal display panel in a clear and conspicuous location       reasonably visible to the user each time a wipe is dispensed;       or

(B) the symbol shall be displayed on the principal display       panel and the label notice, or a combination of the label       notice and symbol, shall be displayed on a flip lid in a       manner that covers at least 8 percent of the surface area of       the flip lid.

(2) Flexible film packaging.--In the case of a covered       product sold in flexible film packaging, and intended to       dispense individual wipes--

(A) the symbol shall be displayed on the principal display       panel and, if the principal display panel is not on the       dispensing side of the packaging, on the dispensing side       panel; and

(B) the label notice shall be displayed on either the       principal display panel or the dispensing side panel, in a       clear and conspicuous location reasonably visible to the user       each time a wipe is dispensed.

(3) Rigid packaging.--In the case of a covered product sold       in a refillable tub or other rigid packaging that may be       reused by a customer, and that is intended to dispense       individual wipes, the symbol and label notice shall be       displayed on the principal display panel in a clear and       conspicuous location reasonably visible to the user each time       a wipe is dispensed.

(4) Packaging not intended to dispense individual wipes.--      In the case of a covered product sold in packaging that is       not intended to dispense individual wipes, the symbol and       label notice shall be displayed on the principal display       panel in a clear and conspicuous location reasonably visible       to the user of the covered product.

(5) Bulk packaging.--

(A) In general.--In the case of a covered product sold in       bulk at retail, the symbol and label notice shall be       displayed on both the outer packaging visible at retail and       the individual packaging contained within the outer       packaging.

(B) Exemption.--The following shall be exempt from the       requirements of subparagraph (A):

(i) Individually packaged covered products that are       contained within outer packaging, are not intended to       dispense individual wipes, and have no retail labeling.

(ii) Outer packaging that does not obscure the symbol and       label notice on individually packaged covered products       contained within.

(6) Packaging of combined products.--

(A) Outer packaging.--The outer packaging of combined       products shall be exempt from the symbol and label notice       requirements of subsection (a).

(B) Packages less than 3 by 3 inches.--In the case of a       covered product in packaging smaller than 3 inches by 3       inches (such as an individually packaged wipe in tear-top       packaging) and sold as part of a combined product, if a       symbol and label notice are placed in a prominent location       reasonably visible to the user of the covered product, such       covered product shall be considered to be labeled clearly and       conspicuously.

(c) Reasonable Visibility of Symbol and Label Notice.--

(1) In general.--A covered entity shall ensure that--

(A) packaging seams or folds or other packaging design       elements do not obscure the symbol or label notice;

(B) the symbol and label notice are each equal in size to       at least 2 percent of the surface area of the principal       display panel; and

(C) the symbol and label notice have high contrast with the       immediate background of the packaging so that such symbol and       label notice may be seen and read by an ordinary individual       under customary conditions of purchase and use.

(2) Proximity of symbol and label notice.--A covered entity       may display a symbol and label notice either adjacent to or       on separate areas of the principal display panel.

(3) Exception.--Paragraph (1)(C) does not apply to an       embossed symbol or label notice on the flip lid of a covered       product sold in cylindrical or near-cylindrical packaging.

(d) Representations of Flushability.--With respect to a       covered product, a covered entity may not make any express or       implied representation that such covered product can or       should be flushed.

(e) Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission.--

(1) Unfair or deceptive acts or practices.--A violation of       this section or any regulation promulgated under this section       shall be treated as a violation of a regulation under section       18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C.       57a(a)(1)(B)) regarding unfair or deceptive acts or       practices.

(2) Powers of commission.--The Commission shall enforce       this section and any regulations promulgated under this       section by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction,       powers, and duties, as though all applicable terms and       provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41       et seq.) were incorporated into and made a part of this       section, and any person who violates this section or any       regulation promulgated under this section shall be subject to       the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities       provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act.

(3) Regulations.--The Commission may promulgate regulations       under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, to       implement this section. In developing the regulations, the       Commission may consult with the Administrator of the       Environmental Protection Agency, the Commissioner of Food and       Drugs, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, or any other       agency as appropriate.

(4) Authority preserved.--Nothing in this section may be       construed to limit the authority of the Commission under any       other provision of law.

(f) Preemption of State Laws.--No State or political       subdivision of a State may directly or indirectly establish       or continue in effect, under any authority, requirements with       respect to the ``Do Not Flush'' labeling of covered products       that are not identical to the requirements of this section       and the regulations promulgated under this section.

(g) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Combined product.--The term ``combined product'' means       two or more products sold in shared retail packaging, of       which--

(A) at least one of the products is a covered product; and

(B) at least one of the products is another consumer       product intended to be used in combination with such covered       product.

(2) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal       Trade Commission.

(3) Covered entity.--The term ``covered entity'' means a       manufacturer, wholesaler, supplier, individual or group of       individuals, or retailer that is responsible for the labeling       or retail packaging of a covered product that is sold or       offered for retail sale in the United States.

(4) Covered product.--

(A) In general.--The term ``covered product'' means a       premoistened, nonwoven disposable wipe sold or offered for       retail sale--

(i) that is marketed as a baby wipe or diapering wipe; or

(ii) that is a household or personal care wipe (including a       wipe described in subparagraph (B)) that--

(I) is composed entirely, or in part, of petrochemical-      derived fibers; and

(II) has significant potential to be flushed.

(B) Inclusions.--The wipes described in this subparagraph       are--

(i) antibacterial wipes and disinfecting wipes;

(ii) wipes intended for general purpose cleaning or       bathroom cleaning, including toilet cleaning and hard surface       cleaning; and

(iii) wipes intended for personal care use on the body,       including hand sanitizing, makeup removal, feminine hygiene,       adult hygiene (including incontinence hygiene), and body       cleansing.

(5) High contrast.--The term ``high contrast'' means, with       respect to the symbol or label notice, that such symbol or       label notice--

(A) is either light on a solid dark background or dark on a       solid light background; and

(B) has a contrast percentage of at least 70 percent       between such symbol or label notice and the background, using       the formula (B1 - B2) / B1 * 100 = contrast percentage, where       B1 is the light reflectance value of the lighter area and B2       is the light reflectance value of the darker area.

(6) Label notice.--The term ``label notice'' means the       written phrase ``Do Not Flush''.

(7) Principal display panel.--The term ``principal display       panel'' means the side of a product package that is most       likely to be displayed, presented, or shown under customary       conditions of display for retail sale, and--

(A) in the case of a cylindrical or near-cylindrical       package, the surface area of which constitutes at least 40       percent of the product package, as measured by multiplying       the height by the circumference of the package; or

(B) in the case of a flexible film package in which a       rectangular prism or near-rectangular prism stack of wipes is       housed within the film, the surface area of which is measured       by multiplying the length by the width of the side of the       package when the flexible packaging film is pressed flat       against the stack of wipes on all sides of the stack.

(8) State.--The term ``State'' means each State of the       United States, the District of Columbia, and each       commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.

(9) Symbol.--The term ``symbol'' means the ``Do Not Flush''       symbol, as depicted in the most recent edition of the       Guidelines for Assessing the Flushability of Disposable       Nonwoven Products published by the Association of the       Nonwoven Fabrics Industry (INDA) and the European Disposables       And Nonwovens Association (EDANA), or an otherwise equivalent       symbol adopted by the Commission through rulemaking under       this section.

(h) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to a covered       entity beginning on the date that is 1 year after the date of       the enactment of this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2269, the Wastewater  Infrastructure Pollution Prevention and Environmental Safety Act, or  the WIPPES Act, led by Representative McClain. The bipartisan,  bicameral bill mandates wet wipe manufacturers to label their products  as nonflushable. In doing so, it will provide consumers with clearer  guidance, thereby saving local water utilities millions of dollars a  year from preventable sewer blockages.

I appreciate Chairperson McClain's efforts to advance the WIPPES Act,  along with Senator Merkley and Representative Mullin.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to pass this bill, H.R. 2269, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I encourage a ``yes'' vote on  this particular bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.