Alex Padilla


Mr. COONS. Mr. President, having just viewed a video of my friend and  colleague Senator Alex Padilla being manhandled, thrown to the ground,  and handcuffed after identifying himself as Senator Alex Padilla and  attempting to ask a question of Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi  Noem in Los Angeles, I am shaken, I am angry, and I am gravely  concerned about our path forward in this body and our Nation.

Democracy is a gift hard won and hard earned by the sacrifice of  millions who have served, fought, and died, some in moments of tumult  and challenge on the beaches of Normandy, on the fields of Gettysburg.

From the very beginning of our Nation until this moment, millions of  Americans have stepped forward and said: I will risk it all so that my  children and those I do not know can live free lives. Knowing the  burdens of tyranny, knowing what it meant to live under the heel of a  King, our forefathers risked everything.

In nations around the world that I have visited on your behalf as a  Senator, people yearning for freedom and people recently free have come  and spoken about how much the American example means to them.

Earlier this year, I was at a global security conference, concerned  about what was happening in our Nation, about our division in the  dialogue, and I heard three young parliamentarians from other countries  talk about how hard they were working.

Part of our job as Senators is to ask hard questions. It is to pose  challenges. It is to test the Cabinet of the President, to visit  Federal facilities, to ask questions that are sometimes uncomfortable  or unwelcome. Just this week, I was at three committee hearings and had  three members of the Cabinet in front of me. Did they want to answer my  questions? Probably not, but they did.

If a Senator of the United States who identifies himself as a  Senator--in at least the video I just saw--gets handled this way, gets  thrown to the ground and handcuffed, what is happening to those who  have no such title or voice? If this gentle and decent and caring man  is treated this way, what is happening along the margins in the dark  spaces in the places we cannot see?

So I call on my Republican friends and colleagues to look hard at  this moment and say: What comes next? What comes next? Are we to be at  risk of arrest if we threaten to ask a question or deign to interrupt?  Is our very service here as Senators hanging in the balance in this  moment? As we all learn more of the facts of what happened in Los  Angeles, the future of what will happen here in our country and in the  world will wait on your answer.

Was this an overresponse? Was this a misuse of force? Was this a  disrespect of the very Senate itself? Is this a moment when, as our  Founders who wrote the Federalist Papers dreamed, my colleagues in the  Senate will show their loyalty to the role, to the check and balance,  to the independence of the Senate, more than they will show their  loyalty to their party and their President and demand an answer, an  apology, and a different path forward? Or is this a moment when all of  us will watch this video of our friend--a member of the Judiciary  Committee, a representative, a Senator of Los Angeles and the State of  California--being roughly mishandled and say: Huh, too bad. At least it  wasn't me.

If we answer this moment with silence, we will be damned, and our  children and the world will say: They didn't really mean it.

The members of my family who served in the U.S. military knew that  signing on that line meant being willing to give everything, and I  believe and have been told that they understood that service to be in  service of freedom--not in service of any particular President or  party, any particular State or moment, but in service of democracy.

Democracy is a fragile flower, and around the world, people look to  what we do to know what they should do. There are petty, tin-pot  dictators, authoritarians, and strongmen around the world who will  watch this video and be encouraged and think this is the way to silence  their critics.

I can't image a Member of this Chamber who knows Alex Padilla, who  has had the blessing of sitting with him in moments when he is asked  questions or engaged in discourse, who thinks of him as anything other  than a reasoned, reasonable, mild-mannered Senator. But even if he were  not, even if he were outspoken, loud, aggressive, annoying, the title  ``Senator'' and the role we have should entitle him to ask a question  at a press conference. If the result is this mistreatment, heaven help  us all, and heaven help our democracy.