Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I rise to bring the attention of this body  to a broken promise by our President. Our President promised, in the  campaign and recently in an address to all of us here in Congress, to  make America affordable again; to deal with the high prices of  groceries, of fruits and vegetables, of housing, of housing supplies,  of energy--to deal with high prices. Millions of Americans who voted  for President Trump said they did so out of frustration about high  prices.

Well, today, President Trump has announced he is going to impose  tariffs on virtually every trading partner we have, and I rise in  support of a piece of legislation we are about to vote on here in the  Senate that gives us the chance to do something.

So to my colleagues, if you have heard, as I have, from your  constituents, calling with concern and alarm about how much prices have  not gone down but have gone up, I recommend you think about one  country, one of our most trusted and loyal allies--some of the nicest  people on the planet. Who doesn't like Canadians?

Canadians have served alongside us in virtually every war we have  ever fought. They are a NATO ally and partner, and for my small-but- mighty State of Delaware, our major export destination and the nation  from which we import the most.

And yet, because of an emergency at our border, which I think is  wholly unjustified by the data of how little fentanyl actually comes  into our country across the northern border, President Trump is moving  ahead with slapping tariffs on Canada.

Tonight, you have a chance, I say to my colleagues, to vote to undo  the declaration of an emergency on our northern border. You can vote to  undo the  harm to businesses, to small families, to retirement accounts. Don't  look at your 401(k) if you don't want to know tomorrow the consequences  of indiscriminately slapping tariffs on every one of our major trading  partners.

This is not ``Liberation Day'' but ``Tax Day''--a new national sales  tax that will harm the imports we buy from virtually every country and,  because of the countervailing tariffs, harm our exports.

A tariff is a tax, and tonight we will take a vote. And I hope some  of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will join Senator Kaine  and many of us in recognizing it is ludicrous to use the special  emergency powers that Congress gave to the President assuming he would  only do so in a case of war or active open hostility, not in the case  of one of our trusted and loyal partners and allies, the great and kind  people of Canada.

In recent meetings with Canadian leaders, they have said: Don't make  us do it. Don't make us impose tariffs on you.

But, tonight, the Trump administration has imposed tariffs on dozens  and dozens of our trading partners.

To my friends and colleagues, let's vote to undo this phony crisis  and vote to undo the tariffs on U.S.-Canada trade.