Unanimous Consent Request--S. 348


Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I rise today to seek unanimous consent for  my STABLE Trade Policy Act with Senator Kaine, an act that would  prevent any President from imposing tariffs on a U.S. ally or a free- trade agreement partner without congressional consent.

I will make that motion in just a moment, but let me, first, just  explain what this is and why I am doing it.

Next week, President Trump has announced plans to impose 25-percent  tariffs on products coming into the United States from Mexico and  Canada, our No. 1 and No. 2 trading partners.

These tariffs will be disastrous for our economy and our national  security. These tariffs will cost the average American household about  $1,200 a year. They will raise costs for avocados, appliances, diesel  fuel, dog toys, car parts, Christmas tree lights, tomatoes, and  tequila. I could go on.

Our economies are so closely integrated--the United States, Canada,  and Mexico--that it will increase the cost of a GM pickup truck about  $10,000.

Even if these tariffs, at the last minute, are delayed, businesses  are hurt by the uncertainty, which continues to increase costs.

President Trump plans to follow those tariffs with reciprocal tariffs  on the EU, which includes many of our critical NATO allies and closest  partners.

Imposing tariffs on our allies and partners diminishes our standing  in the world and makes our neighbors less likely to help us in the  future.

It is no surprise that Americans think this is a terrible idea.  Barely a quarter of Americans think imposing tariffs on Canada is a  good idea. More than double that disapprove.

President Trump has already declared an economic emergency to justify  imposing these tariffs on Mexico and Canada, but my bill with Senator  Kaine would prevent him from abusing long-established national security  authorities to follow through on further tariff threats against our  allies and FTA partners.

The U.S. Constitution in the Commerce Clause, article I, section 8,  gives Congress jurisdiction over trade policy. It is time that we take  ownership back of controlling the ability to impose tariffs willy-nilly  on our trusted partners and allies by passing this bill and reining in  President Trump's costly and damaging ideas.

348 and the Senate proceed  to its immediate consideration; that the bill be considered read a  third time and passed; and that the motion to reconsider be considered  made and laid upon the table.

Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I understand that Senator Crapo, the  chairman of the Finance Committee, a supporter of President Trump, has  blocked this bill today. I hope to find ways to work with him on  improving market access and on elevating the quality and the  capabilities of U.S. trade engagement with our partners. But I really  don't understand why President Trump seems so intent on harming one of  his signature accomplishments, the USMCA.

I am disappointed because Congress gave the President authority to  impose tariffs in the event of a national security crisis. Congress did  not grant this power to pursue petty grudges against trusted neighbors.

Honestly, how can anyone be angry with Canadians? They are the nicest  people in the world. Yet here they are, working with us, pleading with  us to not impose ruinous tariffs that would harm their economy and  ours.

I will briefly, then, just make, again, a few simple points. I am  disappointed that President Trump isn't doing more to reduce costs. He  was elected, in no small part, because of high inflation and promised  it would come down on day one.

These tariffs, if imposed, will make inflation worse and hit the  lowest income Americans the hardest. It will impact American business,  American families, and American communities.

So I hope that working together with my friends and colleagues here  in the Senate, we can find ways to lower costs on pharmaceuticals and  automobiles and microchips. But imposing reciprocal tariffs on trusted  friends and allies and sparking tariff wars in our region and around  the world is not the way to do that.

Two-thirds of Americans already think that President Trump isn't  doing enough to lower costs. Blocking this bill will only accelerate  that if President Trump continues to act unwisely and bully and  threaten our closest and most trusted partners.

We must find a better way forward together.