Ending of Dei Programs Through Executive Order


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690321/ending-of-dei-programs-through-executive-order


Mr. JACKSON of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Honorable  Congressman  Cleo Fields from the Sixth District of the great State of Louisiana for  yielding.

I would like to read for you, Mr. Speaker, a speech that the  Honorable George W. Bush gave at the inauguration of the African  American history museum. I was proud to be in attendance there, and I  must say I was not a big fan of the Presidency of Mr. George Bush, but  now, looking back over the times from which we have entered, I have to  give him credit where credit is due. He gave a speech that day that I  wish my Republican colleagues would take the time to listen to, and I  will summarize it. Mr. Bush was the person who granted the land rights  on behalf of African Americans.

He said: ``This museum is an important addition to our country for  many reasons. Here are three.

``First, it shows our commitment to truth. A great nation does not  hide its history; it faces its flaws and corrects them. This museum  tells the truth, that a country founded on the promise of liberty held  millions in chains . . . that the price of our Union was America's  original sin. From the beginning, some spoke the truth--John Adams  called slavery `an evil of colossal magnitude.' Their voices were not  heeded, and often not heard, but they were always known to a power  greater than any on Earth, one who loves His children and meant them to  be free.

``Second, this museum shows America's capacity to change. For  centuries, slavery and segregation seemed permanent parts of our  national life--but not to Nat Turner or Frederick Douglass, Harriet  Tubman, Rosa Parks, or Martin Luther King, Jr. All answered cruelty  with courage and hope. In a society governed by the people, no wrong  lasts forever. After struggle and sacrifice, the American people,  acting through the most democratic of means, amended the Constitution  that originally treated slaves''--Americans that had been enslaved-- ``as three-fifths of a person to guarantee equal protection of the  laws. After decades of struggle, Civil Rights and Voting Rights Acts  were finally enacted. Even today, the journey toward justice is still  not complete, but this museum will inspire us to go farther and get  there faster.''

These are the words of George W. Bush.

``And finally, the museum showcases the talent of some of our finest  Americans. The galleries celebrate not only African-American equality  but African-American greatness. I can't help but note that a huge  influence in my teenage years is honored here, the great Chuck Berry;  or my baseball idol growing up in far West Texas, the great Willie  Mays; and of course, something I never really mastered, the ability to  give a good speech, but Thurgood Marshall sure could.''

He concludes by saying: ``Our country is better and more vibrant  because of their contributions and the contributions of millions of  African Americans. No telling of American history is neither complete  nor accurate without acknowledging them. The lesson of this museum is  that all Americans share a past and a future. By staying true to our  principles, righting injustice, and encouraging the empowerment of all,  we will be an even greater nation for generations to come. I  congratulate all those who played a role in creating this wonderful  museum.''

These are the words of George W. Bush.

I thank Mr. Bush for having helped erect that magnificent museum now  that the current administration is trying to take out its materials.

Earlier today, I wished Mr. Hegseth, our Secretary of Defense, could  have shown the honor and the decency to come into the Capitol Visitor  Center to acknowledge the women of Six Triple Eight. There, Speaker  Johnson was present, and the leader of the Senate, Mr. Thune, but  notably absent was our Secretary of Defense.

Someone made the remarks, Mr. Speaker, today that people were hidden,  there were hidden figures in American history. I know the message that  they are sending, referring to the movie ``Hidden Figures,'' the  African-American women who did the math to put man on the moon but  somehow were unceremoniously removed from all the accolades and all the  parades, these women who were called human calculators. It came to my  mind that they are really not hidden. Hidden is to be made inconvenient  to the dominant narrative, shuffled to the footnotes or left on the  cutting room floor of America's memory. It is dishonest, yes, but it  leaves room for some discovery.

Erasure is more sinister. Erasure says that we were never here.  Erasure digs into the archives with red ink and crosses out our lives,  achievements, and sufferings. The women in Six Triple Eight have  suffered erasure. It removes their names from the rolls and gravestones  from the earth. It doesn't just forget. It forbids remembering.

These 885 women who put together 17 million pieces of mail that kept  the morale of our troops high were given no recognition until today,  after 80 years. I thank Speaker Johnson and Leader Thune for their  contribution.

When we talk about erasure, ask the descendants of Tulsa's Greenwood  District, who for decades lived with silence where there should have  been national mourning, and ask the generations denied their roots by a  system that said their past wasn't worth recording.

We see it now in the battles over school curriculum, in sanitized  histories where the enslaved become mere workers and civil rights are a  footnote to a fabled color-blind dream.

When we allow erasure to masquerade as reform, we not only assault  those who live the truth but endanger the consciousness of a nation  already prone to moral amnesia.

To hide history is cowardice, I would say. To erase it is cruelty.  America must choose neither because when we forget what we were, we  forfeit the right to know who we are.

Mr. Speaker, we are addressing the issue today of diversity, equity,  and inclusion. I would like to speak on this matter because it is an  urgent matter, one that touches the very soul of our Nation's promise  and its founding ideals of equality, justice, and the pursuit of  liberty.

We are at a crossroads, a critical juncture where the direction we  choose will define the future of this Nation. I speak today about the  persistent and harmful attacks on diversity, equity, and inclusion  policies and how these attacks, particularly under the leadership of  the President of the United States, are undermining the values upon  which this Nation was built.

More profoundly, these attacks are not merely political, but they  represent a direct assault on civil rights. Specifically, they started  by targeting African Americans, and they threaten to undo the hard- fought progress that has been made over generations.

DEI, at its core, is not just a set of policies but an embodiment of  American values, values that ensure every citizen, regardless of race,  gender, or background, has the opportunity to thrive.

It reflects the notion that our strength as a nation lies in our  diversity, that our success is drawn from the breadth of our collective  experiences, and that our unity can be found not in the erasure of  differences but in the celebration of them. Today, this fundamental  belief is under siege.

When President Trump and his allies launched their attacks on DEI,  they were not merely engaging in political rhetoric. They were  dismantling policies designed to correct historical inequities and  promote a more just and inclusive society.

These efforts, cloaked in the language of ``merit'' and ``individual  responsibility,'' are, in fact, a thinly veiled attempt to perpetuate a  system that continues to privilege a select few while marginalizing the  very communities that have fought the hardest for their rightful place  in the American story. The deep scars of racism and inequality are not  erased by wishful thinking or by policies that deny their existence.

The attack on DEI is an attack on civil rights, the idea of an  egalitarian democracy, and the constitutional ideals that undergird the  very idea of America.

This rhetoric is dangerous because it fundamentally misrepresents the  mission of DEI and, in doing so, misrepresents the broadest civil  rights movement that has shaped this Nation. It was, after all, the  civil rights movement that won the battles to dismantle segregation,  that fought for voting rights, and that created the foundation of a  more inclusive society. The very principles of DEI stem from these  victories.

When we attack diversity, equity, and inclusion, we erode the gains  made through blood, sweat, and tears from the marches in Selma to the  legislative victories in the sixties, seventies, eighties, nineties,  and beyond.

To push to eliminate DEI policies is a dangerous step backward in  this ongoing fight for justice and equality. It is no accident that  this movement to undermine DEI coincides with the resurgence of racism  and hatred, and this rhetoric and these policies are un-American.

These policies also coincide with the banning of books. I ask, when  does a society move forward banning books? When we talk about  restraining freedoms on women's bodies, when has that ever been good  for society?

We talk about xenophobia when most people in this country have come  from other lands. It is as if society has never moved forward. It is  not a coincidence when I tell you, under the guise of fairness and  colorblindness, these policies have disproportionately harmed the  African American and the marginalized communities all while maintaining  a status quo that favors the privileged few.

While it is true that the Black community created the pathway that  led to greater diversity in America, the reality is that Black people  are not the only community that benefits from it. Women are a part of  DEI. Veterans are a part of DEI. People with different abilities are a  part of DEI. American workers are a part of DEI. Even women and  families that need IVF, in vitro fertilization to build strong American  families, are all communities that benefit from DEI initiatives.

Here is a news flash: Diversity does not mean Black. Diversity can  mean making sure people who use wheelchairs are not discriminated  against and get equal consideration for housing and employment  opportunities. It can mean making sure that senior citizens have the  same protection as young people. To say nothing of the fact that  ensuring the right of young people to be in leadership is what  diversity and inclusion is all about.

The move to get rid of these policies is not theoretical; they are  real. They are felt and they have consequences. Take, for example, the  recent span of book bans across the Nation, particularly those  targeting African-American authors, targeting our history, and  targeting our lived experiences. Books like ``The Hate U Give'' by  Angie Thomas, ``Beloved'' by Toni Morrison, ``Between the World and  Me'' by Ta-Nehisi Coates have been removed from classrooms and  libraries not because of their literary merit but because of the  discomfort they cause to those who wish to ignore the brutal realities  of race in America.

These bans are not merely an affront to academic freedom; they are an  assault on Black identity and an attempt to stifle the critical  conversations necessary for a truly inclusive society.

Moreover, the policies that aim to ban discussions of race and racism  in the classroom directly undermine the very spirit of education. It is  no secret that Black students--especially those attending public  schools in underserved communities--are already facing systemic  barriers to educational opportunities. When DEI programs are  eliminated, when history is whitewashed, and when Black experiences are  rendered invisible, the message sent to our children is clear: Your  history, your experience, and your potential does not matter.

These policies contribute to a culture of exclusion, a culture that  denies the very existence of our humanity as a people, and by  extension, the humanity of all people.

Mr. JACKSON of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I find it interesting when we  started this conversation about diversity, equity, and inclusion, I  invited some of my other colleagues to participate. One person asked  me: Is it legal for you to discuss DEI, diversity, equity, and  inclusion?

As coequal branches of government, we do not work for the DOGE. We do  not work for the Presidency. We fundamentally disagree with the way the  Nation is going under the Presidency. Mr. Pete Hegseth, our Secretary  of Defense, needs to understand, if he would take the time to read it,  that diversity is legal according to the United States Supreme Court in  the Students for Fair Admissions.

Mr. Speaker, the generals that have written the amicus brief said:  ``Growing and maintaining a highly qualified, diverse officer corps  remains a U.S. national security imperative.''

We had discussed this at one point. Further on, they go on to say:  ``The U.S. military's commitment to diverse and inclusive leadership  derives from decades of experience.'' This is exponential.

``The U.S. military's international presence and engagement abroad  with foreign military and civilians requires diversity in this officers  corps.''

In part C, they say: ``U.S. military diversity initiatives have led  to significant progress in growing a highly qualified and racially  diverse officer corps, but this work must continue.

``Invalidating universities' modest race-conscious admissions  policies would seriously impair the military's efforts to maintain  cohesion and effectiveness.''

Mr. Speaker, Members can read the entirety of the amicus brief at the  following link: https://www.harvard.edu/admissionscase/wp-content/ uploads/sites/6/2022/08/Amicus-Brief-Military-Brief72.pdf.

When they say they are anti-DEI and then they take down the statues  and remove the gravestones of Jackie Robinson, that does not help with  military cohesion. If there is one of our colleagues that is watching  us in the Chamber, we invite you down so we can have a debate, a  discussion on DEI and stop the polarization and racializing this. They  find it okay.

Mr. Pete Hegseth finds it okay to resurrect the name of Ku Klux  Klansman General Bragg, Fort Bragg, but yet you take down the name of  Jackie Robinson. And you are not done with improper ideology? Then you  resurrect the names of so many others. There are six military bases  that have some of these Confederate generals on there, but then you  take down the names of Medgar Evers and Harriet Tubman? That is  shameful and hypocritical.

Diversity makes the Nation stronger. Being committed to truth and  justice about our paths only serves as a benefit. It doesn't take  anything away. The false narrative that people are unqualified simply  is not true. We know from these Halls of Congress right here that  people whose parents have been here before can teach their children how  to run for office, how to raise the funds, and you will see children of  those that have been in power following in that tradition.

We are talking about creating an on-ramp for greater inclusiveness,  for greater cohesion amongst the troops. Lastly, if it is good enough  for the war room, isn't it good enough for the boardroom and classroom?

Mr. JACKSON of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, if I could jump in on that for  just a moment.

These are voluntary programs. These are aspirational programs, as you  have shared with me. There is no DEI law. No DEI law has been passed by  the Congress. How can you outlaw something that never was a law?

When we go into the Senate, just at the other end of this Chamber,  you see ``E Pluribus unum'' over the Speaker, which means ``out of  many, one.'' That is the call for diversity.

When we talk about equality in the 14th Amendment, equal protection  under the law, we only had that once the Nation could confront its  history and tell the truth. We wouldn't have had to have the 13th  Amendment abolishing slavery, and the 14th Amendment that was meant for  equal protection for those Americans that had been enslaved for 246  years from 1619 to 1865. And it was 346 years from 1619 to 1965 before  the Voting Rights Act was even passed. Then the 15th Amendment came  around to make sure that everyone had equal access to the ballot, and  that wasn't fully enacted until 1965.

Yes, this has been a long journey and we cannot be cowards and not  confront the history and the truth of our past.

Mr. JACKSON of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Fields for  the privilege of standing here beside him. I thank him for his  commitment to justice, for his commitment to the American way, and I  thank him for making America better.

His case right now before the United States Supreme Court, Louisiana  v. Callais, is taking into account, once again, the maxim of equal  protection under the law. We want to make sure that America stays  strong and America gets better.

I tell those that say ``Make America Great Again,'' I tell them that  this is the greatest America has ever been. This body now has more  female Senators, has more people of ethnicities, more diversity, and I  am proud of the culture that this great country has.

I hope other people would step forward to find the courage to come  and join us on this floor so we can have a conversation.

Do not live in fear of the President primarying you. Do not live in  fear of the President taking words out of your mouth. You can be a  major law firm. Don't lose the ink in your pen because you have fear.  You can be a major university. Don't give up your academic freedom  because of fear. You have a major corporation. You have the right to  align yourself with the interests of your shareholders and the  interests of your future marketplace. Hold on to the DEI.

Members of this body, as coequal branches of government and the  United States, fundamentally disagree with President Donald J. Trump.

Mr. Speaker, I want Mr. Pete Hegseth to know that diversity is legal  in the United States military. Colin Powell was an affirmative action  general. We should tell the truth about it. He came through under the  Carter administration.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Fields for this Special Order.