Sanction Sea Pirates Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support my bill, H.R. 1998, Sanction Sea  Pirates Act. Over the last few years, we have seen and also been  reminded how fragile global supply chains can be and how the closing of  narrow physical chokepoints can lead to shortages and inflation. More  than 30 percent of global container trade passes through the Red Sea.  If these waters cannot be navigated because of pirates and terrorism,  Americans will continue to feel the costs here at home.

Unfortunately, we are now seeing exactly what we are trying to  prevent. Ships traversing the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden now face two  major threats--and more mounting--from the Houthis, who continue to  perpetrate piracy on the high seas, and from Somalian pirates, who are  plundering and pillaging at rates unseen in a decade.

My bill imposes sanctions on any pirates around the world, blocking  assets in or associated with the United States and denying them entry  into our country. As an international leader in trade and security, the  United States must seek to stop piracy around the world. This is  America at its finest trying to help facilitate global trade. We must  secure global waterways for the safety of ships, crew members, and  critical ship-dependent supply chains.

Mr. Speaker, my bill is also a necessary step to ensure the  development of African economies and generate greater prosperity  through stability in Somalia. No country can be expected to grow and  prosper while facing serious piracy threats. We cannot allow violent  criminals and terrorists to continue stunting the economic development  of Somalia and the surrounding region.

Beyond direct threats to the United States and Somalia, piracy is  often linked to terrorism and crime. This bill reaffirms the United  States' position as a global economic and security leader, and I thank  my colleagues for helping to move this bill through the House. We  strongly believe that this is a necessary step toward greater stability  and safety for both the United States and East Africa. Attacks on  maritime shipping endanger innocent lives, raise the cost of goods, and  destabilize local communities in Yemen and the Horn of Africa.

For American national and economic security, we must pass this  legislation and crack down on global piracy. I encourage all of my  colleagues to join in supporting this legislation, and reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. JACKSON of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, to advance global security and  economic prosperity, the United States must seek to stop piracy around  the world.