Congratulating St. Theresa Catholic School


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696910/congratulating-st-theresa-catholic-school


Mr. GIMENEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the 100th  anniversary of St. Theresa Catholic School, a pillar of faith,  education, and community in the heart of Coral Gables, Florida.

In 1925, the Sisters of St. Joseph opened a school with 70 students,  planting the seed for one of south Florida's most distinguished  Catholic schools. In 1991, the Carmelite Sisters began administering  and teaching, a mission that they continue today.

For a century, St. Theresa has remained true to its calling: faith  formation, academic excellence, and service in a nurturing Christ- centered environment. Over the years, the school has grown, embraced  innovation, and prepared generations of students to face the future  while remaining rooted in their faith.

St. Theresa continues to shine as a beacon of excellence in Catholic  education, with its enduring legacy carried forward by a community that  fully embodies its mission. Congratulations to St. Theresa Catholic  School on a century of service.        Extraordinary Achievements of Miami-Dade County Public Schools

Mr. GIMENEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the extraordinary  achievements of Miami-Dade County Public Schools, the third largest  school district in our Nation, serving more than 335,000 students.

Under the leadership of School Board Chair Mari Tere Rojas, Vice  Chair Monica Colucci, and board members Roberto Alonso, Dr. Dorothy  Bendross-Mindingall, Mary Blanco, Danny Espino, Dr. Steve Gallon,  Joseph Geller, and Luisa Santos, along with Superintendent of Schools,  Dr. Jose Dotres, Miami-Dade has once again earned an A rating, the  largest district in Florida to do so.

This success reflects the tireless work of our students, parents,  teachers, administrators, and the entire workforce, and it remains a  source of pride for our community.

In 2025, 99 percent of Miami-Dade County Public Schools earned school  grades of A, B, or C, and the district achieved a record-breaking  graduation rate of 95.2 percent.

Miami-Dade also received the prestigious 2024 Cognia School/Systems  of Distinction award, and the district earned 59 Magnet Schools of  Excellence Merit awards, and 32 Magnet Schools of Distinction awards.

Miami-Dade County Public Schools continue to lead the Nation with a  total of 51 National Academy Foundation distinguished career academies  and 3 model career academies, and numerous schools have been designated  as National Blue Ribbon Schools of Excellence.

For the 41st consecutive year, the district was awarded the  certificate of excellence in financial reporting by the Association of  School Business Officials International.

These accomplishments and the strength of Miami-Dade County Public  Schools' educational programs in a safe and conducive learning  environment reaffirms the district's role in preparing students to  thrive in the global and technological marketplace.

I am proud to celebrate their success and the bright future they are  building for the next generation of Miami-Dade County residents.