Commercial Remote Sensing Amendment Act of 2025


Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1325, the  ``Commercial Remote Sensing Amendment Act of 2025.''

I would like to thank the gentleman from Oklahoma, Congressman Frank  Lucas, who was former Chair of the Committee on Science, Space, and  Technology where I serve as Ranking Member, for reintroducing this  legislation. I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of this bill and  continue working with Congressman Lucas with whom I collaborated on our  Committee's bipartisan work.

H.R. 1325 is a no-nonsense, good government bill that amends existing  statute to conform with updated regulatory guidelines. This legislation  also directs reporting to Congress on commercial remote sensing  licensing, which is carried out under statutory authority granted to  the Department of Commerce. H.R. 1325 provides Congress with the  necessary transparency to carry out ongoing oversight of the  Department's implementation of its authority and regulatory  responsibilities.

Ensuring that our U.S. commercial space-based remote sensing industry  leads the world is not only important for our economy, it is essential  for securing the power that space-based information has for our  Nation--from natural disaster assessments and responses to precision  agriculture and applied uses for national security. For example,  commercial remote sensing images provide an important means of shining  a light on the world's actions in a way that satellites designated for  national security, or the intelligence community cannot. Commercial  imagery of the advancement of Russia into Ukraine is but one example.

It is not surprising that several commercial remote sensing companies  are in the Bay area of Northern California where my District is  located. California is an incubator of space technology, and the Bay  area and Silicon Valley are drivers of information technology  innovation. Coupling commercial space-based remote sensing data with  analytical tools and information technology is a force multiplier that  augments and enables essential decision-support products.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues in the House to vote ``YEA'' on  H.R. 1325, the ``Commercial Remote Sensing Amendment Act of 2025.''