Condemning the Violent June 2025 Riots in Los Angeles, California


Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I oppose the Kim resolution.

Now, had it just condemned violence and thanked the National Guard  and the Marines, who did not ask for this assignment, I think we would  all be on board.

Instead, the resolution really is engaging in partisan games with  misleading and inflammatory provisions.

Trump said he was going to go arrest and deport violent criminals.  People are okay with that. Instead, armed, masked ICE agents, some  refusing to identify themselves, aggressively, and  in some cases even violently, took down day workers at Home Depot,  busboys, gardeners, and a union leader, and regular people in Los  Angeles objected to that. Then, as the First Amendment provides, they  peacefully protested against it.

Unfortunately, there were some hooligans and rowdies who infiltrated  that group, and they committed violent acts and vandalism. For that,  they should be prosecuted. They should be brought to justice and  condemned, which we do.

However, the resolution really creates a misleading picture of what  happened. On the first page, it says: ``Whereas these protests quickly  escalated into violent riots across Los Angeles, where acts of arson,  widespread looting, property destruction . . . lighting streets on  fire. . . . '' The fact is that these demonstrations were largely  confined to about a 10-block area in downtown Los Angeles.

The police, LAPD, had the situation under control. There is an  elaborate system of mutual aid in California, and had they needed  additional forces, it was readily available under mutual aid.

I will point out to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, in  case they need a reminder, L.A. County is 4,060 square miles, not the  10 blocks. When President Trump deployed the Marines and National Guard  in L.A., it was not at the request of local officials, the chief of  police, or the Governor. It was unprecedented, unnecessary, and a clear  attempt to take over the State's law enforcement authority. In fact, I  think it did aggravate tensions in the area.

Now, the National Guard remains in Los Angeles to this day. They have  nothing to do. We heard a report from a former commander that less than  20 percent are doing anything and they have been taken away from jobs  where they were needed; for example, helping in efforts of forest fire  prevention and the like.

As the elected chair of the California Democrat delegation, I was  proud to join my colleague (Ms. Barragan) in introducing a resolution  that, unlike this one, is based in fact.

Our resolution condemns the President's authoritarian response to  First Amendment expressions of dissent, unlike the Kim resolution. It  expresses support for law enforcement and for the National Guard and  for the Marines, and it condemns violence by those who committed it.

Now, why is this important? In the resolution, it is so partisan. It  says: ``Whereas California's leadership has prioritized protecting  illegal immigrants and violent individuals over United States  citizens.''

That is absurd. That is insulting to our elected officials, but it is  right in keeping with what the President has said. He has indicated  publicly that he intends to target cities and States that are  democratically elected, that have Democrats elected in government.

What a strange thing to say.

The executive order that nationalized the California National Guard  applies to anywhere in the United States. It is not just L.A. It is not  just California.

I think this resolution really, as false as it is, is serving as a  predicate, as a foundation for the military to be used in places all  over the United States on any pretext, so that the military can go in  and assume civilian authority away from those who are democratically  elected.

That is why it is important that we do not approve this resolution  with its false whereases, and that we do not participate in a scheme to  replace the democratically elected officials in cities and counties and  States across the United States.

I will just end with this: Who should we be more concerned about?  What should we be more afraid of: the gardeners that are being arrested  by ICE, the busboys, the farmworkers, or the concept that the  administration may be taking the steps to replace, with the military,  civil authority that has been duly elected around the United States?