Extension of Sbir and Sttr Authority


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695449/extension-of-sbir-and-sttr-authority


Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 5100, a bill that I  cosponsored along with the Chair of the Science Committee,  Representative Babin, and the Chair and Ranking Member of the Small  Business Committee, Representatives Williams and Velazquez. Like my  colleagues, I am a strong supporter of the SBIR and STTR programs and  it is my priority to see these programs continue without disruption.

For more than 40 years, and Small Business Innovation Research  Program (SBIFR), and later its companion program the Small Business  Technology Transfer Program (STTR), have been contributing to U.S.  leadership in technological innovation through support for small  business research and development.

My home state of California has long been one of the Nation's leading  states for science and technology. Because of our rich and diverse  culture of innovation and entrepreneurship, our small companies--across  sectors--have successfully competed for SBIR/STTR funds since the  programs' inception. In 2022, California companies won a total of $887  million in SBIR/STTR awards. I celebrate the success of California's  small businesses. But more importantly, I celebrate the return on  investment (ROI) that benefits the entire Nation. While estimates vary  depending on the scope and methodology of each study, the studies I  have seen report a ROI of at least 10:1. That is a remarkable win for  the taxpayer for a relatively small investment.

While the Small Business Administration administers the overall  program, it is the science agencies themselves that solicit and fund  SBIR/STTR award proposals. As the Ranking Member of the Science, Space,  and Technology Committee, I am familiar with the diversity of our  Federal scientific enterprise and the vast differences in missions and  needs across our science agencies, including the Department of Defense  (DOD). So, it is no surprise to me that over the lifetime of the SBIR/ STTR programs, each agency has evolved the particulars of their  individual programs to align with their specific needs. That also  applies to how they approach risk assessment in their due diligence  programs. While clear, standard definitions are an important goal that  I share, an agency like NSF is rightfully going to assess and mitigate  risk differently than an agency like DOD.

It is with that context in mind that I have serious concerns about  the INNOVATE Act as currently proposed by the Chairs of the House and  Senate Small Business Committees. Even DOD itself has flagged  significant concerns. I do support a long-term comprehensive  reauthorization of the program, and I am committed to taking a serious  look at where the program has challenges and needs good governance  updates. I am also committed to discussing the opportunities to  continue to strengthen the outcomes of the program, including by doing  more to attract new entrants across the Nation. I have instructed my  staff accordingly and they have been at the table for more than a month  negotiating in good faith with staff from the other committees.  However, we remain far apart on certain key issues and simply need more  time to work through them. At the moment, we don't even have agreement  on the fundamentals. What I do not accept is a repeat of the 2022  process, in which one corner out of six effectively dictated the  process and rammed through a bill that narrowly reflected only their  priorities and completely omitted Science Committee priorities, among  others.

That is why I am encouraging all of my colleagues, in the House and  the Senate, to support a clean one-year reauthorization of the SBIR/ STTR programs. We must be allowed time to engage in the kind of  thoughtful deliberation and debate that the public and the stakeholders  expect from us before we enact monumental changes to a program that has  been an undisputed success for more than 40 years.