Ntia Policy and Cybersecurity Coordination Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693613/ntia-policy-and-cybersecurity-coordination-act


Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 1766,  The NTIA Policy and Cybersecurity Coordination Act.

The National Telecommunications and Information Administration, or  NTIA, is a critical agency within the Department of Commerce that works  across the Federal government to develop telecommunications and  information policy. Congress should support this agency and give it the  resources and authorities it needs to fulfill its current mission.  However, this bill would waste taxpayer dollars by unnecessarily  duplicating activities already authorized by Congress.

The NTIA was originally part of its sister agency, the National  Institute of Standards and Technology. Since Congress established NTIA  as its own agency in 1978, the two agencies have carried out  complementary but distinct areas of work. NIST serves as an  independent, unbiased arbiter of trusted measurements and standards  while NTIA has its regulatory responsibilities.

These two agencies often work together, unfortunately this bill would  swell NTIA's mission into a cybersecurity role to which it does not  possess the appropriate experience or expertise and blur the lines  between the agencies, especially on issues related to cybersecurity.  For example, Congress authorized NIST, in collaboration with CISA, to  conduct a cybersecurity activity related to the internet and  communications networks in the Cybersecurity Enhancements Act of 2014,  the CHIPS and Science Act of 2020, the HACKED Act of 2021, and more.  H.R. 1766 would directly duplicate, at NTIA, those ongoing efforts  underway at NIST. There is also a provision in the bill that implicates  agencies outside of the Department of Commerce by duplicating the  Department of Homeland Security's information technology supply chain  security programs.

This Act was included as part of a broader NTIA Reauthorization that  was considered in  the 118th Congress. At the time, the Department of Commerce weighed in  requesting significant changes to the provision that are unfortunately  not included in the Act we will consider today. As such, this bill  merits further vetting and input from the Department of Commerce.

This bill needs to be changed to address these concerns. Until that  happens I must regretfully oppose this legislation in its current form.