Small Business Innovation and Economic Security Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700700/small-business-innovation-and-economic-security-act


Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of S. 3971,  a reauthorization of the SBIR and STTR Programs.

For more than 40 years, and Small Business Innovation Research  Program (SBIR), and later its companion program the Small Business  Technology Transfer Program (STTR), have been contributing to U.S.  leadership in technological innovation through support for small  business research and development.

I have had a front-row seat to the explosive growth of  entrepreneurship in Silicon Valley over my lifetime. I understand well  the importance of innovative small businesses to our local economy and  to the U.S. economy. I also understand the challenges these businesses  face accessing capital. The SBIR program has long been called  ``America's Seed Fund'' because they invest in small businesses at the  higher-risk early stages before private capital is willing to invest. I  also recognize that every agency has a different mission, and tailors  their SBIR program accordingly. While that diversity in missions was an  undercurrent in the negotiations, in the end we arrived at a good  compromise that continues to support competition and innovation while  giving the agencies necessary flexibility.

Last fall, as these programs faced imminent closure, the House sent  the Senate a one-year, simple extension to keep the programs open to  small businesses as the parties continued to negotiate. Unfortunately,  there was not unanimity in the Senate to keep supporting small  businesses across the country as we continued to negotiate some policy  changes, The 6-month halt in the program has had real consequences for  businesses and their employees, for innovation, and even for clinical  trials and their patients. All of that was avoidable.

Fortunately, we are here today with a very good bill that provides  new forms of support and resources for innovative small businesses,  increases access and competition, and strengthens guardrails. I am  especially pleased that the bill authorizes the programs through fiscal  year 2031. Small businesses need certainty that the funding will be  available, and agencies need certainty to manage the program  efficiently.

I thank Small Business Committee Chairman Williams and Ranking Member  Velazquez and Science Committee Chairman Babin, for their partnership  in getting this done. I thank all of the committee staff for their hard  work and patience through these months of negotiations. And I thank our  partners in the Senate for continuing to work with us to find a path  forward. I strongly urge all of my colleagues to support S. 3971  without delay.