Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendments to H.R. Consolidated Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Disapproving the Action of the District of Columbia Council in Approving the D.C. Income and Franchise Tax Conformity and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Critical Mineral Dominance Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699595/providing-for-consideration-of-senate-amendments-to-hr-consolidated-appropriations-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-disapproving-the-action-of-the-district-of-columbia-council-in-approving-the-dc-income-and-franchise-tax-conformity-and-revision-temporary-amendment-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-critical-mineral-dominance-act


Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  Massachusetts for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, Congress must not give ICE or CBP another dollar while  they are killing Americans in our streets. We must protect our  communities by demanding real change first. This is what our  constituents elected us to do.

As a starting point, the Federal occupation of Minneapolis must end  immediately. ICE must adhere to the Constitution and use only judicial  warrants for its enforcement operations. Instead, just last week, ICE  directed its officers to conduct more arrests without any warrants at  all.

DHS law enforcement officers must be clearly identifiable and  prohibited from hiding behind masks. Racial profiling in immigration  enforcement must stop. Sensitive locations like schools, daycares,  hospitals, and churches must be protected.

We must rein in the sweeping surveillance system DHS is using to  crack down on Americans. CBP personnel must also go back to the border.  The Federal Government must cooperate with State and local  investigators in investigations, including on the murders of Renee Good  and Alex Pretti.

Mr. Speaker, I have been an elected official, as you have, in the  State of Mississippi. Never have I seen an opportunity where Federal,  State, and local law enforcement didn't cooperate together on finding  criminals. ICE has taken this to another level, and we are a better  country than this.

Kristi Noem must go. She has endangered the security of the United  States, its people, and our institution of government.

Mr. Speaker, again, vote ``no'' on the rule and the underlying bill  so we can hold the Trump administration accountable.