Recognizing the Service of U.S. Comptroller General Gene L. Dodaro


Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  the Honorable Gene L. Dodaro upon the completion of his term as the  eighth Comptroller General of the United States. During his 52 years  working at and leading the Government Accountability Office (GAO), Mr.  Dodaro has helped root out waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement  across the Federal Government. There is no Federal department, agency,  or program that has not been made better because of Mr. Dodaro's  tireless work on behalf of the American people.

Mr. Dodaro was the first GAO employee to become Comptroller General,  and under Mr. Dodaro's 15-year term at the helm, GAO has saved the  American taxpayer more than $1.2 trillion. The Committee on Homeland  Security and I have relied on Mr. Dodaro's deep experience and  knowledge of Federal programs and operations to shape the Department of  Homeland Security and protect civil rights and civil liberties in the  post-9/11 era.

The teams at GAO led by Mr. Dodaro have made Americans safer, made  their government more responsive, and saved them money. It is because  of GAO's audits of Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grant  programs and response efforts that Americans facing natural disasters  can rely on FEMA to get them help quickly and effectively. GAO's  examination of Federal cybersecurity and information programs helped  with the creation and evolution of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure  Security Agency, which helps protect American schools, hospitals,  businesses, and critical infrastructure from costly and damaging cyber  attacks. GAO's examinations of Department of Homeland Security  intelligence and counterterrorism programs helped protect the Nation,  strengthen civil liberties, and implement needed reforms to make the  country safer for all people. And in 2020, GAO helped Congress uncover  that U.S. Customs and Border Protection was using migrant care funds to  buy ATVs while children died in custody.

Members of Congress from both parties and across all congressional  committees have benefited from Mr. Dodaro's dedication to  accountability, efficiency, and management reform. He testified before  Congress more than 200 times and helped Congress steer the United  States through the global financial crisis. Mr. Dodaro's work with  Congress and Presidential administrations helped shape the Digital  Accountability and Transparency Act of 2014, the Federal IT  Acquisitions Reform Act of 2014, the Fraud Reduction and Data Analytics  Act of 2015, and countless legislation that moved through the Committee  on Homeland Security as a result of GAO reports and recommendations.

Mr. Dodaro's accolades are known far and wide. He recently received  the Association of Government Accountants' (AGA) Lifetime Achievement  Award for a Legacy of Service, was inducted into Government Executive's  Government Hall of Fame, and received the AGA Chapters Award for  Extraordinary Service to the Nation in Advancing Government Performance  and Accountability for Over Five Decades. These awards are deserved and  will no doubt crowd his shelf full of similar honors for his lifetime  of exemplary service to the Nation. Mr. Dodaro, his family and friends,  and his alma mater, Lycoming College, should be proud of Mr. Dodaro's  accomplishments.

The United States needs more leaders and public servants in the mold  of the Honorable Gene L. Dodaro. His steady leadership, forthrightness,  and insight will be sorely missed. I congratulate him on the completion  of his term of office and look forward to what is in store for the  future.