Special Interest Alien Reporting Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693073/special-interest-alien-reporting-act-of-2025


Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  California (Mr. Correa) for yielding and for his leadership on the  Border Security and Enforcement Subcommittee of the Committee on  Homeland Security.

Mr. Speaker, the Department of Homeland Security already vets  everyone it encounters entering the United States. Most of these  encounters are routine, but some of these encounters require more  investigation based on a dynamic assessment of the security situation.

Now, DHS does not publicly release who is getting enhanced screening  or where it may be happening right now, simply because: First, merely  being singled out for enhanced screening does not necessarily mean an  individual poses a threat or has done something illegal; and, second,  doing so would let bad actors know who DHS is on the lookout for. That  information, in other words, is law-enforcement sensitive.

H.R. 275, Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene's tipping off  terrorists act, requires DHS to make public information it has long  deemed law-enforcement sensitive. That is because this bill requires  Customs and Border Protection to publicly report who is getting extra  screening and where that screening occurs in real time, which tips off  terrorists and other bad actors.

Under administrations of both parties, DHS has never regularly  published who it has considered a special interest alien. That is  because who is considered special interest changes regularly based on  DHS' security assessments.

This bill lets bad actors know in real time which nationalities are  more likely to get enhanced screening and exactly where CBP has been  stopping these migrants. Criminal organizations could then use this  information to adjust their operations and try to avoid enhanced CBP  inspections.

However, Democrats are for transparency, as Mr. Correa has already  said, and there is nothing stopping DHS right now from publishing these  numbers.

The Trump administration also could publish this data right now if  they wanted to but continue to choose not to because the folks on the  ground understand that security threats posed by such public reporting  is bad.

If Republicans want the administration to publish information on who  is getting enhanced screening, they should work with DHS to do so in a  way that does not jeopardize Homeland Security, not with a messaging  bill, which, if signed by the President, could tip off terrorists.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this dangerous  bill.