Recognizing the 50th Anniversary of the Springfield Armory


Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a remarkable milestone  in our Nation's history, the 50th anniversary of the Springfield Armory  National Historic Site (NHS).

Established during the Revolutionary War in 1777 as the ``Arsenal at  Springfield,'' the site was recommended to George Washington by General  Henry Knox for its strategic location along the Connecticut River and  its proximity to four major roads that connected to New York City,  Boston, Albany, and Montreal. The Arsenal at Springfield played a  critical role in the war effort, both manufacturing cartridges and gun  carriages and storing muskets, cannons, and other weaponry.

In January 1787, the Armory was the site of Shays' Rebellion, an  uprising led by American Revolutionary War veteran Daniel Shays in  response to economic hardships faced by farmers after the Revolutionary  War. Thousands of Shays' Regulators marched on the Springfield Armory,  hoping to seize its weaponry and force a change of government. The  rebellion directly influenced the delegates at the Constitutional  Convention later that year, with James Madison citing it as a warning  for the need for a stronger federal government.

The Springfield Armory was officially established by George  Washington in 1794 and played an essential role in shaping America's  military and industrial strength. For nearly two centuries, the Armory  provided the tools necessary to defend our Nation and served as a hub  of innovation and craftsmanship. In 1974, the site was officially  designated a National Historic Site and was entrusted to the  stewardship of the National Park Service.

Once the home of our Nation's first armory, the Springfield Armory  National Historic Site is now home to the world's largest historic U.S.  military small arms collection, commemorating the innovative  craftsmanship and ingenuity that enabled the production of the most  superior firearms for nearly two centuries. Thousands of visitors come  every year to not only marvel at this collection, but also learn about  the region's rich history and its critical role in the founding of our  Nation.

On Saturday, August 16, 2025, the Springfield Armory NHS will host a  community-wide celebration on the scenic grounds of the Springfield  Armory and Springfield Technical Community College to mark this  historic occasion. This free, family-friendly festival will honor five  decades of preserving the rich military, industrial, and social legacy  of the Armory.

I commend the Springfield Armory National Historic Site,  Superintendent Fellner and her team, and our entire western  Massachusetts community for honoring the past and enriching the  present. Here's to another fifty years of education, inspiration, and  connection through this treasured historic landmark.