Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694953/energy-and-water-development-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. BUDZINSKI. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong opposition to this  legislation because it strips away critical resources from projects  that directly benefit my district.

One example is the investment of $32 million awarded to the Kraft  Heinz facility in Champaign, Illinois. This was the single largest  award among the 10 sites approved under Kraft Heinz's grant of $170  million from the Department of Energy.

These funds were not wasteful. They would have been transformative,  reducing emissions for this plant by 99 percent.

That isn't just about energy policies. It is about protecting  community health, and it is about growing good-paying union jobs.

Yet this administration chose to cancel this project, along with  countless others, simply because it did not fit their political agenda.

That raises a fundamental question: What are their priorities?

Instead of investing in cleaner facilities, healthier communities,  and good-paying jobs, they are pulling resources away from businesses  making real commitments to reinvest locally and, ultimately, from the  American people.

For this reason, at the appropriate time, I will offer a motion to  recommit this bill back to committee. If the House rules permitted, I  would have offered the motion with an amendment to reverse the  Department of Energy's canceled awards and prohibit the department from  canceling future awards based on their so-called priorities.

Mr. Chair, I include in the Record the text of my amendment.

Ms. Budzinski moves to recommit the bill H.R. 4553 to the       Committee on Appropriations with the following amendment:

At the appropriate place in title V, insert the following:

Sec. __. (a) No agency or entity funded in this Act may       terminate a Federal award for no longer effectuating the       program goals or agency priorities, including pursuant to       section 200.340(a)(4) of title 2, Code of Federal       Regulations.

(b) Any Federal award that was terminated by any of the       agencies or entities funded in this Act after September 30,       2024, for no longer effectuating the program goals or agency       priorities, including pursuant to section 200.340(a)(4) of       title 2, Code of Federal Regulations, shall be reinstated by       such agency or entity under its previous terms and       conditions.

Ms. BUDZINSKI. Mr. Chair, I hope my colleagues will join me in voting  for the motion to recommit.                    Amendment No. 31 Offered by Mr. Perry.