Thanking Aleksi Knepp for Her Service to Illinois' 13th Congressional District


Ms. BUDZINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the service of  and express my deep gratitude for my agriculture policy advisor, Aleksi  Knepp, for her outstanding service to my office over the past 2\1/2\  years.

Since joining my team in 2023 as legislative assistant, Aleksi has  been entrusted with a wide portfolio of issues, but her leadership on  agriculture and education policy has made a lasting mark on my office  and Illinois' 13th district. In these roles, she has not only proved  invaluable to me and my staff but has also served as a direct voice for  my constituents in Illinois' 13th district.

Aleksi has been at the center of some of the most important  legislative and district activities I have undertaken. She has guided  my office through farm bill negotiations and markups, ensured that our  team was well-prepared for the annual Farm Progress Show, and  represented my office with diligence and skill at countless other  hearings, briefings, and stakeholder meetings. Regardless of what  policy issue she was tasked with solving, Aleksi approached every task  with a sense of dedication, professionalism, and passion for public  service.

As the daughter of central Illinois farmers, Aleksi brings to her  role not only technical expertise but also lived experience. She  understands first-hand the challenges faced by family farmers and rural  communities across Illinois. She has carried that perspective into this  role, always keeping in mind the voices of those who are too often left  out of debates in Washington.

Outside of her incredible policy contributions, Aleksi has been an  integral member of our team, helping to build a culture of  collaboration, camaraderie, and hard work.

While I am saddened to see Aleksi depart from my staff, I am so proud  that she will be continuing her service to the public on the House  Committee on Agriculture, where she will have the opportunity to work  on behalf of growers and producers from across the Nation.

I want to once again thank Aleksi Knepp for her service to my office  and my constituents. While she will be missed in my office, I look  forward to continuing to work with her in her new role, and I know that  she has a bright future ahead of her in public service.