Pocca


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691336/pocca


Mr. LICCARDO. Mr. Speaker, you remember this friendly and famous  fellow, Bill, as in: I am just a bill here on Capitol Hill.

I go back to ``Schoolhouse Rock!'' because I think the President  needs a civics lesson that the rest of us received as kids watching  Saturday morning cartoons with our mouths full of Corn Flakes.

Today, I am proud to join Representatives  Dave Min and Eugene  Vindman and 30 cosponsors in introducing the Protect Our Constitution  and Communities Act. It is just a bill on Capitol Hill, but it offers  an opportunity to Congress to restore the rule of law against President  Trump's unconstitutional highjacking of Federal spending.

As we all learned in school, two separate provisions of Article I of  our Constitution allocate what is known as the power of the purse to  Congress. As articulated by James Madison and Alexander Hamilton in the  Federalist Papers, our Founders made the spending power the bedrock of  the Constitution's allocation of powers in our government. They sought  to ensure that the expenditure of the people's money would remain in  that body that is closest to the people.

No longer. Under the dodgy dictatorship of DOGE, we have seen the  unconstitutional and haphazard seizure of billions of Federal dollars  critically needed in communities throughout our country for everything  from food safety inspections to healthcare for veterans. Although DOGE  has failed to meet any of Elon Musk's overblown claims for saving  taxpayer dollars, DOGE has done a superb job of creating chaos.

With cuts of thousands of employees in the SSA, for example, the  website that millions of Social Security recipients depend upon for  services and information has crashed four times in only 10 days. We  have seen shutdowns of critical health research. Tens of thousands of  renters will be unable to pay their summer utility bills, and thousands  more parents will be stranded without Head Start childcare.

All of this is in violation of our Federal appropriations laws, laws  that this Congress passed and the President signed, a far cry from the  constitutional imperative that the President ``shall take care that the  laws be faithfully executed,'' so says Article II.

If the President wants to spend differently than the law dictates,  the Constitution provides him with a couple of options.

First, he can introduce a bill, and he can ask Congress to change its  spending priorities. It shouldn't be hard to persuade this Congress  because our Republican majorities in both Houses have been unable to  muster the courage to oppose other Trumpian blunders, whether they are  tariffs that burden families with higher grocery bills or the  deprivation of millions of Americans without healthcare coverage or the  kleptocratic meme coin schemes to enrich the Trump family by more than  $200 million. President Trump can simply ask Congress to pass a bill  here on Capitol Hill.

Another option is provided through a 1974 law, the Impoundment  Control Act, or ICA. Under the ICA, the President can notify Congress  when he intends to withhold or impound funds through either deferral or  rescission. The law requires the President to provide Congress and the  public with the reason for the impoundment, along with the estimated  impacts on our communities.

The Presidents, throughout the history since the passage of the ICA  in 1974, have followed the law providing notice to Congress on 243  occasions since it was enacted; that is, until President Trump took  office this January. Instead, Donald Trump and DOGE have haphazardly  frozen, blocked, and unlawfully impounded funds.

Now, President Trump may have told a reporter 2 weeks ago that he  does not know if he has an obligation to follow the Constitution. He  actually took an oath to do just that only 115 days ago.

POCCA, Protect Our Constitution and Communities Act, will hold him  accountable for doing so. It will empower American States, cities, and  individuals to fight back when they are harmed by the executive  branch's unlawful impoundment of funds. By giving Americans a right of  action to seek injunctions or damages, POCCA gives the ICA and Article  I of our Constitution real teeth. By waiving qualified immunity, it  would make Elon Musk and any other administration officials who  willfully break the law personally liable.

Mr. Speaker, our Constitution is not negotiable.