Recognizing Life and Contributions of Alcario ``al'' Castellano


Mr. LICCARDO. Mr. Speaker, I rise along with my colleague,  Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren--and I know Congressman Ro Khanna also would  like to be represented--to recognize the life and contributions of U.S.  Army veteran and community leader Alcario ``Al'' Castellano for his  dedication to advancing education, arts, and leadership in San Jose and  the greater Silicon Valley of California. He is not simply a tremendous  model of generosity but, more importantly, of purpose.

Al Castellano won the lottery. No, I am not just talking about his  unique fortune of building a beautiful family with his wife, Carmen, or  his three beloved children, Armando Castellano, Maria West, and Carmela  Castellano-Garcia. In 2001, Al and his wife, Carmen, won a $141 million  California Lottery jackpot.

More importantly, the Castellanos were already pillars within the  community, known for volunteering on committees and boards for local  schools and civic organizations like San Jose GI Forum and contributing  to arts and cultural organizations like Movimiento de Arte y Cultura  Latino Americana and the School of Arts and Culture at Mexican Heritage  Plaza.

It came as no surprise when the family turned their moment of good  fortune into a lifetime of impact. It is often noted that their  generosity and values didn't change after the win, only the size of  their checks did.

With their winnings, Al and Carmen created the Castellano Family  Foundation to uplift San Jose's Latino community. Through the years,  the foundation awarded millions of dollars in grants and scholarships  to over 150 Silicon Valley nonprofits. Together, the Castellano Family  Foundation and the Silicon Valley Community Foundation created  LatinXCEL Fund, a $10 million effort to support Latino leaders and  groups in Santa Clara and San Mateo Counties.

Al and Carmen were married for 57 years before she passed away just a  few years ago in 2020. In the years after her passing, the Castellano  children were the driving force behind the foundation until its  operations concluded in 2023. The impact of their monetary  contributions is exceeded only by the change they cultivated on behalf  of the Latino community by pushing for cultural preservation and more  diverse representation in nonprofit leadership.

On April 26, Al Castellano passed away in his Saratoga home  surrounded by loved ones. His most important role, of course, was that  of a loving husband, father, and grandfather to his family.

It wasn't just Al who won the jackpot. We were the ones who hit the  jackpot by having him as a wonderful friend and neighbor.

Lofgren).