Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Ms. DEAN of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the  negotiated FY26 Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water  Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act.

As a new member of the CJS Committee, I am pleased to have been part  of crafting this legislation. I thank my fellow Appropriations  Committee members and staff for their extraordinary hard work making  this bill happen.

Despite being in the minority, Democrats on the Appropriations  Committee have fought for months to reject the Trump administration's  proposed cuts to crucial programs, programs that make our communities  safer and support our law enforcement. Our fight was fruitful.

For example, we secured $50 million for community violence  intervention and prevention initiative grants, despite the President  and the House Republicans' attempts to eliminate this funding that so  many of our local law enforcement rely upon. These programs have  immeasurably reduced crime and gun violence.

We successfully removed 76 partisan policy riders that would have  eliminated firearms trafficking regulations, climate change, and so  much more.

Further, this bill provides $938 million for STEM education so that  we can invest in the next generation of innovators, despite the House  Republicans' attempt to eliminate this funding.

Overall, this is a strong repudiation of the Trump administration's  antiscience agenda. The Interior and Environment bill appropriates $8.8  billion for the EPA and includes provisions to protect staffing levels  at EPA so that the agency can perform its mission to protect human  health and the environment.

The Energy and Water bill includes strong funding for energy research  and innovation programs including energy efficiency and renewable  energy programs.

This isn't just good for the environment. It is good for business.  Amid rising energy demands and higher prices, an increase of $3 million  to the Weatherization Assistance Program will help low-income  households reduce their home energy use.

Ms. DEAN of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, these bills, while not  perfect, reflect months of hard work by the Democrats to fight against  the administration's cuts to vital programs and services so many  Americans rely upon.

They reassert Congress' power of the purse, impose checks on the  administration, and provide stability to our country and economy by  avoiding another stopgap measure.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Cole. I thank the ranking member. It  has been a privilege to serve on this committee, and I urge my  colleagues to join me in supporting the package.