Recognizing Pi Day


Mr. FOSTER. Mr Speaker, I rise today to honor and celebrate March 14,  3.14, or Pi day. Pi is a Greek letter, and in mathematics it is a  symbol for the number you always get when you divide a circle's  circumference by its diameter. Many people approximate pi as 3.14 or  3.14159.

But the number is irrational and will continue infinitely without  repeating. If you were to try to write down the exact number for pi,  there would be infinite numbers to the right of the decimal point and  there would be no pattern. This means we're down to a mere infinity  digits yet to be found. To date, it has been calculated to over 202  trillion digits. But there is still new math to be discovered. And  mathematics is critical to everything we do. It's the language of  science, engineering, and technology. So, today, don't be rational. Be  irrational and celebrate Pi Day.

This celebration is not only about the number itself, but also about  what this day can represent for our country. One of the most important  investments that we can make is getting students interested in STEM  subjects--science, technology, engineering, and math. Since World War  II, over half of U.S. economic growth has been driven by science and  technology, and through the end of the decade, the growth rate of STEM  employment is expected to be more than double the growth rate of non- STEM employment.

However, we do not have enough students graduating from high school  and college with necessary skills in the STEM fields to fill these  jobs. As times change and we move into a more STEM-based economy, it is  important that our students get the education and training they will  need to succeed.

This is why recognizing March 14 as Pi Day is important. It shows the  fun and exciting side to math and other STEM subjects, and will  hopefully lead to a crop of students developing an interest in becoming  the next generation's mathematicians, engineers, and physicists.

I am planning to reintroduce a resolution to support designating  March 14 as National Pi Day. I ask my colleagues to join me in  celebrating this day and supporting our future scientists for  generations to come.