Risk of Conflict with Nuclear Weapons


Mr. FOSTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Massachusetts  (Mr. McGovern) for holding this Special Hour to discuss the dangers of  nuclear weapons.

Mr. Speaker, when I first entered Congress, I was the third Ph.D.  physicist elected to this body. We had at the time Vern Ehlers, a  nuclear physicist and a conservative, religious Republican representing  western Michigan.

We had Rush Holt, a plasma fusion physicist, a progressive Democrat  representing Princeton.

We had me, a sort of garden-variety Democrat who spent the last 25  years smashing protons and antiprotons together to make particles that  have not been around since the big bang.

Although our politics were quite different, we were united by a  special responsibility to join the discussion about nuclear weapons and  ask what we could do to strengthen global nuclear security and maintain  U.S. leadership in trying to prevent nuclear war.

One area where we were always in violent agreement was to stop  wasting money on Star Wars, which was then rebranded as the SDI, the  Strategic Defense Initiative, and has now been rebranded Golden Dome.

For more than 45 years, scientists have been patiently explaining to  policymakers that this is never going to work. It is easy to overwhelm  with a trivial response to it.

We have spent over $200 billion on it. We have never tested it once  against the kind of countermeasures that we know any competent opponent  would deploy. Even if we succeed at stopping ballistic missiles, there  are, unfortunately, many other ways to deliver nuclear weapons that we  can never stop.

This thing is deeply--I guess ``stupid'' is not too strong a word. We  explain something to someone in a variety of terms again and again, and  they don't want to hear it because they think it messages so well.

Wouldn't it be great if we had this magic Golden Dome, or whatever we  want to call it, to stop nuclear weapons? Yeah, it would be great.

If it is an impossibility to do the fundamental physics of it, then  we should stop talking about it, and we should certainly stop wasting  money on it.

Another place where we were always in strong agreement was how we  should be strengthening the nonproliferation efforts at our national  laboratories.

Our national labs create an underlying foundation for all of our  nuclear security efforts including the nonproliferation and national  security priorities that we are talking about here today. In order to  ensure that current and future arms control efforts are properly  fulfilling their mission, we have to invest in our scientific workforce  to maintain our leadership and verification efforts.

It is certainly not well-known among Members of Congress, but when  the IAEA sends inspectors into Iran and into countries of concern,  those have been largely trained by the national labs in the United  States. When we gut the nonproliferation capacities of our national  labs or simply allow them to retire, as has been happening, we risk  putting aside one of the most powerful tools we have to actually  enforce any deal that we may get.

The President is very fond of talking about this deal he is going to  get on Iran nuclear. We listened to him talk about how he was going to  get North Korea. I support efforts to try to do that.

If we ever succeed in getting one of these deals, for sure we are  going to need to have experts we trust that can go in there and make  sure nobody is cheating. Unfortunately, what we are seeing is the  gutting of those budgets in that capacity. I guess it doesn't satisfy  the MAGA worldview.

Over the years, I have focused my attention on a few specific areas  to strengthen our nuclear security architecture. One of them is what is  called nuclear--well, it has a number of names. If for some reason a  nuclear weapon is detonated somewhere in the United States or anywhere  around the world, the President will come under huge pressure to say:  Who did that? Whose weapon was it?

There is a lot of very detailed knowledge that we have had in the  past in our national labs to be able to go in there and do what is  called nuclear forensics and find out whether that was a bomb from X,  Y, or Z. That capacity has been under duress for a long time. It seems  like it is every single time the appropriations budgets come up, we end  up having to try to defend that.

That is something that is completely irrelevant until it is the most  important question in the world. Who did that? Who let off this nuclear  weapon? How do we make sure we don't retaliate against the wrong person  or entity that did that?

There are a number of other things I have been working on. First and  foremost is H. Res. 100. It is a resolution I introduced in the House  with 19 other Members. It supports arms control and condemns Russia's  purported suspension of its participation in the New START Treaty.

The current extension of the New START Treaty is set to expire in  under a year, and anyone who remembers previous arms control  negotiations will know that there is almost no time left to negotiate a  subsequent treaty.

Additionally, any negotiations, whether with Russia, China, or any  other country, will require partners who are willing to have  discussions on arms control, which is something that is far easier said  than done.

This is not something where the two great men leading great nations  can come together and strike a deal. The details matter. We have to  have technical experts that we trust to go deep down into the weeds to  have an agreement so they can come back and say this is a solid  agreement we can trust.

It is a time when traditional channels of dialogue on arms control  and strategic stability have been closed or quiet, and we are going to  rely more than ever on keeping alternative channels open and keeping  the expertise in place. Then when the time comes for these agreements,  we have people we trust who can carry them out.

Mr. Speaker, nongovernmental organizations, scientists, and research  institutions have kept this dialogue open even during the worst parts  of the Cold War, and we are going to need to rely on them to fulfill  these roles again.

Another crucial institution that we must continue to support in these  times is the IAEA, the International Atomic Energy Agency. We have  already seen the incredibly hard work that Director General Grossi and  his staff are putting in to responding to the Russian invasion of  Ukraine with its many nuclear reactors and the myriad of other crises  on their doorstep.

Mr. Speaker, that brings us to Iran. One of the proudest moments in  my career was standing alongside Dr. Richard Garwin, who, as  Representative McGovern mentioned, was often pointed to as the father  of the hydrogen bomb and a strong advocate for nuclear  nonproliferation. He stood by my side, along with Energy Secretary Dr.  Ernest Moniz, as I announced my support for the Iran nuclear deal.

One of the tragedies of the recent past has been this President's  abandonment of the Iran nuclear deal, which has gotten us into a heck  of a pickle, as predicted by the people who actually understood what  our true options were in that negotiation.

After the U.S. bombing of Iran, there has been an immense amount of  debate about whether or not Iran's nuclear program was set back by a  certain amount of time, whether it is years or whatever. The level of  technical ignorance that has been displayed by this administration is,  frankly, frightening. They have access to the best weapons designers in  the world, and they are either not listening to them or not asking  questions.

When you hear Secretary Rubio, for example, saying not to worry about  their 60 percent enriched uranium inventory because they are going to  have to convert it to metal and that will take years, anyone with  knowledge of the history of the Manhattan Project knows that is not a  major activity. Iran has done it for a long time. They know how to do  it.

If you are only interested in converting from uranium hexafluoride to  metal, a few tens of kilograms, which is what you need for your first  set of weapons, this happens in a laboratory. It can happen in a  congressional office. You don't need a big space for this.

The conversion of the uranium hexafluoride to what is called green  salt, and the green salt to metal, is something that happens in a small  industrial building. It can happen anywhere in any city in Iran, and it  will be really hard to tell. We have not prevented them from doing what  they have to do.

The enrichment level is another thing where we are seeing, frankly,  technically ignorant statements made. We have three levels of uranium.  Less than 20 percent is generally regarded as relatively safe and can  be used in reactors without a lot of safeguards. When you get about 90  percent enriched uranium, that is the good stuff for really high- performance weapons.

What about in between? They have 60 percent uranium. Guess what? That  is not weapons-grade, but it is weapons-usable. For example, the  Hiroshima bomb was made with a mixture of 50 percent enriched uranium  and higher enriched uranium.

The 60 percent enriched uranium that Iran has a significant inventory  of is perfectly usable even for a simple Hiroshima-style gun-type  device. Our leadership speaks in apparent ignorance of that fact,  beating their chest and saying we set them back by decades, when that  is not the case.

Just to give a sense of the scale, the 400 kilograms of uranium  hexafluoride that the IAEA watched them enrich to 60 percent is stored  conventionally in the United States in about 25 scuba tank-sized  pressurized containers. Any five of those containers have enough  uranium to make a Hiroshima-style nuclear weapon.

These things are not hard to smuggle. We will have a hard time  convincing ourselves, in fact, that the Iranians haven't already done  it.

Pretending like Iran does not have a credible threat and has no  leverage is a dangerous and ignorant position for our government to be  taking and one of the scariest things about the many threats that we  face right now.

Those who don't know should go look at the Wikipedia article on the  Hiroshima Little Boy bomb and the references in it. It is,  unfortunately, very well-documented over the years because it is not  the best weapon you can make, by far. You can make much more complex  and efficient weapons, but the Iranians don't have to do that.

If they simply want to replicate what was done, they would get an old  155-millimeter howitzer, replace the explosive shell with some  enriched--60 percent enriched will work just fine--uranium, shoot it  into the right-shaped target, and they have something that is as  effective as the Hiroshima weapon.

This is not a trivial risk. The only answer to this is negotiations,  and we have to get very serious about that.

It is not something that the Iranians even have to test. We did not  test the Hiroshima weapon. It was obviously going to work. The physics  hasn't changed in the 80 years since then, so we are at a very  uncertain position on that, and we shouldn't pretend otherwise.

We have also recently been hearing a lot of calls about the  resumption of nuclear testing. This is particularly worrying because  the move away from nuclear testing has been really one of the  cornerstone successes of nonproliferation and nuclear security.

Just think of all the attention Donald Trump could get by giving the  order that he wants to blow up a nuclear weapon just to make sure it  works, or whatever it is. Yes, he would get a lot of attention that  way.

Our country has a tremendous amount to lose if everyone begins  nuclear testing again. The U.S., during the Cold War, conducted over  1,000 nuclear tests, far more than any other country, and we had much  better instrumentation, knowing exactly what happened in those  explosions.

The knowledge that we gained has allowed our Nation to maintain the  safety, security, and effectiveness of our nuclear stockpile without  any further testing. If we were to resume testing, the rest of the  world would resume testing. I am sure they all have bomb designers that  are just champing at the bit to get more data on exactly what happens  if they explode one of their untested weapons.

If we do this, we would be giving away the most significant strategic  advantage that our country has, which is this huge database of exactly  what works and what does not work in detailed and very technologically  aggressive designs for our nuclear weapons.

If we open that Pandora's box, every country that is nuclear-capable  will say this is their opportunity to become coequal with the United  States in knowledge of nuclear weapons. That will be yet another  disaster for the proliferation regime.

The next few years are going to be crucial to making sure that the  world we live in remains safe from the threat of nuclear weapons.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative McGovern for bringing us together  to discuss this.