Condemning Violence By Ice


Mr. MIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H. Res. 516,  sponsored by Representative Young Kim. This resolution has a lot of  things I think we all can agree upon, including recognizing the right  to assemble and protest peacefully and condemning violence against law  enforcement.

In the very last clause, it specifically expresses gratitude to law  enforcement including ICE for ``keeping our communities safe in the  face of danger.''

I want to be clear. I commend local law enforcement, including the  Orange County Sheriff's Department, which I represent, for their  professionalism and courage. It is a tough job, and I am so grateful  for the men and women who go out there every day and risk their lives  to keep our communities safe.

To extend these thanks to ICE, while failing to acknowledge the  myriad of ways in which ICE is making other communities more dangerous,  is outrageous and dishonest.

I hear every single day--and I know Young Kim does, too, because we  represent neighboring districts in Orange County--I hear from  constituents who are deeply concerned about ICE's lawbreaking. We have  seen the videos. We have heard the eyewitness accounts.

ICE agents are kidnapping people in broad daylight. They are  assaulting people in broad daylight. They are doing so while masked up,  refusing to identify themselves, while wearing civilian clothes like  jeans and sneakers.

They come out of unmarked vans. They tackle people. They assault  people. Frankly, other than the ICE vests or jackets they are wearing,  which, by the way, can now be purchased for $29.99 on Amazon, they look  more like gang members than Federal law enforcement agents.

If a person runs away from these masked vigilantes, they will beat  and chase that person down. Mr. Speaker, if you ask to see their  identification or their warrant, they will assault you and arrest you.  If a person films them, they will pull a gun on that individual.

These tactics are grossly illegal and not tactics that local law  enforcement engage in. Our local law enforcement follows the law. They  wear body cameras. They are subject to disciplinary actions if they  violate due process rights.

ICE is completely unaccountable and totally out of control. We have  seen them assault citizens. We have seen them assault elected  officials, including Members of Congress and my colleague from  California, Senator Alex Padilla. Just 2 weeks ago, he was assaulted,  tackled, handcuffed, and shoved to the ground for asking a question at  a press conference.

The idea that ICE is making our communities safer is ludicrous. I  quote the podcaster Joe Rogan: ``. . . if the Trump administration, if  they're running and they said . . . we're gonna arrest all the people  at Home Depot. We're gonna go to construction sites and we're going to  just like tackle people at construction sites, I don't think anybody  would have signed up for that.

``They said, we're gonna get rid of the criminals and the gang  members first.''

Right? That is crazy.

It is crazy because the reality of the situation is that ICE is not  going after violent criminals. They are going after peaceful, law- abiding immigrants. As the rightwing Cato Institute recently found, 93  percent of the people being apprehended by ICE have had no convictions  for violent crime.

ICE is not going after MS-13 or murderers or rapists. They are going  after innocent people, including a woman in Tennessee who was 5 months  pregnant and engaged to a U.S. citizen.

Iris Dayana Monterroso-Lemus was transferred to a detention center in  Louisiana. She was forced to sleep on the floor and eat food infested  with roaches. She was denied medical care, despite complaining  repeatedly about sharp pains in her pelvis. She lost her baby because  of this mistreatment.

She was not a criminal. She was an expectant mom whose child died. It  is clear that ICE's lawless actions are making our communities much  more dangerous.

Here is a statement issued by the mayor of Santa Ana, which has been  the epicenter of ICE raids in Orange County. She said: ``The Federal  immigration raids . . . in Santa Ana have created a climate of fear,  anxiety, and instability across our community.

``The aggressive tactics used by Federal agents have shattered trust  in law enforcement and are eroding the critical relationship between  our residents and the Santa Ana Police Department. When families are  too afraid to report crimes or engage with local authorities, we are  all less safe.''

ICE's lawless sweeps have also deeply impacted the Korean community  in SoCal. The first ICE raids targeted Korean-owned garment factories  and have caused significant confusion, fear, and terror in the Korean- American community.

I hear every day from Korean Americans who are terrified about ICE. I  know that my colleagues, including Young Kim, do, too. They know that  ICE is making our communities less safe.

I will close with this. We have all seen the videos and images of  Narciso Barranco, a gardener and father of three U.S. Marines, who was  tackled and punched repeatedly in the head by ICE agents wearing jeans  and sneakers.

As one of his sons, Alejandro, a current marine, stated, while  deployed as a marine, if he had treated a detainee the same way ICE  agents treated his father, it would clearly be a war crime.

While Narciso Barranco is a resident of Tustin, he is a constituent  of Young Kim. I would guess that he would vehemently disagree with the  claim that ICE is making our communities safer.

How can anyone express gratitude to ICE when they are literally  committing war crimes against their constituents? This resolution is  shameful. It is morally wrong. Thanking ICE is the worst kind of  political stunt at this point in time when our constituents and our  communities are living in fear and terror.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record four items. The first is: ``ICE  Immigration Jacket Becomes Bestseller on Amazon.'' You can view the  link here: https://www.newsweek.com/ice- immigration-jacket-best-seller-amazon-2035114.

The second is a Cato Institute blog entry: ``65 Percent of People  Taken By ICE Had No Convictions, 93 Percent No Violent Convictions.''  You can view the article at this link: https://www.cato.org/blog/65- people-taken-ice-had-no-convictions-93-no-violent- convictions.

The third and fourth items I would like to add are a statement from  Santa Ana Mayor Valerie Amezcua and a statement from the Korean- American Federation of Los Angeles in response to the ICE raids on June  6.                                                        June 23, 2025.                    Statement from Mayor Valerie Amezcua

The federal immigration raids and the deployment of the       National Guard in Santa Ana have created a climate of fear,       anxiety, and instability across our community. These actions       are harming hardworking immigrant families, directly       jeopardizing public safety, and impacting the local economy.

The aggressive tactics used by federal agents have       shattered trust in law enforcement and are eroding the       critical relationship between our residents and the Santa Ana       Police Department. When families are too afraid to report       crimes or engage with local authorities, we are all less       safe.

Our businesses are suffering, our downtown is empty, and       our people are in fear, simply because of the color of their       skin or their ethnicity. We demand an end to these arbitrary       immigration operations. Our community deserves safety,       dignity, and respect, not fear.                                   ____                                                       June 6, 2025.    Official Statement From the Korean American Federation of Los Angeles  (KAFLA) Urgent Statement Regarding Recent U.S. Immigration and Customs                          Enforcement (ICE) Raids

On the morning of June 6, 2025, federal agents carried out       coordinated immigration enforcement raids targeting multiple       businesses in Downtown Los Angeles, including Korean-owned       garment factories.

These sudden and large-scale operations, which led to       numerous arrests, were reportedly conducted without prior       notice, causing severe disruption and significant damage to       the affected businesses.

Disturbingly, reports indicate that individuals with       limited English proficiency or those unable to immediately       provide documentation verifying their legal status were       detained or forcibly removed on the spot. These actions have       led to widespread confusion, fear, and distress--impacting       not only the Korean American community but also many       residents across the area.

The Korean American Federation of Los Angeles (KAFLA)       strongly condemns these unilateral and excessive enforcement       measures, particularly those executed without adherence to       due process. We urgently call upon our local, state, and       federal elected officials to investigate these incidents and       take immediate steps to ensure that the civil rights of all       community members are protected.

KAFLA will continue to work in close partnership with local       advocacy groups and community organizations to prevent       further harm and to stand up for those unjustly impacted.