Gross Violations of Law By Trump Administration


Mr. MIN. Mr. Speaker, we just heard all day from Republicans on the  other side of the aisle that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is going to lead  to helping small businesses and reducing the deficit. Yet, what we just  missed in all of this discussion was any discussion of the T-word, and  I am not talking about Trump here. I am talking about tariffs.

In fact, when I talk to the small businesses in my district, that is  the number one, number two, and number three concerns that they have.

When Members talk about the deficits and the jobs creation that the  Tax Cuts and Jobs Act are supposed to have, note that this is going to  add $7 trillion to our national debt. It will blow up our deficit. In  fact, Donald Trump is responsible for roughly 40 percent of the  national debt just in the 4 years in which he was in office.

He oversaw, of course, the worst jobs record of any President since  Herbert Hoover.

That is right. He oversaw the worst jobs growth of any President  since the Great Depression.

It now looks like he is doubling down on those failed policies, and  congressional Republicans are looking to support those efforts and  potentially take us into the Great Depression 2.0, as economist after  economist has warned us.

Mr. Speaker, that is not what I am here to talk about today. I rise  today to speak about the Trump administration's egregious Hatch Act  violations and also Congress' failure to hold Donald Trump and his  administration accountable for these gross violations of law.

That is, of course, a theme that we have seen. Trump has bent and  broken the law and key provisions of the Constitution over and over.  Yet, this body, which, as any kid knows, is supposed to be a coequal  branch of government to the President, to the executive branch, has  rolled over and played dead rather than holding anybody accountable.

Today, we heard another oversight hearing about something that people  in my district just don't care about: trans athletes who are fencing in  different types of competitive atmospheres. That may be something for  local sporting bodies to take up. It is not something that is pressing  to my constituents. It is not pressing in the way that the corruption,  the lawlessness, the tariffs, or so many other things are.

The Hatch Act, I think, embodies the problems that we are seeing  right now with just the sheer criminality and lawlessness of this  administration and the failure of Congress--again, a coequal branch of  government--in standing up for itself. We have an hour for this Special  Order, but we would need much more time to talk about all of the Hatch  Act violations made by members of the Trump administration.

Mr. Speaker, this is important to me because, as someone who has  spent my career trying to uphold the rule of law, I turned down Wall  Street to begin my career at the Securities and Exchange Commission to  crack down on corporate fraud, exactly the type that Donald Trump and  many of his allies are committing right now, such as securities fraud,  corporate fraud, and the like.

When I was a law professor at the University of California, Irvine, I  spent my career trying to uphold law enforcement and the rule of law,  and right now we are just seeing a level of sheer criminality and  lawlessness that is unprecedented in history. What is happening right  now makes the Teapot Dome scandal and all of these scandals we read  about in history look like penny-ante stuff.

The Trump administration is doing everything it can right now to  allow for people to violate the Hatch Act. I emphasize the Hatch Act  was a series of laws passed by Congress to prevent senior officials in  the administration from abusing their official executive branch  positions to campaign and to engage in politics.

Of course, the Trump administration issued an executive order  essentially undoing many of the provisions of the Hatch Act, allowing  members of the administration to use their official offices to campaign  for Donald Trump and Republicans, something that is totally outrageous,  something that is totally in defiance of the Hatch Act.

Again, this is a law that we passed in Congress, and, no, the  President does not get to make law by executive order. This President  has issued more executive orders than the last approximately 10  Presidents combined already, and we are only 3\1/2\ months into his  Presidency. Executive orders do not rewrite laws that we pass.

I remind my colleagues of something that my kids learned in third  grade: Article I of the Constitution gives Congress and only Congress  the authority to create laws, to enact laws. The President does not get  to rewrite laws that we passed, including the Hatch Act, by just having  his lawyers come up with some nonsense and calling it an executive  order. Yet, that is what we have seen done here.

The administration has also directed the Office of Special Counsel to  refer Hatch Act violations by White House-commissioned officers  directly to the President for disciplinary action, rather than the  Independent Merit Systems Protections Board.

What he is basically saying is to send those to the White House. If  Members expect this White House to enforce any violations of law  committed by a Trump supporter, my colleagues haven't been following  the news at all. Of course, this White House, this President, from the  very beginning, when he pardoned all of the January 6 felons, including  people who had assaulted police officers, he was, again, showing his  contempt for the rule of law. If we rely on the White House to enforce  the law, we have another thing coming.

Mr. Speaker, this is good news for people like Commerce Secretary  Howard Lutnick, who told viewers during a FOX News interview in March  that they could buy Tesla stock, that they should buy Tesla stock,  again, violating his position, abusing his position, going on national  television to promote a stock aligned with Donald Trump's interests.

It also looks to be great news for people like Lynne Patton, who is  returning to work for President Trump this week after finishing up a 2- month suspension from Federal service after she improperly used her  position with the Department of Housing and Urban Development for  political purposes during President Trump's first term.

It is also good news for all of the White House employees who helped  set  up that shameless display where Trump and his White House essentially  turned the White House lawn into a Tesla dealership, promoting Tesla.

Where is the rule of law? Where is the concern for enforcement of the  rule of law? I know a lot of my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle profess to care a lot about crime. Yet, we have seen them turn a  blind eye over and over to the many, many acts of criminality committed  by this administration.

Mr. MIN. Mr. Speaker, I echo the comments just made by Mr. Garcia. We  are roughly 3\1/2\ months into Trump's second term, but it looks to be  shaping up like a more extreme and more radical version of the first  term, where the Office of Special Counsel identified over 12 different  members of President Trump's administration as having violated the  Hatch Act.

As a refresher, Kellyanne Conway promoted Ivanka Trump's clothing  line in the last Trump administration. Stephanie Grisham, Nikki Haley,  and Dan Scavino engaged in political activity on their government  social media accounts. Former Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue  unlawfully promoted President Trump's 2020 reelection campaign.

I will say that the acquiescence of Congress at that time, the  failure to hold Donald Trump accountable for those abuses, those  violations of the rule of law, has led Donald Trump to be even more  bold and aggressive in violating the law this time around.

At this point, I think this is very clearly the most corrupt  administration in history. Already, we have seen them engage in  breathtaking actions that are unprecedented, all of which have created  constitutional crises. They fired over 17 inspectors general to start  the term. They issued a mass pardon of those convicted of assaulting  our government, including police officers, on January 6. They went  after the FBI and tried to fire anybody who was seen as insufficiently  loyal to Donald Trump at the FBI. They did the same thing at the  Department of Justice. They looked to illegally usurp our Article I  powers by firing thousands of government employees, redirecting funding  that we had appropriated here in Congress, violating the Impoundment  Control Act, and trying to rewrite laws by shuttering agencies through  executive action that Congress had created.

As a reminder, Congress and only Congress, under Article I--this is  something that the Founders in their great wisdom decided was  important, the separation of powers, something we all learn early on.  Apparently, not too many of my colleagues on the other side have  incorporated this message: Congress and only Congress has the authority  to pass laws and to appropriate funds. That is exactly what they are  trying to take away from us.

We have seen this time after time. Now, it is with the illegal sweeps  of immigrants, including immigrants who are here on travel visas,  leading to a stark drop in tourism, and the possibly illegal usurpation  of our taxation authority by an unprecedented series of tariff  announcements.

A great gauge of how corrupt things are right now is by seeing how  much litigation has already proceeded against the Trump administration.  We have seen over 220 lawsuits brought against them in their first 100  days. That is clearly a record.

It is also a record of how many of them they have lost already, how  many motions they have lost, how many motions have been filed against  them that they have lost in court.

In response, rather than trying to adhere to the rule of law, the  Trump administration, again, exhibiting its utter contempt for the rule  of law, has gone after members of the judiciary.

At this point, there are not a lot of guardrails left. They have gone  after the IGs. They have weaponized the Department of Justice. They  have weaponized the FBI.

There are the courts, and there is Congress. Unfortunately, Congress,  with the majority on the other side of the aisle, has decided to roll  over and play dead and be Donald Trump's lapdog rather than enforcing  our constitutionally mandated duties.

When we take office, you may remember that we all swear an oath to  defend and support the Constitution of the United States. That means  regardless of what party affiliation you have or what party affiliation  the President has, regardless of what threats the President or Elon  Musk may make against you, we swear to a higher power to take that  oath, to support and defend the Constitution. Right now, that is not  happening with Congress, and Donald Trump and his minions have become  emboldened to attack the courts.

I have attempted to bring light to these issues through my membership  on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, as well as  part of the rapid response team that our leadership has set up.

For example, I have sent letters to the law firms that acquiesced to  the Trump administration and the Florida bar for the apparently  unscrupulous ethical behavior of Attorney General Bondi.

We have seen them go after higher education. We need to stand up and  fight back right now. Donald Trump has weaponized the Federal  Government to go after Columbia, for example, based on what appears to  be a personal vendetta over a real estate deal that didn't happen like  30 years ago.

As my colleague from Long Beach mentioned earlier, another outrageous  example we have seen is the Trump crypto meme coin, which President  Trump is using to profit personally from the Presidency. We just saw a  couple of weeks ago that an Abu Dhabi firm had invested $2 billion into  the coin, directly enriching the President. He is going to celebrate  this by holding a meme coin gala dinner this month for the top holders  of his coin.

The level of corruption right now is breathtaking. It is  unprecedented. Unfortunately, he is not going to stop because Congress  is not stepping up to enforce our rights. We are not stepping up to do  the oversight that is required of us.

As the Romans used to say, who watches the watchmen? When there are  no guardrails in place, who watches the watchmen? Unfortunately, right  now, Congress, which is supposed to act as a coequal branch of  government, is failing to uphold its duties.

Mr. Speaker, I note that this is unprecedented in its corruption. We  will continue to see violations of the Hatch Act. We will continue to  see a failure of enforcement of the rule of law, but I yield back the  balance of my time.