Providing for Consideration of H.R. Department of Defense Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.R. Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act; Providing for Consideration of S. Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act; and Waiving A Requirement of Clause 6(A) of Rule Xiii with Respect to Consideration of Certain Resolutions Reported From the Committee on Rules


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693547/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-department-of-defense-appropriations-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-digital-asset-market-clarity-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-anti-cbdc-surveillance-state-act-providing-for-consideration-of-s-guiding-and-establishing-national-innovation-for-us-stablecoins-act-and-waiving-a-requirement-of-clause-6a-of-rule-xiii-with-respect-to-consideration-of-certain-resolutions-reported-from-the-committee-on-rules


Mr. VEASEY. Mr. Speaker, yes, the resolution was voted down by  Republicans last night, so let's speak the truth because there are two  Americas right now.

In their America, billionaires can buy silence, sweep crimes under  the rug, and count on friends in high places to protect them. In our  America, Mr. Speaker, if you break the law, you are held accountable.

In their America, wealth and power buy secrecy. In our America,  justice demands sunlight and truth.

In their America, underage girls are treated like disposable property  by predators who believe they will never face consequences. In our  America, victims deserve justice, and the predators should face the  full weight of the law.

Time and time again, this administration has chosen them--the  billionaires, the elite, the people who think children are theirs to  exploit--over us, the American people.

Time and time again, they have looked into the cameras and promised  the American people: We will release the Epstein files.

We heard it over and over again: We will tell you the truth.

When the moment of truth comes, they slam the door shut. Why? It is  because their loyalty is not to justice. It is about protecting the  rich, the famous, and the powerful, no matter how monstrous their  crimes are.

Meanwhile, Republicans in this Chamber are working overtime to gut  healthcare for 17 million Americans, to rip food off families' tables,  and to kill good-paying jobs in their so-called big, ugly bill.

When it comes to exposing the powerful predators who preyed on  underage girls, suddenly, they have nothing to say. That is because  they think there is one set of rules for billionaires and another for  the rest of us. They think the American people will forget, that we  will stop asking questions, and that we will let them keep secrets.

Let me be crystal clear: This is not about partisanship. This is  about people. It is our America. No one, no matter how rich, famous, or  well-connected, is above the law.

Mr. VEASEY. Mr. Speaker, in our America, no one is beyond  accountability. We will not forget. We will not look away. We will not  stop demanding the truth.

We demand the immediate release of the Epstein files--no more games,  no more lies, and no more protection for predators hiding behind the  rich and powerful.