Providing for Consideration of H.R. Support for Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Save Sba From Sanctuary Cities Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. American Entrepreneurs First Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Capping Excessive Awarding of Sblc Entrants Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691945/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-support-for-patients-and-communities-reauthorization-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-save-sba-from-sanctuary-cities-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-american-entrepreneurs-first-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-capping-excessive-awarding-of-sblc-entrants-act-of-2025


Mr. FINSTAD. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend and colleague from  Minnesota for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this rule and the underlying  bill, H.R. 2931, the Save SBA from Sanctuary Cities Act of 2025.

Over the past 4 years, the Biden administration's open-border  policies have allowed millions of illegal immigrants to pour into our  country. Making matters worse, Democratic politicians in cities across  our country have enacted sanctuary city policies that have further  encouraged waves of illegal immigrants to come into our communities,  circumventing Federal law and raising serious public safety concerns.

Last November, the American people overwhelmingly elected President  Trump with a clear mandate to secure the border and restore public  safety in our communities. Since taking office, President Trump has  delivered on this promise.

Despite the incredible efforts by this administration to secure our  border and remove criminal aliens from our country, Democratic mayors  have doubled down on their failed sanctuary city policies that harbor  criminal illegal aliens and defy cooperation with Federal immigration  enforcement.

In my home State of Minnesota, the local SBA office is based in the  city of Minneapolis, and it is responsible for serving all 87 counties  throughout Minnesota. For years, Minneapolis has passed several  sanctuary city policies while at one point attempting to defund its own  police department, further jeopardizing public safety.

My legislation, the Save SBA from Sanctuary Cities Act of 2025, would  require the Small Business Administration to relocate its offices out  of sanctuary city jurisdictions to better ensure that resources benefit  American small businesses in rural communities without being entangled  in local policies that promote lawlessness.

Our small business owners and those who rely on the SBA for loans,  disaster relief, and support deserve access to these services in a  safe, secure environment.

This bill would codify two of President Trump's executive orders:  Protect SBA employees, and safeguard the entrepreneurs who fuel our  economy.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this rule and the  underlying bill.