Defending Medicaid for Families Like the Currans


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689793/defending-medicaid-for-families-like-the-currans


Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, in this Chamber, as early as today, we may be  passing legislation that is explicitly designed to maintain  historically low tax rates on the Nation's wealthiest people.

The richest people in America will be served by this institution so  that they can pay the lowest tax amounts possible. The corporations in  this country must have their record-low tax rates maintained.

The problem is this comes with a cost, and that cost will be paid, as  the Republicans have laid it out for us to see, by the Medicaid program  and by the addition of trillions of dollars to the United States debt.

Let's talk for a second about Medicaid because it serves about 80  million Americans. Not all Americans have experience with it, but an  awful lot do. We are told, and the fantasy is, that the money can be  saved by identifying waste, fraud, and abuse.

Make no mistake, that is a fantasy. If you are rooting out waste,  fraud, and abuse, you hire more people, investigators, and auditors to  go after it. We are doing the exact opposite. Elon Musk and DOGE are  firing the people who go after waste, fraud, and abuse.

It turns out that people don't wear signs around their necks saying:  ``I am committing waste, fraud, and abuse.'' No, it is hard to identify  this stuff. It exists, but it does not exist in any conceivable number  that the Republicans are talking about cutting out of the Medicaid  program.

That number is almost $100 billion a year, $100 billion out of  roughly $600 billion in spending. Mind you, that is not trimming. That  is taking a wheel off the car.

Here is what is going to happen. As I said, Medicaid covers 80  million Americans with health insurance. It also provides the funding  that allows grandma to stay in an assisted living facility after she  has run out of assets.

What I really want to do is tell you about Conner Curran. Conner is a  14-year-old from the town of Ridgefield, which I have the honor of  representing. His mom is a teacher. His dad works for a local  municipality. These are wonderful, middle-class folks just like anyone  else in this country.

The problem is that 10 years ago, when he was 4 years old, Conner was  diagnosed with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Duchenne muscular dystrophy  is a terrible disease. Your muscles waste away, including your heart  and your lung muscles. As a consequence, people who have this terrible  diagnosis tend to live between 20 and 30 years. Conner is 14.

Lately, because of breakthrough research, some people diagnosed with  Duchenne muscular dystrophy are living into their forties and fifties.

You might imagine what the Curran family felt when those research  programs were devastated by Elon Musk and DOGE. Imagine that.

The real threat to Conner is what is going to happen in this Chamber  this week as they find a way to slash Medicaid.

Conner's medicines, the medicines that have kept him alive, cost  thousands of dollars a month. A middle-class family can't pay that.  Medicaid does.

His lung function is compromised, so he needs a $12,000 machine to  breathe. He needs help in school. He wants to go to college, but he  needs a little help because he is severely handicapped by this terrible  disease.

Conner comes to my office almost every year to tell me about his  aspirations and to beg that we keep funding not just the research that  may provide him with a normal lifespan but those things that give him a  reasonable quality of life, a shot of achieving that dream of going to  college.

Mr. Speaker, my colleagues are not voting on numbers this week,  although there are billions involved. My colleagues are certainly not  voting on waste, fraud, or abuse. Let's leave that fantasy behind. My  colleagues are voting this week on what kind of future, if any, Conner  can expect and what kind of future, if any, 80 million Americans who  rely on Medicaid will have.

My colleagues must take seriously the pain that is about to be caused  to some of the most vulnerable Americans out there as they think about  their vote, as they think about what they are trying to achieve, as  they think about what they aspire this country to be.