Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700509/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for the recognition.

Mr. Speaker, I have been listening closely to this debate since it  began. The arguments being made by half of the Representatives of the  people of the United States, the arguments as to why they should  abrogate their constitutionally mandated duty, are bizarre to me.

Most of the arguments have not been arguments. The arguments are that  Iran is evil, that they hate the U.S., and that they mean us ill. The  majority will find no argument over here that that is true.

Oddly enough, when the Founders wrote the Constitution, they didn't  say we shall declare war only when it is not clear that the belligerent  is evil or means us ill. It was a categorical demand that the  Representatives of the people, because blood and treasure would be  consumed, that the Representatives of the people not just be informed  but that they provide authorization.

I have heard the majority say that the danger was imminent. I am the  ranking member of the Intelligence Committee. I can say with authority  that, in the last 10 years, Iran's ability to create mayhem, while  still very substantial, is at an ebb.

The President himself said the nuclear capabilities were  ``obliterated,'' his word. Hezbollah has been largely rolled up in  Beirut by the Lebanese Armed Forces. We have a pretty good sense of  what the Houthis are capable of and how to counter them. If the  argument is imminence, that is absurd. There was no imminent threat to  the United States on Friday or Saturday of last week.

By the way, the argument that my friend from New York just made,  which is that Obama did it, is beyond absurd. I wasn't here when Obama  did it. We weren't asked to vote on it. I remember telling the Vice  President at the time that our Constitution demands congressional  assent.

Congress was not notified. It was not briefed. That doesn't matter.  What matters is that the Constitution is clear that, with six dead  Americans, with our treasure being consumed, we must approve this  action.

Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, it is not about informing.

By the way, this Congress was not informed. Mr. Speaker, eight  Members of this Congress were informed.

Set aside, if you will, for a moment the Constitution. Should the  Representatives of the people authorize an action that will kill many  of those people and that will consume blood and treasure? Our Framers  certainly said the answer to that question is yes.

Mr. Speaker, let's not abrogate our constitutional duty or our  constitutional power. Vote ``yes'' on this resolution.