Middle Market Ipo Cost Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693905/middle-market-ipo-cost-act


Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I offer a big thank you to the gentlewoman  from California (Ms. Waters), the ranking member, and to the gentleman  from Arkansas (Mr. Hill), my good friend, for their support of this  bill.

I just want to elaborate for a minute on what I think the need is for  this bill. This grew out of the work we did many, many years ago on the  JOBS Act, in which we observed that the regulatory expenses faced by a  company seeking to go public were roughly $2 million to $4 million in  size.

It is also true that a small IPO, a medium-sized IPO, anything up to  about $200 million, is subject almost always to a 7 percent gross  spread. That is 7 percent of the proceeds, or in the case of a $200  million offering, $14 million. On a $150 million offering, it is $10  million, well more than twice the regulatory cost that we identified in  working on the JOBS Act.

What is very strange about that 7 percent fee is that, regardless of  what period of time you examine, IPOs from about $30 million up to  about $200 million are always subject to a 7 percent fee. Now, all of  us who observe markets know that that is odd behavior in what should be  a competitive market.

This is money, of course, that goes to the investment banks that  underwrite these IPOs. I know this because I spent many years working  in those investment banks.

The bill here simply says, having done the work that we did on the  JOBS Act, what can we do to examine the underlying market forces or  nonmarket forces creating this 7 percent gross spread and costs of  many, many millions of dollars for companies when they are small and  capital is at a premium.

This study, I think, would illustrate some things that would allow us  to do even better than we did in the JOBS Act and make it that much  more possible, maybe even probable for companies to seek capital in our  public markets.

Mr. Speaker, I thank once again the chairman and the ranking member  of the committee for their support.