Notice of Intention to Offer Resolution Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696894/notice-of-intention-to-offer-resolution-raising-a-question-of-the-privileges-of-the-house


Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Maryland.

Mr. Speaker, I am not going to speak today about Jeffrey Epstein or  January 6. I am going to confine my remarks to two things that I know  about.

I am going to take a deep breath right now because to stand here and  have to listen to the gentleman from Louisiana, in the guise of just  asking questions, besmirch one of the finest Members I have had the  honor of serving with, I think, would offend the sensibility of anybody  in this Chamber.

I am going to limit my remarks to two things I know very well: number  one, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and what we  need to do to preserve that very special environment; and, number two,  the character of Delegate Stacey Plaskett. On HPSCI, I have served for  10 years, and with Chairman Turner and now with Chairman Crawford, we  have fought for that decade to keep the Permanent Select Committee on  Intelligence immunized from the sewage that flows through this Chamber,  the partisan attacks, the hideousness. By and large, we have been  pretty successful, with one exception, when that committee got involved  in the political investigation around Ukraine in the first Trump  administration.

Every single day, the leaders of that committee work hard, establish  friendships, and do the work we need to do to make sure that the  toxicity and the sewage that we are hearing right now  don't impinge the critical work of making sure that our intelligence  communities are keeping Americans safe, not violating civil liberties,  and not doing things inconsistent with the desires and character of the  American people.

This effort put forward by a bunch of people who haven't served on  that committee and who have no idea the comity and the grace with which  that committee serves, you, sirs, will hurt this committee badly.

I expect every Republican on the Permanent Select Committee on  Intelligence--and I will say it again--I expect every Republican on the  Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence who knows Ms. Plaskett and  knows the committee to vote ``no'' on the idea that, without evidence  and without due process, Ms. Plaskett should be removed from that very  special committee.

This resolution would strike a devastating blow to HPSCI's ability to  work effectively. By removing a member in good standing based on a  newspaper article about texts--no due process, no evidence, nothing  offered other than a newspaper article which has moved the gentleman  from South Carolina--a member who has consistently engaged in a  bipartisan and productive way with the committee's work, to make some  unrelated political statement will do profound damage to this essential  committee.

Now, let me just talk for a moment about Ms. Plaskett. I have served  in this institution for 17 years, longer, I think, than most people in  this Chamber. I have not had the honor of serving with somebody with  the integrity, the commitment, and the hardworking bona fides as Ms.  Plaskett.

We can argue about the wisdom or the judgment associated with those  texts. I am told that, apparently, Mr. Epstein was a constituent.

For any one of us, on our worst day, our biggest misjudgment is not  to be judged without any due process, especially in the context of this  superb Member, this critical, critical member of the Permanent Select  Committee on Intelligence.

The result of this resolution, if it were to pass, will be to undo  the efforts of the Republican Speaker and the Republican chairman of  the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Mr. Crawford, to  restore the committee to what it was intended to be.

While the bill for that decision won't come due immediately, it will  come due over time in the form of a less accountable and less effective  intelligence community with less effective oversight for Congress.

I don't expect the gentlemen who have offered this up to back down  now, but I do expect every single member of the Permanent Select  Committee on Intelligence, that elect, those few who understand what it  is we need to do, to close the door on the flow of partisan sewage,  which we see now threatening the critical work that we do.

Vote ``no'' on this appalling resolution.