Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to this  Continuing Resolution. Although I support opening the government after  this devastating 43-day shutdown, I will not support a bill that will  continue the Republican's assault on Americans and their pocketbooks.  At a time when Oregonians and Americans are already struggling with  rising costs, this bill locks in devastating cuts to health care and  drives up the cost of health insurance--in many cases significantly.

Just a few months ago the Republicans passed a cruel budget in which  they paid for tax cuts for billionaires by making the largest cuts to  Medicaid and SNAP in history. Now they are continuing their heartless  obsession with destroying the Affordable Care Act.

These Republican policies are damaging to the entire health care  system, but are especially harmful for rural hospitals and clinics. At  home in Oregon, hospitals and health systems have described the  consequences of this agenda as `catastrophic.' Staff will be reduced,  clinics will close, and we will go back to the day when people without  insurance delayed care and ended up in emergency rooms.

These cuts to health care--and the Republican shutdown more broadly-- are further proof that the first ten months of this Trump  administration have been chaotic, harmful, and completely out of touch  with the needs of the American people. Donald Trump held an extravagant  Great Gatsby party at Mar-a-Lago the night before SNAP benefits  expired, and the administration and Republicans continue to ignore the  needs of working families. That's not governing; it's a cruel and  corrupt abdication of their promise and their responsibility to bring  down costs and grow the economy. Oregonians and Americans deserve  better.

During the shutdown I held three town hall meetings--something most  Republicans still refuse to do--and heard from many constituents who  are extremely worried about the already high cost of living. The  Republican health care cuts and the increased costs the Republicans are  locking in with this bill will make life harder, not easier, for the  people we represent. The Republicans who crafted these policies might  change their minds if they actually showed up to hear from their  constituents.

Donald Trump claimed he would lower costs, but this bill, along with  his chaotic tariff policies, are making costs rise--not fall. People  across this country are struggling to pay for housing, groceries, child  care, and other necessities. Too many families have already reached  their breaking point, and this will drive them further into debt and  despair.

The Republican agenda would dramatically increase premiums for more  than 198,000 Oregonians, including my constituent Teresa from Clatsop  County. Teresa, a small business owner, runs a small flower and produce  farm. Like many small business owners, she purchases her coverage on  the Oregon health care exchange. Because of Republicans' refusal to  protect health care, her premium will soon be going from $230 a month  to $1,077 a month.

This is unconscionable, unacceptable, and unnecessary. Teresa is  about to turn 60; she works a tough, physical job. Running a small  family farm is challenging even in a strong economy. She won't be able  to afford her premium, and yet she can't afford to be without health  care. One illness or one injury could threaten her health and her  livelihood. Teresa could be forced to close her family business--a  business that plays an important part in Oregon's north coast economy.

Teresa is not alone. Americans across the country are receiving  similar letters about dramatic premium increases, forcing them to make  impossible decisions; if they keep their coverage, how will they pay  for food and housing and child care? They can't.

Teresa, and everyone in the United States, should feel secure, not  fearful, when they get sick. They deserve better.

I am fighting to make health care accessible and affordable, and I'm  asking Republicans to join House Democrats in this important work.  We've had weeks to address the rising costs--to consider good-faith  proposals that could prevent pushing millions off a health care cliff.  But the Speaker of the House closed the United States House of  Representatives for business for seven weeks. That's no way to run  government.

This Continuing Resolution is a betrayal to the people we represent.  Outrageously, at the last-minute Republicans included a provision in  this bill that allows certain Republican Senators to sue the federal  government for hundreds of thousands of dollars in connection with  seizing their phone records regarding Jan. 6, 2021. This provision is a  get-rich-quick scheme for Senators who attempted to overthrow  democracy. It's the epitome of corruption and has no place in Congress  much less in a spending bill. I supported removing the language from  the bill, but Republican leadership didn't even let us vote on an  amendment to do that.

I invite my colleagues to listen to their constituents, vote no, come  back to the table, and join us in the work to make healthcare  affordable and accessible for all.

Mr. MOORE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, as we take up the Senate- passed bill to reopen the government, I want to clarify that we should  be proceeding through regular order before taking any action that could  potentially impact the entire hemp industry and affect more than  220,000 American jobs.

Authorizing policy through an appropriations bill is counter to House  rules and undermines the jurisdiction of our authorizing committees.  Appropriations bills are intended to fund the operations of government,  not to rewrite permanent law.

The Agriculture Committee is the proper venue to hear from  stakeholders and debate this change. This provision should never have  been added to an appropriations bill on the floor of the Senate without  input from the farmers and small businesses who will be potentially  impacted.

What we need is a measured, transparent approach that prioritizes  public safety while preserving a viable path forward for an emerging  American industry. Once the government is reopened, I look forward to  working with my colleagues to restore certainty and stability for  farmers in North Carolina and throughout the U.S.