Immigration Enforcement and Schools


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my profound  opposition to this administration's aggressive and cruel immigration  enforcement actions, especially targeting students and parents near  schools.

Throughout the last year, the Trump administration's hard-line  immigration enforcement campaign has terrorized communities and created  an environment where many students don't even feel safe going to  school.

Children can't learn when they are living in constant fear.

At a townhall meeting last year, a fourth grade student, a 10-year- old, gave me a handwritten letter saying that she was afraid that ICE  was going to come into her school and take her friends.

Children may not understand the complexities of the immigration  system, but they know that masked people indiscriminately kidnapping  people off the street is wrong and terrifying.

In July, a Beaverton, Oregon, father was dropping off his child at  preschool. With his child in the car, ICE surrounded him, traumatizing  the child, other parents, and preschool teachers. ICE then arrested the  father within sight of the school.

In October, two Oregon high school students were at a drive-through  coffee shop near their school. They were surrounded by multiple ICE  agents who were pointing guns at them. That is terrifying, outrageous,  and obviously dangerous.

At a recent city council meeting, an Oregon high school student  bravely shared his concerns and the concerns of his peers, especially  those who cannot speak up for themselves because they are too afraid.  This compassionate student has been raising money to help people in his  community whose lives are being torn apart by this administration's  immigration enforcement tactics.

Mr. Speaker, hundreds of students across northwest Oregon have  bravely protested the ongoing immigration enforcement that is happening  in their communities, and I am grateful for their acts of peaceful  protest that are calling attention to these injustices.

The reality is that too many students are afraid to leave their  homes, even to go to school. At a time when chronic absenteeism is at a  record high, more students are switching to attending school online if  they can because they don't feel safe, or they stop going altogether.

A small school district in northwest Oregon told me that more than  150 students have withdrawn this year, an increase of 120 since this  time last year. It is likely that most of them left school because they  are afraid of ICE. Statewide, it is estimated that more than 10,000  students are now unaccounted for.

Recently, the Department of Homeland Security claimed that the media  is force-feeding the public stories about parents and children being  afraid to return to school. This is categorically untrue. Despite what  the Department of Homeland Security wants people to believe, ICE is  creating significant levels of fear, including around schools.

Mr. Speaker, this is not about targeting criminals. It is about  targeting, arresting, and detaining people because of their national  origin or the color of their skin. This ought to send chills down the  spines of everyone in this body and this country.

As someone who has dedicated years of my career to education and  striving to create a better future for children, I am appalled but,  sadly, not surprised that this administration continues to terrorize  children, using the same playbook as when they separated families at  the border.

Let me be clear: According to the United States Supreme Court, all  children, regardless of their immigration status, have the right to  attend public schools. The ICE tactics that we are seeing of targeting  students and families will have lasting effects on children and  families, and they will cause generational trauma.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to show some empathy and kindness.  Work with us to protect sensitive locations. Work with us on humane  immigration reform. We cannot allow these abuses of power and these  lawless actions to continue.

Let's put an end to this ugly chapter in our country's history and do  better for our Nation and our children.