One Big Beautiful Bill Act


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the so- called ``One Big Beautiful Bill Act.''

There is nothing beautiful about this bill. Over the past several  weeks I've heard from many constituents in NW Oregon who are  overwhelmingly opposed to this harmful and partisan legislation. I  strongly opposed the original House version of this bill, which passed  by one vote, but the bill that came back from the Senate is even worse.  The Senate bill passed only with arm-twisting and a tie-breaking vote  by the Vice President. And here we are again, in the middle of the  night again, considering a bill that will have devastating consequences  for Oregonians and Americans.

The cuts to Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act will result in up to  17 million people losing access to health care. There are 1.4 million  Oregonians on Oregon's Health Plan, including 1 in 3 children.  Hospitals, clinics, and nursing homes will be forced to cut back  services or close, and people will die prematurely. Republicans are  also defunding Planned Parenthood, which provides necessary family  planning services and reproductive health care. No other provider  network has the capacity, expertise, or reach to replace Planned  Parenthood's essential care, particularly in underserved communities.  When women can't access comprehensive health care services, they are  more likely to die.

Significant cuts to food assistance will mean that more people, many  of them children, will go hungry. This bill guts the Supplemental  Nutrition Assistance Program, otherwise known as SNAP, and takes away  critical food assistance from vulnerable groups, including veterans,  people who are homeless, stay-at-home parents, and youth aging out of  foster care. Now is not the time to raise grocery costs for families  and force states to choose between taking SNAP benefits away from large  numbers of people or ending their SNAP programs entirely. This is  inexcusable in the United States of America. Access to food stamps when  I was in college helped me complete my education, and without that  critical nutrition assistance it's likely that I would not be a Member  of Congress today.

This Big, Bad Bill reverses the progress we've made addressing  climate change, resulting in thousands of lost jobs in renewable  energy, dirtier air and water, more extreme heat events, and poorer  health outcomes. At a time when energy demand is surging and clean  technologies are finally delivering lower costs and good-paying jobs,  this bill slams the brakes. It phases out solar, wind, battery storage,  and electric vehicle tax credits by 2028. According to the Energy  Information Administration, this bill will gut the very incentives that  are powering 93 percent of new capacity growth. This fossil fuel wish  list will end more than 800,000 clean energy jobs by 2040, which will  wipe out domestic manufacturing gains and shut down sectors that are  finally bringing investment to rural communities.

That sabotage doesn't just hurt the economy, it endangers lives.  Sidelining renewables and clean storage that keep the lights and air  conditioning on during heat waves is a death sentence. Experts warn  that heat wave-induced blackouts could kill 13,000 people. This bill  doesn't just cripple our grid; it puts lives at risk.

This bill will exacerbate devastating heat waves and extreme weather  events. It strips EPA funding, repeals protections against pollutants,  and ends longstanding air quality rules that keep children with asthma  out of the ER. Ending these safeguards could cause thousands more  asthma attacks per day in frontline communities.

This bill also greenlights unchecked offshore oil and gas leasing. It  guts environmental reviews and public comment requirements. It  threatens fisheries, tourism economies, and coastal communities that  will see pollution, spills, storms, and sea level rise long after the  members who voted for this bill are gone. It abandons and condemns  those most at risk to real, unmitigated danger to give tax breaks to  Big Oil.

This Republican bill gives billions more to Immigration and Customs  Enforcement (ICE) when their unidentified, masked agents are abusing  their power with dangerous sweeps that violate due process and create  human and economic destruction. These indiscriminate raids do not make  our communities safer--and often have the opposite effect when done in  sensitive locations like courthouses and schools. That is 20 times more  agents, arrests, and illegal detention centers. Further, the Trump  Administration is diverting FEMA funds away from disaster recovery to  build and operate an inhumane new prison for migrants in Florida. This  funding will fuel more cruel actions and set our country on a more  dangerous path.

I worked my way through community college, university, and law school  with grants, loans, and work study, so I understand the importance of  federal financial aid. Cuts in this bill will close the doors of  opportunity to higher education for thousands of students who do not  come from wealthy families. The lost potential from these cuts is wrong  for students, the country, and the economy. This bill will slash  billions of dollars in federal funding for higher education, raising  student loan payments for working and middle-class borrowers, and  making it harder for students to access an affordable college  education. The bill eliminates PLUS loans for parents and graduate  students and modifies repayment programs to remove some of the lowest- cost options for borrowers. By capping the amount parents and graduate  students can borrow in federal loans each year without meaningful  measures to lower the cost of higher education, the bill will close the  doors of opportunity for many low-income students. These harmful  policies will also impede access to graduate education and, by  extension, exacerbate workforce shortages in professional fields such  as teaching, behavioral health, and social work. Instead of investing  in public education, this bill enacts a federal voucher scheme that  redirects tax dollars to unaccountable K-12 private schools. This  disproportionately and negatively affects rural communities and can  violate the separation of religion and government.

Finally, this financially irresponsible bill adds between 3 to 5  trillion dollars in new debt. It's puzzling why any fiscal hawk voted  for it.

And for what? To pay for tax breaks for billionaires and large  corporations; tax breaks they don't need. This legislation is the most  regressive giveaway and wealth transfer that Congress has ever  considered. The top 20 percent of income earners will get at least 68  percent of the tax benefits and everyone else will see their costs  increase. The poorest Americans will be paying for tax breaks for the  richest.

I'm a policymaker, mom, and education advocate, and I know that our  country does better when we treat people with humanity, break down  barriers, and open doors of opportunity. This bill does nothing to Make  America Great Again; it's one of the most dangerous, mean, and  regressive bills I've ever seen, and I urge my colleagues to stand up  for their constituents and reject this horrible bill.