Pregnant Students' Rights Act


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Scott for his  leadership and for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I oppose this bill because, among other reasons, the  information that is required is incomplete and biased.

As written, the Pregnant Students' Rights Act is unfairly limited  regarding the information it requires colleges to provide to students  and the students it chooses to support. It does not include information  about comprehensive family planning resources, and it only supports  pregnant students who carry a baby to term.

Simply put, the bill fails to support any student with a different  pregnancy-related outcome.

I, like my colleague from Georgia, had a wanted pregnancy. I was past  the first trimester when I had an ultrasound, and the doctor said this  was not viable, not a viable pregnancy, so they sent me to the hospital  to have a procedure.

My colleagues might think that is terrible, but had I been in a post- Dobbs world or a State where that wasn't possible, I could have just  been made to wait and risk my reproductive health. I went on to have  two healthy children because I had that procedure.

The intent of this bill is clear, Mr. Speaker. It is clear from the  text. It is clear from the debate. It is certainly clear from the  timing. It is another attempt to have politicians interfere in the  intensely personal decision of when and whether to have a child, a  decision that should be made only by the pregnant student, not by  Members of Congress.

In the wake of Dobbs, many States have prohibited or tried to  prohibit healthcare providers and health plans from offering or  covering certain reproductive healthcare services. These anti-abortion  efforts have disproportionately harmed some students whose access to  services and information is affected by their geographical barriers,  depending on where they are in college.

Pregnant and parenting students deserve access to a full range of  family planning resources and reproductive healthcare options that keep  them healthy and on track for academic success, regardless of where  they go to college.

For this reason, Mr. Speaker, at the appropriate time, I will offer a  motion to recommit this bill back to the committee. If the House rules  permitted, I would have offered the motion with an important amendment  to this bill.

My amendment would make clear that institutions of higher education  will also provide medically accurate and comprehensive information and  resources about all reproductive healthcare services, including  contraception and abortion rights.

The biased, anti-choice effort underpinning this bill will make it  harder for students to make informed decisions about what is best for  them. Promoting partisan legislation that fails to address the full  healthcare needs of students does not promote academic success.

Again, Mr. Speaker, this is a decision that belongs to the pregnant  student, not to Members of Congress.

Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in  voting for the motion to recommit.

Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.

Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.