Rescissions Package: Corporation for Public Broadcasting


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise to condemn the House GOP's  rescission request that would take back $9.4 billion in Federal funding  Congress appropriated for foreign aid, the State Department, and public  media.

We know how devastating the loss of this funding would be for people  around the globe. Ending these investments will undoubtedly cost lives  and diminish our standing in the world.

Taking back the almost $1.1 billion in funding that Congress  appropriated for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting is ludicrous.

The Trump administration says they are cutting public broadcasting  because it is partisan and biased.

What is the basis for that claim?

Maybe it is because the shows on PBS, like the very popular ``Daniel  Tiger's Neighborhood,'' teach children the importance of kindness,  respect, empathy, and caring for others. These are all traits that are  absent from this current administration.

The only partisan bias is from this administration itself as they  seek to weaponize public broadcasting, which offers many benefits to  everyone, including: alerting the public and sharing information about  emergencies in times of crisis; teaching children reading and social  and emotional development skills; and reaching areas that lack reliable  and affordable access to broadband internet, particularly in rural  areas.

The loss of PBS KIDS in particular would deprive millions of children  and families of formative learning experiences from programs that are  designed specifically for kids, not just ``Daniel Tiger's  Neighborhood,'' but also ``Arthur,'' ``Sid the Science Kid,'' and much  more.

The Trump administration claims to be pro-family, but this request to  rescind the funding is yet another antifamily example from this  administration.

Further, the $1.1 billion cost for the Corporation for Public  Broadcasting represents 0.0001 percent of the entire Federal budget.  PBS reaches every congressional district across the country and costs a  mere $1.60 per person each year.

What else provides so much value for less than $2 per person?

The Trump administration is cutting pennies of valuable programming  out of spite. Most Americans trust PBS because it is publicly funded.  Just like public broadcasting should be objective, so should the  funding decisions about it.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to reject this rescission package.                      IRA Clean Energy Incentives Defense

Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, in their big, ugly bill, Republicans are  once again trying to rip away clean energy tax credits, one of the most  effective job-creating tools we ever had.

Thousands of workers, many in rural and coastal counties in my home  State of Oregon, but also across the country, will lose the jobs they  just started. Jobs in solar, wind, battery storage, clean  manufacturing, those are jobs with good wages and benefits that are  supporting their families.

Ripping away these credits means that instead of finishing  construction on clean power plants, Republicans will abandon billions  in sunk costs, leave half-built equipment, and electricity bills will  go up. Utility companies are expecting major rate hikes if these  credits vanish because, without them,  they will be forced to rely on more expensive, unstable, and dirty  fossil fuels.

Local economies will be devastated by shuttered worksites, canceled  investments, and families will be uprooted.

Imagine if we could generate our own power right here in America with  the safest, most advanced technologies in the world. Now consider that  we can deploy cheap, clean energy, but the Republicans won't let us.  Are they afraid of offending big oil companies?

These credits are working. They sparked more than $300 billion in  private sector investment. They have launched a manufacturing comeback  in communities that have waited decades for it.

Repealing them, that would be economic self-sabotage. Here is the  thing: Republicans are pushing this repeal, and they are also backing  Donald Trump's declaration of a so-called energy emergency. If we are  in an energy emergency, why would we gut the industries that are  expanding supplies, cutting costs, and creating stability? We wouldn't.  We don't solve a so-called emergency by kneecapping every solution  except oil.

It is not about ideology. Many, if not most, of these projects that  will lose out are in parts of the country represented by my Republican  colleagues. It is about whether we keep building the future or tear it  down before it has had a chance.

We should be competing with China. We should be making energy  cheaper, not more expensive. We should be backing the American workers  who are finally getting the chance to accelerate our energy leadership.  Instead, the Republicans' big, ugly bill says to pack it up and go  home.

I won't stand for that, and neither should anyone who claims to care  about jobs, economic growth, or energy security.