2027 Presidential Budget Request Will Make Life Harder


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702034/2027-presidential-budget-request-will-make-life-harder


Mrs. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Garcia for his  leadership and for giving us the opportunity to weigh in on this  budget.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on this administration's budget  request, a proposal that makes one thing painfully clear: Trump's  budget isn't America First; it is America last.

While working families struggle to get by, this budget spends $350  billion on another endless and illegal war abroad. To fund this, his  budget cuts the very programs people rely on here at home.

In Arizona, we are already seeing the devastating consequences of  cuts from the big, ugly law. More than 400,000 Arizonans, including  180,000 children, have lost SNAP access just this last year. That is  nearly half of all recipients in my State, the largest drop in the  country. That means parents skipping meals so their kids can eat. This  means seniors choosing between groceries and medication. It means food  banks stretched beyond capacity, trying to fill the gap that the  Federal Government has created.

Instead of reversing course, Trump's budget doubles down. It  eliminates financial assistance for families that are facing rising  utility bills. It slashes affordable housing programs like CDBG. It  cuts nutrition and health assistance for women, infants, and children,  WIC. It guts cancer research and public health funding, even as rural  hospitals struggle to stay open.

This budget is a statement of values, and it shows clearly that the  priority is not our people. It tells us exactly who this administration  is willing to fight for and who it is willing to leave behind, with a  42-percent increase in funding for the Pentagon while cutting programs  that support the American people here at home by 10 percent.

I will not support a budget that asks working families to sacrifice  more just to bankroll endless wars abroad and hand out tax breaks to  the wealthy.

``Our people deserve better''; ``nuestra gente merece mejor.''