Protecting Healthcare for Millions of Americans


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698664/protecting-healthcare-for-millions-of-americans


Mrs. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives Rivas and Randall  for leading on this very urgent healthcare issue.

Millions of Americans who depend on the Affordable Care Act are  selecting their plans right now, and what they are seeing are  healthcare options that they cannot afford due to Republicans' refusal  to extend premium assistance.

I am here today speaking on behalf of my constituents in southern  Arizona and those throughout the Nation. I am here for the parents that  are going through their monthly budget trying to figure out what they  can give up just to be able to pay for these premiums. I am speaking  for those who have the horrible feeling in the pit of their stomachs  because they know the risk of being uninsured, being one hospital visit  away from bankruptcy.

My Republican colleagues and, certainly, Donald Trump might not  understand this, but health insurance is not a luxury. It is a  necessity.

The facts are clear. Republicans paid for their trillion-dollar tax  giveaway for the wealthy by cutting healthcare, plain and simple.

Over 10 million people will lose their Medicaid, and now millions  more could lose their health coverage because they can't afford their  premiums.

Mr. Speaker, 22 million people, including 400,000 Arizonans with  marketplace coverage, are already seeing their healthcare premiums  skyrocket. These cuts mean the closure of rural hospitals in Arizona,  job losses in our healthcare sector, higher healthcare costs for those  with private insurance, and the overall stress to an already stretched  thin healthcare system.

The State of Arizona has estimated the impact of Medicaid cuts alone  to be $34 billion over the next 10 years.

For every $1 billion tax cut there is an estimated loss of 36,000  jobs across multiple industries. While the economic impacts will be  devastating throughout the State, the most immediate impact will be on  those going without needed healthcare.

Already a community health center in my district is feeling the  impact of the healthcare cuts. In 2025, they saw significant cuts in  their Ryan White part B funding.

Due to these cuts, some positions had to be eliminated and workflows  realigned, including the loss of medical case management and treatment  adherence support.

The impacts are real. For instance, a 29-year-old woman was diagnosed  with HIV during her pregnancy. She is a mom of two young kids, 7 and 1  years old. She has struggled with mental illness, depression, and  cognitive delay. Because she lacks daily adherence support for her  lifesaving Valley fever medication, she has been hospitalized three  times due to sepsis related to the condition.

Another 18-year-old with HIV who works as a landscaper has not been  able to get back on his medication due to the loss of insurance. His  employer does not provide insurance, and he makes too much money to  qualify for Medicaid. Now the health center team is trying to get  support from pharmaceutical companies for this individual.

These are the types of stories of real people that simply want to  live their lives. Illness and disease do not discriminate, neither  should Congress. Americans have had enough of cutting programs that  Americans need for basic survival, enough of the attempts to repeal the  Affordable Care Act, enough Republicans' skyrocketing costs.

It is up to Donald Trump and the Republican Party to decide if they  will join Democrats to restore these tax credits or whether they will  keep making life unaffordable for hardworking Americans. I urge the  Senate to act immediately and take up the premium extension bill passed  by the House.