Restoring Election Integrity


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699240/restoring-election-integrity


Mrs. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Virginia (Mr.  Subramanyam) for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about the single greatest force  that continues to distort our democracy: the role of money in our  politics.

Mr. Speaker, 16 years ago today, the Supreme Court's Citizens United  decision opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate and billionaire  spending in our elections, drowning out the voices of working people.  The decision overturned longstanding precedent rooted on independent  political spending by corporations and billionaires.

The conservative majority embraced the idea that spending money on  elections equals speech and that corporations are entitled to the same  speech rights as people, giving carte blanche to corporations and  billionaires to spend unlimited money.

When money is allowed to dominate, it blocks progress on everything  else. Private prison and immigrant detention contractors spend millions  to influence elections and policy, all while people die in their  facilities. Mr. Speaker, three people have died in just the last 6  weeks at a privately run tent camp in El Paso.

Fossil fuel and mining companies pour enormous sums into elections to  block climate action while communities like mine in Arizona face record  heat, drought, and wildfires and continue to deal with the devastating  impact to our water, land, and environment.

The gun lobby spends millions to stop lifesaving reforms while my  friend Congresswoman Gabby Giffords continues to fight for commonsense  gun laws so that tragedies like that mass shooting in Tucson never  happen again.

Nowhere is this corruption more visible than in the White House,  where policy decisions are increasingly shaped by the interests of  wealthy donors and corporate insiders. Literally, it feels like there  is a sign in front of the White House saying: Justice for sale.

We should be clear that Congress doesn't have to wait to act. We can  ban Members of Congress from holding and trading stock. We can pass  transparency laws like the DISCLOSE Act. Ultimately, we need to pass a  constitutional amendment reversing Citizens United. This is a choice  between democracy that serves donors or one that serves people. The  choice couldn't be clearer.

Mr. Speaker, 16 years after Citizens United, we need to shift the  power back to everyday Americans and away from those who can write the  biggest checks.

It is past time that we reverse course on Citizens United. It is time  to act and end Citizens United.