Stop the Republican Affordability Crisis


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699586/stop-the-republican-affordability-crisis


Mrs. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Rivas for  organizing today's Special Order hour.

Mr. Speaker, across Arizona, families are being squeezed from every  direction. Groceries cost more. Rent and housing costs keep climbing.  People can't afford their healthcare.

According to the Joint Economic Committee, Arizona families paid an  estimated $1,569 more in 2025 due to inflation during Trump's first  year back in office.

Yet, after running on lower prices, Trump now calls this  affordability crisis a hoax. Just last week, he said plainly: ``I don't  want to drive housing prices down. I want to drive housing prices up. .  . .''

That tells us exactly whom he is fighting for: Wall Street  speculators and billionaires, not our families living on Main Streets  and in our barrios. He is not even trying to hide it anymore.

Meanwhile, utility bills are surging; electric bills are up 13  percent; and residential gas prices are up nearly 60 percent. This  administration canceled clean energy projects that could have powered  13 million homes, destroying 165,000 jobs in the process.

Behind every statistic is a family that is now experiencing hardship  due to these reckless and painful policies. I recently toured the  Community Food Bank of Southern Arizona, where I heard directly from  staff and volunteers about what these policies mean on the ground. Food  banks are now being forced to serve more people with fewer resources  because of the Republicans' so-called big, ugly bill.

Across Arizona, they are serving about 700,000 people every single  month, a 30-percent increase in demand for services while dealing with  a 50-percent cut in funding for some of our most vulnerable  populations, including seniors, veterans, differently abled, families,  and children.

That strain is only growing as this Republican law slashes SNAP, one  of the most effective anti-hunger programs we have. Under the big, ugly  law, up to 73,000 Arizonans could lose some or all of their benefits  due to red tape and funding changes.

These cuts don't eliminate hunger. They push families to food banks  that are already stretched thin. The burden falls hardest on women and  caregivers, especially women of color who are overrepresented in low- wage and unstable jobs.

Let's be clear: This is an affordability crisis Republicans are  perpetuating. Rising costs, shrinking safety nets, and tax breaks for  billionaires are all at the expense of working families.

House Democrats are focused on driving down costs and making life  more affordable. That is because affordability isn't a slogan. It is  about whether families can live with dignity and peace of mind. That is  what we should be fighting for.