Rose-Helene Spreiregen


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690804/rose-helene-spreiregen


Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record remarks from  Rose-Helene Spreiregen, a holocaust survivor.

Never, as a young Jewish girl hiding in France during World       War II, could I have possibly dreamed of standing where I am       now. Never could I have imagined addressing democratically       elected representatives, in a country where people can live       freely, a country that I love.

My name is Rose-Helene Spreiregen. I was born in Paris in       1931 into a family that fled Poland in the late 1920s because       of antisemitism. Little could they imagine what was to happen       a decade later.

Germany invaded Western Europe in May 1940. France fell a       month after, and Nazi occupation began immediately. Jews were       ordered to register with the police, who became close       collaborators with the occupiers. Anti-Jewish laws and acts       of discrimination quickly followed. Jews could not go to       restaurants, to movie theaters, not even parks. They could       not own radios or telephones. They could not be out after       6:00 p.m. It got only worse.

In 1942, every Jewish person over six years old was issued       three yellow Stars of David inscribed with the word ``JUIF''       (Jew in French). It had to be sewn on an outer garment. Jews       could shop only one hour a day at a time when stores were       mostly sold out of goods. On the Metro subway, they were       restricted to the last car. They could not travel more than       17 miles from Paris.

I stopped going to school in July 1942 because Jewish       children were pulled from their classrooms by collaborating       police and deported with their families to Nazi concentration       camps.

More than 13,000 Jews were arrested that same month, most       were sent to their deaths. Luckily, my mother was warned by a       sympathetic policeman. Immediately she went into hiding. She       then obtained forged identity papers and, with the help of a       smuggler, set out to cross the border from Nazi-occupied       northern France into French-controlled southern France--so-      called Vichy France--but still equally dangerous for Jews.       Instead of helping her cross the border, the smuggler       betrayed her, and she was arrested. She was then sent to       Drancy, an infamous rail juncture and holding town just north       of Paris. From there, its prisoners were transported to       concentration or death camps.

Grandmother and I stayed hidden in my mother's apartment       for a year, never leaving for fear of being arrested or       worse. I went out alone to get food. Every day I stood in       lines, unable to conceal my Star of David, and because of it,       I was cursed as a ``dirty Jew.'' From our window, we saw       other families being pulled from their apartments and hauled       away in trucks.

In August 1943, grandmother decided we had to flee Paris.       We obtained false identity papers with new names and equally       false personal information. We departed from Paris on an       overnight train that would pass through two border control       checkpoints, the first under German control, the second under       French. I decided to take charge for us since grandmother       spoke with a thick Polish accent--a giveaway. I told her to       pretend she was asleep. When the German soldiers came to       check our papers, I asked them not to wake her. They       complied. At the second checkpoint, controlled by the French,       I made the same request. Miraculously it worked. We got       through. In all those years of living in near unbearable       fear, none had been more terrifying than those border       passings. I couldn't stop shaking for hours after.

I was twelve years old.

We found our way to the small and remote mountain town of       Voiron in east central France. My aunt and younger cousin had       successfully made the same journey to a nearby town.       Grandmother and I found a place to stay in what I recall as a       warehouse. We had no furniture. but a kind neighbor gave us a       mattress, a small cooking stove which helped keep us warm,       and other utensils.

I found a job running a small grocery. I was paid meager       wages. Grandmother mended clothing and bartered her wine       rations for food. We scoured the nearby forest for chestnuts       and firewood. My only warm dress, made from a blanket, was       destroyed beyond use by mice.

Deliverance finally came with the liberation of Voiron in       August 1944 by American soldiers, the ``greatest       generation,'' the generation of many of your grandparents.       They gave us crackers, chocolate, and, of all things, chewing       gum, something I'd never known. But above all, they gave us       freedom. Still, I had no knowledge of my mother's fate. I       kept hoping she would come back. She never did. Later I       learned what happened. At Drancy, she had volunteered to       accompany a trainload of children to Auschwitz, 1,000 miles       east, a horrific journey of several days and nights. They       were packed into freight cars like animals. No water. No       food. No sanitation. No windows. No place to sit let alone       room to lie down. All this was in the heat of August. Upon       arrival, all who survived the journey were murdered in gas       chambers. Such was my mother's fate.

She was thirty-one years old.

It is always difficult for me to tell my story. But I am       compelled to tell it because of the global surge in       antisemitism, including here in the United States. While it       is reassuring that our government--in your hands--is       addressing it at the highest levels, it is troubling that it       has to be addressed at all. It doesn't take much history to       teach us that what starts with hatred of the Jewish people       does not end there.

What are the conditions that nurture antisemitism?       Ignorance. Intolerance. Indifference. Injustice. That is why       Holocaust education is so vital. That is why this country       must again lead this fight, as it has done for just causes so       often and so nobly in the past.

That is my story.