-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699417/9999


Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, this is a solemn occasion for me and for  many people I know, and I rise this evening to recognize and honor the  67 lives we lost, 1 year ago tomorrow, on January 29, 2025.

On that night, Flight 5342 took off from Wichita, KS, and flew toward  our Nation's Capital with 64 passengers on board. In Washington, DC, a  Black Hawk helicopter with three Army soldiers would soon be in the air  as well. Flight 5342 was just minutes away from a safe landing at  Reagan National Airport when the plane and the Army helicopter collided  over the Potomac River.

Shortly after 9 p.m., I received a call with the news that a flight  from home--from Kansas--was involved in an accident in our Nation's  Capital. I made my way to Reagan National Airport that night. The banks  of the Potomac River were illuminated with lights from emergency  responders who were searching the icy waters of a crash site.

At the airport, I was joined by local leaders and the newly sworn-in  Secretary of Transportation, Sean Duffy. Our conversation that night  was one of many that would then span the course of the following year,  trying to understand how an accident like this could occur and how to  prevent it from ever happening again.

At the airport, we learned the tragic news that there were no  survivors. Of those who perished, seven were Kansans.

Kiah Duggins, a civil rights attorney and a Wichita native, was set  to begin teaching at Howard University School of Law.

Lindsey Fields, a professor at Butler Community College and the  president-elect of the National Association of Biology Teachers, was  traveling to our Nation's Capital to advocate for the issues that  mattered to her.

Bob and Lori Schrock, a prominent and very well-liked couple of  farmers from Kiowa, KS, were on their way to visit their daughter in  college in Pennsylvania.

Grace Maxwell, an engineering student from Wichita, was returning to  college after attending her grandfather's funeral at home in Kansas.

Dustin Miller, an IT professional who grew up in El Dorado and was a  lifelong Chiefs fan, told his mom he was going to try to make it back  in time to watch his team play in the Super Bowl.

PJ Diaz of Wichita was described by his loved ones as a world  traveler who had been to 49 States. He especially loved cruises and had  an extra-long cruise planned for later that year.

Sadly, 28 members of the U.S. Figure Skating community also lost  their lives--young athletes traveling back from the National  Development Camp in Wichita, with their coaches and family members.

Maxim Naumov, a 24-year-old U.S. figure skater, lost both of his  parents in the accident. In the wake of this tragedy, Maxim used his  love of skating to overcome this immense loss and now heads to the 2026  Olympic Games, just weeks away, to achieve his lifelong dream that he  shared with his parents. We will all be cheering him on.

A year later, the memory of this night--the deadliest aviation  incident that America had witnessed in nearly 25 years--is as painful  as it was when we first heard the news. The victims were husbands and  wives, fathers and mothers, sons and daughters, friends and coworkers.

As we mourn the victims, we also remember the heroism, solidarity,  and love displayed that night. Hundreds of first responders worked  tirelessly through the night and into the coming days. Strangers  offered comfort, and people checked in on their neighbors.

Since January 29, the families of the victims have tried to find  meaning and purpose after the death of their loved ones and have worked  to eliminate the likelihood of an accident like this ever happening  again.

A family, in particular, that I would like to mention, Tim and Sheri  Lilley, lost their son Sam. He was the copilot for Flight 5342, the  plane.

Following the tragic accident, the Lilley family has used its voice  to become an advocate for safer skies, in honor of their son Sam.

I am grateful for the advocacy of the families who are gathered here  tonight in the Nation's Capital to remember their family members, to  mourn the losses, to comfort each other. I am grateful for the families  of the victims over the last year as they work to advocate for changes  at the FAA--Federal Aviation Administration--and congressional  legislation like the ROTOR Act.

Thanks to their support, the Senate advanced this critical  legislation last year. This was an important step, but our progress has  been stalled in the House.

The National Transportation Safety Board's hearing just yesterday  further confirmed that this legislation could have made a difference on  January 29 a year ago. We cannot afford to waste any more time. I  urgently insist the House of Representatives quickly pass this  legislation or amend it and pass it so we can find consensus.

I want to commend NTSB Chair Jennifer Homendy and her team on their  thorough investigation of the crash. Their report will guide Congress  in the coming weeks in our efforts to ensure safety in the skies.

In addition to passing and implementing the ROTOR Act, Congress will  soon hold a hearing--after the NTSB releases its final report in about  2 weeks--to review the findings and recommendations. We need to  determine what, if any, congressional action is necessary to implement  these recommendations and make certain the FAA and Army are making the  recommended changes, provide funding for further modernization of our  aviation system, advance new technologies at the FAA, and train and  support air traffic controllers. We cannot--we should not--miss the  moment to act and ensure lasting change.

I cannot imagine the pain each of the families of the victims has  experienced every day since January 29. This week, their loss must be  felt especially hard as they face the anniversary of the crash.

Tonight, I want to remember those who perished--67 lives that ended  way too soon. We resolve to honor their legacy, work to make our skies  safer, and remember those we loved who lost their lives.