Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, today, I have the opportunity to rise here  on the Senate floor and speak in support of the appropriations package  that is currently before the U.S. Senate, which happens to include  funding for Commerce, Justice, Science.

I chair the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice,  Science, and I am pleased that this legislation provides significant  and important resources to support our Nation's Federal, State, and  local law enforcement in their shared mission to keep America safe.

The package that we will debate and discuss and vote on this week  makes targeted investments in the Federal Agencies and Departments that  conduct critical scientific research, bolster economic growth, promote  U.S. energy independence, and strengthen our Nation's national  security. These priorities are achieved while also making thoughtful  reductions in spending to ensure that taxpayer dollars are being wisely  spent.

Many rural and local law enforcement agencies continue to face  resource and equipment gaps that limit their ability to respond  effectively and keep their communities safe, and the fiscal year 2026  CJS appropriations bill addresses these needs by investing in crime- fighting technology and equipment for sheriff's offices and police  departments in Kansas and across the country. The legislation also  equips the Drug Enforcement Agency and the FBI with resources necessary  to dismantle drug trafficking networks that have gained, unfortunately,  a stronghold and a foothold in the United States and to combat the  fentanyl crisis that continues to claim way too many American lives.

This bill contains funding for the national security and  counterintelligence missions that counter foreign threats and protect  U.S. interests. By investing in the Office of the United States Trade  Representative, this bill strengthens its capacity to enforce trade  agreements and expand markets so that American producers like my  farmers back home in Kansas and manufacturers in my State can compete  and sell their goods around the world.

Finally, this bill invests in our Nation's science Agencies--NASA,  NOAA, and the National Science Foundation--to advance U.S. leadership  in scientific discovery and space exploration. At NASA, it bolsters  American leadership in human spaceflight, space science, and  aeronautics at a very critical moment. This week, in fact, NASA is  rolling out Artemis II, the next consequential step toward sending  astronauts around the Moon for the first time in more than 50 years.  That mission and future missions depend upon a strong U.S. aerospace  industrial base made up of engineers, machinists, suppliers, and  researchers. This bill makes certain that America remains on course to  lead in space and does not cede ground to our competitors.

Through NSF, the bill prioritizes critical research and advanced  manufacturing that bolster private sector innovation, strengthen  university-industry partnerships, and train the next generation of  scientists and engineers right here at home--investments that are  essential to our long-term economic growth, to our national  competitiveness, and to our national security.

At NOAA, this legislation bolsters critical weather monitoring  services, increases resources for lifesaving functions of the National  Weather Service, and makes certain that the National Weather Service  offices are staffed 24/7 to provide reliable forecasts to help keep  America safe.

As a senior appropriator, I have long advocated for Congress to  return to regular order in the appropriations process: debating,  amending, and passing 12 separate appropriations bills that fund the  Federal Government. I continue to be an advocate for that. This package  reflects that work, and I commend Chairwoman Collins, Vice Chairman  Murray, and my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee for their  efforts. I also thank my colleagues in the Senate more broadly who have  been so willing to allow us to proceed to get to this point today.

I want to thank the CJS Subcommittee staff for their hard work,  dedication, and long hours. A lot of work has gone on throughout the  year but with especially challenging time constraints within the last  few weeks. This package would not be possible without those staff  members.

I thank my staff: Kevin Wheeler, Brian Daner, and Rachel Taylor. I  also thank as well the minority staff: Jessica Berry, Blaise Sheridan,  Lindsay Erickson, and T.J. Lowdermilk.

This legislation that is Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations  Subcommittee work product strikes a careful balance, funding critical  resources while also protecting limited taxpayer dollars. The spending  that we always worry about being too much is addressed in this  legislation to make sure that we are on a different path than continued  borrowing and spending.

I strongly urge my colleagues to support this package to provide  these Agencies with the resources they need to keep our Nation safe,  promote U.S. leadership, and make certain that America remains a leader  in space.

This bill funds the Department of Commerce, the Department of  Justice, and a number of science Agencies, such as NASA and NSF. It is  important to the country that this bill occur. It is also important to  the country that we avoid a shutdown at the end of the month, and the  bills that we pass this week go a long way in making that shutdown much  less likely.

I thank the Presiding Officer for the opportunity to speak to you and  my colleagues.

Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, today, I rise to honor the passing of a  101-year-old Kansan, World War II veteran, and American hero, Horace  ``Jim'' Sharp.

Mr. Sharp was born in Morris County, KS, and he spent his early years  tending to the family farm--not an unusual thing in Kansas, certainly  not in his generation.

At age 19, Jim surrendered his farm deferment, courageously  volunteering to serve his nation in the U.S. Army during World War II.

Through his service, Jim fought in the Battle of the Bulge as part of  Company B, 18th Infantry Regiment, 1st Infantry Division. It was during  that battle that Jim earned three Battle Stars and a Bronze Star.  Although injured by shrapnel during battle, Jim never received  treatment, thus never receiving the Purple Heart.

Following Jim's combat service, he served as a guard during the  Nuremberg trials.

Shortly after returning home to Kansas following the war's end, Jim  would marry his wife Marilyn, with whom he would raise their three  children and enjoy 69 years of marriage.

Following the passage of the GI Bill, Jim attended Kansas State  University, where he graduated with a bachelor's degree in business  administration. Jim then applied his degree by building a career in  data processing, eventually retiring as the information systems manager  for the Kansas Farm Bureau while also teaching information systems  classes at Kansas State University and at Fort Riley.

Jim's life of service continued well after his time in the military.  His dedication to his faith and his community showed itself in so many  ways. Jim was an active member at his local Methodist church. His  accolades also include being a founding member and the first president  of the Northeast Kansas Battle of the Bulge Organization where he  raised funds to support the preservation of the Manhattan, KS, Peace  Memorial Auditorium and the K-State World War II Memorial.

Jim's World War II service is also featured at Fort Riley's 1st  Infantry Division Museum, honoring his story and his service in the  Nuremberg exhibit there.

Jim was an active member of the Kiwanis, his local VFW and American  Legion, and many other local organizations focused on improving his  community and aiding those in need.

Living to be 101 is remarkable in and of itself, but Jim used that  long life that he was given to accomplish so much more. His life of  courage, sacrifice, and compassion served as an inspiration to all who  knew him, and he is dearly, dearly missed.

My prayers and concerns and care are with his children Janet, Doug,  and Brian, his many grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and great- great-grandchildren--the entire Sharp family. It was my honor to see  them as we celebrated Jim's 100 birthday at the American Legion in  Manhattan, KS, now just about a year ago.

Jim was an authentic American hero. Sometimes, I think we look for  heroes, and we can't seem to find them. You do not have to look past  Jim Sharp. He was a hero to his Nation, to his community, to his  family, and to his friends.

May Jim's legacy not be forgotten, his service honored. And we say to  him in these days: Thank you for your service. We respect you, and we  are grateful.