Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MORAN. Madam President, thank you very much. This has been a  trying and difficult and challenging time in our country and in my home  State of Kansas. There are lots of conversations, care, and compassion  going on. We can't give anybody a hug these days. We can't extend a  hand--at least literally--but we are extending a hand to all of our  friends and our neighbors--those across our community, those across our  State, and across the country. 

  I am troubled, of course, by what circumstances Americans find  themselves in. There are those who are in a poor circumstance in which  they can recover from the circumstances that we face. I want to make  sure that Kansans know that we hear their cries, that we know of their  problems, and that work is afoot to try to make a difference.  

  Just a couple of examples of things that perhaps, in the overall  scale of where we are, don't seem significant enough but can make a  difference in individual lives and families' well-being: We have been  successful to this point in getting the school lunch program available  for students whose schools are no longer in session, who don't go to  the classroom, and therefore aren't in the school lunchroom. The USDA  and the school food program are now available for those who are at home  because their school classes have been canceled as a result of the  virus. 

  We are paying a lot of attention, as I hope Kansans know and  Americans know, to the veteran and the veteran community. We have had  success in passing legislation on the Senate floor--waiting for House  consideration--that will allow those veterans who are no longer in the  classroom, in a university, or in a technical college and are now  learning by distance education, by technology, to be able to continue  to receive their GIeducational benefits. That required a change in the  law, and it is in the works so that those benefits continue, even  though the student is not, as now required, in a classroom itself. 

  We are trying to make sure the Department of Veterans Affairs has the  resources necessary to meet the needs of our veterans. It is a  vulnerable population because of the age and existing condition of many  of our veterans. We are in constant contact not only with the  Department of Veterans Affairs but with veterans themselves and with  our veteran hospitals and clinics and other healthcare providers in  Kansas. 

  Today, we are dealing with economic relief for those who are losing  their job, fearful of losing their job, or have already lost their job.  Much of life's meaning comes from our employment, from what we do. A  job is certainly something that helps put food on a family's table and  provides some security for an individual, but it also provides meaning.  No one can understand, unless they are without a job, how devastating  that can be. 

  I am pleased by the number of business men and women who have called  me to tell me the last thing they want to do is lay off anyone who  works in their business. We have been through economic difficulties  before. We have seen the cycle of the economy, the ups and downs, the  normal flows, but this is something totally different from that. 

  Oil and gas--the price of oil is such that keeping our oil and gas  producers in Kansas in business is a real challenge. Aviation  manufacturing is an important component of the Kansas economy, and  today Textron industries, which manufactures Cessna aircraft and  Beechcraft, announced they are furloughing 7,000 of their 9,000  workers. That is on top of other challenges in the aviation industry in  which Spirit AeroSystems, headquartered in Kansas, has already laid off  2,800 employees. 

  From the oil and gas industry of Western and South Central and  Eastern Kansas to the manufacturing hub of Wichita and South Central  Kansas, the consequences of the coronavirus are real and felt in the  pocketbook, felt in the brain, and felt in the heart. Our restaurants,  hotels, our car rental agencies, and those who serve others--I have  been in circumstances this week in visiting with the people who work at  a restaurant, the people who work at a cafe, the people who work here  in Washington, DC, at the cafeteria where I had breakfast this morning.  Those who have jobs wonder if they are going to have jobs tomorrow, and  those who have already lost jobs wonder how they are going to pay the  bills. 

  This morning I had a conversation with an optometrist telling me the  circumstances of no longer being able to care for patients except in  the emergency setting, which means that the business in the optometrist  office--an important healthcare provider--and the business in the  dental office has been curtailed, and the necessity of considering  laying off the clinical workers there is front and center in that  conversation. 

  It is a troublesome situation across Kansas. It does not matter what  city or town you live in. If you are a farmer, the cattle prices today  are significantly depressed, despite the fact that it is still pretty  expensive at the grocery store. 

  I think about my hometown and the loss of a business. There aren't  many businesses in many rural communities in Kansas, and many  businesses don't really earn much of a living or a profit. It could be  a family circumstance; it could be this is what they did; this is what  their parents did; this could be a service to the community; and they  live on a lot less because that business is important to a small  community. But this kind of challenge is such that if that business  closes, the chances are that it will not reopen. The financial  circumstances of smalltown America are such that there is little  likelihood of recovery and reopening. 

  The legislation we passed today is now on its way to the President.  It included a few things that I was troubled by and think will create  significant difficulties for some. We need to continue to work to  change those provisions that are troublesome and cause problems. But it  was important in my view to make certain the things that were wrong in  that bill didn't prevent us from passing something to help those with  the things that are right. None of our economic efforts that we have to  make certain people feel more secure economically will work until they  feel more secure in the health and well-being of themselves and their  families. 

  Even though you may get some assistance--a person may get some  assistance, a family may be relieved of some of the financial burdens  they now face, a laid-off worker may get unemployment benefits--your  mind is always going to be on the issue of your health and the well- being of your children and your parents and your grandparents, those we  know in the nursing home and those we know in the nursery. And as long  as we are troubled by what may happen to us and our health, no amount  of economic stimulus can overcome the fear of one's well-being and  particularly the well-being of their spouse, their children, and their  parents.  

  So clearly economic relief in and of itself, in my view, is  insufficient. We need to make certain that our healthcare providers  have the necessary tools to meet the healthcare needs of American  citizens. Front and center in that regard is testing, and we are  woefully inadequate and undersupplied in what we need to test the  necessary number of Kansans and Americans to know what they face and to  know what their circumstances are and to respond in the medically  required way. 

  We are working to make sure there are more tests across the country  and working to make certain those tests are distributed in a way that  Kansans and their healthcare providers can access them. Most recently,  we were successful in getting CDC to undo a problem that kept tests  from being transferred to the Kansas Department of Health and  Environment in my home State. We are pleased to see that the FDA, for  example, has modified the necessary steps it takes for a manufacturer  of these test kits to be certified to be qualified to manufacture them.  And the amount of test kits that are being produced, the amount of  manufacturing has increased, and we are expecting significant  improvements in the next couple of weeks. Yes, I wish they were here  earlier, but can we fix the problem we face now and get them here soon,  immediately? 

  I sit in the desk of Senator Bob Dole, a predecessor of mine in  Kansas--his name is etched in this desk drawer--now known for his  bipartisanship and held in great respect not only at home in Kansas but  across the country. I stand at the desk that is here in the place of  Senator John McCain. These are two people who demonstrated the desire  to work together. 

  While I have outlined a few things that I think are important, and I  wanted Kansans to know, the mission in my remarks today--maybe the most  important--is to ask my Republican colleagues and my Democratic  colleagues to set aside the usual bickering and political posturing  that takes place in the U.S. Congress. No American can feel well, no  American can feel that things are going to be OK if they don't see  leadership and cooperation among us. 

  So while we today are preparing for the presentation of new  legislation dealing with the challenges that businesses, employers, and  employees face, trying to relieve the economic and financial burden  that many Americans  are experiencing and more will experience in the future, could  Americans please see that I and my colleagues are taking every step not  to make this a political exercise but to demonstrate our care and  concern for those we represent. 

  I mentioned a moment ago about veterans. This is the point in time in  which, if you take a walk on the National Mall, as I have often done,  to walk to the Lincoln Memorial, I will walk by now the World War II  Memorial; I will walk by the Vietnam Wall; and on my return, I will  walk by the Korean War Memorial. We should hold those veterans--those  military men and women who are honored in those settings--as our role  models. We should do that every day, but could we please do it over the  next few weeks, the next few months, and into the next year as we try  to address the challenges that America faces today. No person  memorialized in those settings fought and sacrificed their life for a  Republican or for a Democrat. They sacrificed because they believed  they could make life better for the folks back home--their own family  members, their neighbors, and people they didn't know. They sacrificed  because they believed they could make the world a more safe and secure  place. I pledge myself in every way possible to see that I do the  things today, tomorrow, and into the future that mean that this  Congress has come together on behalf of the American people, just like  those who served our country did and now rest in peace. 

  To the Democratic colleagues here in the Senate, please consider me  open to their suggestions. And to my Republican colleagues, please know  that I am an ally in the things that we believe in. But we may all need  to give a little so America can return, Americans can be safe,  Americans can be secure, our health is protected, and our economy  flourishing. 

  I would ask God in these circumstances to bless this country, to  bring us together, hold us in his arms in a way that we can't do today,  and to make certain that this Congress represents the will of the  people, not the will of any political party. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT