Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I rise to support the remarks of my  colleague from Missouri, Senator Blunt. I thank him for his leadership.  He is in an important position as the chairperson of the Health,  Education, and Labor Appropriations Subcommittee, which is responsible  for appropriating funds to the Department of Health and Human Services.  I serve on that subcommittee with him. He is a leader in so many ways. 

  I am so pleased that we are allies in this issue of life and death  for Kansans and Missourians. To my colleagues on the Senate floor, it  is really a life-and-death issue for many of your constituents across  the country but particularly in rural areas, in the Midwest, and in the  South. 

  The decisions that are being made have huge consequences that will  affect families, individuals, and their lives today and for years to  come. I express my concerns and my deeply held belief that the  Department of Health and Human Services is failing to do its job. Their  harmful actions will damage the liver allocation policy in this country  in the way I just described. 

  The policy discussion we are having here today is important. It is  important any day, but it is relevant since National Donor Day is this  Friday, February 14. 

  I want to take a moment to thank those across Kansas and Missouri and  around the country who have donated their organs to give that gift of  life. Senator Blunt is right. I think there is a tendency on the part  of people to donate an organ knowing that somebody--maybe they don't  necessarily know them, but somebody who might live down the street or  live in the same community or live in the same State. There is a sense  of community across this country that is being destroyed. The end  result of that is there will be fewer donors donating organs for the  lives of others. 

  These changes to the United Network for Organ Sharing's distribution  policy will redistribute the organs from States and regions that have  high organ donor rates to areas that have historically underperformed.  This results in patients in Kansas and those in the Midwest and  Southern States to wait a much longer time for the organ. 

  I have spoken on this topic on the Senate floor before, as this  destructive policy was pushed forward. I spoke in 2018. We are still  here today. The lack of interest and concern exhibited by those  involved in this process is appalling to me. I stand here today because  of the outright refusal of the Secretary of Health and Human Services  to halt the implementation of this damaging and unfair health policy  that has not withstood examination by either medical experts or our  Nation's judicial system. In fact, the U.S. district court has been  forced to place multiple injunctions on the implementation of this  policy last year as HHS tried to force this policy upon patients across  the Nation, despite a lawsuit from a collection of our Nation's best  transplant centers. 

  The organizations that are fully engaged in opposing this process are  the people who transplant the organs to those who are in desperate need  of it. They are the experts--the surgeons, the transplant centers in  universities and hospitals across a wide swath of the country. HHS has  ignored the initial injunction order and began to implement this  harmful policy. They had to seek a second injunction in order force the  injunction to be upheld. In explaining the court order, this district  judge in the district of Georgia described the policy as ``difficult  and wrenching,'' ``creating profound issues and institutional  disruption'' and concluded that this policy will undoubtedly cause harm  to patients, particularly those in rural areas. 

  There is also mounting evidence that the United Network for Organ  Sharing and its CEO have acted in callous disregard for rural areas in  the Midwest and South throughout the development of this policy. These  are the same areas that have the highest donation rates and play an  enormous role in the lifesaving transplant system. The people who live  there are the ones who are being harmed. 

  Those who are crafting and implementing this system continually  disregard the evidence that shows these areas are already suffering  under the suffocating weight of HHS's new policy. As I said before,  this policy tosses aside all public concerns from patients, transplant  surgeons, and hospitals on best practices to improve the availability  of organs across the Nation. There is no reason to have a regional  fight. There are ways to do this that benefit all regions of the  country. 

  It also carries the risk of decreasing those organ donations that  will then damage everyone. This limits availability and access to  donated organs and damages the ability for major transplant hospitals-- in the case of Kansas, the University of Kansas Hospital--to perform  these services for patients. 

  This is particularly frustrating because dating back to December  2017, the board of the Organ Procurement and Transplant Network has  approved an equitable liver allocation process that served the entire  community's best interest. This was a necessary policy reform that took  years of consideration that would benefit the entire country, based on  compromise by transplant experts, patients, and important stakeholders. 

  That policy was abandoned. We were assured when it was abandoned by  OPTN and Health Resources--or HRSA--that public comments would be  considered. That policy that took years to develop and involved the  valuation of experts and a give-and-take in a process was overturned so  easily. We were promised we would have the opportunity for those who  have concerns about this policy to have input, and the reality of that  fact is that was a lie. It was not true. 

  Many concerns made by patients, by transplant centers, by surgeons  were never considered in OPTN's rushed process to finalize the policy.  The reasons they were not considered was because of the overwhelming  negative response that caused the entire comment system to completely  shut down. People across the country commented on it with such  frequency that the ability for the telephone system to log the input  crashed. Of course, did OPTN wait until they could get those comments  and consider them? No, they made the decision without that input. In  fact, the president of OPTN has informed many commenters in the  transplant community that their concerns over the new policy were not  even read by the board that approved the policy.  

  So the many transplant hospitals, surgeons, and medical professionals  who had deep concerns and took time out of their busy days to express  them were never heard. They were ignored. These are the people who are  tasked with saving lives through the transplants they perform each and  every day. Yet their opinions were essentially deemed invalid. It  appears that HRSA's and OPTN's making policy in such a reckless fashion  has become the normal state of affairs. 

  Despite the continual efforts by Senator Blunt and me to get  Secretary Azar to review, to modify, to consider, to reconsider, or to  put on hold this policy, we have had no success. Additional oversight  is desperately needed to restore some semblance of common sense in the  actions and policies that are being taken and deployed. 

  I am deeply disappointed in the actions by Secretary Azar, HRSA,  OPTN, and UNOS. This process has been flawed from start to finish,  guided by not what is best for the country but how best to sidestep a  specific, single lawsuit. Organ procurement and allocation policy is  too important to be decided in this fashion. 

  Secretary Azar, the University of Kansas Health System typically  performs 8 to 10 liver transplants per month. Since this policy has  been implemented under your administration, it has performed zero  transplants. This is as a direct result of the policy. At KU Hospital,  current estimates are  that it may take up to 6 months before it is able to provide another  one of these lifesaving donation organ operations. Meanwhile, those on  the transplant list in Kansas watch their wait times grow, and their  hope begins to dwindle. 

  This is really a lot about hope, and it is about saving lives, but if  you are on a list that continually grows longer while you are waiting  for that organ, what a depressing, discouraging circumstance for you  and your family. 

  Secretary Azar's policy is causing direct harm to the people of my  State. It is time that he steps up and takes responsibility for the  actions of his Department, which are causing real harm to patients. 

  These transplant hospitals from across Missouri and Kansas and  elsewhere have written the President and Secretary Azar within the last  2 weeks and have asked for a halt in the policy until we have had time  to let a judge decide the issues in the court case and also to make  sure that we ultimately get it right. 

  I call on Secretary Azar to halt the implementation of this  disastrous policy and save lives from being unnecessarily lost. 

  Again, I thank my colleague from just across the State line, from the  home of the Kansas City Chiefs, for his support in this effort. He has  a voice that has to be heard and that will be heard, and I am pleased  to be allied with him in his concern for the patients in my State and  for the patients in his own. 

  I yield to the Senator from Missouri. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT