Measure Read the First Time--S. Res. 377


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694990/measure-read-the-first-time-s-res-377


Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, this evening, I want to recognize the  upcoming anniversary of an important day in our Nation's history and in  our military history. September 9 marks the beginning of the Italian  campaign of World War II in 1943, a campaign that was only successful  because of the courage and sacrifice of hundreds of thousands of U.S.  and Allied soldiers.

I am introducing a resolution to establish September 9 as the  National World War II Italian Campaign Remembrance Day to commemorate  their valor and ensure their legacy endures for generations to come.

Eighty-two years ago, Allied forces launched Operation Avalanche,  marking the start of the liberation of the Italian Peninsula from  fascist Nazi occupation. This military campaign was a testament to the  unyielding resolve of U.S. forces and the strength of our foreign  military alliances, united by a shared commitment to democratic ideals  and the fight against fascism.

The Italian campaign was not just a series of joint and allied  military operations; it was a stand against despotism and a defense of  the freedoms we value--an important moment in our Nation's and, in  fact, in our world's history.

The Italian campaign was fought across treacherous terrain, from the  shores of North Africa to the waters of Sicily, along the rugged Amalfi  Coast, which ultimately led to the liberation of Rome--the first major  European city liberated during World War II. U.S. forces, alongside  brave and committed global Allied forces from over 10 nations,  including Italian resistance brigades, faced grueling conditions,  fierce combat, and severe materiel constraints. Battles such as Monte  Cassino and Anzio stand as two of the most intense of the war, costing  countless lives.

Today, fewer than half a percent of the more than 16 million  Americans who served in World War II are still living today. The  veterans of the Italian campaign, including my father SSG Raymond Moran  of the 603rd Armament Maintenance Battalion are dwindling in number. My  father dedicated 2 years of his life to the liberation of Italy,  repairing rifles and other small arms weapons under the regular threat  of attack to make certain U.S. forces were equipped to win.

I am joined in this resolution by my colleague from Florida Senator  Rick Scott, whose father also served in this campaign, in recognizing  the personal and collective sacrifices of these heroes.

The Italian campaign spanned 602 days, culminating in the surrender  at Caserta, just north of Naples, on April 29, 1945, when nearly 1  million Axis troops capitulated--the largest surrender of German forces  at that point in the war. The following day, Adolf Hitler's death  marked the collapse of the Nazi regime--a turning point made possible  by the military operations comprising the Italian campaign.

This resolution acknowledges the tremendous and significant cost of  the Italian campaign, with hundreds of thousands of U.S. and Allied  casualties, many of whom rest in the serene and pristine American  cemeteries across Italy.

Our resolution reaffirms that the victory was driven by an unwavering  force of will, ironclad military alliances, and the enduring power of  democratic values and principles that remain vital in today's global  conflicts.

I hope my colleagues in the Senate will join me in honoring the  memory of those who fought and died in the Italian campaign, to salute  the surviving veterans, and to recognize the families who carry on  their legacy. Let us designate September 9 as ``National World War II  Italian Campaign Remembrance Day'' to ensure their sacrifices are not  forgotten and are memorialized here on the floor of the U.S. Senate.