Motion to Discharge--S. Res. 195


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691403/motion-to-discharge-s-res-195


Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, the call to feed the world has been  answered by many Kansans, from farmers and ranchers to Senator Bob Dole  and President Dwight D. Eisenhower. American farmers are linked to  global markets and, by extension, to the well-being of people  everywhere.

Two of our Nation's most successful programs for delivering American- grown food to the hungry around the  world are Food for Peace and the McGovern-Dole Food for Education  Program, both rooted in my State of Kansas.

At the recommendation of a Kansas farmer way out in Northwest Kansas,  Kansas Senator Andrew Schoeppel introduced the Food for Peace Act in  the Senate to purchase commodity surpluses to feed the hungry around  the world. It was signed into law by another Kansan, Dwight D.  Eisenhower, in 1954. Later, Senator Dole became the key champion of its  reauthorization. Since its creation, Food for Peace has reached more  than 4 billion people in more than 150 countries using American-grown  commodities.

Another food aid program, the McGovern-Dole Program, was established  in 2002 through the farm bill. It originated from the partnership  between Senator Bob Dole of Kansas and Senator George McGovern of South  Dakota. Since the beginning, McGovern-Dole has delivered more than 5.5  billion school meals to children around the globe.

The mission of these programs is more urgent now than ever. In 2023,  more than 735 million people around the world faced chronic hunger.  That is 1 out of every 10 people on the planet. Food security also  contributes to our national security. When governments cannot feed  their own people, chaos and violence often follow. Food assistance  provided by the United States leads to greater stability in regions of  the world important to America's strategic interests.

Hunger can drive children to join militias or nations to descend into  chaos, opening up an opportunity for adversaries to step in and coerce  a country for natural resources or military capabilities.

Hunger fuels desperation, and desperation fuels unrest. In the Sahel  region of Africa, violent extremism is on the rise. Terrorist groups  exploit food insecurity to win recruits and enforce loyalty. Programs  like Food for Peace and McGovern-Dole break that cycle.

In Lebanon, where economic collapse has shredded the supply chain,  Food for Peace delivered over 100,000 metric tons of wheat last year.  In fiscal year 2023, McGovern-Dole provided school meals to more than  2.5 million children in developing countries like Bangladesh, where  families fled ethnic cleansing and rely upon rations to survive.

Through these programs, Kansas wheat, Arkansas rice, and Iowa  soybeans are feeding the hungry around the world who are facing famine,  war, and national instability.

Food for Peace also provides a critical market for our producers.  This is an issue that matters to Kansas farmers and farmers around the  country. It allows them to sell nearly $2 billion worth of excess  commodities every year, so farmers don't have to let the crops go to  waste and shoulder the losses.

For years, Food for Peace has been hampered by bureaucratic delays,  mismanagement, and abuse within USAID. The inefficiency of USAID hasn't  just wasted taxpayer dollars; it has weakened the reach and  effectiveness of some of our most vital humanitarian aid programs.

Thanks to its extensive infrastructure and hands-on experience in  both domestic and international operations, the USDA is uniquely  positioned to manage Food for Peace. In February, I introduced a bill  with my colleague from Kansas Senator Marshall and our colleague from  North Dakota Senator Hoeven and Representative Tracey Mann--the  occupier of the seat in the First District of Kansas--in Congress to  move Food for Peace out of USAID and under the Department of  Agriculture in an effort to prevent waste and bring the program closer  to the farmers who depend upon it.

Right now, USDA runs two highly successful foreign assistance  programs and already handles all domestic commodity purchases for Food  for Peace Title II.

Most importantly, USDA has the trust of American farmers. They know  the Agency. They understand their work, and it can deliver results. I  am grateful that USDA Secretary Rollins has expressed a willingness to  take on this program and for their commitment to preserving and  strengthening the program's mission.

By placing Food for Peace under USDA's authority, we make certain the  program can continue to bring revenue to American agriculture  producers.

In fiscal year 2023, Food for Peace purchased $713 million worth of  U.S.-grown commodities and McGovern Dole purchased another $33  million--both direct investments into rural communities across Kansas  and the country.

I cochair the Hunger Caucus in the Senate. I cochaired the Hunger  Caucus in the House. I took on that responsibility to try to make a  difference. I have seen the differences these programs can make around  the world, and I support their continuance, even if it needs to be in a  new form.

I often tell farmers in Kansas: Farming is a noble profession.  Feeding people is a worthwhile cause, and God gave you a purpose. God  gave you, a farmer, a purpose for your life.

It was Kansas farmers who came up with the idea for Food for Peace as  a moral and commonsense solution to prevent excess American food from  going to waste and using it to feed the hungry across the globe.

For 70 years, the United States of America has made the difference  between life and death for millions of people around the world and has  made circumstances better for farmers here at home.