Motion to Discharge--S.J. Res. 59


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693123/motion-to-discharge-sj-res-59


Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, the most significant responsibility and  heavy burden a President has is the determination of when to engage the  Armed Forces of our Nation. Such decisions can both cost and save  lives.

This past Saturday, President Trump directed our military to respond  to a growing threat that Iran could weaponize nuclear material and  deliver a nuclear weapon. With escalating tensions between our ally  Israel and our adversary Iran, the President made the decision to deter  and delay the capabilities Iran has to deliver a nuclear weapon. What  we know to date from our intelligence sources is that the President's  actions were significant and successful.

The U.S. Constitution splits the responsibility of the use of  military force between the legislative and executive branches. Having  received a classified and thorough briefing from our military,  intelligence, and diplomatic officials, I conclude that the President  acted within his constitutional authorities.

I welcome the return to a stricter constitutional balance of power  between the branches of government. Under the circumstances of the  recent actions of the President and the timing of the offering of the  resolution now before the Senate, we should not adopt the resolution,  which states, in part:

Congress hereby directs the President to terminate the use       of United States Armed Forces for hostilities against the       Islamic Republic of Iran . . . unless explicitly authorized       by a declaration of war.

With continuing threat from Iran against Israel, the dangers to  American military men and women in the region, and because of the  potential for terrorist acts upon U.S. interests within and without our  borders, I believe the President has the constitutional authority and  responsibility to defend the United States and its interests against  imminent threats. I appreciate the President's decisive action and  express gratitude and respect for the men and women of the military who  carried out his orders, and I support the President in his efforts to  find a peaceful resolution to hostilities in the region.