Sen. Moran Applauds Senate Passage of USMCA


U.S. Senator Jerry Moran (R-Kan.) -- Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science and member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture -- today applauded the Senate's passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA).

On January 3, Sen. Moran urged Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer to bring the USMCA to the Senate floor for a vote as soon as it passed out of the appropriate Senate committees. Sen. Moran voted yesterday in both the Senate Appropriations and Commerce Committees to pass the USMCA, moving it to the full Senate for a vote.

"Passing the USMCA is a major step in implementing this 21st-century trade deal and providing needed certainty for Kansas farmers, ranchers and manufacturers," said Sen. Moran. "Over one-third of Kansas exports go to Canada and Mexico making those countries Kansas' two largest export markets. I appreciate Senate leaders listening to my request and quickly moving this important trade agreement to a vote on the Senate floor. I have heard directly from many Kansas producers on the vital importance of a modern trade deal that expands export opportunities, and I applaud President Trump's work to get this trade deal accomplished."

The House of Representatives passed the USMCA on December 19, and the trade agreement will now go to the President's desk for signing. Mexico has ratified the agreement, and Canada is expected to consider the USMCA in the near future. 

Timeline of Sen. Moran's engagement regarding a modernized trade agreement:

-November 15, 2017: Sen. Moran sent an open letter to U.S. agricultural organizations regarding the threat of NAFTA withdrawal and urged them to advocate for sound trade policy.-December 6, 2017: Sen. Moran met with Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross regarding NAFTA negotiations.-January 7, 2018 and January 13, 2019: Sen. Moran spoke at the American Farm Bureau Federation annual convention about the importance of trade and modernizing NAFTA.-January 30, 2018: Sen. Moran sent a letter to President Trump highlighting how NAFTA benefits the United States and outlining how the agreement can be improved.-February 1, 2018: Spoke at annual National Cattlemen's Beef Association conference about importance of trade and modernizing NAFTA.-April 12, 2018: Sen. Moran discussed the importance of trade and NAFTA during an Agriculture and Trade Roundtable at the White House with President Trump.-May 23, 2018: Sen. Moran sent a letter urging the administration to work closely with members of Congress to make certain a renegotiated NAFTA has the congressional support necessary to be enacted into law.-July 26, 2018: Sen. Moran spoke on the Senate floor regarding the importance of trade to Kansas, including with Canada and Mexico-August 28, 2018: Sen. Moran sent a letter urging President Trump to ensure Canada was part of a trilateral deal following the U.S. and Mexico reaching a preliminary agreement on a revamped NAFTA.-October 1, 2018: Sen. Moran released a statement after the United States, Canada and Mexico announced they have reached a trilateral deal regarding the future of NAFTA.-January 18, 2019: Sen. Moran authored an op-ed in The Garden City Telegram regarding the importance of trade agreements and passing the USMCA.-April 18, 2019: Sen. Moran released a statement on the report accessing the likely impact of USMCA by the International Trade Commission.-December 10, 2019: Sen. Moran spoke on the Senate floor applauding the agreement reached on USMCA.-January 3, 2020: Sen. Moran sent a letter to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer urging them to quickly move the USMCA to a full Senate vote after it passed out of committee.