Sen. Moran Announces Launch of VA Community Care Network in Kansas


U.S. Sen. Jerry Moran (R-Kan.) -- Chairman of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee -- today announced the rollout of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Community Care Network (CCN) in Kansas.

The CCN was created under the VA MISSION Act to connect veterans with community care providers to make certain veterans receive the care they need in their communities rather than having to travel long distances to receive care at a VA center. Starting this week, OptumServe will operate as Kansas' third-party administrator for the CCN and will implement a comprehensive provider network statewide.

"The MISSION Act's Community Care Program is the result of Congress, the VA and advocates across the nation working together to make certain veterans have access to quality health care in the comfort of their communities," said Sen. Moran. "The Community Care Network -- that is launching in Kansas this week -- will better connect veterans with doctors, therapists, surgeons and a network of caregivers right in their own communities. This is a great step in providing Kansas veterans, especially veterans in rural communities, with comprehensive and easily accessible care."

Veterans currently receiving care in the community should visit OptumServe's website at www.vacommunitycare.com. On the website, veterans can create an online account to access referrals, claims, explanation of benefits and eligibility information. For veterans interested in learning more about the Veterans Community Care Program or eligibility requirements, please visit the VA's community care page at https://www.va.gov/communitycare/. 

Integrating a community-based health care system is a formidable task. In the following months, the VA and Optum will likely experience unexpected challenges as the CCN is deployed nationwide. Sen. Moran and the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee will continue to work with the VA to make certain the transition is seamless and that veterans receive quality community care. However, feedback from veterans will be important to help strengthen the CCN. If you are a veteran experiencing problems with VA community care during the transition, please call Sen. Moran's office at 785-628-6401.