Shaheen Welcomes Bipartisan Support for Her Bill to Bolster Domestic Supply Chain for PPE


U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) announced today that U.S. Senators Mike Rounds (R-SD) and Jerry Moran (R-KS) have joined her legislation -- the Homeland Procurement Reform Act -- which would require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to increase the amount of personal protective equipment (PPE) it procures from American companies. Shaheen introduced the legislation last year to ensure that the domestic supply chain for PPE is capable of supplying the critical items that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and other federal agencies need during a national emergency in which acquisition of these materials from abroad is interrupted. Shaheen's legislation is also cosponsored by Senators Murphy (D-CT), Jones (D-AL) and Hassan (D-NH).

"The shortage in personal protective equipment during this pandemic underscores the urgent need to shore up our domestic supply chain in case of national emergencies," said Senator Shaheen. "The COVID-19 outbreak has exposed severe inadequacies in our PPE supply chain which need to be addressed immediately. My legislation would create jobs in the United States and help our nation plan ahead for emergencies rather than trying to play catchup once disaster strikes. I appreciate the bipartisan support from Senators Rounds and Moran on this legislation, and hope together with Senators Murphy, Hassan and Jones, we can garner additional bipartisan backing to get this bill through Congress."

"DHS agents rely heavily on their equipment to carry out their duties, and reliance on foreign-made products could place them in harm's way or jeopardize the mission," said Senator Moran. "This legislation would allow DHS access to the best, innovative personal protective gear and equipment that the American supply chain has to offer. Congress must continue to prioritize legislation that reduces our country's reliance on foreign supply chains for critical national security components."

"It's totally unacceptable that frontline and essential workers have been forced to go without the PPE they need to stay safe. Let's make sure that, going forward, our country can produce the PPE needed to confront a national emergency -- and that it's made right here at home. I'm glad our legislation finally has bipartisan support so we can put more pressure on the federal government to buy American and fulfill PPE needs during this current crisis. It's a no-brainer that should create more jobs and put more Americans to work during these unprecedented times," said Senator Murphy.

"This pandemic has been a wake-up call that we need to significantly ramp up investment in our domestic health care supply chain and reduce our dependence on foreign companies," said Senator Jones. "Our legislation will help ensure that our men and women on the front lines have the supplies necessary to protect themselves and others. I'm glad this legislation is earning bipartisan support and I believe it is a critical step to better protect and prepare our nation for future crises."

"The COVID-19 pandemic has made it clearer than ever that the United States needs to be prepared to mass produce personal protective equipment here at home," said Senator Hassan. "By requiring the Department of Homeland Security to ramp up domestic production of personal protective equipment, this bipartisan bill strengthens both our economy and public health -- and helps to ensure that the U.S. is better prepared for future crises."

Senator Shaheen's legislation would increase the items that DHS is required to procure domestically by placing certain restrictions on DHS procurement. These restrictions would narrow the field that DHS is able to procure from and drive DHS procurement towards predominately U.S. companies that are able to meet the standards outlined in the bill. Bolstering the domestic supply chain would help ensure American made products are prioritized and would also help alleviate shortages that could come during times of national emergencies, such as the COVID-19 outbreak, when obtaining necessary materials like PPE from abroad are interrupted by a crisis.

Earlier today, Senator Shaheen announced that she's called on the Trump administration to immediately take action to increase the long-term domestic supply chain for PPE in the United States. Shaheen's letter comes as industry partners across the nation and in New Hampshire, including DEKA Research and Development Corporation (DEKA), are working to ramp up production of PPE, but face challenges that necessitate federal resources and direction to rectify. 

Senator Shaheen has led efforts to secure urgently needed personal protective equipment for New Hampshire. Last month, Senators Shaheen and Hassan called on the administration to fully utilize the Defense Production Act (DPA) to ensure the VA has the supplies and equipment needed to protect veterans from COVID-19. With the state's congressional delegation, the Senators have sent multiple letters to the Trump administration requesting rapid assistance to ensure New Hampshire health care providers have the supplies needed to address coronavirus cases the state is experiencing. In addition, Shaheen and Hassan sent a letter pressing the administration for information on the distribution of critical medical supplies, including personal protective equipment. The Senators repeatedly called for the President to invoke the Defense Production Act and introduced legislation to expedite the procurement of medical equipment, under the DPA. As a result of these calls and those from others, the President relented. In April, Shaheen and Hassan announced legislation with Senate Democrats that lays out a framework for an effective COVID-19 response by federalizing and adding critical oversight and transparency to the supply chain for essential medical supplies and equipment.