Ukraine


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700139/ukraine


Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, today marks the fourth anniversary of  Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Vladimir Putin believed his so-called  military operation would be over in 2 weeks, but, as the fifth year of  the war begins, Russian forces have fought Ukraine longer than they  fought the Germans in World War II. Because of the bravery and  innovation of the Ukrainians, aided by American and European support,  Vladimir Putin's objective to conquer and control the Ukrainian  Government remains unattainable. His war is a strategic failure.

While the Russian military is making incremental gains in the east  part of Ukraine, it is at an exorbitant cost. Since the invasion began  in February 2022, 4 years ago, Russian forces have seized only 12  percent of Ukrainian territory. Because of the way they fight and how  Ukrainians defend, Russian forces simply cannot achieve breakthroughs  after the breach of Ukrainian positions. Today, nearly 20 percent of  the Donbas remains out of Putin's grasp and Russian forces, already  struggling to take territory, face the ``fortress belt'' of the  region's remaining cities.

Putin has abused his country's manpower advantage by employing a  strategy of attrition with devastating consequences. Russian forces  have suffered 1.2 million casualties in 4 years, and one-third of those  are estimated to have come in the last year alone.

A recent report from the Center for Strategic and International  Studies observes:

No major power has suffered anywhere near these numbers of       casualties or fatalities in any war since World War II.

As these casualties mount, the monetary cost to lure new recruits is  increasing. Russian regions are increasing their signing bonuses for  contract soldiers, indicating that Russian recruitment is beginning to  struggle to meet its goals. From the war's beginning, when Putin was  resorting to mobilizing convicts, now, average Russians do not want to  fight in this war.

Russia's economy has been degraded as the war has been prolonged. The  move to impose sanctions on Russian's energy companies last year--which  should have happened earlier in the war--has made it more difficult to  export oil, the foundation of the Kremlin's budget. Moscow has had to  offer buyers steep discounts of 25 to 30 percent below market value,  increasing their budget deficit to 2.5 percent of GDP.

Sustaining Putin's war depends upon China's continued support.  Beijing purchases nearly half of Russia's crude exports and provides  critical dual-use technologies for Russian materiel.

Putin is overseeing a war effort that is succeeding in feet rather  than miles, and it is coming at considerable cost to the future of his  country. This is no time to permit him to claim a victory, either on  the battlefield or at the negotiating table. We must share the resolve  of Ukrainian people and make certain that Putin's invasion remains the  blunder it was when it started 4 years ago.

While both Washington and Brussels have engaged in public debate,  Putin should not mistake that debate for disengagement. The United  States continues--continues--to provide substantial military and  intelligence support, and our allies have increased their  contributions. There must be no doubt in Moscow about our enduring  commitment to Ukraine. The U.S. expanded intelligence sharing last  October to assist Ukraine in targeting energy infrastructure deep  inside Russia, and the United States lifted range limitations on  certain weapons. Likewise, our European allies have stepped up to  assume some of the financial support for the war, most recently  agreeing to a $105 billion loan for Ukraine.

There is much more I believe both sides of the Atlantic can do to  assist Ukraine. I called for providing Tomahawk missiles last summer,  and the European Union should use Russian foreign reserves to help pay  for Ukraine's war effort. Congress should enact sanctions to discourage  the purchase of Russian oil.

Last March, before the Senate Intelligence Committee, CIA Director  John Ratcliffe told me:

I want to say that with regard to the Ukrainian resistance,       the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian military have been       underestimated for a period of several years. . . . I'm       convinced that they will fight with their bare hands if they       have to.

Ukrainians are coming out of the most difficult winter yet, with  temperatures at their most frigid of the war, and Russian bombing  campaigns aimed at energy infrastructure have taken a toll. Instead of  being convinced to sue for peace on Putin's terms, Ukrainians remain  unwavering in their commitment to remain an independent and sovereign  nation. We must commit to share in their resolve. I say that again. We  must commit to share in their resolve and support the Ukrainian people  in their fight for freedom.