Doe and Nasa Interagency Research Coordination Act


Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1368) to provide for Department of Energy and National  Aeronautics and Space Administration research and development  coordination, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H. R. 1368

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``DOE and NASA Interagency       Research Coordination Act''.       SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AND NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND                     SPACE ADMINISTRATION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT                     COORDINATION.

(a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy (in this section       referred to as the ``Secretary'') and the Administrator of       the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (in this       section referred to as the ``Administrator'') may carry out,       as practicable, cross-cutting and collaborative research and       development activities to support the advancement of       Department of Energy and National Aeronautics and Space       Administration mission requirements and priorities. The       Secretary and Administrator, in accordance with subsection       (e), may make competitive awards to carry out such       activities.

(b) Memoranda of Understanding.--The Secretary and the       Administrator shall coordinate the activities under       subsection (a) through memoranda of understanding, or other       appropriate interagency agreements.

(c) Coordination.--In carrying out the activities under       subsection (a), the Secretary and the Administrator may carry       out the following:

(1) Conduct collaborative research and development       activities in a variety of focus areas that may include the       following:

(A) Propulsion systems and components, including nuclear       thermal and nuclear electric propulsion, radioisotope power       systems, thermoelectric generators, advanced nuclear fuels,       and heater units.

(B) Modeling and simulation, machine learning, data       assimilation, large scale data analytics, and predictive       analysis in order to optimize algorithms for mission-related       purposes.

(C) Fundamental high energy physics, astrophysics, and       cosmology, including the nature of dark energy and dark       matter, in accordance with section 305 of the Department of       Energy Research and Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 18643).

(D) Fundamental earth and environmental sciences, in       accordance with section 306 of the Department of Energy       Research and Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 18644) and section       60501 of title 51, United States Code.

(E) Quantum information sciences, including quantum       computing and quantum network infrastructure, in accordance       with sections 403 and 404 of the National Quantum Initiative       Act (15 U.S.C. 8853 and 8854).

(F) Radiation health effects, in accordance with section       306 of the Department of Energy Research and Innovation Act       (42 U.S.C. 18644).

(G) Ground- and space-based technology necessary for the       transmission to the Earth's surface of solar energy collected       in space.

(H) Other areas of potential research and development       collaboration the Secretary and the Administrator determine       important to achieving agency missions and objectives.

(2) Develop methods to accommodate large voluntary data       sets on space and aeronautical information on high-      performance computing systems with variable quality and       scale.

(3) Promote collaboration and data and information sharing       between the Department of Energy, National Aeronautics and       Space Administration, the National Laboratories, and other       appropriate entities by providing the necessary access and       secure data and information transfer capabilities.

(4) Support the Administration's access to the Department's       research infrastructure and capabilities, as practicable.

(d) Agreements.--In carrying out the activities under       subsection (a), the Secretary and the Administrator are       authorized to--

(1) carry out reimbursable and non-reimbursable agreements       between the Department of Energy and the National Aeronautics       and Space Administration; and

(2) collaborate with other Federal agencies, as       appropriate.

(e) Merit Review Process.--The Secretary and the       Administrator shall ensure any competitive awards made to       carry out the activities under section (a) shall follow all       appropriate laws and agency policies, including the       following:

(1) Selection by merit-review-based processes.

(2) Consideration of applications from Federal agencies,       National Laboratories, institutions of higher education, non-      profit institutions, and other appropriate entities.

(f) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the       enactment of this section, the Secretary and the       Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Science,       Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee       on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, a       report detailing the following:

(1) Interagency research and development coordination       activities between the Department of Energy and the National       Aeronautics and Space Administration carried out under this       section.

(2) How such coordination activities expand the technical       capabilities of the Department and the Administration.

(3) Collaborative research and development achievements.

(4) Areas of future mutually beneficial activities,       including potential applications of clean energy       technologies, such as marine energy.

(5) Continuation of coordination activities between the       Department of Energy and the National Aeronautics and Space       Administration.

(g) Research Security.--The activities authorized under       this section shall be applied in a manner consistent with       subtitle D of title VI of the Research and Development,       Competition, and Innovation Act (enacted as division B Public       Law 117-167; 42 U.S.C. 19231 et seq.).

Mr. BABIN.  1368, the bill now under consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1368, the DOE and NASA  Interagency Research Coordination Act.

The Department of Energy and NASA have an extensive history of  collaboration, which has enhanced both our understanding of the  universe and our ability to explore well beyond our planet.

The Voyager spacecrafts, which were launched more than 40 years ago  and are now flying far beyond our own solar system in interstellar  space, continue to operate with DOE's groundbreaking propulsion  systems.

This DOE-NASA partnership has driven and will continue to drive  advancements in high-performance computing, keeping us at the forefront  of research and development.

Additionally, their collaborative work on nuclear energy is vital to  establishing a long-term human presence on the Moon and next-generation  in-space propulsion. However, these joint technological breakthroughs  not only aid our space endeavors, but they also can be utilized here on  Earth to increase global energy production from reliable energy  resources.

Furthermore, this partnership will help to propel satellite  development, space situational awareness, and even planetary defense  from near-Earth objects.

In short, this bill enables two of our chief scientific agencies to  do better work by tackling some of our most challenging scientific  problems together.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Representative Begich, for  introducing this legislation. I also thank Representative Whitesides  for cosponsoring it. This bipartisan bill earned unanimous support in  the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and passed in the House  last Congress.

Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1368, the DOE and NASA Interagency  Research Act is a smart piece of legislation that will ensure that we  stay competitive in the global race to return humans to the Moon and  then send crewed missions on to Mars.

Without key partnerships like this, we would be unable to take the  crucial steps in energy production and propulsion technologies  necessary to extend our reach beyond Earth. I thank Representative  Begich and Representative Whitesides for their leadership in moving  this bill forward.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support it, and I yield back the  balance of my time.