Extension of Sbir and Sttr Authority


Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Williams, my good friend  from Texas, as well, for yielding.

The Small Business Innovation Research, SBIR, and Small Business  Technology Transfer, STTR, programs are the Federal Government's  largest source of funding for small businesses focused on early-stage  technology development and commercialization.

They offer small businesses an opportunity to participate in Federal  research and development, facilitating the transition of federally  funded R&D into innovative products and services. For this reason,  these programs are often referred to as America's seed fund, as they  invest in research and emerging technology ideas that may be too risky  for private sector funding.

These SBIR and STTR programs are funded from set-asides of the  extramural research budgets at Federal agencies, providing billions of  dollars in awards every year. This substantial investment by taxpayers  necessitates diligent oversight by Congress to ensure that these  programs are operating efficiently and are protected from theft and  abuse by our adversaries, such as the Chinese Communist Party.

The reauthorization Congress passed in 2022 for these programs  addressed some vulnerabilities, but more work needs to be done. Both  the Small Business Committee and the Science, Space, and Technology  Committees are dedicated to addressing these issues and ensuring that  taxpayer funds support American small businesses rather than being  funneled to foreign adversaries.

While we continue our work, it is critical that we do not allow this  vital program to expire. Therefore, we have introduced this 1-year  extension of SBIR and STTR programs and encourage all Members to vote  ``yes'' on this bill.

I look very much forward to working with Chairman Williams, Ranking  Member Velazquez, Chairwoman Ernst, Ranking Member Markey, and Ranking  Member Lofgren to get a full reauthorization completed and through  Congress as soon as possible.