Department of Energy Project Cancelations


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise in fierce objection to the hasty,  ill-considered decisions made by the new administration that undermine  new investment in America's future energy and manufacturing systems.

Rather than enhancing new energy generation and bolstering good- paying jobs in the United States of America across all energy sectors,  including advanced energy manufacturing, the U.S. Department of Energy  has ceded ground to global competitors like Communist China.

Last Friday, U.S. Secretary of Energy Chris Wright announced that the  Department of Energy was canceling $3.7 billion of previously  appropriated funding for 24 advanced energy projects inside the borders  of the United States of America.

Our goal must be to make America energy independent inside our  borders in perpetuity.

These initiatives were designed to reduce energy costs and to  reinvest in American-based manufacturing firms, our Nation's future.

These projects were funded under the Infrastructure Investment and  JOBS Act and the Inflation Reduction Act. The goal was to resecure the  United States as the global leader in energy innovation, but now, the  Department of Energy has pulled the rug out from the future by walking  away from leading-edge U.S. manufacturers. I never thought I would see  that from this administration.

Two weeks ago, I raised this issue of strategic U.S. investment  during a hearing with the new Secretary of Energy, Chris Wright. In  terms of these companies, he said: ``If it is viable, and it is going  to create jobs, and it is going to do these great things, we are going  to support that project.''

The Secretary said that he would ask these questions to make the  decisions: Is the investment legal? Is the technology viable? Is the  engineering done competently? Is there a market for it? Does it add to  our national or economic security?

The projects in question check all of these boxes, so what has  changed? The Department of Energy claims that it conducted a ``thorough  and individualized financial review of each award.'' It found that  ``these projects failed to advance the energy needs of the American  people [and] were not economically viable.''

Every company is economically viable.

Turning America's back on recognized U.S.-based manufacturing--I will  underline that--facing fierce global competition--I underline that--is  an insult.

This includes hundreds of hardworking constituents even across  northwest Ohio. If the goal is to Make America Great Again, then the  U.S. Department of Energy just failed royally. Each of these U.S.  manufacturing companies has developed plans to modernize operations and  to position themselves and our communities to fight back toward  economic success in a fierce global economic race.

America can lead in the energy sector, but we cannot roll back the  clock to a former era when America became economically paralyzed due to  oil embargoes and dirty manufacturing.

Three of the projects across our country for which funding had been  assured are from well-respected Ohio  companies: Libbey Glass, Owens-Illinois Glass, and Kraft Heinz.

Let's talk about Libbey. This historic company holds deep roots in my  hometown of Toledo, long known as the Glass City. Glass requires lots  of energy. The firm has been working for years to maintain  competitiveness in a terrible international glass environment while  reducing its environmental footprint.

Making glass requires huge amounts of power, as I said, and the  funding Libbey was awarded would have helped it transition to more  powerful glass furnaces with cleaner manufacturing technologies. These  jobs are union jobs with living wages and benefits that strengthen Ohio  as a hub for advanced industry.

Owens-Illinois Glass, another recognized heritage glassmaking firm,  is headquartered in Perrysburg, Ohio. It had similar plans at its  Zanesville, Ohio, plants to remain viable and globally competitive.

Third, Kraft Heinz, a giant in the food industry, is in Fremont,  Ohio.

I simply do not understand how canceling these projects makes America  great again. Instead, it emboldens our foreign competitors.

I invite President Trump to Ohio to visit these companies. He can  change these decisions by his Secretary of Energy.

America can't look in the rearview mirror. We have to look forward to  America's new energy future, and the Department of Energy's misguided  decisions will really hurt American advanced manufacturing.

Ohio knows what it means to get left behind. We have seen the effects  of globalization. We have lived it. We have seen the effects of  outsourcing and automation. The United States simply should not be  hurting our legacy companies.