Highlighting Advances in Chinese Electric Vehicle Technology and the Need for American Investment in Battery Technology


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise to highlight a discussion of the  advances in Chinese electric vehicle technology and the importance of  American investment in battery technology. While the Republicans scale  back their ambitions for American leadership in energy technology,  Communist China is racing into the future. We all know that they stole  American technology to get where they are, but now they're lapping us-- especially in batteries where they control 85 percent of the global  market.

Further, the Chinese automaker, BYD, is making electric vehicles that  cost as little as $8,000, and they are gobbling up the global market  share.

Even more troubling, BYD and another Chinese firms have announced  that they will soon be selling EVs that can recharge in 5 minutes to  travel as much as 320 miles--equivalent to a typical traditional gas- powered car. Another Chinese battery firm has announced the development  of a battery they claim will be able to go 3,000 kilometers on only a  5-minute charge.

Now, not everyone loves electric vehicles--my car has a traditional  internal combustion engine--but think of the national security  implications of falling behind in batteries and advanced manufacturing.  We see in Ukraine that the future battlefield is electrified.

We need to be pressing forward, not just in electric vehicles and  batteries, but on all fronts. We should be investing in new forms of  transportation, more in biofuels, and more in sustainable aviation  fuels. We cannot retreat from the future of energy and transportation,  and certainly not from our history of leading the world at the  forefront of new technologies.

I would like to include in the Record a Wall Street Journal article  from April, ``Five-Minute EV Charging Is Here, but Not for U.S.-Made  Cars''. I would also point my colleagues to the following articles on  this topic: Electryk's ``BYD's low-cost Seagull EV now starts at under  $8,000 in China,'' and ``Breakthrough EV Battery Patent Could Charge in  Minutes and Cross a Continent,'' by Carscoops.

Five-Minute EV Charging Is Here, but Not for U.S.-Made Cars       Catl's and BYD's rapid-charging technologies underscore china's

dominance in the EV sector, a technological priority for Xi Jinping                      (By Yoko Kubota, April 23, 2025)

Shanghai.--Two of the world's leading battery developers       are locked in a technological race that has brought the       charging time for an electric vehicle to just five minutes--      about the amount of time it takes to refuel a traditional       gasoline-powered car.

And, in a twist with geopolitical ramifications, both of       the technological leaders are Chinese. It is a show of       prowess that underscores just how far China has extended its       global dominance over next-generation technologies, in some       cases leaving the U.S. years behind.

The claimed leap forward on EV batteries is merely the       latest technological feat for a country that has stunned       Western governments with a string of breakthroughs on       artificial intelligence, semiconductors and EVs--a       vindication of leader Xi Jinping's ambitions of turning China       into a global technological powerhouse.

Contemporary Amperex Technology, the world's biggest       automotive battery maker, said this week on the sidelines of       Auto Shanghai, China's biggest auto show, that it has       developed a new fast-charging system that, within five       minutes, can power a car for 320 miles of driving. By getting       the charging time down to roughly the same time as it takes       to refuel a gasoline-powered car, the Ningde, China-based       company, known as CATL, appears to have further eroded a       major obstacle to wider EV adoption.

CATL's announcement came just after that of fellow Chinese       battery maker BYD which also manufactures its own EVs that       rival Tesla's products. In March, BYD, based in the southern       Chinese technology hub of Shenzhen, said that its new       charging technology is capable of providing 250 miles of       range in five minutes.

The technologies won't be introduced on a wide scale right       away. The batteries can only be charged at a network of       superfast charging stations that is still being built out.

Still, CATL's and BYD's technologies serve as the latest       example of how China is years ahead of the U.S. in EV       technology, even as the Trump administration intensifies       efforts to curtail Chinese companies' access to cutting-edge       technology.

China, under Xi, has long positioned EVs as a technological       priority, while in Washington, concerns have grown among       officials and lawmakers about energy security.

CATL is now responsible for making more than one-third of       the EV batteries on the global market, including those inside       made-in-China Teslas.

CATL and BYD's claimed technological advancements are       unlikely to benefit American consumers, at least in the near       term, given sky-high tariffs levied by the U.S. against       Chinese goods--and in particular EVs manufactured in China.

It is a reminder of how divergent the automotive landscape,       and the consumer experience, have become between China and       the U.S., the world's two biggest economies and auto markets.

Chinese electric cars are an exceedingly rare sight on U.S.       roads because of tariffs that were already at around 100%       last year under import taxes levied by the Biden       administration. Then, in a string of recent moves, President       Trump slapped additional tariffs on most Chinese goods,       including cars, of 145%.

Meanwhile, within China, Xi's top-down push has been       broadly embraced by ordinary consumers, who are now as likely       to buy electric and plug-in vehicles as traditional gas-      powered cars, aided by relatively low electricity costs and a       batch of consumption-related subsidies.

In March, 52% of passenger cars sold in the country were       battery-electric vehicles, plug-in hybrids of range-extended       vehicles, according to the China Passenger Car Association.

As adoption rapidly increased in China, homegrown players       came to dominate the global EV supply chain--including,       crucially, batteries, perhaps the single most important       technology underpinning EV performance. Many of these players       got a big boost working alongside Tesla, the American EV       pioneer that started making cars at its Shanghai plant in       late 2019.

Now, global dependence on Chinese battery suppliers, paired       with concerns that Chinese EVs could flood overseas markets       and pose a threat to domestic players, have raised alarms in       the U.S. and other Western markets.

In a bid to catch up, Ford Motor is building--a battery       plant in the U.S. where it plans to manufacture batteries       using CATL technology.

Chinese battery makers are leading producers of lithium-      iron-phosphate, or LFP batteries. These iron-based battery       cells cost less than the nickel-and-cobalt combination used       widely in North America and Europe.

CATL's newest fast-charging battery, the second generation       of its Shenxing lineup, is an LFP battery with a range of       about 500 miles. CATL said it improved electron transmission       efficiency to avoid overheating during rapid charging.

How quickly such batteries will be adopted on a wide scale       is another matter, because of the need to develop the       charging infrastructure. BYD has said that it is working to       build 4,000 compatible stations in China and that its       charging system will be initially available only for two       models, limiting its uptake in the near term.

Lihong Qin, president of Chinese EV maker NIO, which uses       CATL's battery cells and offers its own battery-swap system,       said carmakers need to see how quickly the rapid-charging       technology scales up, referring to the infrastructure build-      out. ``There is still a big difference between theoretical       calculations and practical applications,'' Qin said.

Mike Dunne, who runs a namesake automotive consulting firm,       said CATL's and BYD's superfast charging technologies are a       genuine breakthrough, but several challenges remain.

The new technology will cost more, and frequent usage will       wear out the battery cells, he said.

``It's more sizzle than steak,'' Dunne said.

China has more than 13 million EV-charging facilities       nationwide, counting both publicly and privately operated       ones, state media has reported. The U.S. has around 77,300       charging locations with about 230,000 EV-charging points in       total, data from the Joint Office of Energy and       Transportation showed. It is unclear if the two figures are       directly comparable, but industry experts widely regard       China's EV-charging environment to be far ahead of the       U.S.'s.

Separately on Monday, CATL introduced a new sodium-ion       battery that it calls Naxtra. At the moment, mainstream EV       batteries are reliant on lithium, creating a potential       bottleneck around supplies of the material. CATL says sodium-      ion batteries, if mass-produced, could help reduce its       dependence on lithium.

Sodium-ion batteries are made from a sodium compound called       soda ash, which can be produced using table salt. Unlike       lithium, sodium is easily accessible everywhere. The U.S. has       also been working on developing this technology.