Liberty Versus Dictatorship


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise to place remarks on the Record this  evening focusing on liberty versus dictatorship.

We have several Members who wish to submit comments for the Record.  Congressman   Mike Quigley is here this evening. Congressman Eugene  Vindman is in a committee markup right now, and Congressman   Steve  Cohen will also have remarks for the Record.

I will begin briefly, and then I will yield to my fellow Congressman  from Illinois.

China's dictator Xi was recently at the historic military parade that  fellow dictator Vladimir Putin celebrated in Moscow. The purpose of the  celebration was to honor the anniversary of Europe's defeat of Nazi  Germany, signaling Putin's intent to actually use that occasion to turn  his binoculars on capturing more free territory to control Ukraine and  beyond.

Putin and Xi together in that situation was rather hard to look at.  Yet, their presence underscored the danger stemming from their close  and increasing cooperation, enlarging the spiderweb of tyranny led by  Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran, all of them acting against  liberty around the world.

Xi said that Russia and China should be friends of steel. He said  that they would deepen relationships in all areas, including military  ties, and strengthen coordination in order to decisively counter  Washington's course of dual containment of Russia and China.

What is more, North Korean troops who have been fighting against  Ukraine's freedom and their freedom fighters for months were fully on  display in Red Square, where Putin embraced them.

America, pay attention.

While Iran was not present at the parade, it continues to be  omnipresent in the skies above Ukraine. Ukrainians can't avoid the  Shahed drones that Russia is using and buying from Iran to kill  innocent Ukrainian civilians who are fighting for their very liberty.

This military parade took place at a critical moment in Moscow's  aggression on Ukraine as American efforts proceed to negotiate an end  to it. To be clear: Vital NATO interests are at stake in central  Europe, where Ukraine serves as the scrimmage line for liberty across  Europe today.

Russia is the free world's only peer in terms of its nuclear  capabilities, and Russia's national security doctrine declares our  country and our people as its principal foe.

America, pay attention.

Putin has made clear that he wants effective political control in  Ukraine and other free nations that used to be part of the Soviet  Union. Putin also wants a veto over defense measures being taken in the  former Warsaw Pact states that want to remain free. Putin doesn't want  that. This means he wants to dictate the fate of many of our NATO  allies in Europe and beyond.

Instead of strategically pushing back on Putin's unchanged goals of  European and global domination, this administration has steadily given  Russian exactly what it wants, both in Ukraine and well beyond. If  Putin had a checklist of things he wanted America to do, I will in a  brief time tell you what it would look like, and it is exactly what the  Trump administration is doing.

Before I get into that, I am going to call on my dear colleague from  the great city of Chicago, Congressman   Mike Quigley, to enter his  remarks.

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank our co-chair of the Ukrainian  Caucus, Congressman   Mike Quigley of Chicago, for participating this  evening.                                General Leave

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I will go back to discussing some of the  actions the administration has taken that have undermined America's  position globally.

First of all, the Trump administration has sided with Russia over  Ukraine, most especially by pausing military assistance to Ukraine. Mr.  Speaker, 75 percent of those dollars are spent in this country on  weaponry to help Ukraine repel the enemy.

Ukraine has been courageously standing and fighting in the breach  between liberty and dictatorship. This has come at great cost to her  people, her prosperity, and her aspirations.

The poorest country in Europe, Ukraine is holding back Putin's  covetousness and aggression against the Continent of Europe. Ukraine  wants nothing more than to finally and permanently ascend to the  community of free nations in the European Union and join as a strong  ally in NATO. For that aspiration, Putin attacked Ukraine and  is eating her territory, and the Ukrainians are holding her off--can  you imagine--the third largest military in the world.

Despite Ukraine being aligned with our values in its historic fight  to regain its freedom, President Trump has time and again spouted  Russian talking points by admonishing Ukraine and falsely suggesting  that she started the war.

That is false.

Russia initiated its invasion of Crimea in 2014 and the larger full  scale of invasion of Ukraine in 2022. It is just amazing what the  Ukrainians are doing. In trying to negotiate a cease-fire between  Ukraine and Russia, President Trump and Vice President Vance have  squeezed concession after concession out of Ukraine, even its mineral  wealth. At times, the Trump administration has effectively held  Ukraine's economic future ransom for more military aid.

This includes the dastardly moment when President Trump suddenly  withheld U.S. support and intelligence sharing that Ukraine relies on  to defend itself from Russia's onslaught. Such a pause undoubtedly cost  Ukrainian lives.

Trump has stated that Putin wants peace in Ukraine. Surely he can't  believe this. Putin has failed to uphold any cease-fire agreement,  including those struck with the United States of America. Dictator  Putin doesn't want peace. He wants Ukraine, all of Ukraine, and beyond.

Secondly, the Trump administration has been dividing democratic  alliances.

Yesterday, President Trump astoundingly said the European union is  worse than China. He even has said that the European union was created  to ``screw America.''

In what world does he live? He seems not to know our history.

Our Nation and European nations that won World War II created NATO to  sustain liberty's alliance and as a shield against future invasions.  Together, we comprise a formidable force. In doing so America was  guaranteed strong security partners to defend against a world war and  new threats of tyranny like that of Putin, North Korea, and Iran today.

That is why we have the European allies. They are our oldest friends  and partners and we share a love of liberty. Rather than stand united  as we have been for decades, the Trump administration has threatened  to--are you ready for this--annex Canada and invade Greenland, which is  part of Denmark.

Both are current NATO allies. Canada fought nobly with our troops on  the shores of Normandy on D-day and many other places. Both nations  served honorably alongside our Armed Forces in Afghanistan in response  to 9/11. Threatening our neighbors and allies in such a manner is  taking a page out of the very playbook of lies Putin has used  repeatedly against Ukraine. Our partnerships have been won and  developed as liberty's umbrella with the democratic nations of Europe.

Putin knows that. He cannot defeat our alliance if we stand united.  Instead, he now waits for Trump to break apart our own security blanket  so he can pick liberty's shield off one by one.

Thirdly, the Trump administration has weakened our cyber defense.  U.S. top intelligence officers recently released the annual threat  assessment, which states the following: ``Russia's advanced cyber  capabilities, its repeated success compromising sensitive targets for  intelligence collection, and its past attempts to pre-position access  on U.S. critical infrastructure make it a persistent  counterintelligence and cyberattack threat. Moscow's unique strength is  the practical experience it has gained integrating cyberattacks and  operations with wartime military action, almost certainly amplifying  its potential to focus combined impact on U.S. targets in time of  conflict.''

So yes, Russia is a real threat to our freedom. Its cyber  capabilities are a unique threat. Despite knowing this to be true,  Trump has taken steps to tear down our cyber capabilities in a  comprehensive manner. Why?

Since taking office, Elon Musk and DOGE have decimated cybersecurity,  CISA, our premier cybersecurity agency, with personnel cuts and stop  work orders.

Why would anyone do that?

In March, President Trump and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth abruptly  ended U.S. cyber operations against Russia. This was done without  warning and without consulting Congress.

Then in April, at the beck and call of a far-right, online opinion  influencer, President Trump fired four-star General Timothy Haugh  without warning from his position leading our military cyber forces.  General Haugh--get ready for this--served our Nation honorably with  distinction for 34 years.

The Trump administration has left America's cyber gates unlocked at a  time when cyberattacks are rapidly on the rise. Putin will make our  Nation pay dearly for that set of serious errors.

Fourthly, Trump administration policies threaten U.S. global economic  standing. Through American ingenuity and hard work, the likes of wish  Russia cannot compete against, our Nation's financial systems are a  privileged place at the center of a global economic system.

The United States has the largest economy in the world. Most other  nations rely on the U.S. dollar to hold their savings and reliably  conduct international trade. Putin wants to end that. Trump's  unprecedented and irresponsible reciprocal tariff regime is helping  Putin achieve that goal. Not only has Trump's costly universal tariffs  endangered our good trade relations with our closest economic allies,  moreover, they are also making others think twice about using and  trusting the U.S. dollar.

These costly economic taxes on U.S. consumers will be very difficult  to reverse, even if Trump pulls back his tariffs, supply chains are  clogged already.

Putin has long spoken about his interest in reducing the world's  reliance on America's economic strength and the U.S. dollar. Such a  world leaves each American poorer and with fewer economic  opportunities. Just as Russia relies on oil exports to finance and  undercut the financial sanctions that have been placed on that country  due to its invasion of Ukraine, Putin has called for the world to adopt  untraceable cryptocurrency to protect his assets. He prefers this  unregulated alternative as he pushes the world to abandon the dollar.

Now, Trump is one of the world's biggest promoters of cryptocurrency  and has even started his own cryptocurrency to avoid regulated  financial markets to enrich himself and his family.

Fifthly and finally, the Trump administration's actions to date are  upending America's global reputation. Perhaps most damaging, Trump has  upended our global reputation as a responsible partner and guardian of  liberty across our world. He leans toward dictators.

What is that all about?

It took 80 years for America, with our leaders like Franklin  Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy, Ronald Reagan to meticulously secure our  place as leader of the free world. We didn't seek it, but we did our  job.

America is the global beacon of liberty and justice for all. Our  reputation has been earned by tremendous sacrifice and vision. Our  commitment to liberty has been built on the sacred graves of over  500,000 Americans who sacrificed their lives for the first time in  history and fought not for power or land, but for the liberation of  others from tyranny during World War II.

Over 2 million of our fellow citizens bore the injuries from that  conflict. In the decades that followed, our Nation and our allies  became prosperous not by closing our doors to the world or hiding from  the challenges of the Communist bloc, our forebearers met tyranny head- on. We met the threats that we faced and stood together on our Nation's  founding commitment of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,  year after year, in the face of constant threats.

American liberty has been a multigenerational effort, admired around  the world with each generation standing firm. In just over 100 days,  Donald Trump, whose family has no record anywhere of military service  or sacrifice for this Nation, is carelessly throwing liberty to the  wolves. He seems to enjoy dictatorship, plutocracy, and wealth over  principle. Russia celebrates as America retreats from the world, so  does Iran and North Korea.

Trump has taken Putin at his word. Putin's word can never be trusted.  As long as President Trump keeps trusting Putin over our allies, then  he will continue to do Russia's bidding at the expense of the American  people.

If America doesn't lead, then Putin and Xi and all of their dictator  buddies will rule the day, and in their world, liberty cannot survive.

America must pay attention. Pay attention not just to what is  happening inside our borders but outside our borders. I can tell you  there are enemies to liberty across this world. We have to hold our  ground. We have to tell our own President pay attention, learn from  history, appreciate the relationships that had been won at such a high  price.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressmen Quigley, Cohen, and Vindman, all of  whom will contribute remarks to the Record this evening.