Reflecting on Impact of Illegal Action in Venezuela


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, this past weekend, I prayed, and thanks to  God for saving the lives of every single one of our precious soldiers,  sailors, airmen, marines, and intelligence officers who were deployed  secretly to Venezuela by the President of the United States without  consent of Congress.

Importantly, this operation was planned and executed in violation of  the United States Constitution, Article I, Section 9, Clause 7: ``No  money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in consequence of  appropriations made by law.'' That clause also requires publication of  all publicly expended money, funds.

None of that came to Congress, even in some of the most sequestered  private meetings--nothing, no information, no support.

This military operation expended billions upon billions of U.S.  taxpayer funds. The prior speaker, Congressman Schweikert, talked about  the deficit going up. Well, where did the money that was not  appropriated come from?

No one could be more grateful than I that our valiant combat teams  all came home safely. Without question, because of funds that have been  provided over the years, their readiness and performance resulted in  their safe return. However, the commanding officials who are  responsible for their deployment have not responded to requests by  Congress to report from which accounts the money was withdrawn-- billions and billions of dollars, for almost 6 months--for the  deployment and actions in the Gulf and Atlantic theater.

The Trump administration has failed to account for the funds that  they have expended. Commanding officers and administration appointees  have withdrawn billions and billions of dollars from the U.S. Treasury,  from our taxpayers, without legal authority, as constitutionally  required. For this, the executive branch and those who are in charge  must be held accountable. That day will come.

The draw down of billions of Federal taxpayer dollars to conduct  these military operations has been expended without a vote of Congress,  nor even a notification. I can attest the administration has failed,  despite two requests I have made in public and private meetings with  the highest level of Department of Defense officials and this  administration, to provide the Committee on Appropriations of both  Chambers of Congress the details of which accounts were drawn down and  how much will it be to carry out these costly continuing operations.  Tonight, for a third time, I place on the public record asking the U.S.  Department of Defense: What funds have been expended in years 2025 and  are being expended currently, and from which specific accounts, and are  projected to be expended from which accounts in this year of 2026 in  the Venezuelan operations.

Billions and billions and billions of taxpayer dollars have been  spent and are being spent in the Gulf and Atlantic theater for these  operations since midyear last year. Secretary of State Rubio has  claimed the Venezuelan invasion was not a military operation. Do you  believe that? He calls it a law enforcement action. Really? Did these  funds flow from the Department of Justice? Congress doesn't know.  Thousands upon thousands of America's finest have been positioned and  missed holidays and family days on dozens of battleships, some lifted  in the air and then dispatched to ground action. This operation was  much more than a law enforcement action. It was an action of war and  regime change in another nation.

This country is powerful enough to do almost everything, but you  can't violate the Constitution. That is different.

Can Secretaries Hegseth and Rubio give us examples of other so-called  law enforcement actions that have cost U.S. taxpayers billions and  billions of dollars? Moreover, this Presidential administration has not  legally appropriated a single dollar. Rather, it appears billions and  billions of dollars have been expended, some might say illegally  transferred and some might say stolen, from other Department of Defense  accounts or from executive accounts or from other Federal agencies to  conduct these costly Venezuelan operations. From where? So now the  simple question: How much did it cost to capture the dictator of  Venezuela, Maduro, and his wife?

I ask, Mr. President, how much money and exactly from which accounts?  Give me the specific numbers and accounting titles from which billions  and billions of America's taxpayer funds were transferred. These  shorted accounts are going to have to be refinanced. How and when?

Secretary Hegseth, Secretary Rubio and perhaps OMB Director Russell  Vought, their chief budget manager, it is your sworn constitutional  duty to provide the American people which Defense or other Federal  department and agency accounts have been shorted because you  transferred untold billions of dollars to depose Venezuela's dictator  Maduro and his wife.

Do you know that our own citizens can't get through to the Social  Security office because you have cut the staffing back so much? Do you  have any idea what is actually happening at the local level in this  country? No one in this Chamber is a fan of Maduro, and the people of  Venezuela have a humongous, difficult task of building their country  forward now, but why behave deceitfully when you swore an oath to the  Constitution of the United States.

Now, based on President Trump's press conference this past weekend,  it seems that this lengthy and costly deployment of U.S. military into  the Gulf and the Atlantic aims to reclaim very dirty crude oil deposits  with out-of-date refineries in Venezuela. How many refineries are  there? One? Who formerly owned them? Is it only the former Chevron  facility? What is the business plan going forward, starting with how  are we going to reimburse the accounts that were raided here?

For the sake of the American people who are footing the big bill for  all of this, here is an idea. What if Congress considers a taxpayer  recovery fee on every Venezuelan or American energy company that will  benefit from the heroism of America's military. How about putting some  of that money into military housing, which is a disgrace.

Let's refund it back to our taxpayers in the form of an energy rebate  to help them pay their rising utility bills. That is, Congress could  mandate that any company that draws up Venezuelan dirty crude oil for  their corporate coffers should instead be required to share in the cost  of the operation and rebate any profit to the hardworking American  taxpayers. The military operations amount to billions of dollars, so  any energy company benefiting from the heroism of our military should  pay an energy tax refund to U.S. taxpayers. Think about it.

U.S. energy prices are rising and even doubling across Ohio, our  Buckeye State, and many other localities across our country due to the  rise of data centers. Meanwhile, this administration is cutting off  funds for modern energy systems. Wouldn't such a rebate not only be  sensible but welcome and impactful for America's households that are  seeing rising energy bills every month and rising water utility bills?

Historically, the human lust for crude oil--and Venezuela's crude is  very dirty--is legendary. It is a subject about which the American  people are going to become even more keenly aware. Why? Because the  blood of war and the quest for dirty crude oil are tightly bound. Far  too many members of our military have lost their lives to defend the  interests of dirty crude. That isn't always in the headlines, but  underneath, that is exactly what it is. The Saudi oil kingdom is but  one example of the bondage of blood and oil to military dictatorships  and war. To gain a sense of it, I recommend a book, ``Sleeping With the  Devil'' by Robert Baer. You will learn a lot about blood and war and  the sacrifice of the people in our military of this country over  several generations.

Over the last three-quarters of a century in particular, the rush and  fixation for crude has become a very costly cause of U.S. war deaths  across our military forces. Thousands upon thousands of our war dead  have been sacrificed in such conflicts for which I will now put figures  on the Record.

Over the last century, time and again, in war after war, excepting  for World War II, but for the China-Burma-India theater, our most  precious U.S. military has rendered hundreds of thousands of selfless  Americans, men and women, who have been ordered to battle and  sacrificed their lives to gain access to the world's crude oil  deposits.

The time for foreign oil conquests should be over. Frankly, America  must not live in the past. We must keep inventing. We can't go back. We  have got to go forward. Our energy future is right here at home. Over  the last 50 years, new American energy sources have been invented. All  exist in our homeland, with more to come. I am just so proud of the  inventiveness of the American people. The discovery of natural gas in  the Utica and Marcellus shale deposits at the border in Ohio  and Pennsylvania is absolutely enormous, the largest on our entire  continent. We are seeing whole communities changed and revitalized  because of this. That was only made possible by the Department of  Energy's invention of fracking technology since President Jimmy Carter  first founded the Department when he was President of the United States  in the 1970s. Ohio's nuclear industrialized north is being positioned  to grow through fundamental modernization. That can't come soon enough  for me. We have got to replace our 50-year-old nuclear power plants  across this country.

Our objective must be to make America energy independent here at home  in perpetuity. Our military has gone to war too many times in the last  century to engage in wars in oil-rich places.

How President Trump is going to run Venezuela remains a mystery. My  concern remains how much is this going to cost the taxpayers of our  country. He has already expended billions, without the approval of  Congress, to decapitate the corrupt leaders of Venezuela; but the White  House can't even tell Congress how much has been expended, nor which  accounts their budget director, Russell Vought, moved money out of to  cover the billions and billions spent on this Venezuelan operation.

What this administration is carrying out is in clear violation of the  appropriations authority of Congress. It is undermining our  Constitution under Article I. That is the beginning of the  Constitution. I recommend every American go back and look. It puts  everyone in danger when you don't follow the law.

Operating dilapidated oil platforms in Venezuela is really not the  President's job. That is what he says he is going to do. Now, the  President does have responsibility for America's security, and so does  Congress, to assure our energy independence, but he is shortchanging  many programs across the Federal establishment that would make energy  independence in perpetuity a reality.

Our energy portfolio domestically must be balanced and comprehensive,  a truly all-of-the-above strategy in order that there be competition  not reliance on dirty crude. That day should be over. That means  continuing progress on renewable energy systems like modern nuclear,  green hydrogen, fusion, biofuels, solar, hydroelectric, geothermal, and  capturing thermal waste heat. Though the President does not like wind  power, in some remote and coastal locations they do make sense.

The administration's Venezuela obsession is going to prove to be, I  am sad to say, very expensive. Whatever happens will also take time.  Forces of sabotage may lurk in an impoverished nation of over 30  million people, and its institutions are run down. Is the Trump  administration assuming the task of nation building? That could add  billions and even trillions to our debt.

When I asked Secretary Hegseth how many billions of dollars the  Venezuelan operation had cost us in the United States to date, I asked  where the unappropriated funds had come from. He rather dismissively  blew me off and stated: From the general accounts. Mr. Speaker, there  is no such thing. I asked that he identify the specific accounts at the  Department of Defense from which he diverted funds to pay for this  operation. He did not reply.

For example, I have been told military housing has been shorted to  spend billions on military action. Secretary Hegseth then had a second  thought. He said: Call my office. I asked him directly with whom in his  office should I speak, and he replied: Anyone. Mr. Speaker, I am from  the working class town of Toledo, Ohio. We understand a dodge when we  hear one. I then reasked the question yesterday in a bipartisan  convening here in the Congress: From which accounts, Mr. Secretary,  were funds diverted to pay for the billions of dollars being expended  in the Gulf and Atlantic theater. Again, he dodged and refused to  answer.

The Secretary of State calls this Venezuelan deployment ``a law  enforcement action.'' I have never seen--and please anyone listening to  this, if you have seen a law enforcement action that has cost multiple  billions of dollars, please let me know. Call my office.

The briefings we received before Christmas were hollow, and as we  know now, totally misleading. The bipartisan briefing yesterday  described the operation but not the costs.

Again I ask: Name the accounts exactly from which billions of dollars  have been diverted to pay all the expenses of this major continuing  military operation? Is the administration going to hire mercenaries in  the next several months? If so, exactly from which accounts and which  companies?

I would prefer any funds be rebated to our American people for the  rapidly rising costs of energy because of the emergence of AI and data  centers. The operation executed by our military that the administration  has just perpetrated is not a law enforcement action by any stretch of  reasonable consideration. It is an act of war and occupation.

Are funds being taken from our nuclear Navy shipbuilding program  which is already 2 years behind schedule? Are funds being subtracted  from cybersecurity accounts that are so essential to national security  and our future? What about military housing, which I mentioned for  servicemembers and their families all across this country and world, or  how about the healthcare of those who have served in theater?

I can guarantee this: There aren't enough people at the Veterans  Administration to answer the phones when our vets call in and ask for  appointments because they are being shorted on doctors and nurses. The  thousands of people they need to hire that Elon Musk erased from  Federal employment, that is un-American.

The American people have an absolute right to know account by account  how much this U.S.-Venezuela military oil operation has cost over the  last several months. Rebuilding Venezuela is not the top priority for  the people of the district I represent in northwestern Ohio.

While we observe billions being spent in Latin America for oil, the  Trump administration has just canceled millions of dollars to Ohio  manufacturers who were hoping to make their operations more energy  efficient to compete with China and other countries around the world  who compete so unfairly.

Those projects to manufacturing companies in Ohio have been halted by  the administration over the course of the last year and then just again  before the holidays. The U.S. Department of Commerce, for example,  canceled all Federal assistance for manufacturing extension long relied  upon in Ohio and across our country, especially in manufacturing areas  that were depleted after the passage of NAFTA to help spur business  extensions for small- and medium-sized manufacturers.

When we get the tax refunds from oil that is going to be spent in  Venezuela, let's help some of these companies that need to build the  future for our communities.

The question must be asked: Why does the administration expend  billions for capturing dirty, defunct crude refineries in a foreign  country, rather than investing in the future of American companies  right here at home?

The American people deserve an answer. This is not a small amount of  money. They deserve transparency by the Trump administration.

I lived through the first Arab oil embargo of this country as our  people endured the great harm it caused. Our Nation should not be  funding recovery of defunct, dirty crude oil companies in foreign  nations, rather, investment is needed here not just in our northwestern  Ohio district but nationwide to modernize and advance modern energy  systems.

Our grid needs modernization across our Nation. Why? The poor  condition of the existing grid and the recent doubling of electric  bills across our region due to a surge of data centers consumes massive  amounts of power. Our grid is old. All over the country we must focus  on building new energy systems at the cutting edge of American  technology. Dirty Venezuelan crude is not the answer. We can't live in  the past.

America needs investment in new, diversified energy platforms, in  green hydrogen, in modern nuclear. I know our young people will do  this. I just know they are going to grow into this, in natural gas  applications and advanced biofuels, more powerful thin film energy  arrays, including solar, thermal heat recovery, fusion, advanced  batteries. Our region has oil refineries  whose platforms have been made cleaner. They need help in dealing with  RINs inside our own Nation. Why not help them?

Nuclear power plants in our region of Ohio are over a half century  old. We don't need old nuclear, we need modern, safer nuclear. We need  the President's help to modernize Ohio's Nuclear North with a new grid.  Our industrial corridor produces heavy truck and car platforms, steel,  strategic metals, cryogenic hydrogen, biofuels, renewable fuels,  natural gas, advanced solar, and nuclear power. I would like the  President to take as much money as he just spent in the Gulf on this  Venezuelan operation and modernize the electric grid across the Great  Lakes region that I represent. There is enough money in that to cover  other areas of the country.

America should be excelling in new grid replacement and creating  jobs, but guess what, Mr. Speaker, we are very, very far behind.

The people of my region work in manufacturing. They work in steel.  They work in strategic materials. We prefer not to import steel here.  We make it. We build cars. We prefer not to import. We build tanks. We  can't import our defense industry base. We must build it. That is what  we do. Our region operates among the top 10 finest National Guard F-16  Fighter Wings in this whole Nation. Mr. Speaker, 20 years ago our,  pilots flew the first biofueled F-16 aircraft out of a major base in  our country.

We grow crops for biofuels right where we live, and those fuels went  into those planes. We don't import it.

Our military is looking for more renewable fuels. The American people  and our military need domestic energy investment in our country, not  Venezuela. We need jobs here, not in penny-wage havens.

It is clear that the President deployed the U.S. Navy to the Gulf and  the Atlantic to take over Venezuela's oil industry. Both China and  Vladimir Putin's close relations with Venezuela have been a regional  concern, but we don't need to take over old, broken-down former  platforms for oil to block Putin. We just place further financial  sanctions on Russia, which could happen in this House Chamber with two  more Members signing discharge petition No. 8 at the Clerk's desk in  this Chamber. We need only two more signatures to get it across the  finish line to put more sanctions on Russia. That would make a big  difference.

President John F. Kennedy, a Navy man and the only President ever  awarded the Purple Heart, understood exactly what to do when faced with  the Cuban Missile Crisis perpetrated by Communist Russia one-half  century ago. He blockaded the region.

This country has the strongest defense ever known to humankind. We  can protect ourselves if we are smart enough to do it, but we can't do  it without investments in this country to make our companies stronger.

The President of the United States should not seek to run foreign  countries' oil companies.

What is morally troubling is that the President sought $1 billion in  campaign donations from major oil and gas interests. He should reflect  on our Nation learning a hard, painful lesson from our decades-long  presence in long conflicts that dragged on. Tutoring other governments  to make them work is a deep, dangerous, and expensive hole that is  being dug by this administration. The American people don't want to go  down this path anymore.

Our primary job must be to defend our country against all enemies,  foreign and domestic. That means being strong inside our own borders.  It means abiding by the rule of law and our Constitution. We had best  focus on the future right here in the USA, abide by our country and the  rule of law, and strengthen our ties with other proven democracies of  the world. That alliance is our insurance in war. America must not be  sucked down into unstable situations.

The lingering challenge of our own future energy security here at  home is real. The solution demands the brilliance of invention inside  our own borders, and we must never tie our future to imports or foreign  crude.

The good news is that our citizens and inventors have been busy  inventing our new energy future inside our borders right here at home.

Mr. President, if your staff allows you to watch this speech, I  personally invite you to join me with members of our American energy  team. We will show you the new energy future that is developing right  here inside our own Nation. They have you captured down there in Mar-a- Lago. There is a lot bigger country to see.

Our nuclear Navy is the best in the world. Their work matters. They  are behind. We need your help. We are on the horizon of advanced  nuclear. We need your help.

Our farmers, too, have figured out how to grow a range of biofuels.  One-half of their crop now goes into fuel. Come. Meet them. Your  tariffs limit their global reach, even as their role in new energy  fuels is huge.

Our water and wastewater utilities are beginning to capture vast  amounts of geo-power in a way prior generations have never even  imagined possible. Building materials inventors are creating more  energy-efficient windows, better siding and materials for construction,  better roofing, and better batteries. So many power options like green  hydrogen await on the horizon.

Why would any wise leader handcuff their nation to imported and dirty  foreign crude dependency?

I have devoted a major share of my career to helping America regain  its energy independence in perpetuity across all sectors of energy.  That keeps it competitive.

Our domestic deposits of oil and natural gas must be used  judiciously. We are now the largest exporter of oil in the world. We  will not be the last generation, however, to populate this country, and  we cannot live in the past. We must live in the future.

In the last century, and even this one, America often headed to war  for oil interests. Our soldiers fought unending battles in godforsaken  places anchored to dirty crude. We even had to pass legislation here in  Congress that began in my district to create the toxic exposure fund,  the Sergeant First Class Heath Robinson Honoring our Promise to Address  Comprehensive Toxics Act, to allow treatment for the toxins our vets  who fought in the Middle East and Vietnam endured as their health  failed. No member of our military should ever die for dirty crude.

Folks, what a pity it would be if the Trump Presidency went down in  history as taking American progress backward on energy independence.  That hangs in the balance.

Just in my lifetime, here is a summary of U.S. military personnel who  died in foreign conflicts where crude oil interests underpinned the  surface warfare. I say no more.

World War II, in the 1940s, during World War II, our Uncle Tony was  deployed by the Office of Strategic Services, or OSS, to the China- Burma-India theater. He served as an Army parachutist and truck  driver--he was so brave--under command of General Vinegar Joe Stilwell.  Fighting off Japanese regulars in bitter combat, our uncle was part of  an elite unit building the Burma Road. His dangerous mission helped  stop the flow of oil to Japan from the surrounding oil-rich East Asian  deep-sea crude oil deposits. Again, control of oil was central to  warfare. Today, the former Burma Road that he helped build is a major  corridor for China's Belt and Road Initiative. Pay attention, folks, to  oil.

In the Korean war, 1950 to 1953, we lost 36,000 U.S. troops, 36,000  U.S. war dead. It was the second most deadly war of the Cold War, which  was undeclared by a gutless Congress involved in the North Korean  People's Army that invaded South Korea in an attack along the 38th  parallel, the dividing line between Communist North Korea and the  Democratic Republic of South Korea. Again, the war occurred along the  Korean Peninsula, which still remains divided but which accesses oil  from multiple fields along the eastern rims of both nations. Today,  South Korea does not produce oil, but it has the fifth largest refining  capacity in the world after the U.S., China, Russia, and India.

In Vietnam, over 58,280 conscripted U.S. troops died near the Chinese  border in an undeclared war by another gutless Congress. More than  60,000 more Vietnam veterans died when they returned home by their own  hand.

Mr. Speaker, they were and are America's patriots, drafted and sent  to that horrible war  by Democratic President Lyndon Johnson from the oil rich State of  Texas. Thousands of conscripted U.S. soldiers were unloaded off ships  to fight in that undeclared conflict. Many deboarded vessels, as they  viewed and reported huge oil derricks operating in the South China Sea  ringing the coasts of Vietnam, and adjacent countries. Many came home  from that confusing deployment wondering what they had fought for and  against. Records indicate oil drilling in the South China waters  continues until today. Oil and gas companies in Vietnam made huge  profits in 2025.

Kuwait Gulf War--1991--147 U.S. War Dead:

About a decade later came the Gulf War. U.S. troops were deployed to  save the Royal Kingdom's dirty crude oil for the monarchy of Kuwait.  Republican President George Herbert Walker Bush of Texas was buddies  with the Saudi Family and its lobbyists and the Kuwaiti and Saudi  royalty. Together they mobilized the U.S. military and other nations to  push neighboring Iraqi despot Saddam Hussein back into Kuwait's border.  Hussein's objective was to steal from Kuwait's crude oil fields which  extended across the adjoining borders of Kuwait and Iraq. The Coalition  of the Willing Forces rolled back Saddam's forces inside his own  borders. When I landed in Kuwait during the Iraq War that came two  decades later, I entered the headquarters complex of the U.S. military  command. It was huge. It looked like a massive Mission Control for a  U.S. space launch. Video screens, hundreds of employees, and a full  color, smiling portrait of former President and oil man George Bush  Senior--probably 5 feet by 6 feet plastered on the wall of the secure  entryway. So, another U.S. President also from Texas supported another  crude, dirty oil kingdom war in the complex Middle East political array  of undemocratic states.

2001--Iraq War--U.S. War dead--3,481:

Saudi religious dissidents snuck into the U.S. under the tutelage of  Saudi religious zealot Osama bin Laden--they highjacked four airplanes  and flew those planes into New York City's tallest buildings--the World  Trade Towers--the first foreign attack on U.S. soil in American  history. Another plane hit the Pentagon and a fourth headed for  Washington, DC crashed near Johnstown, Pennsylvania.

In New York City, the demise of the World Trade Center occurred with  the first plane crashing into its North tower above the 80th floor.  That impact brought down the Cantor Fitzgerald trading company whose  President is Howard Lutnick (who today serves as the U.S. Secretary of  Commerce). That firm handled Wall Street's major oil trader called e- bond's from the Middle East through its New York World Trade Center  offices by denominating them in dollars. It also ran a London Office.  Had the London office not existed on 9-11, it is likely the U.S.  financial bond markets would have collapsed that day. Chaos would have  reigned across our entire financial markets.

By way of history, Ronald Reagan who had served as President from  1981 through 1989--importantly with oil man George Bush Senior of Texas  as his Vice President--had negotiated an agreement during his  Presidency with the Saudis to dollar denominate all its oil revenue  trades, bringing enormous financial benefit to the U.S. financial  markets. Moreover, it is important to follow the footsteps of Richard  ``Dick'' Cheney, then Secretary of Defense, and late Vice President  during the George Bush II Presidency from 2001 to 2009. When he left  his position as U.S. Secretary of Defense for George Bush I, he worked  for Haliburton company whose purpose is earning money off drilling, and  refining dirty crude oil from everywhere in the world. Oil is not  liberty. But its presence has impacted liberty throughout modern  history. Osama bin Laden was intelligent. He understood the finances of  Middle East oil interests. I believe he knew exactly how Cantor  Fitzgerald and U.S. bond markets were directly tied to the Middle East  kingdoms' stability, and U.S. markets.

History demonstrates our nation has rewarded tens of thousands of  American lives for dirty crude oil interests. We should not be sending  our sons and daughters to die in Venezuelan jungles so oil companies  can squeeze wealth out of that sovereign nation to pad their profit  margins, and fill the pockets and bank accounts of the influential  president's billionaire buddies, or presidents and financial interests  whose top priority is not the American people, nor liberty.

To remain strong and energy independent in perpetuity, the United  States of America must continue its steady progress in building  competitive modern energy systems forward here in our homeland. May God  bless America.