Supporting Ukraine's Independence


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, this evening, along with several colleagues,  I am here to discuss Ukraine and the necessity of Ukraine winning the  war  against Russia's invasion. I will be joined by Congressman   Mike  Quigley of Illinois and Congresswoman Madeleine Dean of Pennsylvania.

As I begin, please let me remind the President of our country, our  Vice President, and Secretary of State that freedom means never  surrender. Liberty must never capitulate to dictatorship. America does  not live alone on this Earth. Our Nation lives in a free world  alliance, and this alliance is being tested globally every single day.

Especially America's leaders cannot turn their back to Russia's  murderous forces bearing down including illegally on Ukraine. History  is clear. The dictatorship of Russia takes what is not theirs. Russia  invades territory that does not belong to it.

If one looks at this map, Russia is a vast country of 11 time zones.  It does not lack for territory. Here is Ukraine. Just think about that.  West of that lies Europe. Study the map. Mr. Speaker, if you know  nothing about Europe and that vast continent, think about 11 time zones  and then our closest allies in the free world. Let that settle.

The facts speak for themselves. If my colleagues need more proof, ask  Poland, Georgia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and a dozen other  countries that Russia covets. They cast off the Russian bear just a few  decades ago, and Russia wants them back.

Russia taunts our closest military allies across the European  Continent. Together, we and our allies honor our collective memory of  our collective sacrifice and bloodshed that built the free world that  the generation before us gave us.

The Trump administration has proposed that the United States abandon  and even scold our European allies. Let me be clear. Our Nation  intergenerationally and painstakingly has built the North Atlantic  Treaty Organization, a global fortress of democratic nations.

Across Europe, from the ruins of World War I and World War II lie the  precious graves of 411,516 American soldiers and--no one knows  exactly--35 million to 50 million Europeans who died fighting or in the  crossfire.

These heroes and heroines fought for the cause of liberty. Then they  built a world order in which they attempted to enshrine it. Forged from  that coalition of suffering, our joint commitment to defend freedom  above all else prevails.

This moment for Ukraine--Russia and Ukraine--is a key moment in  history. It is our generation's crucial test of freedom or subjugation.  No succor can be allowed to a murderous dictatorship, no matter how  many of Russia's rich oligarchs seek to plunder and steal from the  sacred soils and minerals of Ukraine. The free West must stand united  and say no.

Lovers of freedom must not ignore history. Putin's illegal invasion  of Crimea and other stolen territories in Ukraine should be forbidden  and turned back. Conquest is his perversion and his corruption. No  stolen territory from Ukraine should be ceded to Putin. Spanning 11  time zones, Russia holds enough territory.

Having traveled there many times, Vladimir Putin ought to take care  of his own country. They have got major problems. Putin should help his  own nation thrive again. He has no need for Ukraine, which is among the  poorest Nations in Europe. Look how they are fighting for liberty. It  brings tears to my eyes.

Putin's plunder seeks to reconstitute the dictatorship, the  vanquished Soviet dictatorship, that extended as far West as here. He  wants those smaller countries. He wants them back. He longs for them,  but they are not his.

Putin now issues an ultimatum. He says there will be no peace deal  unless Ukraine agrees to surrender territory that Russia ruthlessly and  illegally seized and invaded, this little country, just as he did in  Georgia.

The United States, as leader of the free world, must never, ever  genuflect to tyrants. Aggressor Putin wants the United States to walk  away from the negotiating table. According to the terms the U.S. Vice  President and Secretary of State laid out today, those terms include  ceding Ukraine's territory to Russia. I say no. Nyet. Nemaye. No.

The fact is Russia is losing the war it started without provocation.  In 2014, she began during the Olympics, so no one would notice how she  went in the back door. It is losing the war that Putin started. He  escalated it in even bloodier fashion when he initiated a full-scale  invasion in the year 2022.

Sadly, every step of the way, the Trump administration has conceded  to Putin's demands without Ukraine's consent. He cannot negotiate for  Ukraine. It is not his. Russia does not recognize international  agreements. It never has.

For example, following World War II, Russia broke its border  commitments made at the Yalta Conference with its conquest of Poland.  That caused Poland to disappear as a free nation until the very brave  ``solidarity,'' ``solidarnos'c''' demonstrators in Poland trip-wired  the collapse of the Soviet Union beginning in 1989.

Then in 1994, Russia signed the Budapest Memorandum to guarantee  Ukrainian security. For that, Ukraine gave up all the nuclear weapons  that were staged in Ukraine.

In 2014, while the Olympics were ongoing in Sochi, Putin invaded  Ukraine when people were distracted around the world and later turned  that into a full-scale invasion in 2022. To his surprise, Ukraine has  held them off.

Recently, Putin even violated the cease-fire on targeting energy and  civilian infrastructure just negotiated by the Trump administration a  few weeks ago. Putin cannot keep a deal.

This should make it crystal clear that dictator Vladimir Putin and  his thug state cannot be trusted. Read history. Why would the U.S.  President, Vice President, Secretary of State, or any world  leader believe that communist dictator Vladimir Putin and the Russian  regime will hold to any peace agreement? Russia never keeps its word.

The only way to force Russia to abide by such an agreement is to  include strong security guarantees for Ukraine. The world community  must do that. A peace accord must ensure Russia will remain inside its  own borders or face serious global sanctions, so severe they will  cripple and collapse the Russian economy.

Short of that, with the apparent abdication of the U.S. President,  Vice President, and Secretary of State, Ukraine has everything to lose  and Russia everything to gain. Who would want that outcome? What kind  of mindset would want that?

The White House isn't leading a legitimate peace process. It is  enabling the globally aggressive reach of the most lethal dictatorship  in Europe. The free world must not allow this. Putin will take  everything he wants and more unless he is stopped.

America must not appease dictators. We should support our fierce  allies to fight dictatorship with every fiber in our being. Ukraine  needs ammunition and arms. We must send them. They are not asking us to  fight, but they are asking us to help arm them along with our European  allies.

Defending freedom's alliance is our highest calling here--to protect  and defend the American people and our Constitution against all  enemies, foreign and domestic.

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Quigley for his strong  and constant support of Ukraine. I thank the gentleman so much for  representing the State of Illinois and the thousands and tens of  thousands of citizens there who so deeply care about victory for  Ukraine.

Let me now move to a highly capable Member from the eastern part of  the great State of Pennsylvania, Congresswoman Madeleine Dean.

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Dean so very much for  joining us and for her firm, firm support of Ukraine and all she has  done to give light to the children of Ukraine and thousands upon  thousands, over 20,000 minimum, stolen by Russia and taken back to  Russia from the arms of their parents in Ukraine as Russia tries to  reprogram their brain to become Russian.

I think that the leadership of the gentlewoman has been very  important during this entire period of the war and for all the people  who have died needlessly, as Ukraine is the scrimmage line for liberty  on the European Continent. As the map behind the gentlewoman so well  illustrates, any American or reasonable person looking at that would  say: Why is Russia picking on such a small country?

The fierce fighting that the Ukrainians have exhibited through  bravery against that is profound.

I am just so honored, and I know the gentlewoman feels the same way,  to have met President Zelenskyy and so many of his advisers,  individuals in the military, and wounded soldiers. Russia has lost over  100,000 soldiers. We are not sure how many. It is a lot. Those soldiers  didn't have to die. They could be doing things in Russia to help  Russia.

I have traveled there. I have seen the level at which people live.  The Russian people deserve better.

Why is Putin wasting all this money on arms? He needs to be investing  in housing. I have gone up eight-story skyscrapers where--I won't even  talk about the sanitary conditions, but they are not good. I have been  into wards with people who are mentally ill, and I have seen the sad  situation in which they live. I couldn't even imagine someone from my  family having to exist in those conditions.

I have walked across the country in different places and met Russians  who are trying to make a go of it by growing food and getting it into  the bigger cities.

I have tried to visit religious institutions in Russia and learned  how the government there suppresses free religious expression. They  force any church there, if they even allow it in, to speak in Russian,  not the native language, let's say, of where the people might come who  would want to have that ceremony in multilingual or even translated and  be able to listen to that. Russia doesn't do that. She is very inward.

The birthrate is going down in Russia. I have been in birth wards in  Russia. I wouldn't recommend that to any  woman, if you could see how poorly they are accoutred and how poorly  they are provided for.

There is a major alcoholism and drug problem in Russia, as well.

I think Vladimir Putin ought to take care of his own people and not  have dibs on Ukraine just because he is one of the largest militaries  in the world.

I think the Ukrainian valor has been astounding.

Ms. KAPTUR. They need everything. They need tourniquets. I mentioned  arms. They need to be remembered.

The Government of the United States is only about one-quarter of our  economy, but 75 percent of our economy is private. People can send  boxes. They can remember them. They can send money through Western  Union to the people of Ukraine and to help those who are living in  Poland in order to help them meet the costs of having the refugees who  come from Ukraine into Poland. There is so much Americans can do.

People in my district raised money to send a shower, for them to buy  a shower so they could put it in the local school so people could  actually clean themselves where the lights keep going off and Russia  makes it hard for people.

You can send seed, Mr. Speaker, so that it is easier for people to be  able to plant in their gardens. They are very thrifty and practical  people. They are educated. Many of the Ukrainians I meet speak several  languages. They want to meet the world. They don't want to be put  inside a cage again. That is really what they face.

I wanted to say a few things about my family if the gentlewoman  wanted to add anything now. I wanted to mention a few of the people I  have met who fought during World War II and allowed for some of Europe  to be free.

Ms. KAPTUR. Slava Ukraini. I know that the people who are listening  tonight and will hear our words will say: What can we do, Marcy? What  can we do to really help them?

I said that children in classrooms can write little notes and send  them. If they use the internet and if they have internet capability,  then send them a note. Teachers all over our country: Don't expect just  the Government of the United States to do this. The American people are  powerful in their own right.

If you do shoe drives where you have a school or a company and you  see that everybody has some pairs of shoes that don't fit them that  still have a lot of good wear, then put them in a box and send them  off.

The same thing is true with aspirin and creams for people's hands.  They work with their hands. They need gloves to work with the soil.  They raise their own food. They live at a simple level.

Sweaters and boots for the men as they go through the forests, and  bicycles--there are so many things that are needed there that we just  throw away. We just throw away material and plastics so that they can  keep the wind out of their very humble homes in the wintertime.

I think there are so many things that people just take for granted  that are here but that are, especially during a time of war, so  expensive for them. Their salaries have been cut, and I think Americans  can do a lot. Be creative. Do for them what you would do for your own  family, Mr. Speaker.

I want to mention, as I think about and reflect when I was first  elected to Congress, there was a Congressman from California named Tom  Lantos. He was a Holocaust survivor. He was from Hungary, and he was  imprisoned by Hitler. He used to come to the floor, and he fought so  hard for the fall of the Soviet Union and for liberty across Europe.

I remember him and I want to honor him this evening and say to his  family--I know some live in New Hampshire, and others live in  California. They are scattered in other places, I think. He was such a  great inspiration to us because of what he had suffered. He was driven  to ensure that what happened in his lifetime would never happen again.

That is what is at stake right now: liberty in Europe, our closest  allies. We do not live in this world alone. We have 340 million people.  China has a billion and a half. Russia has about 130 million. Other  countries in Europe have much smaller populations, but when the United  States puts its population and our military strength together with our  NATO allies, with our allies in the Pacific, all of a sudden, you can  see liberty's umbrella, and it is armed to protect our people. To date,  we have been able to do that.

I give credit to Members like Tom Lantos.

Also when I arrived, we had a Congressman named Jack Brooks of Texas,  who had been a pilot decorated during World War II. He never talked  about it, didn't talk about his honors.

I can remember when John Kennedy was killed, Jack Brooks was on that  airplane that came back to Washington with the body of John Kennedy,  who fought during World War II, a young President that we lost because  of an assassination here but who had fought for our liberty.

We paid honor today to John LaFalce. As a younger Member of Congress,  I remember going with Congressman LaFalce on a delegation over to  Europe during the 1980s, when I was first elected, the first decade of  my service. I pay tribute to him and to what he taught us, what we saw.

I pay tribute to my own family, to Uncle Stanley Rogowski, who was D- day 4 on Normandy's beaches, wounded in action, came home, lived a full  life, helped educate me about what liberty really is: freedom from  oppression. Freedom is the condition of being free. Liberty is being  freed from tyranny. He was a part of that.

I honor Alexander Drabik, from my own district. He was a great  soldier who was in the Army and was the first man to cross the Remagen  Bridge in Germany, which was the turning point of the war.

Finally, I honor Roger Durbin, a veteran of our Army who gave me the  idea to create the World War II Memorial here where now over 100  million people have visited to honor our heroes and our heroines.

Slava Ukraini.