Welcoming His All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, Archbishop of Constantinople-New Rome and Ecumenical Patriarch


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with great honor to welcome to  our Nation's Capital His All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew,  Archbishop of Constantinople-New Rome and Ecumenical Patriarch. He is  the Spiritual Head of the Orthodox Christian Church worldwide and  shepherd to over 300 million faithful. For Orthodox Christians across  the globe, including many of my own constituents in Northwest Ohio, His  All-Holiness is not only their spiritual father but also a guiding  light for interfaith understanding, religious freedom, and  environmental stewardship.

Part of his visit to the United States is to receive the  distinguished Templeton Prize in New York City. This recognition,  bestowed previously on figures such as Mother Teresa, the Dalai Lama,  and Archbishop Desmond Tutu, acknowledges his lifetime of service in  advancing the harmony of faith and reason, and his courageous  leadership on behalf of peace and the protection of God's creation.

His All-Holiness is no stranger to the halls of Congress. On his  first visit to our Nation's Capital in 1997, he was awarded the  Congressional Gold Medal in the Rotunda, where he delivered an address  that remains a touchstone in the history of religious freedom and  international dialogue. Through subsequent visits under both Democratic  and Republican administrations, the Ecumenical Patriarch has been  received with the highest honors by our Nation's leaders.

For more than three decades as Ecumenical Patriarch, His All-Holiness  has been a bridge-builder between peoples and nations. He has convened  leaders of the Abrahamic faiths in pursuit of peace and reconciliation.  He has boldly raised the conscience of the world to the urgent moral  imperative of environmental responsibility. For these efforts, he is  rightly known as the ``Green Patriarch.'' He has also been a steadfast  advocate for human rights and religious liberty across the globe,  strengthening the cause of freedom for all people.

On behalf of the people of Northwest Ohio, and especially our vibrant  Greek Orthodox community, I am proud to extend our heartfelt welcome to  His All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew as he returns to  Washington. We rejoice in his recognition with the Templeton Prize, and  we pray that his ministry of peace, love, and reconciliation will  continue to inspire our Nation and our world.