Gulf of America Act


Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for  yielding the time, and I rise in opposition to this farcical bill.

I thought I would share what I am hearing from my neighbors across  the Gulf Coast. They want policymakers in Washington, D.C., to tackle  the cost of living. During this Republican-led Congress, there has not  been one bill brought to the floor of the House--and here we are in  May--to lower the cost of living for families along the Gulf Coast and  all across America.

In fact, what the Republicans have been focusing on is a massive tax  giveaway to billionaires like Elon Musk while they rip away healthcare  from millions of Americans.

In Florida, we have about 4.6 million Floridians who rely on the  Affordable Care Act for their healthcare and about 3.9 million  Floridians who rely on Medicaid. These are the family members we love  the most, kids with complex conditions, seniors in skilled nursing,  seniors who want to live in dignity in their homes with a home health  aide.

However, is their priority to make people's lives easier, to make  people's lives better? No. It has been totally focused on how you rip  that away and make people's lives more expensive.

It also means for the Gulf Coast we are still reeling from Hurricanes  Helene and Milton, just like other parts of the country, in Georgia and  North Carolina. We don't need Elon Musk creating turmoil and firing  civil servants and public servants who are helping us rebuild. We do  not need the Trump administration making people's lives harder to  rebuild and harder to afford to stay in their homes.

We are preparing for another hurricane season. Folks along the Gulf  Coast need a National Weather Service that is functional that can warn  us about the threats ahead. We need the hurricane hunters out in the  Gulf telling us how severe the storms are going to be, but the Trump  administration and Republicans in Congress seem to be turning away from  the people along the Gulf Coast and all across America to understand  the threat of a warming climate.

Ms. CASTOR of Florida. You started this by saying that Gulf of  America started as a joke. This is not a joke to the people I  represent. They want help. They want help with the cost of living.

It seems like that is the last priority on Republicans' list.  Instead, they want to give a massive tax giveaway to the wealthy and  the well-connected while people really need help with their  pocketbooks. They need help. They want to retain their healthcare. They  want to make sure that the ocean waters are free of pollution.

Please vote ``no'' and focus on what is important.