Hotel Fees Transparency Act of 2025


Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Pallone for yielding  the time, and I thank Chairman Bilirakis for his partnership in this  endeavor, as well.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1479, the Hotel Fees  Transparency Act, to help families save money and to ensure that their  hard-earned vacations go as planned. I thank Representatives Kim,  Mullin, and Fry for partnering with me on this bipartisan legislation  that will increase cost transparency for hotels, motels, and short-term  rentals.

Mr. Speaker, have you ever planned a vacation and when you searched  online, you thought you found a great deal at a hotel or a short-term  rental, but then you were surprised at check-in or check-out that there  were a lot of surprise fees added on?

This piece of legislation will prohibit that kind of unfair or  misleading price advertising for hotels and rentals. It will require  accurate price listings that must include all mandatory and resort  fees.

I have to say that it is a privilege to represent the State of  Florida in the Congress, and I know my friend, Mr. Bilirakis, will  agree. We enjoy welcoming visitors from all across the Nation and all  across the globe to Florida for their vacations.

Unfortunately--it is not just in Florida--but sometimes visitors  arrive and are surprised by a lot of these resort fees and add-ons that  were not part of the bargain.

That is not fair. Consumers deserve to see upfront prices when they  plan their budgets and vacations. They shouldn't have to play a  guessing game when planning a trip about what the final cost of their  vacation will be. The cost of living right now is very high, and it is  just not fair to allow this kind of unfair behavior to continue.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues in the House to pass the  Hotel Fees Transparency Act. It will be a win for families and  consumers. It is about fairness, transparency, and allowing hardworking  families to focus on making memories together and not worrying about  surprise charges and costs.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote.