National Coal Council Reestablishment Act


Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for  yielding the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 3015.

This bears repeating again: Here we are, 9 months into the new  administration and a new Congress, and Republicans have not brought one  bill to the floor of the House that will help tackle the cost-of-living  squeeze and the affordability crisis.

Folks back home really need help. They are paying more on their  groceries despite all the promises, more on their electricity, and now  are facing huge increases to the cost of healthcare. It is really not  fair.

Now, let's get back to household electricity. Prices are up 10  percent this year. One in three households is cutting back on basic  necessities just to pay their rising electric bill. People are very  concerned, and they should be, because over 100 gas and electric  utilities are proposing higher rates this year.

Mr. Speaker, you know very well that we are grappling in Florida  where the largest utility has requested what looks like the largest  rate increase in the history of the country. I hear my good friend, the  chairman of the committee, talk about this. They care a lot about  consumer costs, but their rhetoric does not match their record.

Example number one is the big, ugly bill. I will offer for the Record  an analysis by Energy Innovation of the big, ugly bill where they say,  ``The bill will reduce additions of new cost-effective electricity  capacity, raising power prices for consumers, and decreasing U.S. GDP .  . .'' which will hamper development of domestic electricity generation  capacity, and by 2035, we forecast a 340 gigawatt decrease in  generation capacity due to the bill. As a result, this bill will make  it more expensive to meet growing demand in the next 5 critical years  in the global artificial intelligence race damaging U.S.  competitiveness.

Mr. Speaker, the links for this analysis and two other analyses are  as follows:

Https://energyinnovation.org/wp- content/uploads/One-Big-Beautiful- Bill-Senate-Reconciliation- Analysis_July-2025.pdf

Https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/grid- strategies_cost-of-federal-mandates-to-retain-fossil- burning-power-plants.pdf

Https://energyinnovation.org/wp- content/uploads/Coal-Cost-Update.pdf

Mr. Speaker, we cannot win the AI race of the 21st century with  energy policies from the 20th century. Not only is it bad policy, but  it is soul crushingly expensive to do so.

Hardworking American families are just looking up here to Washington  and saying: Can you all please focus on solutions and not cater to the  polluters and the folks who have all too much power here in the Halls  of Congress? It is not fair.

This bill is an example of not only is it a waste of time, because  here is the secret: This bill is asking for a coal council. I think the  ranking member already went to it. The President has already  established a coal council, so we don't really even need that.

The real impact is going to be on the bottom line, and let's look at  one example of why this is going to cost everybody more. In May, just  days before the J.H. Campbell coal-fired power plant was set to close,  the Trump administration issued a last-minute order to force the plant  to stay open.

We won't even talk about how the Trump administration has pulled  permits of fully permitted and almost fully constructed offshore wind  projects. We will put that aside. However, to keep the Campbell plant  open, the administration cited a so-called grid reliability emergency,  but they produced no actual evidence of any kind of emergency. Since  their order, the Department hasn't appointed to a single instance where  the plant was needed to keep the lights on.

Remember, Mr. Speaker, nobody was asking for this. The company that  owns and runs the plant wanted to close it and shift to a mix of energy  sources. The plant is losing money, and the administration is now  forcing the company to spend nearly $1 million a day to keep it open.

Who will pay the cost of that?

It will be these families across the Midwest, and the Trump  administration looks to force the old, uneconomical fossil fuel plants  to continue operating past their plan retirement dates nationwide. We  estimate that this looks like the cost to the consumer could reach $3  billion a year by 2028.

People can't afford that, and they don't deserve that. Don't forget,  Mr. Speaker, the big, ugly bill. If you add what they are doing by  enforcing uneconomical plants to stay online so consumers pay the cost,  with the big, ugly bill, you are taking away clean energy incentives,  cheaper and cheaper energy, and you are asking consumers to pay the  cost of what utilities are. Everyone is grappling with these arbitrary  Trump tariffs.

This is not fair, and Republicans say we need to keep coal plants  online so that the so-called dispatchable resources to meet growing  electricity demands will help with the artificial intelligence race  with China. However, they are clearly confused about the difference  between reliable and dispatchable power. Reliability is not just about  being dispatchable. It is about delivering performance under stress.

Here is the truth: Coal-fired power plants are not reliable. They are  inflexible. They are outdated. It is outdated technology that actually  threatens grid reliability and resilience.

Most of our coal fleet was built in the 1970s and eighties, and years  of use has led to a rise in unplanned outages. PJM has capacity  accreditation of coal plants at just 83 percent. The Colstrip Coal Mine  in Montana is accredited at only 54 percent. That means it is  effectively unavailable nearly one-half of the time that it is needed.

As noted by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation,  large voltage-sensitive loads like data centers require flexible,  responsible grid solutions, not slow-ramping generators that can take  up to 12 or more hours to come online. Coal plants are inherently  inflexible, and that worsens grid congestion. By forcing coal plants to  stay online, we are occupying our limited transmission capacity with  inflexible generation. That prevents cheaper and cleaner resources from  being delivered.

This is a real concern. Independent market monitors in the Midwest  have found that congestion-related market distortions have cost  customers over $1 billion a year.

That is not fair. This is the United States of America. We are about  innovation. We are about modern technology. We are not about looking  backwards. If Republicans were serious about meeting energy demand and  keeping customer bills low, empowering artificial intelligence, then  they would look to real solutions, energy efficiency, virtual power  plants, grid-enhancing technologies, batteries, and more.

However, Mr. Speaker, if you keep looking backwards, then we simply  will not be able to meet the moment and meet the growing demand that is  forecast.

American businesses should not be left holding the bag with higher  bills because the majority refuses to march forward in the 21st century  on what we need to do on power production and tapping the great  innovators across this country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote against this very costly  bill. This entire package is another cost raiser for families back home  that they don't deserve. Please vote ``no.''