Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act


Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New  Jersey for yielding the time.

Mr. Speaker, here we are 9 months into the Trump administration and  Republicans in Congress, despite their promises, have done nothing to  lower energy costs. In fact, costs keep going up, up, and up, and the  GOP policies are making it worse. I have to say that Americans deserve  a whole lot better.

We understand that the impact of the big, ugly bill passed a couple  months ago is going to raise the cost of living on hardworking families  across the country. There has been a lot of attention on healthcare  costs in the State of Florida because the Republicans would not  reinstate the cost-saving and lifesaving tax credits. Millions of  Floridians, like many more across America, are facing higher healthcare  costs.

What wasn't covered as much in the big, ugly bill and its impact is  what it is going to do to drive up people's electric bill. Already,  this year, household electricity prices are up 10 percent. One in three  households is cutting back on necessities, like groceries, to afford  their energy bills.

Three in four Americans are concerned with their utility bills  increasing, and they should be because at least 102 gas and electric  utilities have either raised or proposed higher rates that will go into  effect next year.

Here is the proof. Here is a report from September of this year:  ``Residents in at Least 41 States and Washington, D.C., Are Facing  Increased Electric and Natural Gas Bills.''

``Utilities are increasing prices for customers across the country.''  Including all the way through to 2028, monthly residential bill impacts  are going to be rough.

Here is another from PowerLines from July 2025: `` `Utility bills are  rising.' Q2 2025 Update.''

``Utility rate increases requested and approved totaled $9 billion in  Q2 2025 and $29 billion in the first half of 2025, making 2025 a record  year for utility rate increases.''

In my home State of Florida, the largest power provider has requested  the largest rate hike in history--$10 billion for most of the counties  in the State.

Here is an article I will submit for the Record from this month from  the Energy & Policy Institute: ``Key decisions loom in Florida Power  and Light's historic bid to raise rates by $10 billion.''

I include the links to these three items in the Record:

Https://powerlines.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/ 0709_PowerLines_Rising-Utility-Bills-Q2-Update-2.pdf

Https://energyandpolicy.org/key-decisions-loom-in-fpl-historic-bid- to-raise-rates

Https://www.americanprogress.org/ article/residents-in-at-least-41-states-and-washington-d-c-are-facing- increased-electric-and-natural-gas-bills

Mr. Speaker, the big, ugly bill is having a very harsh impact on the  bottom lines of hardworking families, and now Republicans want to offer  a package of bills that is going to make it worse, add insult to  injury.

They just can't stop providing solace for polluters. They have  already gutted a lot of the tools that make energy more affordable,  like clean energy tax credits, like trying to save on energy efficiency  and things like that. However, what also adds insult to injury is--and  I don't know why, but if Republicans are talking about they believe in  fairness, they believe in permitting, they believe that we need all of  the power generation we possibly can make, why do they stand idly by  while the Trump administration wages war on a clean energy power  source? Many of them are already permitted and constructed.

In April, the administration issued a stop-work order for the Empire  Wind offshore wind project surrounding New York. Even though the order  was lifted in May, that delay cost the developer $955 million.

The President is actively trying to revoke permits for the Revolution  Wind project, which was fully permitted and 80 percent complete,  supporting more than 2,500 U.S. jobs across  construction, operations, shipbuilding, manufacturing. The project was  just steps away from powering more than 350,000 homes in Rhode Island  and Connecticut, but now that is at risk, so they are facing much  higher bills.

Just last week, the Interior Department asked a judge to cancel  approval of the Maryland Offshore Wind project, a project over a decade  in the making that had received all of its final permits from multiple  Federal agencies and was expected to power over 700,000 homes.

This just doesn't make sense to bring a package of bills and say: Oh,  we are really concerned. They are not concerned. Rates are going up.  They are canceling projects. They are throwing wrenches into cleaner,  cheaper energy. This is really a giveaway to the fossil fuel companies.  What other explanation can there be to sock it to hardworking people  who need a break?

They need a break. Groceries are too high. Their healthcare is being  taken away, and now they are raising the rates of their utility bills.

Mr. Speaker, I am all for cutting red tape, but what is happening  here is detrimental to the folks we represent back home. It is not  fair. It is not right. We need to do everything we can. These bills,  this bill doesn't meet the moment. It is going to keep electricity  bills going up, up, and up. I urge my colleagues to vote against this  bill and get back to work on serious solutions for people's  pocketbooks.