Researching Efficient Federal Improvements for Necessary Energy Refining Act


Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for  yielding the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 3109.

I know my Republican colleagues want to pretend that this is a  simple, unbiased study bill, but it is not. The bill asks the National  Petroleum Council, a council that is made up of members from the oil  and gas industry, to create a report that says that the United States  needs more oil and gas. I fear that what this is a recipe for is higher  electric bills and higher costs for hardworking Americans who already  are being crushed by higher bills.

There are unbiased public servants who could write this report--for  example, at the Department of Energy--but, of course, Elon Musk and the  Trump administration have pushed out more than 3,500 public servants  there. As a result, the Department of Energy is in trouble. The  Department has even had to ask external lawyers for things like  defending against challenges relating to their illegal cancelations of  projects across the country.

To bring this bill at a time when people really want to see the  Congress work to solve problems, I think, demonstrates that Members are  out of touch. It is part of a very disturbing Republican trend, led by  the President, to purge the government of real experts and to slash and  burn, like medical research, finding the cures and treatments that we  need to survive and thrive; trying to illegally dismantle the  Department of Education; and going after public health and really  ruining a lot of the expert public health advice that helps keep our  neighbors healthy and safe.

Then, here, when we are talking about oil and gas and their  lobbyists, they are so firmly in control of the agenda here in the  United States Congress. I just think my colleagues are not solving  problems. Watching the President just remain out of touch is so painful  to people back home that they feel betrayed.

Even during the Republican shutdown, was the President focused on  trying to negotiate a solution there or trying to take us out of the  healthcare crisis? No. He was giving the White House a makeover. He  tore down the entire East Wing to make way for a 90,000-square-foot,  $300 million ballroom, funded by corporations that have a lot to gain  monetarily; and he had ``Great Gatsby'' parties at Mar-a-Lago with  dancing girls. It is just mind-boggling.

Back to electric bills. Let's not forget that President Trump  convened oil industry executives and lobbyists at his home last year to  ask for $1 billion for his Presidential campaign. Well, now they are  coming to collect.

Even after almost 2 months, when Speaker Johnson had the House of  Representatives shut down because he didn't want to find a solution to  rising healthcare costs and he wanted to avoid a vote to release the  Epstein files, we could have been focusing on, behind the scenes, some  ways to lower costs and solve real problems, but they continue to bring  bills like this: a study on how we produce more oil and gas.

Here is the connection to higher bills. While they want to pad the  profits of oil and gas companies, what they are doing to sabotage jobs  and cleaner, cheaper energy now is showing up in people's electric  bills, and they are angry.

I was with neighbors a couple of weeks ago who were burning their  electric bills because costs are increasing so dramatically.

Why? On January 20, the President froze Federal leasing for wind  projects and blocked permits for projects that had already been  approved.

On February 5, the Army Corps of Engineers halted permits for 168  renewable energy projects on private lands.

In March, as part of his tariff war, he imposed a 10 percent tax on  energy imported from Canada, hitting Midwestern States with higher gas  prices.

In April, the Trump administration abruptly fired the entire staff  overseeing the low-income Home Energy Assistance Program, which helps  working families afford their utility bills. Weeks later, the White  House proposed cutting it entirely.

In May, the Secretary of Energy ordered an old Michigan coal plant to  stay online, forcing the company to spend nearly $1 million a day.  These are costs that are passed on to families across the Midwest.

In June, the Trump administration's EPA proposed a rule to allow coal  and gas power plants to emit unlimited amounts of climate pollution,  locking us into a dirtier and more expensive future.

In July, Republicans passed their big, ugly bill, which will saddle  American families with price hikes of at least $110 next year and up to  $4,000 annually within a decade.

In August, EPA announced an illegal cancellation of the $7 billion  Solar for All Grant Initiative, which was intended to bring affordable  energy to more than 900,000 hardworking American households.

In September, the Trump administration unveiled a more than $600  million bailout for coal plants to keep them online.

In October, while shutting down the government to deny Americans  access to affordable healthcare, the White House tried to claw back  billions in clean energy funds.

These actions are costly, and American families deserve better. We  should be working together to solve problems and not wasting time on  trying to figure out how we pad the profits of industries. Instead, we  should be looking out for the pocketbooks of the people who sent us  here. People deserve better. Hardworking Americans expect better of  this Congress.

I hope that we can send a message on this bill and the next one that  we are not going to put up with it anymore. We want real solutions to  lower the cost of living.                    Announcement By the Speaker Pro Tempore