Saving Homeowners From Overregulation with Exceptional Rinsing Act


Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New  Jersey for yielding the time.

I rise in opposition to H.R. 4593 with a great concern that House  Republicans simply do not care to work on any solutions to lower the  cost of living for our hardworking neighbors back home.

In 2025, House Republicans failed to bring one bill to the floor to  lower the cost of living or to tackle the high rate of inflation, but  here is some good news actually: By tomorrow, thanks to House Democrats  and a handful of Republicans who stood up to their Speaker, the House  will vote to lower the cost of healthcare coverage for millions of  Americans. That is a little bit of good news.

If Americans were hoping that Republicans in Congress would start  2026 off with some relief for their pocketbooks, I am sorry to report  that, no, Republicans are not bringing bills to lower the cost of  living.

I congratulate my Republican colleagues, their first bill of 2026, to  set the tone, is to address showerheads. This is critical. You heard  that right. It is ridiculous, isn't it? It is so out of touch.

The President promised he was going to cut Americans' power bills in  half, but since he took office last year, electric bills are up by 13  percent across the country, and they are much higher in some places.  There are 80 million Americans who are struggling just to pay their  electric bills. In Florida, the Republican-controlled utilities  commission just approved the highest rate increases in the history of  the country--they are calling them that--a $6 billion rate increase.

Across the country, folks are facing about $86 billion in electric  rate increases, so hold on to your wallet. Rather than help,  Republicans have only made things worse. They have gone along with  arbitrary tariffs that have raised the cost of living and taken a  hatchet to cleaner, cheaper energy. They have gone along with illegally  halting energy projects. They ended tax cuts and rebates that helped  people afford their electric bills in order to pay for tax breaks for  billionaires.

They are out of touch.

Folks in the Northeast are worried about their rising electric bills  because the President in December arbitrarily terminated five offshore  wind projects that were under construction. That energy onto the grid  would have helped keep the pressure on lower electric bills.

The President canceled final approval for what would have been the  Nation's largest solar farm, a 6.2 gigawatt project in the Nevada  desert. He illegally ended low-cost solar installation for working- class families that would have helped them and their family budgets.

The President now has canceled major upgrades to the power grid out  of the bipartisan infrastructure law, such as the Grain Belt Express  transmission line.

Republican policies now--we are adding it up--have cost Americans  about 266 gigawatts of planned electricity generation projects in 2025  at a time when there is a surge of new demand for electricity across  the country. They are out of touch.

Speaking of being out of touch, of course, the President doesn't  believe there is an affordability crisis. He has called it a hoax. The  real issues for the President are shower pressure, redecorating the  White House, and so much more.

Yes, it was last April that the President thought it was so important  he issued an executive order to end the Obama-Biden war on water  pressure and make America's showers great again. He is out of touch.  However, he urged Congress to codify that order, so that is what we are  doing here tonight on the first bill of 2026 by this Republican  majority. Are they serious?

What has been the President's focus during all this time he has  called the affordability crisis a hoax? Well, he paved over the Rose  Garden. He has torn down the East Wing of the White House to make way  for a grand ballroom funded by people who have business in front of the  Federal Government.

I haven't been over to the White House, but all of the pictures show  24 karat gold ornamentation all through the White House. He has  installed marble floors. I have seen him tweet that  out. He has also added his name to the Kennedy Center.

For those of you who haven't come to Washington, D.C., he has put  banners of his picture up on Federal buildings. He is proposing to put  his likeness on gold coins.

Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I think you get my drift here. It  was so galling as people are trying to pay their electric bills and  their grocery bills that the President here is bragging about how he  has redone the Lincoln bathroom, yes, with gold showerheads.

We don't need to redefine what constitutes a showerhead. We don't  need to weaken energy and water conservation measures that help people  save money. We don't need to make life more expensive for hardworking  neighbors back home. We don't need to boost foreign manufacturers who  want to import inferior products to the U.S., but that is what they are  doing.

No, in 2026 we are going to need real solutions. I beseech my  colleagues to work with us to tackle the high cost of living. You can  look back on 2025 now; Federal spending is up. They added $2 trillion  to the national debt and they have lost manufacturing jobs when you add  it all up. Now their answer on the first bill of the Congress in 2026  is showerheads. They are out of touch.