-9999


1295

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Bureau of Prisons Security       Check and Action against Narcotics in Mail Act'' or the ``BOP       SCAN Mail Act''.       SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

Congress finds the following:

(1) The Bureau of Prisons has 122 institutions located       throughout the United States, employs nearly 38,000       employees, and is responsible for more than 150,000 Federal       inmates.

(2) Inmate mail is a primary entry point for smuggling       drugs into correctional facilities, with tainted mail       incidents also on the rise.

(3) Elimination of dangerous contraband, including       synthetic drugs, in mail is essential to protecting the       health and safety of employees of the Bureau of Prisons and       Federal inmates.

(4) Prisons in the United States are increasingly deadly       facilities, with a 600 percent rise in drug overdoses in       recent years.

(5) The introduction of synthetic drugs, particularly       fentanyl and fentanyl analogues, into correctional facilities       by mail threatens employees, inmates, and the security of       correctional institutions, and the practice of deliberately       lacing opioids to ensure targeted lethality represents a       dramatic emerging concern.

(6) The foregoing factors add tremendous pressures and       workload that further burden existing employees, commonly       reassigning officers from other functions to assist in       processing mail.

(7) Employees at correctional facilities at Federal, State,       and local levels continue to request drug interdiction       technologies to protect themselves and inmates.

(8) A congressionally authorized digital mail scanning       pilot program at the Federal Correctional Institution,       Beckley, West Virginia, and the United States Penitentiary,       Canaan, Pennsylvania, from March 2020 through June 2021,       demonstrated effective interdiction technology and practices       aimed at eliminating dangerous contraband arriving through       the mail and served as an effective deterrent to smuggling       attempts.

(9) Apart from digital mail scanning, there is no widely       deployed interdiction technology that has demonstrated a 100       percent efficacy to detecting fentanyl, and other synthetic       drugs, arriving through the mail at Bureau of Prisons       facilities.

(10) Removing mail processing from Federal prisons and       relieving Bureau of Prisons employees from mail sorting       duties will result in an extensive budgetary relief to the       Bureau of Prisons and decrease the staffing shortages facing       prisons.       SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of       the Bureau of Prisons.

(2) Opioid.--The term ``opioid'' has the meaning given such       term in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21       U.S.C. 802).

(3) Synthetic drug.--The term ``synthetic drug'' means a       controlled substance analogue (as such term is defined in       section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C.       802)), and includes any analogue of fentanyl.       SEC. 4. STRATEGY TO INTERDICT SYNTHETIC DRUGS IN POSTAL MAIL.

(a) Evaluation.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Director shall evaluate--

(1) the acquisition and deployment of synthetic drug       interdiction equipment and technology by Federal correctional       facilities;

(2) the use of technology services by Federal correctional       facilities to scan mail; and

(3) whether any technologies used by other Federal agencies       or State and local corrections facilities to intercept and       interdict contraband in the mail may be used by the Bureau of       Prisons.

(b) Strategy.--Not later than 90 days after completing the       evaluation under subsection (a), the Director shall submit to       the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the       Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives a       strategy to provide all Federal correctional facilities with       capabilities necessary to--

(1) protect staff and inmates from exposure to synthetic       drugs and opioids introduced to facilities through the mail;

(2) ensure that--

(A) not later than 24 hours after a piece of mail is       received at a Federal corrections facility or an       appropriately contracted offsite location, each inmate       receives a digital copy of any mail that is addressed to the       inmate;

(B) not later than 30 days after receiving a digital copy       of a piece of mail under subparagraph (A), the inmate       receives the original physical copy of any mail that--

(i) does not contain synthetic drugs or opioids; and

(ii) is addressed to the inmate; and

(C) delivery to the inmate under subparagraphs (A) and (B)       is documented;

(3) ensure that a process is in place for the processing of       legal mail that includes--

(A) the verification of the sender; and

(B) maintains attorney client privilege as required by       existing law; and

(4) achieve 100 percent scanning capacity of mail arriving       at all Federal correction facilities.

(c) Contents.--The strategy required under subsection (b)       shall--

(1) identify critical information technology, digital mail       scanning equipment, and mail scanning services necessary to       achieve the scanning capacity described in subsection (b)(4);

(2) include an assessment of operational and logistical       considerations, including--

(A) prioritization of high security and large inmate       population facilities for digital mail scanning       infrastructure and security technology deployment;

(B) any need for additional personnel and technology       training necessary to implement the strategy; and

(C) scanning equipment maintenance requirements and       periodic digital technology upgrades;

(3) include an equipment and technology budgetary proposal,       for fiscal years 2025 though 2027, in order to fully       implement the strategy described under subsection (b); and

(4) include strategies for conducting oversight of the       contractor providing the scanning service for the mail.

(d) Implementation Deadline.--Not later than 3 years after       the date on which the strategy is submitted under subsection       (b), and subject to appropriations, the Director of the       Bureau of Prisons shall complete implementation of the       submitted plan.

(e) Annual Progress Reports.--Beginning 1 year after the       date on which the strategy is submitted under subsection (b),       and each year thereafter, the Director of the Bureau of       Prisons shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of the       Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of       Representatives a report on the efficiency of the strategy       and the total quantity of detected synthetic drugs and       opioids.