Delivering Digitally to Our Veterans Act of 2025


Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3481) to amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the  Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide for electronic communication  relating to educational assistance benefits under the laws administered  by the Secretary, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3481

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Delivering Digitally to Our       Veterans Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. IMPROVEMENT TO CERTAIN OUTREACH UNDER SOLID START                     PROGRAM OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

Section 6320(b) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended--

(1) in paragraph (1)(B)--

(A) by striking ``calling'' and inserting ``communicating       with''; and

(B) by inserting ``through the use of tailored lines of       communication, including mailings, text messaging, virtual       chatting, and other electronic forms of messaging'' after       ``Armed Forces''; and

(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``tailored mailings'' and       inserting ``tailored lines of communication, including       mailings, text messaging, virtual chatting, and other       electronic forms of messaging,''.       SEC. 3. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS USE OF TAILORED LINES                     OF COMMUNICATION FOR CORRESPONDENCE RELATING TO                     EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE BENEFITS.

Section 3680 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by       adding at the end the following new subsection:

``(i)(1) The Secretary shall provide a mechanism by which       an eligible veteran or eligible person may use tailored lines       of communication to send and receive correspondence with the       Department of Veterans related to entitlement to and use of       educational assistance benefits under the laws administered       by the Secretary. The Secretary shall ensure that an eligible       veteran or eligible person is provided with an opportunity to       opt into sending and receiving such correspondence using such       lines of communication rather than by mail.

``(2) The Secretary shall provide to eligible veterans and       eligible persons who are enrolled in a course or program of       education or training notice of the opportunity to opt in to       sending and receiving correspondence using tailored lines of       communication pursuant to paragraph (1).

``(3) In this subsection, the term `tailored lines of       communication' includes mailings, text messaging, virtual       chatting, and other electronic forms of messaging.''.       SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN LIMITS ON PAYMENTS OF PENSION.

Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``November 30, 2031'' and inserting       ``January 31, 2033''.

Mr. BOST.  3481, as amended.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3481, as amended,  offered by my friend and colleague, Representative  Tom Barrett from  Michigan.

This bill would allow veterans to opt in to receive messages  digitally regarding the GI Bill education benefit.

Under current law, veterans in education programs can only receive  time-sensitive information from VA through the mail. The outdated  practice forces veterans to wait weeks for information they could  receive in minutes through a text message.

Further, this bill would modernize VA's Solid Start program by  authorizing it to communicate with veterans via text message. Right  now, VA is only able to reach out to veterans in Solid Start by calling  them. While the older generation of veterans pick up the phone, the VA  Solid Start program has seen a concerning drop-off among younger  veterans. This bill would bridge the gap in communication.

Madam Speaker, I thank Representative Barrett for championing this  bill and for finding solutions in the technology space to ensure  student veterans and transitioning servicemembers are receiving up-to- date and timely information.

Madam Speaker, this bill is in lockstep with the Republican  majority's efforts to properly propel VA to meet veterans where they  are.

Madam Speaker, I also thank Representative Van Orden for his  continued efforts to make necessary improvements to the Transition  Assistance Program, or the TAP program.

Under my leadership, my committee will continue to honor its  commitment to all veterans, ensuring the VA is working for our  veterans.

Madam Speaker, I also give special thanks to The American Legion, the  PVA, and the VFW for their support.

Madam Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the  gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Barrett), who is the sponsor of this bill.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to  support this legislation.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.