Ernest Peltz Accrued Veterans Benefits Act


Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3123) to amend title 38, United States Code, to make certain  improvements to laws relating to the payment of certain benefits  administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs that are affected by  death, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3123

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Ernest Peltz Accrued       Veterans Benefits Act''.       SEC. 2. PAYMENT BY SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OF PENSION                     AFTER DEATH OF A VETERAN IN CERTAIN                     CIRCUMSTANCES.

(a) In General.--Chapter 51 of title 38, United States       Code, is amended by inserting, after section 5121A, the       following new section:            ``Sec. 5121B. Payment of pension after death of a veteran in

certain circumstances

``(a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), if the       Secretary issues a decision awarding entitlement to a pension       to a veteran before the death of such veteran, and the       Secretary issues payment of such pension after the veteran       dies, such pension that was due and unpaid at the time of the       veteran's death shall be paid to the first living person or       entity listed below:

``(1) The veteran's spouse.

``(2) The veteran's children (in equal shares).

``(3) The veteran's dependent parents (in equal shares).

``(4) The estate of the deceased veteran unless the estate       will escheat.

``(b) Limitation.--In a case described in subsection (a),       if no application is filed under section 5121 of this title       during the one-year period following the death of the       veteran, the pension described in such subsection shall be       paid to the estate of the deceased veteran unless the estate       will escheat.''.

(b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--

(1) Conforming amendment.--Section 5121(a) of such title is       amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting       ``section 5121B of this title, or'' before ``sections 3329       and 3330''.

(2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the       beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting, after the       item relating to section 5121A, the following new item:  ``5121B. Payment of pension after death of a veteran in certain                circumstances.''.

(c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall apply with respect to the death of a veteran that       occurs on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.       SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN LIMITS ON PAYMENTS OF PENSION.

Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``January 31, 2033'' and inserting       ``February 28, 2033''.

Mr. BOST.  3123, as amended.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3123, as amended,  offered by my colleague Representative Elise Stefanik of New York.

This bill would require VA to pay out a due and unpaid pension to a  veteran's next of kin in cases where the VA issues a decision granting  a claim for a pension to a veteran, but the veteran passed away before  VA had issued the first payment.

In the rare circumstances where an elderly veteran dies in the period  between their VA pension being approved and receipt of their first  payment, a surviving family should be able to rely on those funds as a  source of support to honor their veteran's legacy.

Veterans eligible for the VA pension must be at least 65 years old  and meet the annual net worth limit.

A great portion of eligible veterans served in the Korean war,  Vietnam war, and Gulf war. This legislation would close the loophole  and prevent VA bureaucracy from being forced to take back benefits  delivered to the veteran who earned it through their service.

Families grieving a veteran's passing should not have to worry that  VA will go after them to recover a pension payment.

This legislation would prevent those situations while recognizing our  commitment to honor those who have served this country.

Madam Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, at this time I yield such time as she may  consume to the gentlewoman from New York (Ms. Stefanik), the sponsor of  this bill.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to  support this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.