Focused Assistance and Skills Training for Veterans' Employment and Transition Success Act


Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 4446) to amend title 38, United States Code, to modify the  conditions under which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs is required to  redevelop the individualized vocational rehabilitation plan for a  veteran, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4446

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Focused Assistance and       Skills Training for Veterans' Employment and Transition       Success Act'' or the ``FAST VETS Act''.       SEC. 2. CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS                     SHALL REDEVELOP INDIVIDUALIZED VOCATIONAL                     REHABILITATION PLAN.

Section 3107 of title 38, United States Code, is amended in       subsection (b)--

(1) by striking ``The Secretary shall review'' and       inserting ``(1) The Secretary shall review'';

(2) by striking the second sentence; and

(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

``(2) On the basis of such review, the Secretary shall--

``(A) redevelop such plan with such veteran if the       Secretary determines the achievement of the long-range       rehabilitation goals for such veteran is--

``(i) no longer feasible due to changes in the employment       handicap of the veteran; and

``(ii) likelier under a different plan formulated under       subsection (a); or

``(B) disapprove redevelopment of such plan if the       Secretary determines such redevelopment is not       appropriate.''.

Mr. BOST.  4446.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4446 offered by my  colleague, Representative Maxine Dexter, from Oregon.

H.R. 4446 would allow a veteran who has changed in their disability  rating to apply for changes in their Veterans Readiness and Employment,  or the VR&E plan, instead of being forced to complete their current  rehabilitation plan first.

This bill is a simple fix that would remove the outdated practice  that requires disabled veterans to complete their current plan before  switching to a plan that may better fit the changes in their  disability.

During the Biden Administration, VA damaged their relationship with  veterans in the VR&E program. Under President Trump's Secretary  Collins' leadership, VA is rebuilding that trust and is working to fix  the program.

This Congress, the Republican majority has worked hard to improve  VR&E by modernizing the program, increasing transparency, and  introducing accountability to both the VA and the veterans. While this  bill is a step in the right direction, I hope my colleagues recognize  that there is much more work to be done to get VA to work for the  veterans first.

Madam Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support H.R. 4446, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. BOST. In closing, Madam Speaker, once again, I encourage all  Members to support the legislation. I want to congratulate the  gentlewoman for passing her first piece of legislation in the House,  and I yield back the balance of my time.