No Wrong Door for Veterans Act


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1969) to amend and reauthorize the Staff Sergeant Parker Gordon  Fox Suicide Prevention Grant Program of the Department of Veterans  Affairs, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1969

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``No Wrong Door for Veterans       Act''.       SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF STAFF SERGEANT                     PARKER GORDON FOX SUICIDE PREVENTION GRANT                     PROGRAM OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

(a) Duration.--Section 201 of the Commander John Scott       Hannon Veterans Mental Health Care Improvement Act of 2019       (Public Law 116-171; 38 U.S.C. 1720F note) is amended, in       subsection (j), by striking ``the date that is three years       after the date on which the first grant is awarded under this       section'' and inserting ``September 30, 2026''.

(b) Emergent Suicide Care.--Such section is further       amended--

(1) in subsection (m)--

(A) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);

(B) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new       paragraph (3):

``(3) Emergent suicide care.--In the case of an eligible       individual who receives suicide prevention services provided       or coordinated by an eligible entity in receipt of a grant       under this section, the eligible entity shall notify--

``(A) the eligible individual that the individual may be       eligible for emergent suicide care under section 1720J of       title 38, United States Code; and

``(B) the Secretary, if an eligible individual notified       under subparagraph (A) elects to receive such emergent       suicide care.''; and

(C) in paragraph (4), as so redesignated, by striking ``(1)       or (2)'' and inserting ``(1), (2), or (3)''; and

(2) in subsection (n)--

(A) by inserting ``(1) In general.--'' before ``When'' and       adjusting the margins accordingly; and

(B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

``(2) Time frame.--If the Secretary does not provide       services under paragraph (1) to an eligible individual during       the 72-hour period following a referral under subsection (m),       such eligible individual shall be treated as eligible for       emergent suicide care under section 1720J of title 38, United       States Code.''.

(c) Reauthorization.--Such section is further amended, in       subsection (p)--

(1) by striking ``section a total of $174,000,000 for       fiscal years 2021 through 2025.'' and inserting ``section--      ''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:

``(1) a total of $174,000,000 for fiscal years 2021 through       2025; and

``(2) $52,500,000 for fiscal year 2026.''.

(d) Requirements for Eligible Entities.--Such section is       further amended, in subsection (q)(3)--

(1) by inserting ``an entity that has continuously provided       mental health care or support services in the United States       during the two-year period before the date on which the       entity applies for a grant under this section and that is''       after ``means'';

(2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or foundation'' and       inserting ``, foundation, or health care provider''; and

(3) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``A'' and inserting       ``a''.

(e) Technical Correction to Definitions.--Such section is       further amended, in subsection (q)(5), by striking ``Medical       services'' and inserting ``The term `emergency treatment'       means medical services''.

(f) Required Use of Certain Screening Protocol.--Such       section is further amended, in subsection (q)(11)(A)(ii), by       inserting after ``risk'' the following: ``, which in the case       of a grant made on or after the date of the enactment of the       No Wrong Door for Veterans Act, shall be the Columbia       Protocol (also known as the Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating       Scale)''.            SEC. 3. INCLUSION OF ADAPTIVE PROSTHESES AND TERMINAL DEVICES                     FOR SPORTS AND OTHER RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN                     MEDICAL SERVICES FURNISHED TO ELIGIBLE VETERANS                     BY THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

Section 1701 of title 38, United States Code, is amended,       in paragraph (6)(F)(i), by inserting ``(including adaptive       prostheses and terminal devices for sports and other       recreational activities)'' after ``artificial limbs''.       SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN LIMITS ON PAYMENTS OF PENSION.

Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``November 30, 2031'' and inserting       ``January 30, 2033''.

Mr. BOST.  1969, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1969, as amended. This  bill was introduced by the gentlewoman from Iowa (Mrs. Miller-Meeks),  my friend and colleague.

The bill is a powerful reminder that mental health and physical  health go hand in hand. This bill extends authorization for the Staff  Sergeant Parker Gordon Fox Suicide Prevention Grant Program.

House Republicans created the Fox grant program to expand the reach  of VA's mental health services through community-based organizations  where veterans and their families live. The organizations that have  qualified for the Fox grant program provide traditional and  nontraditional mental health and therapy support services to veterans  in need. This ensures VA services are reaching everyone who needs them.  We should, without question, continue the Fox grant program.

This bill also recognizes that being in the military is a physical  task. If our country wants to make veterans whole after their service,  it only makes sense that VA should provide the means for physical  activity.

Representative Miller-Meeks' bill would make adaptive prosthetics a  necessary medical service. This would help our veterans to return to  the activities they were accustomed to or even explore new  opportunities.

We must not let our veterans' time in service be what holds them back  from living the rest of their lives.

Mr. Speaker, I thank our Health Subcommittee chairwoman for her  leadership on both issues. This bill is a fantastic idea that will save  veterans' lives, and I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R. 1969,  as amended.

Mr. Speaker, at the end of the fiscal year, the Fox Grant Program  expires. This bill will keep the Fox Grant Program going. We have made  important  improvements to the grant program, the bill that is before us today.

I look forward to continuing to work with stakeholders and veterans  groups to find ways to make even more improvements to the Fox Grant  Program, but I won't let perfect be the enemy of the good. We can't let  this lifesaving program that veterans and their families rely on stop.  That is what we are here to do.

When it comes to the screening tool, it is essential that all  grantees use the same protocol to determine the effectiveness of  services and programs.

The Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale is currently a tool used  by VA as one component of an eligibility screening and identifies  individuals with suicidal thoughts and behavior.

If we simply allow grantees to use whatever protocol they choose,  this could create differing approaches and confusion. The bill simply  requires that grantee servers include this essential screening tool.  The code says include, not exclude or only.

This bill, as amended, preserves VA's flexibility to ensure the best  results for veterans who are seeking mental health services in their  most desperate moments.

It is common sense to allow those who are already providing mental  health services to receive grants for a suicide prevention program. Not  only are these applicants subject to the same level of scrutiny as  previous years' grantees but they also receive the same amount of  funding.

The idea that this creates a loophole or expands community care is  far from reality. Adding qualified providers to the list of grantees  helps keep the door open for veterans seeking mental health services.  The reality is this program is set to expire in September, and we  cannot allow this to happen.

Delay jeopardizes this program. We have big problems to solve. Adding  qualified mental health providers will only help.

I can appreciate the fact that the Senate has a different  perspective. However, I find their approach to be business as usual for  Congress and VA. Their bill would simply reauthorize the program for  longer and with more money. It would also oblige VA to provide more  vague reporting requirements and briefing, in other words, more money  and more bureaucracy.

If this program had been perfect, maybe this would be a good idea. I  think we can do better by ensuring the program continues longer, while  giving Congress the opportunity to revisit these programs.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to support  this legislation.