Protecting Veteran Access to Telemedicine Services Act of 2025


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1107) to amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize certain  heath care professionals employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs  to deliver, distribute, or dispense to veterans certain controlled  medications via telemedicine under certain conditions, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1107

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Protecting Veteran Access to       Telemedicine Services Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. DELIVERY, DISTRIBUTION, AND DISPENSATION OF                     CONTROLLED MEDICATIONS BY COVERED DEPARTMENT OF                     VETERANS AFFAIRS HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS VIA                     TELEMEDICINE.

Subchapter III of chapter 17 of title 38, United States       Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new       section (and conforming the table of sections at the       beginning of such chapter accordingly):       ``Sec. 1730D. Delivery, distribution, and dispensation of

controlled medications via telemedicine

``(a) In General.--Pursuant to section 1730C of this title       and subject to the requirements of title II of the       Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970       (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), a covered health care professional       may use telemedicine to deliver, distribute, or dispense to a       patient eligible to receive medical treatment under this       chapter a controlled substance that is a prescription drug as       determined under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21       U.S.C. 301 et seq.) regardless of whether such covered health       care professional has conducted an in-person medical       examination of such patient if--

``(1) such covered health care professional is--

``(A) authorized to prescribe the basic class of such       controlled substance under an active, current, full, and       unrestricted State license, registration, or certification;       and

``(B) acting in the usual course of professional practice;       and

``(2) such substance is delivered, distributed, or       dispensed for a legitimate medical purpose.

``(b) Regulations.--The Secretary shall establish in       regulations guidelines and a process for the delivery,       distribution, and dispensation of a controlled substance       pursuant to subsection (a).

``(c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be       construed to remove, limit, or otherwise affect any       obligation of a covered health care professional under the       Controlled Substances Act.

``(d) Definitions.-- In this section:

``(1) The terms `controlled substance', `deliver',       `dispense', and `distribute' have the meanings given such       terms in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act,       respectively.

``(2) The term `covered health care professional' means--

``(A) a health care professional who--

``(i) is an employee of the Department appointed under       section 7306, 7401, 7405, 7406, or 7408 of this title or       under title 5;

``(ii) is not a contractor of the Department;

``(iii) is authorized by the Secretary to provide health       care under this chapter;

``(iv) is required to adhere to all standards for quality       relating to the provision of health care in accordance with       applicable policies of the Department;

``(v) has an active, current, full, and unrestricted       license, registration, or certification or meet qualification       standards set forth by the Secretary within a specified time       frame; and

``(vi) with respect to a health care profession listed       under section 7402(b) of this title, has the qualifications       for such profession as set forth by the Secretary; and

``(B) a health professions trainee who--

``(i) is appointed under section 7405 of this title; and

``(ii) is under the clinical supervision of a health care       professional described in subparagraph (A).''.

Mr. BOST.  1107, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1107 offered by  Representative Womack.

This bill would allow telemedicine prescriptions for controlled  substances at VA even before an in-person medical exam.

During the COVID pandemic, VA waived requirements for an in-person  appointment. As a result, providers could prescribe controlled  substances by telemedicine. This waiver was helpful for continuity of  care during the pandemic.

We also realized that many veterans received more access than before  due to this waiver. I cannot tell you how many times veterans in rural  areas have told me stories about hours they have to drive to receive  care or a prescription from the VA.

Representative Womack's bill would close the loop and modernize the  delivery of prescriptions by making the current waiver permanent.

While telemedicine will never totally replace in-person care, the VA  must be granted the tools to deliver 21st century healthcare. This bill  would remove burdens on veterans who need VA care so they can get it  sooner by telemedicine.

I will continue to do whatever I can to ease access to care and  critical treatment for veterans living in rural areas of this country.  This bill would give VA power to meet the moment and the use of the  latest medicine and technology for veterans.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. BOST.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to support  this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.