Veterans Readiness and Employment Improvement Act of 2025


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 980) to amend title 38, United States Code, to make certain  improvements to the provision of on-campus educational and vocational  counseling by the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 980

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans Readiness and       Employment Improvement Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. ELIMINATION OF REQUIREMENT THAT ON-CAMPUS EDUCATIONAL                     AND VOCATIONAL COUNSELING IS PROVIDED BY                     CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS                     EMPLOYEES.

Section 3697B(a) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking the second sentence.       SEC. 3. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO APPROVE                     NON-DEGREE FLIGHT TRAINING COURSES AS PART OF                     VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION PROGRAMS FOR CERTAIN                     VETERANS WITH SERVICE-CONNECTED DISABILITIES.

(a) In General.--Section 3104(b) of title 38, United States       Code, is amended--

(1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``A rehabilitation       program'';

(2) by striking ``To the maximum extent practicable'' and       inserting ``Except as provided under paragraph (2), to the       maximum extent practicable''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

``(2) Notwithstanding section 3680A(b) of this title, the       Secretary may approve a rehabilitation program for a veteran       under this chapter that includes the pursuit of a course of       flight training other than one given by an educational       institution of higher learning for credit toward a standard       college degree the veteran is seeking.''.

(b) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsection (a)       shall apply with respect to a rehabilitation program approved       on or after August 1, 2026.       SEC. 4. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TRAINING AND                     REHABILITATION PROGRAMS FOR VETERANS WITH                     SERVICE-CONNECTED DISABILITIES: OUTREACH                     REQUIREMENT; EXTENSIONS.

(a) VRE Contact Information.--Section 3104 of title 38,       United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the       following new subsection:

``(f) The Secretary shall establish a dedicated telephone       number within the Education Call Center of the Department for       calls about services provided under this chapter. Each       regional office of the Department shall include, on the       website of the regional office, a name, telephone number, and       email address, through which veterans may receive information       about services provided under this chapter.''.

(b) Requests for Extensions of Programs: Timely       Consideration; Report.--

(1) In general.--Section 3105 of title 38, United States       Code, is amended, in subsection (c)--

(A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as       subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;

(B) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The Secretary''; and

(C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

``(2) The Secretary shall approve or deny a request for an       extension under paragraph (1) not later than 30 days after       the date on which the veteran submits such request.''.

(2) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the       enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for five       years, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the       Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of       Representatives an annual report on requests for extensions       under such subsection (c). Each such report shall include,       for the year preceding the date of the report--

(A) the number of veterans who requested such an extension;

(B) the number of such requests that were approved; and

(C) the number of such requests that were denied.       SEC. 5. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN LIMITS ON PAYMENTS OF PENSION.

Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``January 31, 2033'' and inserting ``July       31, 2033''.

Mr. BOST.  980, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 980, as amended, offered  by my friend and colleague, Representative Derrick Van Orden of  Wisconsin.

This bill would make improvements to the VA's Veteran Readiness and  Employment, or VR&E, program.

Over the last 2 years, my committee has uncovered disastrous wait  times, fraud, waste, and abuse in the VA VR&E program. This bill would  move the program in the right direction by providing more transparency  on these failures.

Mr. Speaker, it is our duty to make sure that veterans who complete  this workforce program are earning more and are better off than they  were before entering the program.

VR&E currently does not track those results. In fact, the only thing  VR&E does track is the 45 percent of veterans who have completed  programs and simply reentered them later. There remains continued  fraud, waste, and abuse in the VR&E program, and the return on  investment for the veterans is unknown.

Mr. Speaker, in fact, it shows me that VR&E needs an overhaul. This  bill would reduce the bureaucracy and red tape that the VA has used in  the past and would modernize the requirements for the VetSuccess on  Campus officers, or VSOCs, by removing the master's degree requirement  to a bachelor's degree in the relevant field of study.

This bill would also include increasing oversight and transparency of  the VR&E program by implementing a call center specifically for the  VR&E program. For VR&E to work well, there must be transparency to  veterans who are using the program.

Finally, this bill would also allow veterans in the VR&E program to  pursue noncollege degrees, like flight training.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is a step in the right direction of putting  veterans first at the VA. I thank my friend and colleague,  Representative Van Orden, for sponsoring this bill to improve the VR&E  program.

I also thank the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Hamadeh) and the  gentleman from California (Mr. Obernolte) for championing the other  provisions of this language.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. VAN ORDEN. Mr. Speaker, as chairman of the Economic Opportunity  Subcommittee, it has been a great privilege to get important bills like  H.R. 913, the SAFE Veterans Act of 2025, and H.R. 1793, the Veterans  Readiness and Employment Transparency Act of 2025, over the finish  line.

I thank my friends, the gentleman from California (Mr. Obernolte) and  the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Hamadeh), for their work alongside me  to modernize the Veteran Readiness and Employment process. I also thank  the gentleman from California (Mr. Takano) and our Democratic  colleagues for understanding the importance of this program.

Mr. Speaker, this is a good VA education and job training program. It  works, but we have to continue to improve it.

Veterans currently have to wait up to 7 months to complete the VR&E  program intake and processing procedures. My bill, H.R. 980, the  Veterans Readiness and Employment Improvement Act, would update the  requirements for the VA's VetSuccess on Campus officers, or VSOCs, by  closing an unnecessary loophole that right now requires a master's  degree to qualify for these positions.

By closing this loophole and allowing VSOCs to serve more student  veterans on campus by simply requiring a bachelor's degree in the  relevant field of study will get these positions filled with solid  candidates who are able to serve veterans.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud that our Republican Conference continues to  address these issues to cut through the red tape and the bureaucracy of  the VA and focus on the veterans themselves and, with that, making the  entire government better. Removing the bureaucratic barrier and  allowing more veterans to be served on college campuses across the  country is in lockstep with that mission.

This bill would also establish a VR&E hotline that would allow  veterans to call and receive correct information without having to sit  on hold at a call center that may or may not be able to answer their  questions.

Student veterans across this country have asked for these  improvements, and I am happy to report that we hear our veterans, and  we are making the changes that will make their lives better.

There also continues to be a pilot shortage, and this bill would  allow veterans to help fill these critical gaps by allowing veterans to  use their VR&E benefits to attend flight school.

As a disabled veteran, I am proud to lead this legislation on behalf  of our veteran community.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support H.R. 980, as amended.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I have no more speakers.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, oh, how I missed my colleagues last week.

Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to support this  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.