Veterans Law Judge Experience Act of 2025


Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 659) to amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the  Chairman of the Board of Veterans' Appeals to give priority to  individuals with certain professional experience in recommending such  individuals to serve as members of the Board of Veterans' Appeals, and  for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 659

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans Law Judge       Experience Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. PRIORITY FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH CERTAIN PROFESSIONAL                     EXPERIENCE IN APPOINTMENTS TO BOARD OF                     VETERANS' APPEALS.

Subsection (a) of section 7101A of title 38, United States       Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new       paragraph:

``(3) In recommending individuals to the Secretary to serve       as members of the Board, the Chairman shall give priority to       individuals with three or more years of legal professional       experience in areas that pertain to the laws administered by       the Secretary.''.

Mr. BOST.  659.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 659.

This bill would require the chairman of the Board of Veterans'  Appeals to prioritize people with at least 3 years of relevant  experience working in veterans law when recommending new veteran law  judges to the VA Secretary for positions at the VA.

This legislation does not alter the criteria the board currently uses  to evaluate judges, and it does not restrict the board chairman from  recommending other qualified candidates.

Madam Speaker, this bill would ensure that the best judges with  vitally important firsthand experience are serving our veterans at the  VA.

Veterans expect that those who are hearing their appeal or reviewing  evidence in support of their appeal, have the skills, knowledge, and  experience in veterans law to make sound decisions.

I support this commonsense legislation, and I urge all of my  colleagues to support H.R. 659. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of  my time.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the gentlewoman from California  for her time in service here. I wish her the best. Hopefully, we will  continue working together, as we still have a lot of things to get  done. This bill is a very good bill.

Mr. Speaker, I, once again, encourage all Members to support this  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.