Women Veterans Cancer Care Coordination Act


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1860) to designate Regional Breast and Gynecologic Cancer Care  Coordinators to expand the work of the Breast and Gynecologic Oncology  System of Excellence at the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for  other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1860

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Women Veterans Cancer Care       Coordination Act''.       SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS REGIONAL BREAST CANCER                     AND GYNECOLOGIC CANCER CARE COORDINATORS.

(a) Establishment.--Not later than one year after the date       of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans       Affairs shall hire or designate a Regional Breast Cancer and       Gynecologic Cancer Care Coordinator at each Veteran       Integrated Services Network (hereinafter in this section       referred to as ``VISN''). Each Care Coordinator hired or       designated under this subsection shall report directly to the       Director of the Breast and Gynecologic Oncology System of       Excellence (hereinafter in this section referred to as the       ``BGOSoE'').

(b) Eligible Veterans.--A veteran is eligible to receive       care coordination provided by a Care Coordinator hired or       designated under subsection (a) if the veteran--

(1) is diagnosed with a breast or gynecologic cancer, or       has been identified as having a precancerous breast or       gynecologic condition; and

(2) is eligible for health care furnished through the       Veterans Community Care Program under section 1703 of title       38, United States Code, at a non-Department facility.

(c) Locations.--The Secretary shall establish regions for       purposes of care coordination provided by Regional Breast       Cancer and Gynecologic Cancer Care Coordinators hired or       designated under subsection (a). In establishing such       regions, the Secretary shall--

(1) assign all Department facilities to an appropriate       region under the supervision of the BGOSoE Director and a       designated Regional Breast and Gynecologic Cancer Care       Coordinator; and

(2) take into account existing VISNs and the specific needs       of veterans in each region, including veterans living in       rural communities.

(d) Duties of Regional Breast and Gynecological Cancer Care       Coordinators.--The Regional Breast Cancer and Gynecologic       Cancer Care Coordinator hired or designated under subsection       (a) shall be responsible for carrying out the following       duties:

(1) Ensuring the coordination of care between clinicians of       the Department and breast and gynecologic cancer community       care providers.

(2) Working with the Office of Community Care of the       relevant medical facility of the Department regarding care       furnished under such section.

(3) Making regular contact with each veteran based on the       veteran's specific medical needs when the veteran receives       care from a community care provider.

(4) Monitoring--

(A) the services furnished to veterans by the Department       and community care providers;

(B) the health outcomes of veterans with respect to a       cancer diagnosis, including remission, metastasis, and death;       and

(C) the data relating to breast and gynecologic cancer care       (using relevant databases of the Veterans Health       Administration or other Department databases), including--

(i) the demographics of veterans who have breast or       gynecologic cancer; and

(ii) the number of veterans being treated for breast or       gynecologic cancer.

(5) Providing particular information to veterans with       breast or gynecologic cancer, including--

(A) how to seek emergency care at the emergency department       closest to the residence of the veteran, including that it is       generally advisable for veterans to notify the Department of       emergency care received at a non-Department facility within       72 hours of receiving care to facilitate the authorization of       payments for such emergency treatment; and

(B) information about mental health resources, including       with respect to information encouraging follow-up care for       depression.

(6) Documenting certain information on veterans receiving       care for breast or       gynecologic care in the electronic health records of the       Department, including--

(A) the documentation of the contact described in paragraph       (3);

(B) the contact information of the breast or gynecologic       cancer care community care providers of such veterans; and

(C) the breast or gynecologic cancer diagnosis of veterans.

(7) Carrying out such other duties as may be determined       appropriate by the Secretary.

(e) Report.--Not later than three years after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the       Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the House       of Representatives a report containing the following:

(1) A comparison of the health outcomes of veterans who       received cancer care at a Department facility and those who       received care furnished by non-Department medical providers       pursuant to section 1703 of title 38, United States Code,       include with respect to the following:

(A) Treatment and types of health outcomes, including (for       the most recent three years of available data)--

(i) the number of veterans who were diagnosed with a breast       or gynecologic cancer, or precancerous breast or gynecologic       condition;

(ii) the percentage of such veterans who have experienced a       cancer-related death; and

(iii) the percentage of such veterans who have entered       remission for gynecologic cancer.

(B) Timeliness of care furnished under chapter 17 of title       38, United States Code, including how quickly initial post-      diagnosis appointments and appointments to develop a       treatment plan are scheduled and provided.

(C) Patient safety associated with such care at Department       facilities or community care providers, including the number       of errors in medical care that rise to the level of ``never       events'' (such as a foreign body left in a veteran during       surgery).

(2) An evaluation of what changes or additional resources       are needed to further improve breast and gynecologic cancer       care and coordination.

(3) Any other matter the Secretary determines appropriate.

(f) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) The term ``community care provider'' means a health       care provider described in section 1703(c) of title 38,       United States Code, who has entered into a contract or       agreement to furnish hospital care, medical services, or       extended care services (other than care related to breast and       gynecologic cancer) to veterans under section 1703 of title       38, United States Code.

(2) The term ``breast and gynecologic cancer community care       provider'' means a breast or gynecologic cancer care provider       described in section 1703(c) of title 38, United States Code,       who has entered into a contract or agreement to furnish       hospital care, medical services, or extended care services to       provide care related to breast or gynecologic cancer to       veterans under section 1703 of title 38F, United States Code.

(3) The term ``breast cancer'' has the meaning given such       term by the Director of the Breast and Gynecologic Oncology       System of Excellence.

(4) The term ``gynecologic cancer'' means cervical cancer,       ovarian cancer, uterine cancer, vaginal cancer, vulvar       cancer, and gestational trophoblastic neoplasia.

(5) The term ``non-Department facility'' has the meaning       given that term in section 1701 of title 38, United States       Code.       SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN LIMITS ON PAYMENTS OF PENSION.

Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``November 30, 2031'' and inserting       ``September 30, 2032''.

Mr. BOST.  1860, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1860, as amended,  offered by Representative Sylvia Garcia of Texas.

This bill would create coordinators within each of the Veterans  Integrated Service Networks to help veterans navigate cancer care.  Specifically, this bill aims to improve care coordination for common  cancers in women.

No person wants to hear that they have or that their loved one has  cancer. Having the resources to navigate such a difficult time can make  all the difference in the treatment journey.

VA must give women veterans who have to navigate cancer treatments  the highest quality care that we can offer them. Whether it is  screening, diagnosis, treatment, or recovery, our women veterans have  earned top-notch support from VA every step of the way. More women  veterans than ever before are using VA.

My friend, the gentlewoman from Iowa (Mrs. Miller-Meeks), recently  hosted a hearing to discuss improving care for women veterans. This  bill builds on our work to ensure this population of veterans has  access to the modern care that they have earned.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I have no more speakers.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to support  this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.