Providing for Consideration of H.R. Saving Homeowners From Overregulation with Exceptional Rinsing Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Affordable Housing Over Mandating Efficiency Standards Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698632/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-saving-homeowners-from-overregulation-with-exceptional-rinsing-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-affordable-housing-over-mandating-efficiency-standards-act-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. MALOY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this rule that moves  appropriations bills, bills that reflect the leadership of Chairman  Cole and the priorities of this Congress, avoiding another shutdown and  spending taxpayer dollars responsibly in a way that directly benefits  Americans.

These bills lower the cost of living and boost the economy. They  support domestic energy production, resulting in lower costs for  American families and businesses, and invest in water infrastructure to  address drought and protect supplies for communities across this  country.

These appropriations bills that are included in the rule spend hard- earned tax dollars responsibly, reduce spending below current levels,  putting money back in Americans' pockets, and reduce our deficit. They  ensure that government funding works efficiently to deliver services  that make life better for Americans.

The American people are watching us. They want to see Congress do our  most basic, essential function, which is spending government dollars  and controlling the power of the purse. Through bipartisan, bicameral  negotiations, led by appropriators, we are turning priorities into  action and putting America first.

Mr. Speaker, this package demonstrates the value of Congress by  delivering results for communities in Utah and across the country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the bill.