Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the National Park Service Relating to ``Glen Canyon National Recreation Area: Motor Vehicles''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690403/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-national-park-service-relating-to-glen-canyon-national-recreation-area-motor-vehicles


Ms. MALOY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution, H.J.  Res. 60, which provides congressional disapproval under the  Congressional Review Act of the rules submitted by the National Park  Service on the Glen Canyon National Recreation Area pertaining to motor  vehicles.

The National Park Service finalized a rule that restricts off-road  vehicles and all-terrain vehicles, ORVs and ATVs, to access certain  areas within the Glen Canyon National Recreation Area in my district.

This would prohibit access to approximately 24 miles of road as the  chairman said, including popular trails near the Orange Cliffs and  segments of the Poison Springs Loop. I have spent a lot of time on the  ground in these areas with local elected officials who, for years, have  tried to generate a better experience for visitors to the Orange  Cliffs, and this goes in the wrong direction.

Wayne and Garfield Counties are counties that struggle in a State  that otherwise thrives. Utah has a really strong economy, but these  rural counties have really weak economies. The reason the rural  counties struggle is because almost all of the land in their counties  is managed by the Federal Government. The Federal Government can make  rules that restrict access to parts of their county over their  objections.

These roads we are talking about are important to those residing in  Wayne and Garfield Counties and the tourists who come here from all  over the world. They have used these paths to get to places that are  part of their history and part of their recreation for generations.  These road restrictions reflect a pattern of access loss that  characterizes the problems with having a distant Federal Government  make local rules.

People from across the world come to experience the unique  opportunities these trails offer. The rule threatens to sever these  connections, leaving communities to bear the brunt of its consequences.  This is in a beautiful part of a gorgeous State, but it is not easy to  get to. Keep in mind, this is a recreation area, not a preservation  area.

Mr. Speaker, the people of Utah deserve better. They deserve a  government that listens, that respects their traditions, and  understands the importance of balancing conservation with access.

Glen Canyon National Recreation Area is very popular, as my colleague  across the aisle pointed out. The Orange Cliffs area is not well  traveled. Much like the rural counties are struggling in a State that  is thriving, the Orange Cliffs area is tough to get to in a national  recreation area where everybody goes to the lake.

It doesn't make sense to close roads and concentrate all those  visitors in those small areas. These nonsensical rules that make  bureaucrats feel better don't help Utahans and are a symptom of the  problem of having a distant and disinterested landlord with an agenda.

That is why I introduced H.J. Res. 60, a resolution that leverages  the Congressional Review Act to overturn this misguided rule. The  resolution is not just about restoring access to trails. It is about  standing up for the rights of my constituents, protecting local  economies, and preserving freedoms that define our Nation.

Let us be clear: Conservation and access are not mutually exclusive.  We can protect our natural heritage while ensuring that Americans can  go see it and enjoy it.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this  resolution. We should send a message that we stand with the people of  Wayne and Garfield Counties, the people of Utah, and the people who  like to recreate on our public lands.

We value their voices, and we won't allow bureaucratic overreach to  dictate our way of life. Together, we can ensure that Glen Canyon  remains a place of freedom, adventure, and opportunity for generations  to come and isn't a hindrance to the local economies.