Semiquincentennial Tourism and Access to Recreation Sites Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697764/semiquincentennial-tourism-and-access-to-recreation-sites-act


Ms. MALOY. Mr. Speaker, Americans are preparing to celebrate the  250th birthday of the United States in 2026.

How do you properly celebrate 250 years of freedom? One very uniquely  American way is to spend time in what Wallace Stegner called ``the best  idea we ever had,'' our national parks.

National parks provide our connection to history, nature, and shared  heritage, including our bright future as a nation. The  Semiquincentennial Tourism and Access to Recreation Sites Act, which  doesn't exactly roll off the tongue, so we call it the STARS Act,  designates Constitution Day, September 17, 2026, as a fee-free day at  National Park Service sites and extends fee waivers to Federal lands  managed by the Bureau of Land Management, the Fish and Wildlife  Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, and the United States Forest  Service.

This allows Americans to experience our national history, natural  treasures, and natural resources that preserve and protect the legacy  that began in 1776.

This legislation is complementary to the Department of the Interior's  effort to launch the digital America the Beautiful passes, expand  motorcycle access, create a resident-focused fee structure, and  otherwise improve the experience for Americans.

The STARS Act highlights Constitution Day to encourage reflection on  America's founding principles. Get out and enjoy this Nation's natural  resources, learn something new, or just celebrate with loved ones in  one of our parks.

Free access encourages families and communities to visit, learn, and  participate in the national celebration together. Americans just might  come together during this major national commemoration by getting  outside in a forest, historic park, bird refuge, or go on an iconic  hike.

The STARS Act is about connecting Americans with history, nature, and  the founding principles of our Republic. We can celebrate America's  birthday in a very American way that invites all people, regardless of  politics, religion, age, or income bracket to be united in taking part  in the freedoms we enjoy as a result of our Constitution.

Maybe, just maybe, by joining together to mark this milestone, we can  awaken a fresh reverence and respect for our founding documents, our  collective national blessings, and the ideas that changed the world  two-and-a-half centuries ago.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.