Women's History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689363/womens-history-month


Ms. MALOY. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to stand here and celebrate  the contributions of women this Women's History Month, both the women  who are here today and those whose spirits live on through the impact  they have created for past generations.

Our contributions as women are not a sidenote in the story of our  world. They are central to it. We helped shape the world, and we are  here to make sure that the women who came before us get credit for what  they have done. Their influence is undeniable.

When we think of remarkable women, let us be reminded of women like  Martha Hughes Cannon, a physician, suffragist, and pioneer who went on  to become the first female State Senator in the United States.

We are a Nation of pioneers. Martha beautifully embodies that  pioneering spirit. She immigrated to the United States, crossed the  Great Plains, and helped settle Utah when it was a frontier State. She  challenged societal expectations, standing alone in the fields of  science and politics, to advocate for her convictions.

Her unwavering commitment to change helped establish women's right to  vote and hold office in Utah, putting the State decades ahead of the  national curve, and then helped reestablish the right to vote when the  Nation caught up.

Her statue now fittingly stands in Emancipation Hall and represents  Utah.

Let's also be reminded of women like Sally Ride who in 1983 became  the first woman in space, defying conventional expectations set for  women while creating opportunities for women to enter STEM fields.

Let us also be reminded of women like Clara Barton who founded the  American Red Cross in 1881, modeling service and diplomacy in the  presence of conflict. Her contributions were not without risk.

Let us be reminded of all the women who have yet to have their  stories told, their achievements celebrated, and their voices heard.  Their influence, whether truly recognized or not, will be felt, not  only by their neighbors, but by future generations. Their contributions  are important to the legacy of this Nation.

The importance of showcasing women's achievements, sharing our  stories and teaching our history, cannot be overstated. Women's History  Museum offers young girls the opportunity to see themselves in history  as active agents of change. When we teach the history of women, we are  teaching the history of humanity, and those stories are not simply for  women, but for everyone. They are for everyone who shares the  pioneering spirit that drives Americans to keep challenging limitations  and working for freedom and opportunity.

When we recognize women, let us remember the challenges they have  faced, the struggles we have endured, and the significance of our  choice to persevere.

Progress is rarely easily won. Success is rarely freely given, but as  history has illustrated time and time again, women have found ways to  push forward and to pioneer better ways.

As we honor the women who come before us by remembering, I hope we  will be grateful and humble to have inherited the progress of past  generations. As Americans and visitors to our country visit the  Nation's Capital and explore the museums, it seems fitting that they  would have the opportunity to learn about the pioneering spirit of  America and the stories of pioneering American women.

Ms. De La CRUZ.