Congressional Delegation Announces Additional Coronavirus Relief for Arkansas HBCUs and Colleges and Universities Serving Low-Income Students


U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton--along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman--announced an additional round of coronavirus relief funding for Arkansas's Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and institutions serving low-income students to help ensure learning continues during the coronavirus crisis.

The funds--totaling $14,573,384--come from the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, which became law with the support of the Arkansas congressional delegation. It is part of nearly $1.4 billion in additional funding the Department of Education has directed to Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs) nationwide, which is provided on top of the money previously allocated in the first round.  

Institutions may use this funding to cover the cost of technology associated with a transition to distance education, grants to cover the costs of attendance for eligible students and training for faculty and staff. Additionally, funds may be used to cover operational costs, such as lost revenue, reimbursements for prior expenses and payroll.

"The Department of Education quickly awarded CARES Actfunding to higher education institutions across the state to aid students impacted during this crisis. This additional funding recognizes the unique challenges facing HBCUs and institutions serving low-income students. These institutions play a vital role in transforming lives and make Arkansas's communities stronger," the delegation said. 

The following Arkansas colleges and universities will receive funding from this second round of grants: 

Arkansas colleges and universities received over $100 million in the first round of emergency grants to support postsecondary students and institutes of higher education impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. In total, the CARES Act provides nearly $14 billion to support postsecondary students and institutions nationwide.