Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BOOZMAN. Madam President, I rise today to recognize the National  Police Week in honor of the men and women who serve and protect our  communities. The individuals called to uphold the rule of law do so in  times of crisis, and they serve their families, friends, and neighbors  at a moment's notice. They are selfless public servants who  courageously face danger head-on. 

  Law enforcement officers respond to calls for help while not knowing  what challenges they will face. We are in a unique time right now and  experiencing unprecedented challenges in our country. Law enforcement  officers are working to protect citizens while also safeguarding  themselves against the unseen enemy of COVID-19. 

  The disease has forced departments in Arkansas and all over the  country to change protocols in order to prevent the spread of the  disease, but that hasn't stopped the resolve, the determination, and  the passion of officers to defend the community. Despite this new  challenge, they continue to serve with the same level of  professionalism and integrity. 

  We are working to provide departments and agencies with additional  resources to safeguard these public safety officers. I am pleased the  Department of Justice recently awarded Arkansas near $7 million so we  can better serve the safety needs of officers in the State and get them  personal protective equipment--gloves, masks, and sanitizer--that they  need in order to perform their job safely. This funding is vital as the  calls for assistance keep coming and police officers continue to  respond to these emergencies. 

  I want to thank our law enforcement officers for their bravery today  and always. It takes a special person to put their life on the line  every day to protect our communities. We are fortunate to have some of  the very best in Arkansas. 

  National Police Week is a time that we honor the sacrifices of  individuals who selflessly serve their community and give their lives,  if necessary, while in the line of duty. We preserve their legacies by  adding their names to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in  Washington, DC, to serve as a reminder of their sacrifices. 

  This year, the names of 307 fallen officers will be added to the  memorial, including five Arkansans. The names of Game Warden Ollie  Mitts, Deputy Sheriff George Rogers, Deputy Sheriff Ulyss Baldwin,  Fayetteville Police Officer Stephen Carr, and Stone County Sergeant  Michael Stephen, Sr. are new to the memorial. We will remember forever  them as heroes. 

  I am a proud cosponsor of the Senate resolution marking National  Police Week because we must always remember the brave officers whose  lives were cut short because of their public duty and recognize those  who continue to selfishly serve to keep us safe. 

  I am proud to honor the individuals who are called to serve and  protect and will advocate for policies that provide our communities and  officers with the resources they need to protect themselves. 

  Thank you to the officers in Arkansas and those all across the  country for upholding the law, protecting the community, and saving  lives. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT