Inhofe Leads Delegation to Iraq


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, led a delegation to Iraq, with stops in Baghdad and Erbil. The delegation, which included Senator Rounds, Sen. Boozman, Sen. Cramer, Rep. Kelly and Rep. Walberg was the first congressional visit to Iraq since the successful strike against the Quds Force commander Soleimani. In Baghdad, they received a briefing from General White about current conditions in Iraq, regional tensions and the security and stability of the region. In Erbil, they met with Masoud Barzani, where they discussed shared security goals and visited with U.S. service members.

 

"Meeting with General White in Baghdad made it even more clear--the strike against Soleimani was the right call. The briefings highlighted how the his removal seriously disrupted Iran's state supported terrorist networks in Iraq. While we must remain clear-eyed about the resurgence of violent extremist organizations, we've made meaningful progress on our shared security goals, specifically with our Iraqi partners," Inhofe said.  

 

"My meeting with Masoud Baranzi in Erbil demonstrates the positive commitment to our shared priorities: counterterrorism and regional security," Inhofe concluded.

 

"Our servicemembers stand ready to defend our interests each day. I'm grateful for the opportunity to express our support for their selfless service and dedication to protecting the United States and our allies against threats to our national security. Meeting with military leaders on the ground allows us to see the work being done to prepare against evolving threats in the region and ensure they have the resources they need to successfully accomplish their missions," Boozman said.

 

"Valuable discussions with our troops in Iraq reinforced to me that the reduction in troops was adequately matched by the growth of our allies' capabilities, thanks to the skill of our trainers. However, it is also clear American leadership is still critical to maintaining our mutual security interests," Cramer said.