Unanimous Consent Request--S. Con. Res. 32


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize members of the  Greatest Generation who courageously helped to defeat the German Army  at the Battle of the Bulge and who dealt a critical blow to the Nazi  regime. 

  On this day 75 years ago, American soldiers continued the resilience  they had demonstrated for 4 weeks. On December 16, 1944, in the  Ardennes Forest of the Luxembourg and Belgium area, American soldiers  were unexpectedly attacked by the Germans. Allied forces were  unprepared. They were outnumbered and facing record-low temperatures  and dwindling supplies, but, still, the men on the frontlines dug in to  defend against the enemy. 

  Arkansan Bill Strauss was one of the brave men who faced the bitter  cold and dire conditions. With lack of sleep and shortage of food, he  and his fellow troops endured this extreme test of will and resolve. 

  I met with Bill in 2019 to help him celebrate his 100th birthday and  thanked him for his service and continued commitment to sharing his  experiences with others. It has been 75 years, but Bill's recollection  of the details of the unimaginable circumstances he faced was still  very clear. He talks about his memories as part of the Battle of the  Bulge in order to honor his fellow soldiers who weren't so fortunate,  as well as to teach succeeding generations about the realities of war  and the remarkable perseverance of American troops. 

  The 6-week battle demonstrated the commitment, courage, and  resilience of Bill and all the American soldiers. It was the largest  battle ever fought by the U.S. Army. British Prime Minister Winston  Churchill called it ``the greatest American battle of the war.'' It  came at a considerable cost. More than 89,000 American soldiers were  casualties, including 19,000 soldiers who were killed, 47,500 who were  wounded, and 23,000 who were captured or missing in action. 

  The people of Belgium and Luxembourg have a close place in their  hearts for American soldiers who sacrificed their lives on foreign  soil. They continue to display that gratitude today. 

  A couple of weeks ago, I led a group of my fellow Senators to both  countries to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the Battle of the  Bulge. We experienced how the town of Bastogne, Belgium, observes this  anniversary. The tremendous community support was welcoming of American  veterans whom fate had brought together in 1944 there in the town and  in the nearby forest to defend Bastogne and hold off the German  advance. 

  I was honored to visit with American veterans who fought in the  battle and were returning to the land they had defended. There are  fewer and fewer who are able to join, but that doesn't diminish what  they did there or the steadfast way they fought and sacrificed in the  name of freedom. 

  My colleagues and I also had the unique opportunity to witness the  ceremony by the 101st Airborne Division among the foxholes in Belgium.  These foxholes, once occupied by soldiers, including those from Easy  Company, the heroes immortalized in the celebrated ``The Band of  Brothers'' book and miniseries, remain preserved. They stand as a stark  reminder of the bitter cold and inhospitable conditions our soldiers  withstood for so many days. This solemn ceremony was a special way to  remember those who had fought and to honor those whose lives were taken  too early. 

  Following World War II, the Belgium people raised money to build a  memorial to show their appreciation for the selfless sacrifice of  Americans troops. The Mardasson Memorial was dedicated in 1950. The  walls of the star-shaped structure commemorate the battle, paying  tribute to the units that fought there and representing the States  where those wounded or whose lives were lost hailed from. 

  This memorial is in need of repairs. That is why I support  legislation that Senator Tillis introduced that would let experts at  the American Battle Monuments Commission oversee its restoration. 

  Maintaining this memorial is critical to making sure what the  monument stands for: the service and the sacrifices made by Americans  at the Battle of the Bulge, and that will continue to be remembered for  generations to come. I encourage my colleagues to support this bill so  future generations can reflect on the heroism and bravery of our  troops. 

  We can be proud of the unwavering bravery of the American  servicemembers and the Allied forces whose efforts defeated the German  attack and led to the end of the Nazi regime. 

  It is fitting that we recognize the 75th anniversary of a battle that  both shaped the future of combat and ushered in a new year of comity  between Europe and the United States. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT