Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act of 2025


Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I am proud to join my colleagues in  emphasizing the importance of whole milk in a healthy school lunch and  taking Senate action to ensure a balanced diet for school-age children.

I rise today in support of S. 222, the Whole Milk for Healthy Kids  Act. This legislation, as we discussed, would allow for schools  participating in the National School Lunch Program to, once again,  offer whole and reduced-fat milk while also expanding the options for  nutritious nondairy beverages.

The good news is, this legislation has support in the Senate and was  unanimously reported out of the Senate Agriculture Committee earlier  this year. My main message today is to thank Senators Marshall and  Welch along  with Senator McCormick and Fetterman for leading the bipartisan  legislation and championing policies that promote a balanced diet and  increased dairy consumption for students, something dietary experts who  testified before the Ag Committee agree is important to their long-term  health.

I also appreciate the interest of my colleagues who want to ensure  these changes support their constituents, and I look forward to  continuing work to secure that result.

I also want to thank Senator Alsobrooks for engaging in a very  constructive way regarding the bill, and I look forward to continuing  to work with her to try and figure out how we can go forward and deal  with the comments that she has made or concerns that she has made. I  was on the school board for 7 years, and these things are important.  Labels are very, very important, so we appreciate you.

I am proud to share a commitment also with her in supporting school  meals and to lead the committee in making commonsense updates to  strengthen children's capabilities in and out of the classroom. I look  forward to continuing our work in the Senate to make sure perspectives  and concerns of constituents from Maryland are considered.

Finally, I want to recognize Paul Bleiberg, whose tireless advocacy  on behalf of the American dairy farmers helped to ensure this important  legislation progressed through the U.S. Senate. I look forward to  moving this bill across the finish line in the Senate, and I am hopeful  our colleagues in the House can build on this momentum.

Again, thank you, guys, so much for all of your work, your  collaboration. This is how this place ought to work, and you are a  great example of that.