Aces Act of 2025


Mr. PFLUGER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today not just as a Member of Congress but as a  wingman, a servicemember, and a friend to those in uniform and in  strong support of S. 201, the Aviator Cancers Examination Study Act, or  the ACES Act.

Far too many of our military aviators and aircrew are being diagnosed  with cancer at troubling rates. A 2021 Air Force study supported by  additional Department of Defense research found that aviators face a 29  percent higher likelihood of testicular cancer, a 24 percent higher  likelihood of melanoma, and a 23 percent higher risk of prostate cancer  compared to their civilian counterparts.

These are incredibly healthy, in-shape, well-tested individuals, yet  they have almost 30 percent higher cancer rates than the average  civilian population.

Mr. Speaker, these numbers tell a painful story. When brave men and  women volunteer to defend our Nation from the cockpit, they shouldn't  face a second battle against cancer without our full support.

This is why this legislation, led by me and my friend from California  (Mr. Panetta) in the House and by Senators Kelly and Cotton in the  Senate, is critically necessary.

The ACES Act directs the Department of Veterans Affairs to partner  with the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to  conduct a comprehensive study on the prevalence and causes of cancer  among military aviators. We need to know the why, and we need to  provide our aircrew with air cover for their own health.

By identifying the unique risk factors associated with aviation  service, we can implement targeted screening protocols that enable  earlier detection, when treatment is most effective. This leads to  faster access to care and benefits, significantly improved survival  rates, more time with loved ones, and the opportunity for continued  service.

This bill builds upon previous research that has been done, but it  goes the distance and increases the pool to the veteran population, not  just those who are Active Duty, but also to those who have previously  served as aviators.

I am an Air Force fighter pilot with over 20 years of service, and I  fought alongside the best that this Nation has to offer. I have also  stood beside too many of my brothers and sisters as they face their  toughest battles--not in  the air, but when they got home, in hospital rooms, fighting a disease  that they never saw coming.

That is the story of my friend, Colonel Andy ``Pablo'' Shurtleff. In  March, Andy did a wonderful job of testifying before the Subcommittee  on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, sharing how his sudden  cancer diagnosis brought his promising career to an abrupt end. He  spoke with clarity and conviction about how a better understanding of  cancer risk in the aviation community might have led to earlier  detection not only in his case but in many of our friends and many of  our wingmen, detection that could have saved his life and their lives.

Shortly after that, on Friday, May 23, my friend Pablo lost his  battle with cancer. In his final days, one of the few comforts he knew  was that the ACES Act was on track to becoming law. His courage, voice,  and advocacy for other servicemembers should not be forgotten.

There are countless others I have served with, including people like  Colonel Michael ``Bam Bam'' Stapleton and so many others who many of us  know. That is what this bill represents. It represents keeping Pablo in  the cockpit. It represents Pablo's kids and others in the next  generation wanting to sign up for this because they know that we are  going to give them that air cover.

This bill received bipartisan support on the House floor with a vote  of 376-5 in May. This bill has the support of over 20 veteran  organizations, cancer advocacy groups, and medical experts because they  recognize what is at stake.

With the passage of this version of the bill, it will be sent to the  President's desk, and I am hopeful that the President will sign it into  law quickly so we can fulfill our promise to those who serve, a promise  that when someone serves our Nation, we have their backs, that we will  serve them, and that we will protect them.

Today, as we cast our votes on this critical legislation, we stand  closer than ever to honoring the memory of heroes like Andy and giving  future servicemembers a real chance at early detection, better  treatment, and lifesaving research.

I sincerely thank my colleagues who cosponsored this bipartisan  legislation, as well as Chairman Bost, the chairman of the Veterans'  Affairs Committee; the ranking member of the Veterans' Affairs  Committee; Chairman Luttrell; members of the House and Senate Veterans'  Affairs Committees; Majority Leader   Steve Scalise, Senator Jerry  Moran; and leadership for their unwavering support for moving this  bill. Unlike many others in Congress, this was moved with Mach, with  airspeed, and I appreciate that.

I am also deeply grateful to the dedicated volunteers of the MACH  Coalition, whose passion and persistence helped carry this effort  forward.

My heartfelt thanks go to Senator Mark Kelly, himself a combat  veteran, a pilot, and an astronaut, and Senator Cotton for championing  this bill in the Senate.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``yes.'' There  really is no reason that we can't make this a unanimous ``yes'' vote in  support of the ACES Act.

Most of all, my deepest gratitude goes to the thousands of pilots and  aircrew members who are defending our Nation every single day. We see  them. We thank them. We have their backs. This is the air cover that  they so desperately deserve.