Defending American Property Abroad Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701470/defending-american-property-abroad-act-of-2026


Mr. PFLUGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R.  7084, the Defending American Property Abroad Act. I thank Chairman  Graves for his support.

Let's be clear, American companies operating abroad should not have  to fear arbitrary government actions that undermine their property  rights, but right now, that is exactly what is happening. When  countries violate trade agreements and illegally seize assets from U.S.  companies, it puts American job security, economic security, and, quite  frankly, our national security at risk.

H.R. 7084 ensures there are enforceable consequences for those  actions. Specifically, it strengthens U.S. maritime security law to  address these unlawful seizures. Through existing Coast Guard  authorities, it also authorizes the President to deny entry into U.S.  ports for vessels that operate through expropriated American-owned port  infrastructure in Western Hemisphere countries with U.S. free trade  agreements.

We know this is not just a hypothetical example. For years, the  Mexican Government has targeted the U.S.-based Vulcan Materials  Company.

In 1986, Vulcan Materials Company built the only deepwater port in  Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula, and for decades this operation supplied  crushed limestone to critical infrastructure projects across the Gulf  and Atlantic Coasts, roads, bridges, housing, and energy facilities in  States represented by Members on both sides of the aisle.

But starting in May of 2022, the Mexican Government launched an  endless pressure campaign against Vulcan Materials and sent the  military to forcibly shut down its operations.

In 2023, they invaded and occupied the property again just to hand it  to a private Mexican competitor.

In 2024, they declared the port and a quarry adjacent to it a  ``naturally protected area'' to complete the expropriation, and now  Mexico is weaponizing its tax authority, pursuing billions in  retroactive dollars in claims to seize what remains.

Meanwhile, Mexico has allowed a dozen unpermitted quarries in the  same exact region for Mexican companies to operate freely. Let me say  that again. Mexico used its military to forcibly shut down an American  company and created false environmental claims to do so. That is a  direct violation of the USMCA.

We did not resort to legislation as a first option. In fact, for 4  years, the United States has pursued every available diplomatic tool,  congressional letters, administration engagement, and bilateral  pressure, and none of that worked.

This represents a coordinated multifront campaign by Mexico against  an American company that undermines our diplomatic progress and  threatens all U.S. investment in Mexico.

Now, my colleagues may ask: Why is this bill the right response?  First, it is surgical. It targets expropriated port infrastructure  only. It will not disrupt current, legitimate shipping operations.  Second, it includes clear off-ramps. If the foreign government returns  the property, provides fair compensation, and resolves the dispute,  then the restrictions are lifted. Lastly, it includes exceptions for  emergencies and maritime safety.

I am proud to have worked in a bipartisan way with Representatives  Carbajal and Sewell and Chairman Graves' committee staff on this  legislation.

This isn't just about one company. We cannot allow a foreign  government to steal American property and face zero consequences.

This is an opportunity for us to protect American investment abroad,  to protect American companies, and to protect our own communities. If  you are an American company operating abroad, we have vowed to protect  you, and this legislation does just that.

I urge colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote ``yes'' on H.R.  7084.