Dhs Restrictions on Confucius Institutes and Chinese Entities of Concern Act


Mr. PFLUGER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 377, I call up  the bill (H.R. 881) to establish Department of Homeland Security  funding restrictions on institutions of higher education that have a  relationship with Confucius Institutes, and for other purposes, and ask  for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. PFLUGER.  881.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my bill, H.R. 881, the DHS  Restrictions on Confucius Institutes and Chinese Entities of Concern.

I have long been concerned that the threats the Chinese Communist  Party poses to our homeland are not only real, but they are right here.

In the Homeland Security Committee and on my Subcommittee on  Counterterrorism and Intelligence, we have heard from a wide array of  national security experts and law enforcement officials who have  continuously raised alarms about the CCP's increasing subversive  activities inside our country through organizations like the CCP's  Confucius Institutes, the Thousand Talents Program, and other CCP- affiliated groups.

While Confucius Institutes are presented as centers for promoting  Chinese language and culture, it is proven that they have been used to  steal critical research, recruit talent for military-civil fusion  enterprises, conduct espionage, commit transnational repression, and  influence academic institutions to the benefit of the CCP.

At their peak, the United States hosted approximately 118 Confucius  Institutes, primarily at colleges and universities. Now, there are  fewer than 14 active Confucius Institutes today, but the danger still  remains. Many of these programs have rebranded themselves within  universities with the same mission as before, and that is to subvert  national security and expand CCP influence operations.

Another example is the CCP's Thousand Talents Program, which the FBI  has listed as the most prolific sponsor of State-sponsored talent  recruitment programs that bring outside knowledge and innovation back  to China, often through stealing trade secrets, breaking export control  laws, or violating conflict of interest policies.

These talent recruitment programs are a win-win for China. China wins  twice. First, U.S. taxpayers are funding their research, not China;  and, second, China then uses the research it would not have otherwise  had to advance its own economic and military interests.

Today, we are debating H.R. 881, my legislation which, by the way, is  bipartisan, that would prohibit DHS from funding American universities  that host a Confucius Institute or Thousand Talents Program or maintain  relationships with Chinese entities of concern. H.R. 881 also ensures  that universities prioritize the education of their students over any  of their partnerships with these institutions.

This legislation passed the House last year with bipartisan support,  and this year H.R. 881 passed the Committee on Homeland Security with  unanimous, bipartisan support.

I thank Chairman Green; Ranking Member Thompson; my counterpart on  the Subcommittee on Counterterrorism and Intelligence, Ranking Member  Magaziner; and the Committee on Homeland Security staff for moving this  critical legislation forward.

The DHS Restrictions on Confucius Institutes and Chinese Entities of  Concern Act would play a vital role in protecting our students,  intellectual property, and national security. Together, this effort  demonstrates a unified, bipartisan way to protect our Nation from the  insidious influence of the CCP, and that our students, our intellectual  property, and our national security are protected from the malign  influence of the CCP.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my Republican and Democratic colleagues to  support this legislation.

Mr. PFLUGER. Mr. Speaker, I will point out that this bill was  actually brought up during the Biden administration and has nothing to  do with one administration or another. It was bipartisan, and those  entities of concern are named in and are labeled within the DOD. We do  have a pattern of history of Confucius Institutes switching names but  remaining the same for the purpose of malign influence.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member and the gentleman from Rhode  Island (Mr. Magaziner) for his work on this bill. This is a process  that has taken a couple of years, and I believe that we have a good,  bipartisan bill that addresses the issue at hand.

Mr. Speaker, let me close with this. Continuing to use our taxpayer  dollars to give the Chinese Communist Party a seat in the front row of  our universities' classrooms and research labs would be a catastrophic  mistake.

It has been proven that the CCP does use programs like Confucius  Institutes, not to build bridges or promote culture, as they may say,  but to expand their influence inside the United States for malign  purposes. This legislation would put an end to this egregious national  security threat. Quite frankly, it is well overdue.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to come  together, to stand firm for our American education system, and to vote  ``yes'' on this legislation.

Mr. PFLUGER. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.