Generative Ai Terrorism Risk Assessment Act


Mr. PFLUGER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1736, the Generative AI  Terrorism Risk Assessment Act.

The mass adoption of artificial intelligence is the latest in a  series of technological revolutions that have permeated and influenced  every aspect of our lives. Today, we face a new reality: The same  technologies driving innovation are now being weaponized against us by  hostile actors.

Earlier this year, the Subcommittee on Counterterrorism and  Intelligence held a hearing to consider the extent to which terrorist  groups are using generative AI for recruitment and radicalization. We  know now, without a doubt, that terrorist organizations have already  integrated generative AI into their operations.

We found that groups, including ISIS and al-Qaida, are actively  training in the use of artificial intelligence and using it to produce  highly convincing propaganda, making it much easier for terrorist  groups to recruit, radicalize, and carry out attacks on the U.S.  homeland.

My bill requires DHS to conduct annual assessments on threats to the  U.S. by terrorist organizations using generative AI. It also requires  greater information sharing and coordination across the intelligence  community to ensure that we have the clearest possible picture of AI- related terror threats.

This is an issue that requires us to be proactive and outmaneuver any  group or individual seeking to do us harm with this emerging  technology. The Generative AI Terrorism Risk Assessment Act ensures  that our homeland security and capabilities remain ahead of adversary  tactics.

Our response cannot be reactive. We must anticipate the future of  terrorist methods and be prepared before these threats materialize.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill and  hope to see the Senate take similar action in the very near future.  Passing this bill will equip our national security agencies with the  tools they need to adapt and defend against the threats of tomorrow  today.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague and friend  from Texas (Mr. Pfluger) for introducing this bill. It does make a ton  of common sense and is something that we all agree that we must be  ahead of.

I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R. 1736, and I yield back  the balance of my time.