Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698387/lower-health-care-premiums-for-all-americans-act


Mr. PFLUGER. Mr. Speaker, I will remind my colleagues across the  aisle that not a single Republican has ever voted for ObamaCare. This  is your plan. You put it into law. It was a disaster then. It is a  disaster now. It was more expensive now than it has ever been, and it  is your plan. It is our job to fix it, which is exactly what we are  doing.

Mr. Speaker, ObamaCare has failed to deliver on its promises. It has  left millions of Americans with higher premiums. Again, your votes did  that. It has fewer choices, less coverage, and is plagued by fraud,  waste, and abuse.

Mr. Speaker, I recently had a constituent write to me, outlining her  and her husband's experience, demonstrating systematic fraud within the  ACA marketplace. Her husband has been repeatedly enrolled in an ACA  plan without consent since November 2023 in a scheme where brokers and  agents are fraudulently enrolling individuals to collect commissions  and meet enrollment quotas. This broker gained unauthorized access to  his prescription records and replaced his legitimate employer-sponsored  insurance coverage at his pharmacy.

I wish I could say that these examples are one-time instances, but we  know they are not. The system was built for this kind of fraud. They  represent the broader failure that is ObamaCare.

We must take action to fix this broken system and make healthcare  actually affordable, not the Ponzi scheme that it currently is.

The Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act is a great first  step toward this mission, and we will drive down health insurance  premiums immediately by 11 percent through cost-sharing reduction  payments, provide patients with greater transparency, and support small  businesses that offer employment-based healthcare.

Mr. Speaker, we should do more as a Republican Conference, including  creating Trump health freedom accounts and allowing Americans to shop  across State lines, encouraging competition.

Not a single Republican ever voted for your plan, but we are fixing  it now. This is a good first step.