Prohibiting Voting By Noncitizens in District of Columbia Elections


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692315/prohibiting-voting-by-noncitizens-in-district-of-columbia-elections


Mr. PFLUGER. Madam Speaker, I thank Chair Comer, my good friend from  Kentucky, for yielding me time.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of my bill, H.R. 884, that would  prohibit individuals who are not citizens of the United States from  voting in elections in the District of Columbia. This is a commonsense  bill.

I am going to start with a question. It is posed: For what reasons-- why--would my colleagues on the other side of the aisle want foreigners  to vote in local elections in Washington, D.C.? What is the purpose?  Let's just pose that question of why.

I ask the American public to ask your Representative where they stand  on this issue because it is a bipartisan issue, with over two-thirds of  this body having voted for it last year.

Free and fair elections are a prerequisite for the healthy Republic  that our Founding Fathers envisioned in the District of Columbia as the  epicenter, and they entrusted its care to Congress in Article I,  Section 8, Clause 17 of the U.S. Constitution.

On November 21, 2022, the D.C. City Council made a radical decision  to allow noncitizens, including illegal aliens and those who are  aligned with embassies of foreign countries, to vote in local D.C.  elections. After the noncitizen voting law went into effect, the  District actively encouraged noncitizens to vote for Mayor, attorney  general, members of the State Board of Education, and more.

Some may wrongly dismiss these as merely local elections. However,  the reality is that local elections are a vital part of our democratic  process and have a significant impact on communities. Local elections  determine critical matters, such as taxation, the criminal code, and  the election of city council members who create essential ordinances,  including those that dictate voting rights.

It is also important to acknowledge that many local elections are  decided by razor-thin margins, underscoring their significance and the  importance of active participation.

I find it unimaginable that the District, along with many across the  country, would intentionally weaken the power of their constituents,  citizens, many of whom come from underserved communities, in favor of  noncitizens who, in some cases, have broken our laws to enter this  country or could potentially be employed by a foreign adversary.

As the capital of our democracy, Washington, D.C., should be at the  forefront of ensuring safe and secure elections, not encouraging  illegal immigrants and others to vote for policies that we don't want.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to  look beyond the Democrats' claim that this bill is discriminatory or  misrepresents its intended purposes. No, it doesn't. It absolutely does  not. This keeps the sanctity of being a citizen of this great country  at the highest possible level.

Madam Speaker, let's restore that sanctity, and I go back to the  question. This is common sense. We have to ask ourselves: Why would we  want a foreign agent, an illegal immigrant, or somebody else who is not  a citizen voting for elections in D.C.? What nefarious purpose are my  colleagues pushing?

As I mentioned last Congress, the House passed this bill with  bipartisan support. All Republicans and one-third of Democrats  supported this commonsense measure. I ask everyone in the House of  Representatives to stand up and do the right thing and vote for this  bill.