Recognizing Campbell: the Nature of Truth, Odessa American


Mr. PFLUGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to include in the Record an  opinion column from the Odessa American titled ``Campbell: The Nature  of Truth,'' published May 1, 2025. In it, the author reflects on how  society grapples with competing claims of truth and encourages readers  to return to foundational and verifiable sources--a theme with deep  implications for both our civic culture and the way we approach  legislation.

I believe this thoughtful reflection is a meaningful reminder of the  importance of clarity, honesty, and shared understanding in democratic  discourse.                         [From the Odessa American]                       Campbell: The Nature of Truth

Truth is ephemeral in the temporal world. It seems that       everyone has his or her own version and whether or not they       actually know the truth is open to interpretation and subject       to one's own preference or prejudice. It's a key concept in       my business, journalism, where truth is the lynchpin. We are       bound to be truthful to the best of our ability and we are       prohibited from writing anything that we know to be false. We       can be fired for doing it.

That's the difference between the Odessa American and       publications like the National Enquirer, which publish       nothing but stories that they know to be untrue. That's not       to say we never publish falsehoods, but we don't do it       deliberately. It's that we have good reasons like credible       sources and reliable references to believe that what we write       is true.

In the case of political candidates, if we had to believe       everything they say we would never write anything about them.       We're not saying that what they say is true. We're saying       it's true that that is what they said. We attribute       accurately and leave it to the readers to ascribe credibility       or not.

There has never been a newspaper or a book written that had       nothing false in it. Only one book is 100 percent true: the       Bible. God cannot lie and we may be certain that every word       of the Bible is true.

Depending on the translation, Jesus 75-80 times in the       Gospels uses the phrase ``I tell you the truth'' or       variations of it and in John 14:5 he is even more specific       when he says, ``I am the way, the truth and the life.'' So he       was not just telling the truth, he was and is the truth. He       embodies it. I think Jesus emphasized the truth and the fact       that he was always telling it because he understood the       inherent deceitfulness of the world. He was saying, if you       want the pure truth, look to me.

At the end of Revelation we see the importance of this       issue when it says that everyone who loves and practices       falsehood is classified with the sexually immoral, murderers       and idolators as being among those who will be damned. Of       course some people occasionally tell white lies in deference       to the feelings of those they love, but then people who are       always strictly truthful are often respected for it and their       candor is accepted in deference to the values they espouse.

Truth derives from wisdom and like wisdom it is more       valuable than much pure gold and sweeter than honey from the       honeycomb. The English philosopher Francis Bacon (1561-1626)       said truth is the child of time, meaning that it emerges and       is revealed through the passage of time, not through       someone's immediate authority or declaration.

When we hear things privately or in the public arena, if       the truth of them is not discernible we may be confident that       time will show the truth. The political writers' adage is       that nothing anyone says during a campaign may be true, but       during the course of it the truth will become clear and the       voters will know whom to vote for from the total body of the       dialogue. German philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) said       lying steals one's dignity and we know from Scripture that       God wants us to maintain our dignity as Christians by       avoiding such things.

Stone-Campbell Church Movement leader Alexander Campbell       (1788-1866) advocated for a rational and deliberative       understanding of Christianity, firmly rooted in the New       Testament. He opposed both speculative theology and emotional       revivalism, emphasizing a return to the Bible as the primary       source of truth. Campbell advocated for a focus on biblical       text and avoided theological systems that relied on       philosophical or speculative reasoning.

Truth derives from the wisdom developed through the fear of       the Lord and wisdom and truth are indispensable in our       pursuit of virtue. How may we obtain these treasures of the       Holy Spirit? Of course, through prayer, reading Scripture,       attending church and fellowshipping with other Christians.

Pray and ask God for the wisdom to discern truth and       succeed in our ever-advancing pursuit of higher and higher       virtue. Ask to be empowered to bear well the responsibility       of being a link in the multi-generational sustenance and       progress of good character in your family. Ask for a complete       God-given understanding of the nature and importance of truth       and thereby avoid the errors that can set back or thwart your       spiritual goals.