En Bloc Nominations


Mr. SULLIVAN. Madam President, I am very hopeful that my colleagues  here will move forward on this bipartisan, clean continuing resolution  so we can get our government open again.

I do want to just explain to the American people and maybe some of  our friends in the media a little dirty secret that is going on down  here on the Senate floor. A lot of my Democratic colleagues are getting  frustrated, not with us--not with us. We have had three already cross  over and vote with us. There are a lot more who want to do it.

They are frustrated because they know we have got to reopen the  government. They know this is the way to do it, a simple, bipartisan,  clean continuing resolution. We have been doing this all the time here  in the Senate. We have done it over 10 times during the Biden  administration on the Republican side, but there is frustration.

I will give you my sense of why there is frustration on the Democrat  side. Usually, in this place, when you run for leader--Democrat leader,  Republican leader--and you are in leadership, there is kind of an  unwritten rule that the leader will protect the broader membership and  broader Members--on votes and different things. That is kind of what  leadership is about.

This is the first time I have seen in my entire time here in the U.S.  Senate where, on the Democrat side, the broader membership seems to be  protecting just the leader. We all know why. He is worried about his  left flank; worried about getting primaried.

So my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are getting  frustrated, not with us. They know this is the right way to do it.

They are getting frustrated because they think they are having to  protect their leader. This isn't the way it works--is supposed to work  here. The minority leader previously called blocking a clean,  bipartisan CR to get bigger demands from their side ``political  idiocy.''

What we are viewing right now is a lot of political idiocy coming  from the other side, and my colleagues on the Democratic side are  really starting to get frustrated, not with us but with their own  leader.

I am hoping on this vote, in the next hour or so, for the American  people, for the institution of the U.S. Senate, we have a couple more  Democrat Senators who have the courage to break with the political  idiocy we see right now on their side.

Vote with us. Reopen the government. They know it is the right thing  to do. I hope that happens.

Vote on S. Res. 412