H.J. Res. 106


Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I rise today to urge my colleagues to  overturn the Biden administration's restrictive Central Yukon land  management scheme, which threatens Alaska's self-determination and  resource development. I ask my colleagues to support our resolution of  disapproval, H.J. Res. 106, to protect Alaska's rights and future.

The implementation of the Biden administration's Record of Decision  and Approved Central Yukon Resource Management Plan, RMP, prohibits the  development of natural resources and essential infrastructure in a  broad and sweeping manner--completely undermining multiple-use  management while ignoring the needs and input of local residents. We  need to ensure that our conservation policies consider and allow for  adequate economic opportunities for the communities and people impacted  by those policies.

Alaskans are some of the foremost conservationists in the world, with  a long-standing record of balancing conservation with responsible  resource and infrastructure development. On top of the jobs provided to  Alaskan residents, responsible resource development funds various  initiatives across the State, including education, infrastructure, and  community services. It feeds our families, sustains our communities,  and provides livelihoods for the thousands of Alaskans who work to  responsibly develop the vast timber, mineral, material, and oil and gas  resources that Alaska is blessed with.

In the heart of my State is the Central Yukon planning area, which  comprises 56 million acres in central and northern Alaska, an area  roughly equivalent to the entirety of Virginia, Maryland, and  Pennsylvania combined. The Bureau of Land Management--BLM--manages  nearly a quarter--13.3 million acres of that area. The other major  landholders within the area include the State of Alaska with 25.4  million acres, approximately 45 percent of the planning area, and  Doyon, Limited, one of the 12 land-owning Alaska Native regional  corporations established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement  Act--ANCSA--with an ownership interest in 4.65 million acres.  Approximately 3,000 miles of Doyon's land borders BLM land. Many of  those millions of acres were selected by Doyon for their economic  development potential, consistent with the intent of ANCSA. The  northernmost part of the planning area covers the traditional lands of  the Inupiat people in the Arctic Slope Region.

This vast area includes enormous critical mineral potential of  national and strategic importance. As our geostrategic adversaries  continue to place tighter controls on minerals essential for defense,  advanced technology, and manufacturing, America needs these resources  responsibly developed in places like Alaska. Additionally, the area  includes incredible oil and gas resources that help to contribute to  America's energy dominance. Further, this region contains abundant  timberlands and substantial sand and gravel material resources that are  essential for roads, airstrips, and other infrastructure. Local access  to these materials allows rural villages  in this region to avoid costly imports that contribute to the high cost  of living in these communities.

Importantly, the area also contains the Dalton Highway and the right- of-way for the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System, Alaska's most essential  piece of infrastructure and a nationally strategic asset for the United  States. This system transports crude oil 800 miles from the North Slope  oil fields to marine terminals in Valdez and provides the vital access  necessary to develop the resources in the National Petroleum Reserve- Alaska, the ANWR Coastal Plain, and construct the Alaska LNG pipeline.

In 1971, the Department of the Interior issued Public Land Order-- PLO--5150 withdrawing from selection a 5.3 million acre stretch of  Federal land to reserve it as a utility and transportation corridor to  facilitate monetizing the oil reserves on the North Slope. These lands  covered the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System right-of-way and the North  Slope Haul Road, which was later named the Dalton Highway. The  significance of these lands to Alaska cannot be understated; they  represent the State of Alaska's highest priority land selections, and  the State has top-filed for these lands pursuant to Section 906(e) of  the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, ANILCA.

After more than 60 years following the passage of the Alaska  Statehood Act by Congress in 1958, Alaska has yet to receive its full  land entitlement. To this day, over 60 percent of the land in Alaska is  managed by the Federal Government. Key to the State's ability to  finalize its land selections is the lifting of PLO 5150, which will  enable the State to satisfy a large portion of its outstanding  statehood land entitlement and unencumber other lands that have been  selected to fulfill the entitlements of Alaska Native Corporations, the  University of Alaska, and Alaska Native Vietnam Veteran land  allotments.

In 2006, as directed by the Alaska Land Transfer Acceleration Act,  sponsored by my colleague Senator Murkowski, BLM released a report  finding that withdrawals on 152.18 million out of 158.96 million  acres--95 percent--``have outlived their original purpose'' and ``could  be lifted consistent with the protection of the public's interest.''  BLM recommended that PLOs be lifted on 50.1 million acres of land it  manages in Alaska. In 2012, then Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar  wrote Alaska Governor Sean Parnell that ``BLM is committed to working  with the State to consider further modifications of PLO 5150`` and  indicated that the BLM Alaska State Office would initiate the planning  process for the Central Yukon planning area to evaluate the public  lands within the utility corridor located north of the Yukon River and  said, ``I consider fulfillment of the State of Alaska's land  entitlement a top priority.''

Beginning in 2013, BLM began the formal public scoping process for  the resource management plan, kicking off a multi-year-long planning  process with dozens of public meetings and thousands of hours of hard  work by BLM as part of the process of drafting an Environmental Impact  Statement--EIS--to satisfy the National Environmental Policy Act. In  December 2020, BLM released its Draft Resource Management Plan/EIS and  identified Alternative C2 as the preferred alternative, blending  resource protection and resource development, closing some 1 million  acres to mineral material sales, but leaving 13.1 million acres open to  locatable mineral entry. Importantly, Alternative C2 recommended full  revocation of PLO 5150, enabling the State of Alaska's top-filed lands  to become valid selections. It also recommended revocation of  approximately 5.2 million acres of ANCSA 17(d)(1) withdraws opening  land for selection by Alaska Native Vietnam-Era Veterans who qualify  for a land allotment under the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation,  Management, and Recreation Act, P.L. 116-9.

While not perfect, Alternative C2 served as an important discussion  point and something the largest land stakeholders in the area--the  State of Alaska and Doyon--could work with toward a balanced final  Record of Decision. However, following the election of President Biden,  he announced plans to review the Central Yukon RMP EIS, one of 70  Executive actions the Biden administration took targeting Alaska. In  April 2024, BLM issued its Proposed RMP/Final EIS, identifying a new  Alternative E that was not previously made available for public review  and comment and contained sweeping restrictions on land use. The  Proposed RMP/Final EIS had protests filed from Doyon Limited, the  Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, the Alaska Miners Association, and  the State of Alaska--all denied, ignoring Alaska Native voices and the  people who live in and responsibly develop Alaska every day. This new  Alternative E became the Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved  Resource Management Plan in November 2024, which the passage of this  joint resolution of disapproval would invalidate.

While the approved Central Yukon RMP applies only to the BLM-managed  areas within the planning area, it affected access for other  landholders in the region, principally Doyon and the State of Alaska.  The Central Yukon RMP designated 21 Areas of Critical Environmental  Concern spanning 3.6 million acres and reclassified Visual Resource  Management areas in ways that hinder infrastructure development.

Section 1326 of ANILCA provides clear and unambiguous restrictions on  executive branch actions with respect to future withdrawals and further  studies or reviews without congressional approval. Under ANILCA's ``no  more clause,'' BLM may not withdraw more than 5,000 acres, in the  aggregate, without congressional authorization. Designation of ACECs  that remove lands from operation of the public land laws is a de facto  withdrawal and an insult to Congress's express intent in ANILCA,  locking up critical resources that our Nation needs to counter our  dependency on hostile foreign powers.

Doyon, the largest Alaska Native Corporation stakeholder in the  Central Yukon Planning Area, notes these restrictive land designations  complicate access to their lands and prevent it from realizing the  economic and other benefits that Congress intended it would enjoy as a  result of ANCSA's settlement of Alaska Native land claims. Doyon's  letter of support for the disapproval resolution called the Central  Yukon RMP ``misguided and harmful'' and cites the profound implications  on the ability to place communication, electric transmission, and other  infrastructure these land restrictions create, adding further obstacles  to the extraordinary challenges faced by rural communities in Alaska,  many of which are disconnected from the road system.

Furthermore, the approved Central Yukon RMP did not recommend  revoking PLO 5150--which has long outlived its original purpose--or  ANCSA 17(d)(1) withdrawals, with limited exceptions, frustrating the  State's ability to fulfill its statehood land entitlement and  perpetuating unnecessary encumbrances on public lands in contradiction  to BLM's own findings in the Alaska Land Transfer Acceleration Act  Report to Congress.

Fortunately, elections have consequences, and on his first day in  office of his second term, President Trump signed Executive Order  14153, ``Unleashing Alaska's Extraordinary Resource Potential,'' which  called for the rescission of the 2024 Record of Decision and a  reimplementation of the draft RMP and EIS issued in December 2020. The  Executive order further directed the Secretary of the Interior to  evaluate the potential rescission of PLO 5150, and Secretary Burgum has  admirably taken concrete steps toward delivering on that commitment.  This disapproval resolution would effectuate the President's directive  in Executive Order 14153, immediately rescinding the Record of Decision  and would advance the ongoing work to revoke PLO 5150 and review  outdated ANCSA 17(d)(1) withdrawals predicated on the underlying EIS,  which would not be invalidated by H.J. Res. 106.

The House has already passed this joint resolution, recognizing the  impact that this highly restrictive plan would have on our national  security, the massive Federal overreach stifling economic development  opportunities, and the disregard for Alaska Native voices. I spoke of  Doyon, Limited's letter of support earlier, but this resolution is also  supported by the North Slope Regional Trilateral which is made up of  the elected leaders of the  North Slope Borough, the Inupiat Community of the Arctic Slope, which  is the regional Tribe, and the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, the  Alaska Native Regional Corporation for the Inupiat people living on the  North Slope of Alaska. It is supported by the Alaska Miners  Association, Americans for Prosperity, the American Energy Alliance,  the National Federation of Independent Businesses, the American  Exploration and Mining Association, Citizens for Responsible Energy  Solutions, the Resource Development Council for Alaska, as well as the  Trump administration.

I urge my colleagues to reject unlawful regulatory overreach,  reinforce American mineral and energy security, and uphold Federal law  and Alaska Native land rights by supporting the Alaska delegation and  voting for this joint resolution of disapproval and rescinding this  Record of Decision.