National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, now I hope we can move to the next bill  that, to be honest, should be even easier because the bill I am going  to try to pass right now passed the U.S. Senate in December,  unanimously. It already passed, so this should be a no-brainer. I hope  my Senate colleague from California is on the floor here ready to give  this bill his full endorsement and not object to it.

Let me just talk about this bill, briefly. Again, it already passed.  It passed the House in July, so if we pass it right now, it is going to  go to the President of the United States' desk for a signing. And this  is a really big deal for my constituents.

Here is what it is: I talked about what I called the special  patriotism of Alaska Natives. They serve at higher rates in the  military than any other ethnic group in the country.

They had a situation when so many--and I mean thousands and  thousands--of Alaskan Natives were serving in Vietnam. When a whole  host of Americans didn't want to serve in Vietnam, Alaska Natives  answered the call. So we have tens of thousands of Vietnam vets.

And when they came home, like a lot of Vietnam vets, they were not  treated well. That was horrible. Our country should apologize for the  horrible treatment our Vietnam vets got. Let's face it, as Alaska  Natives, a lot of people still discriminated against Alaska Natives  back then. They weren't treated well in that regard either. And,  finally, a law had changed when they were overseas.

Alaska Native people used to have a right, starting in 1906, for a  Native allotment; that is, 160 acres of land that if they can prove  this is where their family raised them and hunted and fished, they  could get that allotment--160 acres.

Well, when they were overseas fighting in Vietnam, that law changed.  So here they were serving their country--when a lot of American males  were avoiding service--and they got home, and they were told: By the  way, your allotment that you are supposed to be able to get, that you  wanted your whole life, that allotment changed, and you can't do it  anymore. Huge injustice.

So during the first Trump administration, I introduced legislation  called the Alaska Native Vietnam Veterans Land Allotment Act. And it  said: Hey, if you were overseas serving in the military and you came  home and the ability to get your allotment extinguished, you shouldn't  be penalized for fighting for your country. You get the extended time  to get your allotment. So that bill passed.

I was in the Oval Office when President Trump signed it. It was a  great day for Alaska Natives, Vietnam veterans, very patriotic. It was  a 5-year program. Unfortunately, we had Secretary Haaland implement it.  Secretary Haaland did not implement it. Secretary Haaland, when she  went through her confirmation hearing, committed to me twice: Senator,  I will make this a priority of mine to implement this bill. You know  what she did? She didn't do anything.

Shamefully, because radical leftwing environmental groups told her:  We don't want anyone else getting land in Alaska, she did 40 allotments  out of well over almost 3,000 available. She dragged her feet. She  delayed it for 2 years.

So the 5-year program has almost run out of time because Secretary of  the Interior Haaland was more interested in appeasing radical leftwing  environmental groups than she was getting Alaska Natives their  allotment, which is what the law demanded.

So this bill is very simple. Because of that delay, it changes two  words in the already passed law. It says ``5 years'' to ``10 years.''  It is just a 5-year extension to a bill that everybody agrees with.

These patriotic Alaska Native Vietnam vets deserve their allotments,  and they shouldn't have to suffer because of Secretary Haaland's delay  tactics.

So this bill has already passed the House. This bill passed the  Senate unanimously in December, and I am really hoping that my  Democratic colleagues--respecting the indigenous Native people of my  State and their valiant Vietnam service--will join with me in just  passing it, like we did in December, and it will go right to the  President's desk, and they will have 5 more years to really implement  this really important piece of legislation.

410 and the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration; further,  that the bill be considered read a third time and passed, and that the  motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I appreciate my colleague from  California's cooperation on the first bill, the ARTIST Act.

I am a little disappointed here on this one because, you know, it is  a little bit of a delay tactic, but he certainly has my commitment to  work with him, if they need to try to pair this. But I will say this:  The 5 years of this bill expires at the end of this year, and we  cannot--regardless if there is pairing or not pairing--we cannot let  this bill expire. These great American  patriots served their country and deserve their allotment that they  were unable to get during Vietnam. And then, when we passed the bill,  Secretary of Interior Haaland purposefully dragged her feet to make  sure that no Alaska Native--or very few--got their allotment. That was  a disgrace.

And so, Mr. President, to my colleague from California, you have my  commitment to work with you, but we have got to get this done by the  end of the year--before the end of the year--and get it on the  President's desk. These great patriotic Americans deserve nothing less,  and we can't delay much longer.