S.J. Res. 80


Mr. SULLIVAN. Madam President, I rise today to urge my colleagues to  reject the Biden administration's sweeping plan to lock down nearly  half of the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska to responsible oil and  gas development in contradiction to congressional mandates. I urge my  colleagues to support the Alaska delegation's joint resolution of  disapproval, S.J. Res. 80, to protect Alaska's rights and future.

The implementation of the Biden administration's National Petroleum  Reserve in Alaska, NPR-A, Integrated Activity Plan, IAP, Record of  Decision, ROD, locks away more than 6 million acres previously made  available for responsible oil and gas leasing and restricts  infrastructure across 8 million acres--completely undermining the  intent of Congress and ignoring the needs and input of local residents.  Passing this joint resolution will disapprove this Record of Decision  and revert management of the NPR-A back to the previously approved  Integrated Activity Plan promulgated during the first Trump  administration.

I have long said that Alaskans are some of the foremost  conservationists in the world, with a long-standing record of balancing  conservation with responsible resource and infrastructure development.  Our oil fields on Alaska's North Slope offer a world-class example of  what it means to responsibly produce energy in a harsh and demanding  environment. The environmentally conscious way in which Alaskans have  applied cutting-edge technology is second to none, utilizing ice roads  and a winter construction season to minimize impact on Alaska's tundra.

Because of the opportunities provided by oil and gas operations, this  industry has provided thousands of good-paying jobs to Alaskans. It has  become the primary driver of my State's economy. Oil and gas revenues  fund education, essential infrastructure, and community services across  the State, making responsible resource development truly a matter of  life or death for Alaskans. In 1954, the Interior Department, with the  help of the University of Pittsburgh, conducted a study of the health  of Alaska Natives. Many of our communities in rural Alaska all had some  of the lowest levels of life expectancy in the entire world. Between  1980 and 2014, the average lifespan increased by 13 years across the  region, largely due to oil and gas revenue providing the opportunity to  install what we consider to be basic and essential community  infrastructure. To say these operations have had a positive impact on  the local communities is a gross understatement.

The North Slope of Alaska contains some of the greatest hydrocarbon  potential of any place on the planet. It is home to the Prudhoe Bay oil  field, the largest conventional oil field in North America, which has  produced over 13 billion barrels of oil since production began in 1977.  On either side of Prudhoe Bay are two Federal areas, one being the  Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the other being the National  Petroleum Reserve in Alaska, the subject of today's legislation. The  U.S. Geological Survey this year reported that half of the estimated  undiscovered technically recoverable oil lying below Federal lands was  in Alaska, 14 billion barrels of it being on the North Slope of Alaska.  Importantly, the North Slope of Alaska is also the ancestral lands of  the Inupiat people, who have lived, subsisted, and called the Arctic  home for thousands of years. This is an area the size of Minnesota,  wholly above the Arctic Circle, with none of the communities connected  by a permanent road system, necessitating all supplies needing to be  flown or barged in. Like much of rural Alaska, it has some of the  highest costs of living anywhere in the Nation.

The discovery of Prudhoe Bay in 1968 could not have come at a more  crucial time for the United States, which was right at the height of  the Arab Oil Embargo. The barrels of crude oil from Prudhoe and  subsequent North Slope discoveries have helped ensure the American  people are not held hostage by adversarial powers seeking to use energy  as a tool of coercion. The discovery of Prudhoe Bay did not come in a  vacuum. In fact, it was long known that the North Slope of Alaska had  oil potential. In the early 1900s, as the U.S. Navy began transitioning  from coal to oil-burning engines, the Federal Government became  increasingly concerned about the supply of oil reserves in the event of  war or national emergency. In response, the Federal Government made  multiple withdrawals of public land to ensure a stockpile of fuel  supplies for the Navy remained available. The largest of these reserves  was on the Alaska North Slope and was designated by President Warren G.  Harding in 1923 as the Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 4, Alaska.

Following the discovery of oil at Prudhoe Bay and the ongoing oil  embargo, Congress passed the 1976 Naval Petroleum Reserves Production  Act, NPRPA, transferring jurisdiction of the Reserve from the Navy to  the Department of the Interior and redesignating the area as the  National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska, a 23-million-acre area roughly  the size of Indiana. A 1980 amendment to the NPRPA directed the  Secretary of the Interior to undertake ``an expeditious program of  competitive leasing of oil and gas'' in the NPR-A and also set up  revenue sharing provision between the Federal Government and the State  of Alaska that prioritized the subdivisions of the State most directly  severely impacted by oil and gas development, ensuring the people who  live in Alaska could provide for essential services.

While initial interest in the NPR-A was tepid, new oil finds closer  to the NPR-A boundaries led to a number of successful lease sales  generating millions of dollars in Federal revenues. Among the most  successful was the 2016 lease sale, which came following the discovery  of the Willow field. The Bureau of Land Management, BLM, estimates the  Willow Project will produce 576 million barrels of oil and non-gas  liquids over 30 years and generate $5.9 billion in revenue for the  Federal Government through 2053.

In 2012, the Obama administration, issued the first integrated  activity plan, IAP, addressing management for the entire NPR-A, but  only made available 11.8 million acres of the Reserve for oil and gas  leasing. Beginning in 2017, during the first Trump administration, the  Department of the Interior took steps to revise the IAP and  Environmental Impact Statement, EIS, that would strike an appropriate  balance of promoting development while protecting surface resources as  was required in the NPRPA. In December 2020, BLM released the National  Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of  Decision, the culmination of thousands of comments, over a dozen public  meetings, and the continuous involvement of the North Slope Borough,  the Inupiat Community of the Arctic Slope, the State of Alaska, and  relevant Federal Agencies. The Record of Decision selected an  alternative that made available an additional 6.8 million acres, for a  total of 18.6 million acres or 82 percent of the NPR-A's subsurface  estate, available for oil and gas leasing while ensuring lands were  made available for pipelines and other essential oil and gas  infrastructure and community infrastructure. The 2020 plan also  provided important protections for surface resources, particularly  subsistence uses by providing adequate protection for sensitive bird  populations and the Teshekpuk and Western Arctic Caribou Herds. All in  all, it was a phenomenal achievement by some very dedicated BLM  employees and an example of Federal Agencies working hand-in-hand with  Alaskans to understand our unique conditions, producing results that  protect both our environment and our way of life.

However, following the 2020 election, President Biden announced plans  to immediately review all Agency actions taken during President Trump's  term, and the Department of the Interior identified the 2020 IAP/EIS as  warranting review, one of the 70 Executive actions the Biden  administration took targeting Alaska. BLM determined that the existing  2020 IAP/EIS and associated evaluations were adequate, and no  additional analysis was necessary for the Department to select a  different alternative from the range analyzed. In April 2022, BLM  released a new record of decision that selected the No Action  Alternative identified in the 2020 IAP that effectively reverted  management of the NPR-A back to the Obama administration's 2013 IAP  ROD. The Biden IAP greatly expanded special areas within the Reserve,  prohibiting leasing on 11 million acres or 48 percent of the Reserve,  and prohibited infrastructure on approximately 8.3 million acres. The  ROD altered and expanded the Special Areas designated under the NPRPA  and established performance-based required operating procedures and  lease stipulations that applied to oil and gas leasing and development  and to some non-oil and gas activities within the Reserve. It is this  sweeping plan by the Biden administration that the passage of this  joint resolution would invalidate.

I have long said that when we shut down production in Alaska, we  weaken America's hand on the global stage. Every time the Federal  Government curtails the production of oil and gas in Alaska, it  strengthens the position of OPEC and our adversaries while undermining  America's geostrategic leverage, the very outcome Congress sought to  prevent by opening up the NPR-A in the first place.

The issuance of Biden's new highly restrictive IAP was widely  condemned as egregious by Alaskans. Our entire Alaska congressional  delegation slammed the decision as contrary to good science, in  contravention of congressional directives in Federal law, and foolish,  as the Biden administration implored OPEC+ members to produce more oil.  Alaska Governor Mike Dunleavy said the plan ``is another sign of the  federal government turning its back on Alaska and hampering domestic  energy production.'' The Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, ASRC, one  of the 12 land-owning Alaska Native corporations created under the 1971  Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, ANCSA, and representing the  interests of more than 13,000 Inupiat shareholders, echoed those  concerns. In testimony before the Alaska Legislature, ASRC Vice  President of External Affairs Bridget Anderson explained, ``despite our  sustained efforts and our willingness to work with the federal  government, our perspectives are often drowned out by entities who have  no ties to our region nor have any understanding of the nuances of the  ANCSA model of indigenous representation. The choice by members of  Congress and the administration to overlook our voices is not only  frustrating, it is insulting.'' The Alaska Legislature passed a  resolution unopposed, sponsored by the legislator representing the  North Slope, an Inupiat himself, urging BLM to maximize the area  available for oil and gas leasing and development in the NPR-A and to  take into account the long history of safe and responsible oil and gas  development on the North Slope. All these Alaskan voices were ignored.

Importantly, my joint resolution is supported by the North Slope  Regional Trilateral, which is made up of the elected leaders of the  North Slope Borough, the Inupiat Community of the Arctic Slope, which  is the regional tribe, and ASRC. The members of the North Slope  Regional Trilateral voiced their opposition to the Biden  administration's overbearing restrictions during his 4 years in office.  Yet, despite their opposition, they were ignored--a repeated offense of  the Biden administration, who repeatedly disregarded Alaska Native  voices. In fact, North Slope leaders from my State flew thousands of  miles eight separate times to DC to request a meeting with Secretary of  the Interior Haaland to oppose her lock-up of the North Slope. Eight  times, she refused to meet with them. The Trilateral's letter of  support for the disapproval resolution notes that the 2022 IAP put in  place by the Biden administration imposes ``sweeping restrictions that  curtail responsible development, undermine congressional intent, and  disregard the well-being of the people who depend on these lands for  both subsistence and livelihoods'' and ``disregards the economic needs  of North Slope communities, and creates unnecessary obstacles to  infrastructure, energy, and community health across the North Slope of  Alaska.''

Fortunately, elections have consequences, and on his first day in  office of his second term, President Trump signed Executive Order  14153, ``Unleashing Alaska's Extraordinary Resource Potential,'' which  called for the rescission of the 2022 Integrated Activity Plan Record  of Decision and a reimplementation of the IAP issued by the first Trump  administration in 2020. This past summer, Secretary of the Interior  Doug Burgum flew to Alaska and held a townhall on the North Slope with  regional leaders and listened to their concerns, showing respect for  the Alaska Native people who live there. Under his leadership, he has  already advanced steps to rescind Biden's other disastrous restriction  on the NPR-A: the 2024 Management and Protection of the National  Petroleum Reserve in Alaska final rule.

In March of this year, Alaska's congressional delegation requested  that  the Government Accountability Office, GAO, determine whether the 2022  NPR-A IAP ROD constituted a ``rule'' under the Congressional Review  Act, CRA. GAO issued its legal opinion in July, concluding that the  2022 NPR-A IAP ROD is a rule under the Administrative Procedures Act  and subject to the CRA and congressional disapproval, the action we are  taking with S.J. Res. 80.

Further, this Congress has already taken decisive steps to unlock the  NPR-A. In the ``One Big Beautiful Bill Act,'' P.L. 119-21, Congress  mandated lease sales to be offered under the same terms and conditions  set forth in the 2020 IAP. Passage of S.J. Res. 80 would durably  protect against another rogue administration promulgating a  substantially similar anti-development management plan for the NPR-A as  contained in the 2022 IAP ROD.

In addition to the Trilateral, this resolution of disapproval is  supported by the Alaska Support Industry Alliance, the Alaska Oil and  Gas Association, the Resource Development Council for Alaska, Citizens  for Responsible Energy Solutions, the American Exploration and  Production Council, the National Federation of Independent Business,  the American Petroleum Institute, Americans for Prosperity, the Alaska  Chamber, as well as by the Trump administration.

Res. 80 and H.J. Res. 124.

I urge my colleagues to reject unlawful regulatory overreach,  reinforce American energy dominance, uphold Federal law, and listen to  Alaska Native voices by supporting the Alaska congressional delegation  and voting for this joint resolution of disapproval and rescinding this  Record of Decision.

Re Support for S.J. Res. 80/H.J. Res. 124.       Hon. Senator Lisa Murkowski,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Congressman Nick Begich,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Senator Dan Sullivan,      Washington, DC.

Dear Senator Murkowski, Senator Sullivan, and Congressman       Begich: The Resource Development Council for Alaska (RDC)       writes in support of S.J. Res. 80 and H.J. Res. 124 to       disapprove the BLM's 2022 NPR-A Integrated Activity Plan       Record of Decision. RDC strongly supports these joint       resolutions and urges Congress's and the President's swift       action to reject this misguided and harmful pLanning       decision.

RDC is a statewide, non-profit trade association founded in       1975. Our membership is comprised of individuals and       companies from Alaska's fishing, tourism, forestry, mining,       and oil and gas industries and includes Alaska Native       corporations, local communities, organized labor, and       industry support firms. RDC's purpose is to encourage a       strong, diversified private sector in Alaska and expand the       state's economic base through the responsible development of       our natural resources.

The 23 million acres contained in the NPR-A were set aside       by the federal government in 1923, and directed by Congress       in the Naval Petroleum Reserves Act of 1976, specifically for       natural resource development, balanced with conservation, to       promote America's national security through energy resources,       and it is an asset to the State of Alaska. Responsible       development in the NPR-A supports our nation's energy       security, well-paying jobs and economic benefits for local       Alaska Native communities and the state as a whole. The 2022       BLM ROD improperly limits future oil and gas lease sales and       development to occur by creating a presumption against future       permitting. This is a bad policy that does not support Alaska       Native communities, organized labor, or our energy       independence.

Given the outstanding track record of the oil and gas       industry in the Alaska Arctic, as well as the technological       advances of the past 40 years, RDC supports an IAP for NPR-A       that reopens all of NPR-A's subsurface historically available       to oil and gas leasing with reasonable and economically       feasible stipulations that do not discourage the development       and transport of energy resources.

The 2022 BLM IAP ROD unnecessarily prohibits leasing and       development of potentially oil-rich lands in much of the NPR-      A. This is a clear example of agency overreach and will only       discourage responsible resource development and America's       energy independence. As RDC has emphasized numerous times       before, the NPR-A is a petroleum reserve with a proven record       where surface resources and subsistence can be protected       without unduly restricting highly prospective areas to       leasing.

Decades of oil and gas activity on the North Slope clearly       demonstrate industry can operate in the Arctic while       maintaining the highest standards of safety and environmental       sensitivity. New advances in technology have greatly reduced       the footprint of development, allowing for greater       consolidation of facilities and the preservation of more       acreage within development zones for wildlife habitat. For       example, as much as 60-plus square miles can now be developed       from a single 12 to 14 acre gravel drill site. New drilling       capabilities are being developed that may increase the       subsurface development possible from the same size drill site       to as much as 150-plus square miles. The net effect is an       everdecreasing impact on surface resources.

The discovery and development of new oil and gas deposits       will benefit Alaska and local communities. State and local       revenues derived from production will help sustain important       services. New industry activity will also provide thousands       of job opportunities, boost the local, state, and national       economy, and help refill the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System       (TAPS). Development of new energy deposits will also reduce       reliance on imported oil and help maintain American energy       dominance.

Given the NPR-A was specifically designated by Congress to       produce critical energy resources, it is important the BLM       continues to provide access to prospects with the highest       potential. That is why this SJR 80 and HJR 124 are so       critical to reverse the overreach of BLM's 2022 NPR-A IAP       record of decision.

RDC is concerned with the alarming trend from the last       administration of ``locking up'' oil-rich lands in NPR-A and       providing for less leasing and less access. Much of the most       prospective acreage could be removed from leasing under the       2022 ROD, including those closest to potential future       production. To much protest and lack of adequate       consultation, the BLM's 2022 IAP record of decision for the       NPR-A did just this--locking up highly prospective areas and       layering surface protections prohibitive to leasing or       development.

On a related note, attached to this letter of support is a       copy of RDC's comments to the 2023 BLM Proposed Rule for the       Management and Protection of the National Petroleum Reserve       in Alaska, 43 CFR Part 2360, RIN 1004-AE95, dated December 7,       2023. While this rule is currently under consideration for       rescission pursuant to Executive Order 14153 and Department       of Interior Secretarial Order 3422, related to ``Unleashing       Alaska's Extraordinary Resource Potential,'' (which RDC       fully supports) we hope these comments help you and your       staff with historical context for building support for       these CRA's to disapprove the BLM's 2022 NPR-A IAP record       of decision.                                  Conclusion

RDC appreciates your leadership introducing S.J. Res. 80       and H.J. Res. 124 and moving forward with disapproval of the       BLM's 2022 NPR-A IPA Record of Decision. The 2022 ROD went       too far and does not properly follow the intent and purpose       for the NPR-A and mandated by Congress.

A CRA disapproving the 2022 ROD for the NPR-A IAP will       ensure federal lands in Alaska are open for business and help       demonstrate energy dominance for the United States. The       ability to develop new energy deposits in NPR-A will benefit       Alaska, local communities, and the nation. Revenues derived       from new production will also help sustain important state       services. Industry activity will provide new job       opportunities for local residents and others while boosting       the economy. Increased access to NPR-A can be accommodated       without sacrificing the traditional ways of life, especially       the subsistence needs of Alaska residents in the Arctic.       Ensuring the NPR-A is open for future lease sales will       maintain America's energy dominance and reduce foreign       imports.

Thank you for your leadership on this issue of vital       importance to Alaska's economic future.            Sincerely,                                                    Leila Kimbrell,      Executive Director.                                   ____                                     Resource Development Council,                                Anchorage, Alaska, December 7, 2023.      Re BLM Proposed Rule for the Management and Protection of the           National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska, 43 CFR Part 2360,           RIN 1004-AE95.       Department of Interior,      Director, Bureau of Land Management,      Washington, DC.

Dear Director: The Resource Development Council for Alaska,       Inc. (RDC) submits the following comments to the Bureau of       Land Management's (BLM) proposed rule for the ``Management       and Protection of the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska       (NPR-A)'' originally published on September 8, 2023 (FR       62025). This proposed rule reflects a sea change to       management of the NPR-A as it was originally intended. The       rule is unnecessary, overly burdensome, fails to comply with       current law. For the reasons that follow, at a minimum, this       proposed rule should not be adopted.

Who We Are: The RDC is a statewide, not for profit, trade       association comprised of individuals and companies from       Alaska's fishing, tourism, forestry, mining, and oil and gas       industries. RDC's membership includes all the land-owning       Alaska Native regional corporations as well as village       corporations, local communities, including the North Slope       Borough, organized labor, and industry support firms. RDC's       purpose is to encourage       a strong, diversified private sector in Alaska and expand the       state's economic base through the responsible development of       our natural resources. The industries RDC represents are       historically significant economic drivers for Alaska's       economy. Combined, these industries employ or support       employment for the majority of the more than 730,000 Alaskans       who call Alaska home. For more than 48 years, RDC has proud       history of balancing the need for a diverse economy with the       need for the responsible development of our natural       resources. The proposed rule threatens to reverse that.

Comment Period Should Have Been Extended: The comment       period should be extended to allow for full participation of       all Alaskans, in particular, the communities of the North       Slope who are most impacted by this proposed rule. This       proposed rule was published on September 8, 2023, with an       original public comment period deadline of November 7, that       has since been extended twice to the current deadline of       December 7, 2023.

Notwithstanding these extensions, more time is needed to       assess and analyze the substantive and technical changes       proposed by this rule. The agency should not be rushing this       process that has the effect of creating a presumption against       oil and gas development in the NPR-A. RDC is not suggesting       environmental standards and protections should be reduced for       the Special Areas designated within the NPR-A. However, this       is a major change to the long established management program       for the NPR-A that needs sufficient time to assess impacts.

Further, it appears that the agency is trying to rush this       process through for its own political purposes, which is an       improper reason for fast-tracking such a major proposed rule.       It has been reported that a representative of the agency       stated during a public meeting that an extension of time was       not possible because the agency had to consider timing under       the Congressional Review Act (CRA). Using the CRA timeline to       avoid a possible reversal in the next congress is a political       maneuver that does not justify short circuiting the public       process.

Failed Consultation: The proposed rule spends considerable       time pointing to the importance of subsistence and the needs       for Alaska's Native peoples and the North Slope communities       who rely on subsistence hunting and fishing to justify this       proposed rule. RDC does not dispute that subsistence is an       important and critical practice for all Alaskans, including       Alaska Native peoples and their communities. However, despite       this focus, the BLM ignores the needs of our Alaska Native       peoples during this rulemaking process. BLM published this       proposed rule during a critical subsistence period for the       communities on Alaska's North Slope: the fall whaling season.       RDC has been told that little to no consultation has occurred       between the Alaska Native entities of the North Slope, the       North Slope Borough, and other key stakeholders. What little       consultation or public meeting process did occur was hastily       convened with little to no opportunity for local communities       to receive timely notice.

Although the proposed rule claims to comply with E.O.       13175, requiring consultatIon and coordination with Indian       Tribal Governments, including Alaska Native Tribes and ANCSA       Alaska Native Corporations, the record does not support that.       Sending one letter informing these stakeholders of a       rulemaking effort followed by a lack of adequate consultation       and doing so during an importance subsistence harvest period       without granting numerous extensions of time requests from       these same stakeholders fails to comply with the law and       department policy. The BLM Management should not fail in its       responsibility to consult with Alaska's federally recognized       Tribes and Alaska Native corporation. Meaningful consultation       is required by E.O. 13175 (November 6, 2000), POTUS Memo on       Tribal Consultation and Nation-to-Nation Building (January       26, 2021) and DOI 512 DM 4 (2015), and DOI 512 DM 5.

The Proposed Rule Exceeds BLM Authority: This proposal       creates a new, burdensome, and time-consuming administrative       process for reviewing oil and gas related development       activities that are contrary to the needs and purposes of the       NPR-A. The proposed rule takes the instruction of maximizing       protection of Special Areas under the federal NPR-A Act       (NPRAA) to an extreme that is not warranted and fails to       balance the need for oil and gas development to occur for the       nation's energy security and independence. BLM potentially       exceeds its authority by incorporating the Integrated       Activity Plan of 2022 (IAP) into the NPR-A regulations when       the NPR-A is specifically exempt from the Federal Land       Management Planning Act (FLPMA) planning requirement. BLM       acknowledges this in the proposed rule but goes onto to say       that it ``nonetheless'' intends to do so. In another example,       BLM proposes to change the authority of officers making oil       and gas related decisions from what currently must be       exercised consistent with current law and after consultation       with federal, state, local agencies and Native organizations       to now ``regardless of any existing authority.'' Agencies       cannot simply grant themselves the power to make decisions       ``regardless of any existing authority;'' that is simply not       how our democratic process works. If anything, this proposed       change is less than clear and needs additional time for       review.

Presumption Against Oil & Gas Development Violates the       NPRAA: The proposed rule specifically explains, under section       2361.10, that BLM will now have the authority to delay or       deny, without setting a timetable, on any activities it       determines will have significant adverse effects on surface       resources. This is overly broad and restrictive. Further, the       proposed rule states it will ``presume . . . that that oil       and gas leasing or infrastructure on lands allocated as       available for such activities `should NOT be permitted' . .       .'' (Emphasis added.) This directly contravenes the purpose       and intent for which the NPR-A was established. The NPRAA       directed DOI to be administered for domestic energy       production through an oil and gas leasing program. BLM cannot       create a presumption by rulemaking that it will not permit       activity directed by Congress.

Further, the rule states it will not impact any current       leasing approvals or permitted activity. This is not true.       The proposed rule threatens harm to existing lease contracts       given its clear conflict with NPR-A's original purposes when       created in 1923 and as directed by Congress through the       NPRAA.

Flawed Economic Assessment: The proposed rule summarily       concludes it will not have a significant economic effect on a       substantial number of small entities under the Regulatory       Flexibility Act and only affects businesses in the oil and       gas industry operating in the NPR-A. This is simply wrong.

The DOI's analysis in support of the proposed rule did not       account for the significant economic benefits delivered to       local Alaska communities (including Alaska Native       organizations) from NPR-A development. Federal law mandates       that 50% of lease revenue from NPR-A projects go towards a       unique grant program that prioritizes improvement projects       that will deliver social and environmental justice benefits       to impacted communities, many of which are Alaska Native       communities. The economic analysis fails to consider the       impact of local communities losing these benefits. The       economic analysis also wholly fails to consider the social       implications of eliminating or dramatically restricting       future development in the NPR-A that would remove jobs and a       substantial portion of the tax base. Responsible development       on the NPR-A creates enormous economic benefits. The       economic analysis the DOI used ignores benefits like the       NPR-A Impact Mitigation Grant program. This grant program       creates a legal requirement for local communities to       receive generous revenues from projects. If project       development is slowed or halted by the new rule, Alaska       Native communities will lose enormous revenues for public       services, health facilities and educational resources--to       name a few impacted areas.

Further, the proposed rule will stifle any future       development in currently approved areas of the NPR-A as       companies will be wary to invest into developments in areas       where the government can seemingly outlaw further development       without cause. This chilling effect will have a dramatic       economic impact.

Alaska's North Slope (ANS) energy production and       infrastructure has had significant economic impact and       contribution to Alaska's economy and our nation's energy       security. In 2022, ANS produced an average of 482,000 bpd.       Since the Trans Alaska Pipeline Systems (TAPS) was created,       ANS has produced over 18.5 billion barrels of oil. In 2022,       this support 69,250 jobs in Alaska, or 16% of employment in       Alaska and accounting for $5.9 billion in wages, or 17% of       wages in Alaska. Alaska's oil and gas industry contributed       $4.5 billion in revenue to state and local governments,       comprising 47% of state revenue in 2022. Over time, since       statehood in 1959, the oil and gas industry has produced $274       billion in petroleum revenues to the State. This is a       significant economic impact that is threatened by this       proposed rule if implemented.

Failed Unfunded Mandates Reform Act Assessment: Similarly,       the proposed rule concludes without explanation that it would       not have a significant or unique effect on State, local, or       Tribal governments. This is also simply false. Diminished oil       production from the NPR-A would result in diminished       production tax and ad valorem tax revenue for the State and       local governments in Alaska. This means less revenue for the       State of Alaska to provide services to all Alaskans. The       BLM's reasoning in this regard also likely violates its       conclusion that this does not have federalism implications       under E.O. 13132.

The Proposed Rule is a Direct Threat to America's Energy       Security: The proposed rule concludes it will not adversely       affect our national energy security in contravention of E.O.       13211. In almost the same breath, the agency states the       proposed rule will ``presume . . . that that oil and gas       leasing or infrastructure on lands allocated as available for       such activities `should NOT be permitted'. . ..'' (Emphasis       added.) There is no way to explain the logic of this       assessment. A presumption against approving oil and gas       leasing absolutely equates to less development of oil and gas       energy resources.

Analysis from the U.S. Geological Survey estimates there       are 8.7 billion barrels of undiscovered oil in the NPR-A, an       area set aside by the Federal government specifically for       petroleum development. By denying or dramatically restricting       development in the region, the Administration is denying       Alaskans--and all Americans--reliable, affordable energy, as       well as billions of dollars in revenues. We cannot afford to       further limit U.S. production which will only increase our       reliance on foreign nations, including adversarial nations,       amid rising geopolitical       threats. At a time when oil prices are rising and global       supply can be easily constricted by foreign governments,       investing in domestic oil production is a matter of national       and energy security. During a time of high inflation across       the country, this misguided rule will almost certainly lead       to higher energy prices for working class families across       America. Restricting access to energy development limits       consumers' access to affordable, reliable energy.

Furthermore, oil production on the North Slope and in the       NPR-A contributes to the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS),       a vital piece of U.S. infrastructure. Oil produced in the       NPR-A will keep TAPS economically viable and capable of       providing oil to the rest of the United States and beyond.       Restricting future development of the NPR-A by creating a       presumption against permitting the uses for which the NPR-A       was specifically developed directly threatens our energy       security.

Conclusion: As indicated above, this process is being fast-      tracked, lacks transparency, possibly exceeds the agency's       legal authority, and lacks proper consultation as required by       department policy. At the very least, the complexity of the       new proposal warrants additional time for public review and       scrutiny and, importantly, meaningful consultation with the       Alaska Native tribal entities, corporations, and communities       most impacted by these decisions.

Thank you for your consideration of these comments.            Sincerely,                                                    Leila Kimbrell,      Executive Director.