Supporting the Goals and Objectives of Choose Respect Day


Mr. SULLIVAN. Madam President, I am here on the floor today to ask  unanimous consent to pass a very important resolution that I try to  move forward every year. It is my Choose Respect Day resolution.

I want to thank Senator Schiff, my lead cosponsor on the other side  of the aisle. And it is to kick off also Domestic Violence Awareness  Month.

As a former AG like myself, this is really important to me and my  State. I come down on the floor a lot to brag about the great State of  Alaska in so many different areas, but this is one area where I don't  like to brag about Alaska because there is not much to brag about. We  have some of the highest rates of domestic violence and sexual assault  than anyplace in the country--really bad.

So when I was attorney general a number of years ago, the Governor  and I launched this big initiative called the Choose Respect  Initiative. We changed the laws. We made perpetrators really pay if  they were going to commit these heinous crimes in Alaska.

We got funding for lawyers and resources. We got different services,  and we had ads all over TV in Alaska about choosing respect--real  Alaska men choose respect; they don't commit these heinous acts; they  don't hit their girlfriend; they don't do any of that kind of horrible  stuff.

And it started to work in my State, to change the culture, which  wasn't a good culture in Alaska. We are still doing that. So when I  came to the Senate, I really wanted to continue this work. It is really  important work--it has been bipartisan--to try to change the culture in  our country.

We have very, very high rates--too high rates--of domestic violence  and sexual assault in many places in America. We should all be focused  on making sure the next generation of young men don't do that.

So one of the ways in which we have done that is my POWER Act, which  has been to get pro bono legal services for domestic violence survivors  and victims. This is an innovative idea that we started in Alaska and  brought here to the Senate.

The POWER Act now has had over 61,000 attorneys across America  provide pro bono legal assistance to survivors--61,000. That was from a  bill here we had on the Senate floor. These are the kind of things we  can do in the Senate, in the Congress, to address this very significant  challenge in my State and across the country.

So this resolution builds on what we are doing across the board on  many of the different Choose Respect initiatives that I have brought to  the Congress in a bipartisan way over the years. It calls upon all of  us to mark Choose Respect Day by teaching our youth about healthy  relationships, supporting survivors, honoring those we have lost, and  recommitting ourselves to the fundamental truth that every person  deserves to live in freedom from violence and fear.

The call to choose respect is simple but powerful: If we live by it  not just on October 1, as the resolution calls for, we can break the  cycle of abuse, strengthen families, and build a safer, more respectful  country.

I think, at this point right now in our Nation's history, we could  all use that. I urge my colleagues to join me in passing this  resolution. Together, let's honor survivors, remember victims, and  choose respect in all we do.

Res. 431, which is at the desk.