U.S. Government Accountability Office Legal Opinion


Mr. SULLIVAN.  B-337234, titled ``U.S.  Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management-Applicability of  the Congressional Review Act to 2022 National Petroleum Reserve in  Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision,'' dated July 24,  2025.

The letter provides notification that the U.S. Department of the  Interior, Bureau of Land Management National Petroleum Reserve in  Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision is a rule subject to  the Congressional Review Act, 5 U.S.C. Sec. 801 et seq.

Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land           Management--Applicability of the Congressional Review Act           to 2022 National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated           Activity Plan Record of Decision.      File: B-337234.      Date: July 24, 2025.                                    digest

On April 25, 2022, the U.S. Department of the Interior       (Interior), Bureau of Land Management (BLM) issued a record       of decision titled, National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska       Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision (2022 ROD or       ROD). The ROD adopts a new integrated activity plan for BLM's       future management of the National Petroleum Reserve in       Alaska, an approximately 23-million-acre area on Alaska's       North Slope.

The Congressional Review Act (CRA) requires that before a       rule can take effect, an agency must submit the rule to both       the House of Representatives and the Senate, as well as the       Comptroller General. CRA adopts the definition of ``rule''       under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) but excludes       certain categories of rules from coverage. We conclude that       the 2022 ROD is a rule for purposes of CRA because it meets       the APA definition of a rule, and no CRA exception applies.       Therefore, the ROD is a rule subject to CRA's submission       requirements.                                   decision

On April 25, 2022, the U.S. Department of the Interior       (Interior), Bureau of Land Management (BLM) issued a record       of decision titled, National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska       Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision (2022 ROD or       ROD). We received a request for a decision as to whether the       ROD is a rule for purposes of the Congressional Review Act       (CRA). As discussed below, we conclude that the ROD is a rule       subject to CRA's submission requirements.

Our practice when rendering decisions is to contact the       relevant agencies to obtain factual information and their       legal views on the subject of the request. Accordingly, we       reached out to Interior on March 18, 2025, and received       Interior's response on May 20, 2025.                                  background       2022 ROD

The 2022 ROD documents the Secretary of the Interior's       (Secretary) decision to adopt a new integrated activity plan       for BLM's future management of the National Petroleum Reserve       in Alaska (NPR-A). The NPR-A is an approximately 23-million-      acre area on Alaska's North Slope. The ROD replaced a 2020       Record of Decision, and the adopted plan provides for       management of the NPR-A consistent with the plan approved in       a 2013 Record of Decision with some modifications and       clarifications.

BLM is responsible for managing the NPR-A under the       authority and direction of the Naval Petroleum Reserves       Production Act of 1976, as amended (NPRPA) and the Federal       Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, as amended (FLPMA).       The NPRPA requires the Secretary to ``conduct an expeditious       program of competitive leasing of oil and gas in the'' NPR-A.       The NPRPA further provides that the Secretary ``shall assume       all responsibilities'' for ``any activities related to the       protection of environmental, fish and wildlife, and       historical or scenic values'' and authorizes the Secretary to       ``promulgate such rules and regulations as he deems necessary       and appropriate for the protection of such values within       the'' NPR-A. The statute also authorizes the Secretary to       designate lands ``containing any significant subsistence,       recreational, fish and wildlife, or historical or scenic       value'' and requires that exploration in these areas ``shall       be conducted in a manner which will assure the maximum       protection of such surface values to the extent consistent       with the'' statute's requirements for exploration activities.       BLM refers to these lands as ``Special Areas.'' Under the       FLPMA, the Secretary is authorized to regulate ``the use,       occupancy, and development of . . . public lands'' and ``take       any action necessary to prevent unnecessary or undue       degradation of th[ose] lands.''

To implement these requirements, BLM prepares integrated       activity plans for the NPR-A to provide consistent management       guidance.

The 2022 ROD states that BLM decided to adopt a new plan       following its determination that the 2020 Record of Decision       was inconsistent with the policy direction set forth in       Executive Order No. 13990, Protecting Public Health and the       Environment and Restoring Science to Tackle the Climate       Crisis, issued on January 20, 2021. The ROD states that the       adopted plan better serves the policy set forth in Executive       Order No. 13990 than the plan adopted by the 2020 Record of       Decision ``by providing greater protections to environmental       values and subsistence uses in the NPR-A while still allowing       for oil and gas exploration and development consistent with       BLM's management responsibilities under the NPRPA.''

The ROD further states that it was prepared in accordance       with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy       Act of 1969, as amended (NEPA) and the Council on       Environmental Quality's NEPA implementing regulations in       effect prior to September 14, 2020. BLM determined that the       environmental impact statement (2020 EIS) and associated       evaluations used for the 2020 Record of Decision remained       adequate under NEPA and other relevant statutes, and no       additional analysis was necessary for BLM to select a       different alternative from the range analyzed in the 2020       EIS.

The ROD adopted the ``no action'' alternative examined in       the 2020 EIS, thereby re-implementing the plan approved in       the 2013 Record of Decision, with certain clarifications and       modifications. The plan adopted by the ROD will remain in       place unless and until BLM determines that new circumstances       require a different approach.

Under the ROD, approximately 11.8 million acres, or 52       percent, of the NPR-A's subsurface estate are available for       oil and gas leasing, while the remaining approximately 11       million acres, or 48 percent, are closed to oil and gas       leasing. In addition, the ROD makes lands available for oil       and gas infrastructure, including pipelines and other       infrastructure necessary for owners of any offshore leases in       certain areas to bring oil and gas across the NPR-A to the       Trans-Alaska Pipeline System, while also generally       prohibiting new infrastructure on approximately 8.3 million       acres. The ROD states that the areas closed to oil and gas       leasing and new infrastructure include areas critical to       certain bird and caribou populations. Compared to the 2020       Record of Decision, the ROD reduces the area available for       oil and gas leasing and the allowable area for new       infrastructure, as the 2020 Record of Decision       made approximately 18.6 million acres, or 82 percent, of the       NPR-A's subsurface estate available for oil and gas leasing       and prohibited new infrastructure on approximately 4.3       million acres.

The ROD adopts other management approaches that differ from       the 2020 Record of Decision. For example, the ROD alters the       Special Areas designated under the NPRPA. The ROD also       establishes performance-based required operating procedures       and lease stipulations that apply to oil and gas leasing and       development and, in some cases, non-oil and gas activities       within the NPR-A. A number of these procedures and       stipulations differ from those in the 2020 Record of       Decision.

According to the ROD, additional site-specific analysis       will occur when BLM receives an application to approve an       action on the ground, and this will be done through       subsequent NEPA reviews and analysis that BLM will conduct       before issuing permits or approving any ground-disturbing       activity. For example, the ROD states that BLM will make       decisions on applications for new infrastructure following a       multi-agency NEPA review.      Recent Actions Regarding the NPR-A

Following issuance of the 2022 ROD, BLM published a final       rule in the Federal Register on May 7, 2024, to revise the       framework for designating and assuring maximum protection of       the Special Areas' significant resource values and to protect       and enhance access for subsistence activities throughout the       NPR-A. The rule also revised BLM regulations to incorporate       certain aspects of the 2022 ROD, such as the Special Area       designations and leasing and infrastructure allocations       adopted in the ROD.

On January 20, 2025, the President issued Executive Order       No. 14153, Unleashing Alaska's Extraordinary Resource       Potential, which, in part, directed the Secretary to ``place       a temporary moratorium on all activities and privileges       granted'' pursuant to the 2022 ROD in order to review the       ROD, reinstate the 2020 Record of Decision, and rescind the       2024 NPR-A Final Rule. On February 3, 2025, the Secretary       issued an order that, among other things, directed the       Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Management to       submit an action plan describing the necessary and       appropriate steps to execute the relevant portions of       Executive Order No. 14153.

On March 20, 2025, the Secretary announced actions to       implement these orders, including making up to 82 percent of       the NPR-A available to oil and gas leasing. In its May 20,       2025, response to us, Interior stated that the 2022 ROD was       still in effect, but BLM had initiated a process to evaluate       whether the 2020 EIS was sufficient to support the issuance       of a new Record of Decision that would substantially align       with the 2020 Record of Decision, On June 3, 2025, BLM       published a notice of proposed rulemaking proposing to       rescind the 2024 NPR-A Final Rule. On June 17, 2025, BLM       released for comment a draft Environmental Assessment as part       of its efforts to issue a new NPR-A integrated activity plan       that aligns with the 2020 Record of Decision.      Congressional Review Act (CRA)

CRA, enacted in 1996 to strengthen congressional oversight       of agency rulemaking, requires federal agencies to submit a       report on each new rule to both houses of Congress and the       Comptroller General for review before the rule can take       effect. The report must contain a copy of the rule, ``a       concise general statement relating to the rule,'' and the       rule's proposed effective date. CRA allows Congress to review       and disapprove rules issued by federal agencies for a period       of 60 days using special procedures. If a resolution of       disapproval is enacted, then the new rule has no force or       effect.

CRA adopts the definition of ``rule'' under the       Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which states that a rule       is ``the whole or a part of an agency statement of general or       particular applicability and future effect designed to       implement, interpret, or prescribe law or policy or       describing the organization, procedure, or practice       requirements of an agency.'' However, CRA excludes three       categories of APA rules from coverage: (1) rules of       particular applicability; (2) rules relating to agency       management or personnel; and (3) rules of agency       organization, procedure, or practice that do not       substantially affect the rights or obligations of non-agency       parties.

BLM did not submit a CRA report to Congress or the       Comptroller General on the 2022 ROD. In its response to us,       Interior provided additional information about the ROD but       did not state a position as to whether it is a rule under       CRA. However, BLM submitted a CRA report on the 2024 NPR-A       Final Rule, which incorporates certain aspects of the ROD, to       the Comptroller General in April 2024 and to Congress in May       2024.                                  discussion

To determine whether the 2022 ROD is a rule subject to       review under CRA, we first address whether it meets the APA       definition of a rule. As explained below, we conclude that it       does. We then consider whether the ROD falls within any CRA       exceptions. We conclude that it does not. Therefore, the ROD       is a rule subject to review under CRA.      The 2022 ROD is a Rule Under APA

Applying APA's definition of ``rule,'' the 2022 ROD meets       all of the required elements. First, the ROD is an agency       statement as it was issued by BLM, a federal agency.

Second, the ROD is of future effect. An agency action of       future effect is one ``concerned with policy considerations       for the future rather than the evaluation of past or present       conduct.'' The ROD adopts a plan ``for future management of       the NPR-A,'' and the adopted plan will remain in place unless       and until BLM determines that new circumstances require a       different approach.

Finally, the ROD prescribes and implements law and policy       and describes agency procedure and practice requirements. An       agency statement implements, interprets, or prescribes law or       policy when the action creates new regulations, changes       regulatory requirements or official policy, or alters how the       agency will exercise its discretion, among other things. The       2022 ROD prescribes policies for future uses of the covered       area, the NPR-A, and includes restrictions on certain uses,       like oil and gas exploration and development activities, in       particular areas.

Our conclusion here is consistent with our previous       decisions finding that similar land use programs and resource       management plans implement, interpret, or prescribe law or       policy. For instance, in B-238859, Oct. 23, 2017, we found       that an amendment to the Forest Service's Tongass Land and       Resource Management Plan (Tongass Amendment) implemented law       by establishing new criteria for the sale of timber to non-      agency parties. We explained that with the Tongass Amendment,       the Forest Service set forth its policy for timber sales and       thus implemented its statutory responsibility under the       National Forest Management Act.

Similarly, in B-329065, Nov. 15, 2017, we examined four BLM       resource management plans covering areas in Alaska. We       concluded that the plans implemented, interpreted, or       prescribed law or policy because the plans ``prescribe[d]       policies for future use of the areas . . . cover[ed], such as       where mining or off-highway vehicles are permitted,'' and,       for two of the areas, ``identif[ied] Areas of Critical       Environmental Concern,'' where special management attention       was needed to protect certain resources. We further noted       that the plans ``implement[ed] the provisions of FLPMA and       other applicable statutory and regulatory provisions.''

The same can be said of the 2022 ROD here. The ROD reduces       the area available for oil and gas leasing and new       infrastructure in the NPR-A compared to the 2020 Record of       Decision. And just as the plans in B-329065 designated       certain locations as ``Areas of Critical Environmental       Concern,'' the ROD likewise alters the areas of the NPR-A       designated for special protections, the Special Areas. The       ROD also adopts performance-based required operating       procedures and lease stipulations that apply to future       activities and which, in certain respects, differ from the       provisions adopted in the 2020 Record of Decision. Finally,       the ROD implements FLPMA, as well as other applicable       statutory and regulatory provisions, including NPRPA, NEPA,       and the implementing regulations for those statutes.

An agency statement describes agency organization,       procedure, or practice requirements when the statement       discusses the internal operations of an agency, including       statements that govern the conduct of agency proceedings. The       ROD describes various practices and procedures related to the       permitting process, including how and when BLM will include       stipulations in leases or impose required operating       procedures, as well as the availability of waivers,       exceptions, and modifications to those stipulations and       procedures.

Having satisfied all the required elements, the 2022 ROD       meets the APA definition of a rule.      CRA Exceptions

We must next determine whether any of CRA's three       exceptions apply. CRA provides for three types of rules that       are not subject to its requirements: (1) rules of particular       applicability; (2) rules relating to agency management or       personnel; and (3) rules of agency organization, procedure,       or practice that do not substantially affect the rights or       obligations of non-agency parties.      (1)Rule of Particular Applicability

Consistent with our previous decisions, the 2022 ROD is a       rule of general applicability, rather than particular       applicability. Such rules are addressed to specific,       identified persons or entities and address actions those       persons or entities may or may not take, taking into account       facts and circumstances specific to those persons or       entities.

In determining whether a rule is one of general or       particular applicability, we have noted that a rule need not       apply to the population as a whole to be considered a rule of       general applicability; rather, all that is required is that       the rule has general applicability within its intended range,       regardless of the magnitude of the range. In particular, we       have determined that a rule is one of general applicability       even if the rule is limited to a specific geographic area, so       long as the rule does not apply to specific, identified       persons or entities. For example, in B-329065, Nov. 15, 2017,       we concluded that the BLM plans at issue were not rules of       particular applicability because they applied to ``all       natural resource management activities, all projects approved       to take place, and all persons or entities that engage in       uses permitted by those projects.''

Although the ROD is focused on a specific geographic area,       namely the NPR-A, the ROD, like the plans at issue in B-      329065, is not addressed to specific, identified persons or       entities. Instead, the ROD applies to all persons or entities       engaged in covered actions in the NPR-A, including oil and       gas exploration and development. Therefore, the ROD is a rule       of general applicability.           (2) Rule of Agency Management or Personnel

The 2022 ROD is not a rule of agency management or       personnel. This exception applies to rules relating to       ``purely internal agency matters.'' These include rules       related to controlling, directing, or supervising internal       management issues, as well as rules related to personnel       issues like communications between employees and managers,       leave, or benefits. For example, we concluded that the BLM       plans at issue in B-329065, Nov. 15, 2017, did not meet       this exception because they were concerned with management       of uses of the relevant areas by the public rather than       with management of BLM itself or its personnel.

The 2022 ROD does not involve internal agency management or       personnel matters. Rather, the ROD adopts a new integrated       activity plan for BLM's future management of the NPR-A. This       plan governs activities by non-agency parties in the area,       including oil and gas exploration and development. Therefore,       the ROD does not meet CRA's second exception.      (3) Rule of Agency Organization, Procedure, or Practice that           Does Not Substantially Affect Non-Agency Parties

Lastly, the 2022 ROD is not a rule of agency organization,       procedure, or practice that does not substantially affect the       rights or obligations of non-agency parties.

We have previously explained that this exception was       modeled on the APA exception to notice-and-comment rulemaking       requirements for ``rules of agency organization, procedure,       or practice.'' The purpose of the APA exception is to ensure       ``that agencies retain latitude in organizing their internal       operations,'' so long as such rules do not have a substantial       impact on non-agency parties.

Following this interpretation in the CRA context, we have       only applied CRA's third exception to rules that primarily       focus on the internal operations of an agency. For instance,       in B-329926, Sept. 10, 2018, we found that updates to a       Social Security Administration (SSA) hearing manual governing       SSA adjudicators' use of information from the internet       qualified as a rule of agency organization, procedure, or       practice. There, the manual outlined procedures for SSA       employees to follow in processing and adjudicating benefits       claims. Because the manual was directed to and binding only       on SSA officials without imposing new burdens on claimants,       we concluded that the manual met CRA's third exception.

In contrast, rules that are directed at and primarily       concerned with the behavior of non-agency parties do not fall       within this category. Thus, in B-274505, Sept. 16, 1996, we       declined to apply CRA's third exception to a Forest Service       memorandum on the Emergency Salvage Timber Sale Program,       because it was not limited to the Forest Service's methods of       operations. Instead, the memorandum established the standards       by which program determinations would be made, thus directly       affecting the area for and number of timber sales that would       result in contracts. In essence the memorandum went beyond       how the Forest Service organized its internal operations.       Similarly, in B-238859, Oct. 23, 2017, we declined to apply       CRA's third exception to the Tongass Amendment, because it       was directed at land and resource use by non-agency parties.

As discussed above, the 2022 ROD adopts a new integrated       activity plan that governs activities by non-agency parties       in the NPR-A, including oil and gas exploration and       development. In particular, the ROD reduces the area       available for oil and gas leasing and new infrastructure       compared to the 2020 Record of Decision. The ROD also       establishes performance-based required operating procedures       and lease stipulations for activities carried out by non-      agency parties, a number of which differ from those in the       2020 Record of Decision. Although the ROD also describes       various BLM practices and procedures related to the       permitting process, the ROD is directed at and primarily       concerned with the behavior and activities of non-agency       parties in the NPR-A rather than the agency's methods of       operation. Therefore, the ROD does not qualify as a rule of       agency organization procedure, or practice.

In addition, the ROD substantially affects the rights or       obligations of non-agency parties. We have previously       determined that agency plans establishing the uses and       activities that non-agency parties may engage in on public       lands substantially affect the rights or obligations of those       parties. For example, in B-275178, July 3, 1997, we concluded       that a Forest Service Land and Resource Management Plan       substantially affected non-agency parties because it       described the uses and activities that non-agency parties       could conduct in specific areas, the minimum standards for       accomplishing the activities, and guidelines on how to meet       the standards. We concluded that the plan had such effects       notwithstanding that there would be a second stage of       decision-making involving site-specific determinations.

Like the plan at issue in B-275178, the 2022 ROD describes       uses and activities non-agency parties may conduct in       specific areas of the NPR-A. The ROD reduces the area       available for oil and gas leasing and new infrastructure and       states that these changes ``will likely result in less       leasing over time.'' The ROD also makes changes to the       ``stipulations that apply to all future leases issued under''       the plan adopted by the ROD as well as to the required       operating procedures that ``BLM will impose on applicants       during the permitting process.'' Accordingly, even though the       ROD indicates that further BLM action will be necessary to       enter into leases or permit activities, the ROD governs those       future decisions. Therefore, the ROD substantially affects       the rights or obligations of non-agency parties.                                  conclusion

The 2022 ROD is a rule for purposes of CRA because it meets       the definition of a rule under APA and no CRA exception       applies. Therefore, the ROD is subject to CRA's requirement       that it be submitted to Congress and the Comptroller General       before it can take effect.                                             Edda Emmanuelli Perez,      General Counsel.