Providing for Consideration of H.R. Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Miles City Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``North Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694884/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-energy-and-water-development-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-miles-city-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-amendment-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-north-dakota-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-central-yukon-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-and-for-other-purposes


Ms. POU. Mr. Speaker, across New Jersey and our country, Americans  are struggling with skyrocketing energy costs and are demanding relief.  Yet, that did not stop the congressional Republicans from repealing the  Energy Efficient Home Improvement Credit, a major mistake that could  not have come at a worse time.

Amidst the rising cost of living, Americans are now being denied an  important tool to lower their energy costs solely so billionaires could  get another unneeded tax giveaway. That is why I introduced a  commonsense amendment to study the impacts of tearing this program away  from American homeowners.

I am absolutely disappointed, but not surprised, that the House  majority continues to hide the impacts of their big, ugly bill and  block Americans from seeing how it raises their electric bills.

I came to Congress to lower high costs, and I will not stop working  to lower energy costs for hardworking Americans.