Fun with Math


Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker, I promise you at least this one. I  think I have the half an hour. I am going to try not to use all of it,  and I will try to slow down some of the speaking.

Madam Speaker, I had a couple of odds and ends and then some basic  optimism on one or two things. First off, let's do some cleanup.

Last week, I actually walked through a little bit of an economic  report. We got a preview of it. I think it will be published fairly  soon. It is ``Measuring What Matters,'' and the title is: ``Why Italy  May Be in Better Fiscal Shape than the U.S.''

This is done by some of the super economic geeks out of Boston and  Cambridge, but what terrified me because I am actually doing my best to  read these sorts of documents is the little sentence I have highlighted  here. I tried to point this out last week. This is for supergeeks. If  you use a 6 percent discount rate, you need 104 percent of a child's  lifetime income who is born next year and this year just to cover the  pension and healthcare benefits in our country. You need more than they  are ever going to earn in their entire life just to cover those  promises.

Now, if you take it down to a 2 percent discount rate, which is a way  you sort of say that here is where inflation and these things are going  to be, you still need a 22 percent increase on their lifetime taxes  just to cover pension benefits. This is actually based on some numbers  where I think they may have too high a fertility rate.

The reason I point that out is we are not having the really difficult  conversation here. What happens in a country this year when my  economists on the Joint Economic Committee are saying that we may have  zero population growth in the United States this year and the fact that  we have fewer 18-year-olds today than we had 20 years ago but almost  double those who are 65 and older?

Madam Speaker, I keep coming here week after week after week and  showing charts about the debt and the unfunded liabilities. Now I am  seeing some stories today saying that net interest will be over $1  trillion this year if you add in the paying back because we have to pay  interest back to the Social Security trust fund and all of those when  we borrow the money. It could be $1.25 trillion of interest.

What you should understand there is--let's walk through some of the  hierarchy. Social Security is number one. We are going to spend $1.5  trillion to $1.6 trillion this year on Social Security. Guess what the  number two expense in our country is now? It is interest. If you do the  total interest load, interest.

The next is Medicare.

Number four turns out to be the ObamaCare, or the ACA subsidies and  Medicaid. That is number four.

Guess what is number five now in our spending? It is defense.

So often, I will talk to my liberal brothers and sisters, and they  will turn to you and say that we should cut defense. That way, we can  give out more money. It is now number five.

Look, it breaks my heart because we keep having these discussions,  and I have come behind this microphone for over a decade now and feel  like sometimes I am doing a junior economics lecture.

The point is trying to say: Here is the scale of the problem, but  there are actually solutions if we can be bold, if we can be creative,  and if we can take on the entrenched incumbency of the bureaucracy and  business models.

Let's actually do a couple of things here and see if I can make this  make sense. Let's march along--this is sort of important--and see if I  can make this make sense.

This is last year. The red is spending. The blue is tax receipts.  That gap is debt. You will notice, actually, that our projection for  the fiscal year 2026 is our tax receipts--so tax collections are  actually up. They are actually up almost 17.8 percent, which is  wonderful. Most of it is capital gains. You know, the stock market is  doing well.

Oddly enough, our spending is actually slightly down, but we still  have this massive gap. Our best guess is that we are still running a $2  trillion deficit this year. Depending on what the Supreme Court does in  regard to the enhanced tariffs, we may pick up some other liability  that we are going to have to find out a way to work out with the White  House.

Madam Speaker, this is an improvement, but the scale is still  terrifying. It is still a couple trillion dollars. I know there are  some products that have come out of the White House, CBO, and others  saying that debt may only be $1.6 trillion or $1.8 trillion. It is not  what we are tracking because so  far, the first quarter of this year--we still have a couple more weeks  on it--for every dollar in tax receipts, we are spending about $1.62.  We think this will even out to being about $1 of taxes in, and we are  going to spend about $1.43.

Guess what? Most of that debt--that growth and that debt is interest  because we have been refinancing a lot of our debt that was sold a few  years ago when interest rates were very, very low, and healthcare  costs.

A point I want to make--and I am going to come back to this a couple  of times here--a couple hours ago, we had the Joint Economic Committee  over in the Senate. It is one of my blessings. I get to chair it. We  did something, and both sides were pretty good. Some Democrats took  some pokes at us, but the theme of this Joint Economic Committee  hearing was healthcare.

We, as a body--we, as Congress--we, as a society, have turned into  financial engineering. The ACA, ObamaCare, is a financing bill. It is  who pays and who gets subsidized? The Republican alternative had much  better--well, somewhat better actuarial distribution, but it was still  a financing bill. It is who got to pay, and who got subsidized?  Medicare for all is almost completely a financing bill.

How about if we held a hearing where we talked about not the  financing of healthcare but things that could disrupt the cost of  healthcare? We had one gentleman from one of the biggest life insurance  companies in America come in and talk about it saying that here are the  things we do to keep our insured population alive and healthier.

We do things. We reward them for doing these data rings, or putting  things on their wrists, or how they eat, or we gamify some exercise,  and talk about how much healthier the population is. For them, it is a  profit model. Turns out, if you sell life insurance, the longer someone  keeps making their premium payments, the more money you make. They were  incentivized.

We had one of the lead medical officers from a healthcare system in  Arizona called Banner talking about how they are trying to align a  system that actually they get rewarded for helping populations be  healthier and the technology they are using to do it.

The fact of the matter is that we are finally trying to drag the  conversation around this place from being financial engineering is the  future of healthcare, ``Let's subsidize more populations,'' even though  I am going to show you a couple of boards here of how much of that  subsidy, your tax money, is just disappearing.

Maybe the crazy conversation here is what happens with the  combination of the use of technology, of cures, of availability.

If it is true that semaglutides, you think of the GLP-1s, one of the  deals the President made is the tablet version is going to go to $149  sometime next year. We know from the Milken study a few years ago that  obesity is 47 percent of U.S. healthcare spending. Wouldn't it help if  we could help our brothers and sisters get healthier? Yes, obesity is  complex. Diabetes is complex, autoimmune. There are all sorts of things  that go on. I accept the complexity.

The morality of what happens in a society if you could, over a couple  of years, help your brothers and sisters get healthier, it turns out  you could have these remarkable changes in costs. How many times have  you heard the saying in healthcare that 5 percent of the population is  over 50 percent of the spend? It turns out that much of that 50 percent  of spending is on people who have multichronic conditions. A  substantial portion of that is because of obesity.

Let's not be afraid to talk about it. Let's do the moral thing of  helping ourselves, helping our brothers and sisters. It actually helps  the debt and deficit.

We published a major report 2 years ago now, showing that obesity  will be responsible for $9.1 trillion of additional healthcare spending  over 10 years, making it the single most expensive thing in our  country. Yet, how much work have you seen behind these microphones,  saying maybe we shouldn't always talk about the subsidization of  healthcare and start talking about what we all pay.

For a decade, I have come behind these microphones with technology  and ideas. We are going to walk through just a little bit on the ACA  because I can't stop myself after what I heard a couple of our Democrat  colleagues say.

This is from the audits and the Joint Economic research, and it is a  very simple thing. This is on the ACA, the ObamaCare subsidies, and  then the enhanced subsidies, so it is the subsidies on top of the  subsidies.

We actually get to the point where it appears only 33 percent of the  money actually goes to you as a consumer for your healthcare, for your  getting well.

We have 27 percent of what I call deadweight. It just disappears. It  is someone who is insured who has never made a claim, even though they  may have been 100 percent subsidized. Now, we are finding out huge  portions of that appear to be fraud. Last year, over 41 percent of the  ACA population, which is 7 percent of healthcare, so ACA, the ObamaCare  population, 41 percent paid no premiums. If you are not paying  premiums, you see how easy it would be to sign someone up, take the  commissions, and no one ever has to know because you are not getting a  bill. We are discovering stunning amounts of fraud.

The other thing, which was just fascinating, is that in the study, we  have almost 38 percent of these dollars disappearing, functioning  insurance. You go, but they can only hold 6, 7 percent of it. That is  not actually what happens.

We published an entire paper on this 2 weeks ago in the Joint  Economic Committee. Go to the website, Joint Economic Committee  Republicans, and you will see our methodology and where the math is.

We are back to, once again, arguing: Is this how you want your  taxpayer dollars to disappear? We want our brothers and sisters to have  the most affordable healthcare possible in America, but to do it, do  you want us to funnel your cash, your tax dollars, into this level of  fraud? We have to walk through this.

Why the fixation, particularly for my Joint Economic Committee and  myself, on changing the actual costs of healthcare is you look at the  long-run charts, the national healthcare expenditures, we have the  substantial gap--and I know these types of charts are almost impossible  to read, but what I am trying to help you understand here is here is  the gross domestic product. We are growing as a country, but the cost  of healthcare is growing substantially faster.

A factoid, I beg of you, whether you be on the left side, or the  right side, or confused somewhere in between, in 7 years, the $1  trillion we spend this year on Medicare becomes $2 trillion. We double  the spend on Medicare in the next 7 years, and in 7 years, the trust  fund is gone, meaning if you are a hospital or a doctor and part of  your revenues that you receive on Medicare patients is from the  Medicare Part A trust fund, it is gone. It is gone in 7 years. Let  alone, the Social Security trust fund is also gone in 7 years, and we  will double senior poverty.

We are not allowed to talk about that. I will get an angry text  message this evening saying: David, you can't talk about that, as the  Democrat political consultants are saying, oh, good, more attacks.

The immorality of this place to not want to tell the truth about our  demographics and the complete barrier we have built legally on  innovation--I have a couple of really geeky things here, but I am going  to skip them and go to something that is a little crazy.

Every week when I do these, I try to come here with something that is  optimistic. A few years ago, I got behind this microphone and talked  about a University of Houston drug that basically takes fentanyl in  your system--and I am sure I am describing it partially wrong, but I am  doing my best--and attaches a protein to it, and, therefore, the drug  can't pass the blood-brain barrier. It lasts for 6 months to a year.

What would happen if I came to you and showed you some of the  economic studies we have done in the Joint Economic Committee by  reading the literature? Some of our data, we are a few years out of  date, but in 2020, we were approaching $1.5 trillion for the cost of  fentanyl in America in 2020. Do you realize that is more than the  defense budget? That is almost what we are  going to spend this year in Social Security, the cost to society from  fentanyl.

What happens if someone like me comes to you and says, hey, and  anyone that is interested, look it up because WIRED Magazine last week  actually did an amazingly detailed article--it is a long article; it is  a long read--on the labs around the country. They featured the  University of Houston and a couple of the private companies that are  trying to bring these things to market. They call it a fentanyl  vaccine. It is technically not a vaccine. What would happen in our  society if someone who has used a synthetic opioid, it has rewired  their brain, and it is one of the ways we help them get through rehab?  How about if you are the police officer who doesn't have to worry about  having Narcan close by?

The other challenge I will give you is to go look up a couple of the  articles that are about Philadelphia and some of the animal  tranquilizers, and this is beyond the xylazine and--I think that is  spelled with an x. It is a whole other category that makes it almost  impossible to detox because the cravings are so violent.

Once it starts on the East Coast, it is coming across the country. I  beg of everyone here to start to think about what happens if our  ability to help bring a solution, a drug solution to help our brothers  and sisters and protect our first responders--because so far, the data  on--let's call it a fentanyl vaccine--is that it is 92 to 98 percent  effective. What if this were worth a few hundred billion dollars in  economic savings to our society in a single year?

Repeatedly, I come here and I talk about helping our brothers and  sisters with obesity, the technology, that you can walk around and have  a medical lab attached to your body. Here are some of the others that I  talk about, with biology and synthetic biology and other solutions.  They are out there. But how do I get the brain trust around here to  come together and say: We are going to take all of these ideas and  build a unified theory, and this unified theory is how we crash the  price of healthcare, instead of spending a couple more years arguing  back and forth on how much more money we should borrow to hand out as  subsidies, particularly to insurance companies.

That is my simple theory I am trying to sell. There are solutions.  They are complex. You have actually got to read a lot of long articles  to try and understand what is going on. You have got to stop being  afraid, and you have got to stop protecting incumbent business models  that are terrified of having cures, solutions, better and faster ways  to do it, and the use of technology. If we get rid of that fear and  start doing what is moral and economically rational around here, we are  in the time of miracles.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to let you go back to your lives. I yield  back the balance of my time.