Marking Third Anniversary of Unprovoked Russian Invasion of Ukraine


Mr. VINDMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to address the House as we  have just marked the third anniversary of the unprovoked Russian  invasion of Ukraine.

February 24, 2022, the date of the largest land grab in Europe since  World War II, joins an ignominious list of others as a day of infamy,  but this month, it is also notorious for something else.

In this month and this year, the Pax Americana, the rules-based  international order established in the aftermath of World War II, an  order that has delivered peace and prosperity to the United States, has  been brought to a dishonorable end.

In this month, Trump ordered the U.S. Representative to the U.N. to  vote with autocrats and against democracy.

Pete Hegseth, the FOX weekend television host improbably elevated  into an American Secretary of Defense, announced that NATO membership  for Ukraine was off the table. Going further, he suggested that  Ukraine's return to its 2014 borders was no longer in the cards.  Hegseth thereby deprived Ukraine and the West of two of their most  valuable bargaining chips in determining the shape of any peace  agreement that is to come.

In this same month, Donald Trump, the President of the United States,  standing facts on their head, called Volodymyr Zelenskyy, the leader of  Ukrainian democracy, an unelected ``dictator,'' and incredibly, spewing  another blatant falsehood, blamed Ukraine for starting the war.

In this month, in perhaps the most shameful statement from an  American President in the history of our Republic, Trump explained that  because Russia had lost so many soldiers, it was entitled to keep some  or all of the territory that it had seized in its unprovoked war of  aggression.

It is bad enough that these are lies and betrayals of America's great  traditions.

It is bad enough that these statements legitimize violations of the  fundamental principles of Pax Americana and the U.N. Charter. Namely,  the rules of the jungle no longer apply to international relations-- that might does not make right and that powerful nations cannot employ  force to redraw international borders at will.

It is bad enough that the Trump administration is failing to offer a  strong bargaining position for Ukraine from which to negotiate a just  peace.

It is bad enough that his statements have sent an unmistakable  message to the world, in particular, Communist China, that aggression  pays.

Things are even worse than all of that.

Under the tutelage of Donald Trump, we are witnessing a fundamental  transformation of American foreign policy from a force for good in the  world to a force for evil. Trump is aligning American foreign policy  with that of the Kremlin.

As analyst Phillips O'Brien has put it: ``The USA is now run by  gangsters who both want to ally with other gangsters and are using  threats of destruction and violence to get their way.''

In the first term, there were guardrails because there were adults in  the room. This time there are no such adults in the room. Trump has  surrounded himself with sycophants, yes-men, third-rate fanatics, and  clowns from the MAGA world. The guardrails are gone. Trump is free to  follow his peculiar whims and unhinged instincts. Indeed, he is free to  act as would a mad king.

The results are plain to see. The results are visible in Trump's  repeated attacks on Denmark for refusing to sell Greenland to the  United States, another dangerous fantasy which is roiling relations  with a NATO ally that has been an exceptionally loyal friend in times  of need.

They are visible in the trade war that Trump is promising to unleash  on Mexico, Canada, Europe, and the entire world with untold  consequences for prosperity everywhere, including here at home.

They are most visible in the collapse of our friendship with Ukraine,  our  abandonment of a fledgling democracy that has been valiantly fighting  for its very existence. Instead of standing by Ukraine, the Trump  administration is insisting that it yield its natural resource wealth  to the United States in exchange for previous American support without  any guarantee of territorial integrity.

This is not the behavior of a great democratic power, the leader of  the free world. It is the behavior of a Mafia state engaged in coercion  and blackmail. It is impossible not to be ashamed by what is being done  in the name of America.

Putin would like nothing more than to cause internal chaos in Ukraine  and rid Kyiv of Zelenskyy. Trump is following suit. Zelenskyy is  absolutely right when he stated that Trump is living inside a  disinformation bubble.

At the root, Trump's policies betray a fundamental misunderstanding  of the American idea: the fact that we are a free and self-governing  people, a democracy that has always been a beacon of liberty.

The President and his billionaire, shadow co-president have embraced  a dystopian ideology based on falsehoods. The effect of their  disinformation is rapidly bringing us to a crisis point where their  falsehoods will crash into the reality of a great power competition.

If America abandons Ukraine and embraces the Kremlin, the  consequences for the United States and for the world will prove  ruinous. Already, everywhere Russia has advanced into Ukrainian  territory, its forces have raped and pillaged and murdered.