Recognizing Frank W. Harris, III


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701463/recognizing-frank-w-harris-iii


Mr. VINDMAN. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to recognize Frank W. Harris  III, a  United States Marine Corps Colonel whose extraordinary life of service  spans three defining conflicts in our Nation's history: World War II,  the Korean war, and the Vietnam war.

In each of these wars, Colonel Harris stood in defense of freedoms at  moments when it was tested most. Colonel Harris has demonstrated time  and again what it means to put Nation before self.

In doing so, he has embodied the highest ideals of the Marine Corps:  honor, courage, and commitment.

Having lived through a century of American history, Colonel Harris  represents more than remarkable longevity. He represents resilience. To  witness 101 years and to have spent so many of them in service to  others is itself extraordinary. His life tells the story of  perseverance through hardship, faith through uncertainty, and  leadership through change.

Mr. Speaker, I am truly honored to have him as my constituent. From  this Army colonel: Oorah and Semper Fidelis.                   Constituent of the Week: Patrice Summers

Mr. VINDMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize Patrice Summers  on her 26 years of exceptional service to Prince William County.

Inspired by her mother's civic engagement, Patrice committed herself  to public service from a young age. For over two decades, she served as  an elections officer and then chief elections officer right here in  Prince William County.

Patrice is also actively involved in the Virginia 512 organizing  committee.

Beyond her public sector and union work, Patrice is a devoted  caregiver to two of her family members. Her dedication to uplifting her  neighbors, her family, and giving back to her community embodies a  lifetime of selflessness.

Mr. Speaker, I am honored to congratulate her on this well-earned  recognition and honor her as this week's Constituent of the Week.  Congratulations, and I thank her for all that she does.                    Constituent of the Week: Pranav Vedula

Mr. VINDMAN. Mr. Speaker, today, I honor my Constituent of the Week,  Pranav Vedula, of Stafford County, Virginia, for winning the Seventh  Congressional District's App Challenge.

The Congressional App Challenge is a nationwide competition that  encourages students to explore STEM, coding and computer science by  creating original software applications.

Pranav, a senior at Colonial Forge High School, did exactly that by  developing an innovative app called ReCheck. ReCheck is a productivity  app designed to assist individuals experiencing memory loss.

It allows people living with dementia to build customized to-do lists  that help them maintain independence and confidence in their daily  lives.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Pranav for using his skills to bring  awareness to this critical issue and for his clear commitment to  improving people's quality of life. I wish him continued success in his  future academic and professional pursuits.                    Constituent of the Week: Curry Roberts

Mr. VINDMAN. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to congratulate my  constituent of the week, Curry Roberts, on his retirement from serving  as the president of the Fredericksburg Regional Alliance at the  University of Mary Washington.

A Fredericksburg-area business leader, Mr. Roberts has dedicated his  career to our community.

Mr. Roberts has attracted over 6,000 new jobs to the region, laying  groundwork for key opportunities for industry to work with local  government.

In addition to work on the FRA, Mr. Roberts also had a 35-year career  in leadership on various nonprofit, public sector, and private-sector  jobs.

Mr. Roberts has always had the back of our communities, and I am  committed to paying this forward in Congress.

I congratulate him on his retirement, and I wish him well on his next  chapter.                Constituent of the Week: Richard E. Toye, Sr.

Mr. VINDMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is my great honor to recognize Richard  E. Toye, Sr., a 98-year-old World War II veteran, for his service to  our country.

Mr. Toye was drafted in 1944 and stationed in Okinawa as the member  of the Quartermaster Corps.

After being discharged from Active Duty, he reenlisted and served in  the Navy Reserves until 1950.

Mr. Toye has been a steady voice for positive change in Spotsylvania  County. He volunteered with Big Brothers and Big Sisters, United Way,  and the Spotsylvania County Democratic Committee.

As a 25-year Army veteran and a member of the House Armed Services  Committee, I know the depth of sacrifice that his service to our  country demands.

That is why this week I am proud to recognize Mr. Toye as a  constituent of the week. I thank him for his service to our Nation and  for his continued work in our community. I will always work to deliver  for veterans like him.