Recognizing Epsilon Sigma's 10th Anniversary


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692968/recognizing-epsilon-sigmas-10th-anniversary


Mr. VINDMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and commemorate  the 10th Anniversary of the Epsilon Sigma Boule of Sigma Pi Phi  Fraternity, based in Prince William County, Virginia. Since its  founding on June 13, 2015, Epsilon Sigma Boule has exemplified the  highest standards of leadership, scholarship, and community service.

Sigma Pi Phi, also known as the Boule, is the oldest Black Greek- letter fraternity, established in 1904 to provide a space for African  American men of professional distinction at a time when few such  outlets existed. Its legacy includes names etched into the very fabric  of American history--W.E.B. Du Bois, Martin Luther King, Jr., Arthur  Ashe, Whitney Young, and so many others whose contributions have shaped  our Nation. Today, its ranks continue to include influential leaders  such as Representatives James Clyburn, Bobby Scott, Emanuel Cleaver,  and Senator Raphael Warnock.

The Epsilon Sigma Boule of Sigma Pi Phi was established to advance  this rich legacy in Northern Virginia. Its members are African American  men of accomplishment and service, representing diverse professions and  industries. Together, they have embodied the Fraternity's founding  mission by working diligently to uplift and empower their communities  through servant leadership and civic engagement.

Through the Epsilon Sigma Boule Foundation, the fraternity has  invested substantially in initiatives that serve the greater good-- mentoring youth, increasing access to STEM education, supporting the  performing arts in Title I schools, and providing college scholarships  for deserving minority students. These actions reflect a commitment not  only to excellence, but to ensuring equity and opportunity for all.

As the Epsilon Sigma Boule celebrates a decade of excellence, we  honor its enduring mission and the transformational impact it continues  to have in Prince William County and beyond. They have exemplified  principled leadership and civic responsibility, carrying forward the  Fraternity's mission with purposeful action and a steadfast dedication  to community advancement.

Mr. Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me in recognizing the 10th  Anniversary of the Epsilon Sigma Boule of Sigma Pi Phi Fraternity and  in celebrating the tremendous work this organization continues to do to  strengthen our communities and shape the future of our country.