Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition to the  amendment.

Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Mr. Chair, I share some of my distinguished  colleague's concerns about EERE, but let me, for the record, lay some  things out.

I am a strong supporter of EERE. EERE received over $16 billion from  the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, of which there were  billions in unobligated balances remaining. In other words, they got a  ton of money in these big largesse bills that were passed by the last  administration. They got $16 billion, and they can't spend it all.

That is why, in the House bill, we have reduced funding to EERE by  $1.6 billion below the fiscal 2025 level. They had money they couldn't  even get to spend.

Again, I am a strong, strong supporter of EERE. I have seen the work  they do. They do a tremendous job, but they got all of that money in  those largesse spending bills. This reduces EERE spending to 2013  levels.

I respectfully think my colleague's amendment goes too far in  eliminating this program. Again, things that EERE does well: geothermal  technologies, advanced manufacturing, and industrial efficiency  improvements.

It also includes essential work on critical materials that will lay  out the groundwork for technologies that will reduce our reliance on  foreign supplies.

I think EERE is an issue that we all can support. The reductions are  there. I think this strikes a very good balance.

For these reasons, I must respectfully oppose my colleague's motion.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.

Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Mr. Chairman, while I commend my colleague and  friend, who actually was elected in that great class of 2010 with me--I  remember that year vividly--I thank him for his motion, and I applaud  his dedication to fiscal conservatism. However, with all due respect to  my colleague, this amendment undermines the full bill's central aim to  promote national security, energy security, and economic prosperity.

Reducing this bill by $37 billion, or by 65 percent, will make  America less safe, less secure, and less prosperous, in my view.

The amendment includes a $16 billion cut to defense funding. Again,  for my colleagues and for those watching, it is in the Energy and Water  Development appropriations bill that we fund the National Nuclear  Security Administration. This is our country's nuclear weapons  activities. This would be cut by almost $9 billion, roughly 50 percent,  causing, in my view, irreparable harm to our Nation's nuclear deterrent  by halting critical weapons and modernization programs.

This amendment would also reduce naval reactors by over $1 billion,  again, almost a 50 percent reduction of the account, creating cascading  impacts to America's most lethal and capable naval assets, our  submarines and aircraft carriers. These are only but two examples of  the 54 account reductions proposed by the amendment.

For these reasons, I respectfully must oppose the amendment and urge  my colleagues to do the same.

Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.