Congratulating the Youngstown State Women's Bowling Team on Winning the 2025 Ncaa Bowling Championship


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690138/congratulating-the-youngstown-state-womens-bowling-team-on-winning-the-2025-ncaa-bowling-championship


Mr. RULLI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Youngstown  State women's bowling team on winning the 2025 NCAA bowling  championship over Jacksonville State on April 12, 2025.

In the ``Entertainment Capital of the World'', Las Vegas, the  Youngstown State women's bowling team certainly put on a show. The path  to the championship was vigorous, playing against very tough  competition to secure the championship win.

The Penguins cruised through the regional rounds on the way to the  championship and in the semifinals, the Penguins fell short to  Jacksonville State 2-1. In the finals, the Penguins defeated the No. 2  seed 2-0 to advance to the national championship against Jacksonville  State.

Looking for revenge, the Penguins came out of the gate swinging,  winning the first two games by the scores of 204-199 and 248-210. The  Penguins threw five strikes in the final four frames to win the first  match and threw a strike on each of their final eight rolls in the  second game. After Jacksonville State won game 3, the Penguins won game  4, taking a 3-1 lead and one win away from the glory. Games 5 and 6  were won by Jacksonville State to even the series 3-3. In game 7, the  Penguins started strongly. Strikes and spares were the theme for the  Penguins, showing the consistency that led them to the national  championship game. With every strike and spare, the crowd roared,  bringing the team one step closer to immortality. After back-to-back  strikes to end the game, the team embraced, realizing their dreams and  all their hard work had come to fruition. The Penguins forever etched  themselves into history as champions.

I ask my colleagues in the United States House of Representatives to  join me in congratulating the Youngstown State women's bowling team's  players, coaches, staff, families, and friends as we celebrate this  historic victory and national championship. Go Penguins.