National Coal Council Reestablishment Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695766/national-coal-council-reestablishment-act


Mr. RULLI. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chair Latta for his leadership, and I  rise in support of H.R. 3015, the National Coal Council Reestablishment  Act.

Mr. Speaker, for decades, the National Coal Council was a powerful  voice for coal and a timeless champion for American workers and  American communities. Coal fueled the factories, powered our homes, and  helped build the greatest economy this world has ever known. It is  ridiculous to neglect this.

I feel today is a Paul Revere moment, where we are calling to  everyone to realize that the meltdown is coming. What I mean by that is  the grid is going to melt down. Simply, all one has to do is go back in  time three Christmases ago, when the American grid pretty much was  hours away from melting down.

Mr. Speaker, look at California and Texas. Look at the meltdowns that  have happened there. The grid is not stable.

The grid needs to be redone, and every coal plant that I toured in  Ohio said three Christmases ago, the call was: We need more generated  power, and we need it right now, and there was no more to give.

All we have to do is look at is the opposition party wants to  celebrate the European Union, and what does the European Union do?

They look for power from countries like Russia, like China, and like  India to use their coal-powered, generated plants to support their  grid. However, in America, we cannot wait to put coal factories out of  business. Just like in my district, with the Sammis factory, Joe Biden  couldn't wait to celebrate putting 800 jobs in the garbage and putting  our grid at jeopardy.

Paul Revere would be turning in his grave if he saw the jeopardy that  these people are putting our country through by putting the grid up  against the wall.

We have to take into consideration what could come in the future. I  do want to take a moment, and I want to thank President Trump and his  executive order that he knows that this bipartisan committee for coal  was established over the last 30 years, and it was a bipartisan  approach to make sure that national security, which is our grid,  because if our grid melts down, there is no security.

Particular to my district, I have seven or eight investors who, right  now, want to invest in new coal. They  want to make sure that the artificial intelligence companies and the  data mining companies come to Ohio. However, if there is no energy,  then nobody is coming to Ohio.

Today, more than ever, let's worry about national security, let's  worry that we can keep these lights on, and let's worry that this grid  is protected for our grandchildren who are not even born yet, so when  they say that this is a meaningless bill, it couldn't be further from  the truth.

This is the bill for national security. This is the bill that  President Trump signed into executive order. Today is the day that we  codify this into law.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues today to have a ``yes'' vote.