Saving Homeowners From Overregulation with Exceptional Rinsing Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698567/saving-homeowners-from-overregulation-with-exceptional-rinsing-act


Mr. RULLI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of Congressman Fry's  SHOWER Act.

I am not going to pull a Nancy Pelosi, Mr. Speaker. I am not going to  rip up the speech that I had written, but I am not going to give that  speech.

I have to talk about the opposition party, and I have to talk about  their complete lack of interaction with the blue-collar Joe Bag of  Donuts, which is Youngstown and Akron and Canton and Cleveland and  Pittsburgh. These are working people that they have forgotten.

They bring up electricity, sir, but they do not allow us to address  power plants. They shut down coal plants. They put regulations on gas- powered generated plants, but then they say there is an electricity  problem.

Let's talk about prices. In my district right now, eggs are $1.29. We  have chicken breast at 99 cents. In Trumbull County, we have gas at  $1.99. I have 45,000 jobs that I cannot fill.

We are on the ground. We are listening to the people. You guys are  promoting the Ford Lightning, which nobody who is a working person even  gives a crap about. They want to have Silverados and they want to have  their Mopar and they want to have gas-powered engines inside of those  cars, but yet they say they have it. All they work on is the narrative,  Mr. Speaker. That is what they do.

I will tell you how I came to Congressman Fry's bill and how I got  interested in it. We were replacing a showerhead at my mom's house, and  I said to my plumber, Marty: What is going on with these showerheads?  He said: You tell me. The people in Washington messed this up. Nobody  can have a darn good shower in the last 10 years.

Why does that matter? What did they say? They say we are worried  about showerheads. We are worried about the working man. We are worried  about the standard of living that they have taken away from them. They  have taxed them to death. They play this game with healthcare. They  created ObamaCare. They never had a solution. It was never a permanent  fix.

Mr. Speaker, the Democrats kicked it down the road, and then they  said to just extend it without even dealing with it. What my Democrat  colleagues are doing to the American people is wrong.

When a person goes on vacation, they go to a motel and take a shower.  It is the worst shower they have ever had. It is cold. It is dripping  out there. The working man cannot even enjoy his daily life. That is  what they have missed.

We want to talk about how grand their philosophy is. When we look at  the mayor of New York City, he wants to have government-owned grocery  stores. People will be able to choose about 400 or 500 items instead of  the 30,000 or 40,000 items they could choose today, all in  consideration of the blue-collar Joe Bag of Doughnuts, the forgotten  worker.

This is why Donald Trump was elected. We care about the forgotten  worker. We are going to fix healthcare. We are going to fix  affordability. Gas prices are already coming down. Grocery prices are  coming down. Wait until that tax cut hits in 2026.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of H.R. 4593 and so should you.