Communications Security Act


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1717, the  Communications Security Act.

One of the many vital functions that the Federal Communications  Commission serves is ensuring that our Nation's communications systems  are prepared to deal with cybersecurity threats and natural disasters.

We know that threats to critical infrastructure that put our  communities in harm's way are on the rise, and we need expert  collaboration at the FCC to ensure that our communications networks  remain reliable when we need them the most.

Countless tragic and heartbreaking incidents have highlighted the  urgent need to bolster these networks, from the recent flooding in  Texas, to Hurricane Helene last year, to Superstorm Sandy that  devastated my home State of New Jersey in 2012.

In these moments, our ability to communicate with one another and  with emergency responders is vital. That is why the FCC should have a  permanent advisory council that can provide recommendations regarding  both the rapid restoration of communications services in the event of  widespread or major network disruptions and the steps communications  providers can take to help secure these networks and everyone who  relies on them.

My bill would codify the Communications Security, Reliability, and  Interoperability Council, or CSRIC, which focuses on improving next- generation 911, emergency preparedness, network security, resiliency,  and interoperability.

Time and again, CSRIC has improved the reliability, availability, and  performance of our communications networks during natural disasters,  terrorist attacks, and cybersecurity attacks. It is common sense that  we should make this council permanent.

The bill specifies that CSRIC must include representatives from a  wide range of stakeholders from the communications industry, academia,  the public-interest sector, and State, local, and Tribal Governments,  ensuring that everyone is at the table to help keep our communities  safe and secure.

In a time when oversight is key, this bill would require biennial  reporting to the FCC, Congress, and the public, with recommendations on  future improvements and updates to keep all of us and the American  public informed.

I thank my colleague and good friend from the great State of New  Jersey, Ranking Member Pallone, for helping move this bill forward. I  also thank my colleague from Pennsylvania (Mr. Joyce) for joining me in  this bipartisan effort.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote in favor of the  bill.