Protecting Sensitive Data for Millions of Americans


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to sound the alarm that  sensitive data for millions of Americans is at risk. Many of us have  heard of the scams, data breaches, and hacks that have plagued  businesses and individuals for years.

Unfortunately, the newest threat to our personal data comes from  within the Federal Government. Over the past 3 months, Elon Musk's DOGE  employees embedded themselves in dozens of Federal departments and  agencies without any guardrails or protections put in place by our  colleagues on the other side of the aisle.

We know this data is extremely valuable to bad actors and foreign  adversaries. In fact, after DOGE infiltrated the National Labor  Relations Board, suspicious attempts were made to access the data from  an IP address in Russia.

Congress should be working to fulfill our obligations to the American  people and safeguard their data. Instead, my colleagues across the  aisle have seemingly left the door open for DOGE and anyone else to  potentially access and misuse their constituents' personal information.

It is not just the recklessness that should concern everyone across  the country. It is the fact that the data being held by the government  is being weaponized by the Trump administration.

The IRS recently entered into an agreement with ICE to share  information about immigrants. The same is true of data on affording  housing recipients. If we allow them to use this data now, then what  will stop them from using information from other agencies in the future  against other groups of Americans?

Mr. Speaker, at a recent Energy and Commerce Committee hearing, we  heard from experts in this field who were invited there by my  Republican colleagues that as we seek to harness the growth of AI, we  must put guardrails in place to protect all Americans' sensitive  information, which we know is a target-rich environment for foreign  adversaries.

My colleagues don't have to take my word for it. Just listen to the  testimony of the people whom Republicans invited here to testify.  Malicious actors do not care what someone's political party is or where  they live before they steal our data. Our response to this threat  should be bipartisan.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to stand alongside House  Democrats in calling upon the Trump administration, the Office of  Management and Budget, and DOGE to clarify  what actions they are taking to safeguard the most sensitive taxpayer  data that exists on our Federal systems. If they don't act, then we  should here in Congress.