Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act


Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I worked hard in school, but the grade I am  proudest of is to be the first Member of this House to get an ``F''  from the crypto industry.

Article I, Section 8, of the U.S. Constitution says that it is the  Federal Government and Congress who should coin money and determine the  value thereof. However, our Republican friends tell us that that means  that the Federal Government should be stuck with 1776 technology while  the competitors of the dollar race forward in the 21st century.

The largest super-PAC expenditures in history occurred last year. The  crypto industry spent more on independent expenditures--look at this.  If you combine all of the expenditures from Big Oil plus Big Pharma,  put them together, and multiply by five, you still don't have what the  crypto industry did last year.

It is not surprising that we hear words like ``freedom,''  ``innovation,'' ``choice,'' and ``competitiveness'' used to justify  making money for the crypto bros, and now we have a bill designed to  prevent freedom, innovation, choice, and competitiveness when it poses  a risk to their profits.

This bill not only prevents us from ever having a digital dollar; it  prevents us from even studying a digital dollar.

Now, I think Americans will always have banks, credit cards, debit  cards, Zelle, Venmo, cash, money market funds, and pursuant to the bill  that it looks like we are going to pass today, they will have  stablecoin, a privacy device specifically designed for criminals and  tax evaders. Then they will have mixers to make it impossible for even  the most advanced law enforcement, even with a warrant, to find out  what is happening.

They have all of those choices.

What is the one choice you are not allowed to have?

You are not allowed to have the currency provided for in the U.S.  Constitution. You are not allowed to have a digital dollar or even a  study of a digital dollar. If you don't want to carry a lot of paper  around, you can't have the full faith and credit of the United States.

Now, we have talked about the role of the U.S. dollar, the critical  role that it plays in international transactions, and why that is a  major economic benefit to the United States.

The crypto bros occasionally tell you out loud what they are  thinking. That  is they want to minimize and destroy the role of the U.S. dollar  internationally. What do they do to hobble the dollar? They say the  Chinese Communist Party can have a digital yuan, the bitcoin bros can  have a digital currency, but America is limited to 1776 technology.

Our banking system is the envy of the world because we innovate. This  bill says no innovation.

Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, you might think it is hypocritical that  they tell us that we have to have crypto because, otherwise, China will  do it. Then they say: We can't have a digital dollar because China is  doing it.

That is not inconsistent. They are consistent. Their consistent rule  is that you must do what makes profit for the crypto bros, including  Donald Trump, and you must prevent them from facing any competition,  even the competition called for by the U.S. Constitution.

Today's bills in whole, all three of them, will create a payment  system designed for tax evaders and criminals. It will provide for  taxpayer bailouts, and it will allow the crypto industry to say that we  have all this power in Congress. Crypto bailouts are not only allowed,  but they are guaranteed.

It will provide an avenue for foreign interests to provide hidden  money--``cryptocurrency'' literally means hidden money--into Trump's  personal pocket, and it is designed to allow taxpayer money to be used  to buy bitcoin and Trump coin.

Finally, it takes our freedom. It says that you can have freedom to  have a digital currency only if you do it in a way that it enriches the  crypto bros. There would be no choice for Americans who want a digital  dollar.