Expanding Access to Capital for Rural Job Creators Act


Mr. Speaker, up until now, on each of these bills, I have been  speaking fast, but I know that Mr. Rose and Ms. Waters are planning to  get here in just the next few minutes to speak on the next two bills.  Since they are not here yet, it does the House no harm for me to speak  more slowly and perhaps at greater length.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1190, the Expanding Access to  Capital for Rural Job Creators Act, sponsored by my colleague, the  gentleman from Montana (Mr. Downing).

I will point out that I am uniquely unqualified to address this bill  since my entire district is in an urban area, that of the great city of  Los Angeles. Yet, even I recognize the importance of getting capital to  our small businesses in rural areas.

I strongly support this legislation, which would require the SEC's  Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation to report  on capital access issues faced by small, rural businesses.

Currently, the SEC small business advocate reports on small  businesses that are minority owned or women owned or in disaster- stricken areas. Yet, at present, the law does not report on businesses  in rural areas. The bill simply adds rural businesses to the list  covered by the entities of the small business advocate and the entities  that the small business advocate will report on.

Small businesses, no matter where they are located or who they are  owned by, are the backbone of the American economy. Helping small  businesses should be about as nonpartisan as we can get here in  Congress. Lawmakers and regulators should be doing everything they can  to support them.

Those businesses located in rural areas face unique challenges. We  have had other speakers on other bills talk about how so many of our  financial institutions and business investors are focused on the East  Coast or the West Coast or in New York, Silicon Valley, or some of the  other large cities in our country.

It is important, therefore, that the small business advocate also  reports on the needs of rural small businesses that are seeking to  raise capital. Lawmakers and regulators should be focused on those  businesses.

This is common sense, and I hope my colleagues will support it.

I commend the gentleman from Montana for bringing this bill to the  floor, and I look forward to continuing to discuss this bill.

Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. Speaker, it is my understanding that the House has no further  legislative business after we consider the bills that are before us  today. The authors of the last two bills up for consideration are on  their way, so should I speak slowly, or should we go into recess?  Either way, we are not delaying the House.

Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to support H.R. 1190, the Expanding  Access to Capital for Rural Job Creators Act. It is a simple but  important step to directing the SEC's small business advocate to  include small, rural businesses in their reporting.

As I have noted before, the small business advocate currently reports  on the challenges faced by minority-owned, women-owned, and disaster- affected small businesses. This would add rural small businesses to the  list.

This is a gap we need to fix. Small businesses in rural communities  face unique hurdles in accessing capital, and they deserve the same  attention as the other types of businesses that the advocate focuses  on.

No matter where they are located and no matter who owns them, small  businesses are the backbone of our economy. They should be and are a  bipartisan priority, and this bill is a step in the right direction.

With the understanding that we will be able to deal with the other  bills that are scheduled to come before us even after a short recess, I  urge a ``yes'' vote on H.R. 1190, and I yield back the balance of my  time.