Miracle on Ice Congressional Gold Medal Act


Mr. SHERMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I join in applauding the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr.  Stauber). I thank the gentleman from Minnesota, and I rise in support  of his bill. I can't possibly do justice to the passion and the  eloquence that the gentleman brought to this floor just a minute ago.

Madam Speaker, we vote today to honor the young men who reinspired a  country at the height of the Cold War. The legislation awards three  Congressional Gold Medals, as the gentleman from Minnesota outlined.  They are going to three different locations. This is the highest  civilian award, and it makes that award to the members of the 1980 U.S.  Olympic men's ice hockey team, whose victory marked a pivotal moment in  American sports history.

On February 13, 1980, the U.S. hockey team historically defeated the  Soviet Union 4-3 at the Lake Placid Winter Games. Prior to their  victory, the talented, yet untested U.S. team was deemed an underdog.  Many of them were college players. They were, on average, 22 years old.  They had played together only a few months.

Leading up to the game, the U.S. players took part in a 7-month  training program designed to confront a Soviet team that many  considered to be the best conditioned hockey team in the world.  However, through steadfast commitment, grit, hope, and determination,  the U.S. team emerged victorious and established a much-needed sense of  national pride across this country.

Even decades later, I hope that these themes can continue to inspire  us to confront the difficult challenges that we face as a nation today.  The events of the ``Miracle On Ice'' serve as a critical reminder of  the importance of rising to meet the challenges of our time through  steadfast commitment and grit.

Madam Speaker, I applaud Mr. Stauber, who spoke with such passion and  such knowledge, and the other sponsors of this bill. I urge my  colleagues to support this measure, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. SHERMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, this legislation awards three Congressional Gold  Medals to members of the 1980 U.S. Olympic men's hockey team, whose  hard work and commitment inspired a country at the height of the Cold  War. I hope that, in recognizing this victory, their legacy will  continue to inspire us and to unify a country that faces significant  divisions.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.