Problems Caused By Doge Cuts


Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, he got his start on a TV show called, ``The  Apprentice.'' We saw how entertaining it can be to fire people, but  that is entertainment. That is not how you run an organization.

We have seen a performative effort to try to convince us that they  are saving money. They are doing this in order to justify their plan  for a $3.5 trillion tax cut for hedge fund managers, multinational  corporations and billionaires, but they are really not saving anything.

Then, yesterday, we passed a budget resolution, and all my Republican  colleagues are on Twitter, X, whatever they want to call it, saying  that that resolution contains statutory language to say no tax on tips,  no tax on overtime, no tax on Social Security.

Well, what did Elon Musk have to say about that or what did his  organization have to say?

They organized the readers content comments to correct falsehoods  that people put in their tweets, and every single time a Republican  went up and said that that resolution had eliminated taxes on tips,  overtime, and Social Security, the Musk organization said: Readers  added context. None of the policies mentioned in this post were  included in the House budget resolution. It does nothing to exempt  tips, Social Security, or overtime. We know they are not ultimately  going to do that because they need the $4.5 trillion to provide tax  breaks for hedge fund managers, multinational corporations, and  billionaires.

Now, government is frustrating. It frustrates me often. It needs to  be improved. You know what is also frustrating sometimes? My computer  is on the blink a little bit, and I just want to take a hammer and hit  it up the side. That makes me feel good, but it doesn't actually make  the device work any better.

There are several techniques being used by the Federal Government  that may make us feel good but don't make it work any better. You see,  you can fire people--and they are firing just about everybody in the  government with less than 2 years of government service, the  probationary employees. That destroys our future. The people hired in  2024 are those that we are going to need in 2034.

The Dodgers are a pretty well-run organization. I think better run  than government. Imagine if the Dodgers were going to fire all the  players who had joined in the last 2 years, just eliminate everybody in  single A and double A ball, I would say they would be worse than the  White Sox. You can fire people.

You can also do the buyouts. They offered everybody in government a  buyout. Who took the buyout? The people who could easily get another  job elsewhere because they have very high capacity and the people who  are going to retire in the next year or two anyway, so why not get 8  months free vacation.

Then they have the hiring freeze. Imagine if the Dodgers stopped  signing new talent, where would they be in the 2030s?

You can also stop all research, and I will get to an example of that,  and then you argue, well, hey--in 2026, they can say: Hey, we saved all  this money, and the research wouldn't have benefited you by 2026.  However, who is going to be dying from cancer and other diseases in the  2030s because of the research they are stopping now?

Then they can do an oopsy-daisy and say: Oh, we stopped the research,  and we started it again. No, no, no, no, you stopped the research. All  those little white rats are dead. You can't start again. You have to  start the research over.

You can stop maintenance, and I will get to an example of that. It  saves you money unless you actually want things to work well.

Again and again, we are told that there is just a government  mulligan, let's just do it over.

Oopsy-daisy is not the way to run a multitrillion-dollar  organization.

We are told that there is $50 million for condoms and $100 million  for condoms in Gaza, and then they said, never mind, we got it wrong.  We made a mistake. Oopsy-daisy.

They decided to offer all of the air traffic controllers 8 months  free pay for quitting, and then they say, oopsy-daisy. Then today Elon  Musk tweets: There is a shortage of top-notch air traffic controllers.  If you have retired but are open to returning to work, please consider  doing so. He just gave them 8 months' pay to stay home. Now he hopes  they are going to come back. No, the fishing is good, the 8 months' pay  is guaranteed.

However, it is even worse. You see, not only did they give buyouts to  the air traffic controllers, but they have fired the navigational aid  maintenance personnel. Those air traffic controllers are going to be  looking at empty screens, and those folks remain fired. What could go  wrong?

They also stopped our efforts against Ebola. Some of the charities  were barely getting by. They have gone bankrupt. They pulled their  people out of Africa. Then he says: Oopsy-daisy, we are going to start  that again.

What a way to run a government. There are people who are going to get  Ebola as a result of this oopsy-daisy mistake, and that is another  opportunity for Ebola inside a human being to mutate a little bit and  then be a more pathogenic Ebola when it comes here.

Finally, they fired 300 people who were in charge of security of our  nuclear weapons. Oopsy-daisy, what could have gone wrong? Keep in mind,  if somebody is fired and then hired back or told they are going to be  fired but then not fired--if you say, oh, no harm, no foul, oopsy- daisy--once that happens to a person, their resume is on LinkedIn. They  are looking for a new job.

Nobody wants to stay with an employer, if they have other  opportunities, if that employer is teasing them about firing them or,  worse yet, actually fired them and got them back. Some of our best  people will be leaving in the weeks to come, even if they hire them  back.

There is real waste, fraud, and abuse in government. This is an  example. Mr. Speaker, $200 million of our taxpayer money is being spent  on advertisements praising Donald Trump. How do they justify this? They  aim these at their own base, to tell their own base: Hey, Donald Trump  is great. Here is a commercial to tell us that.

They claim that these ads are aimed at undocumented immigrants and  that somehow, by watching a 30-second ad, the immigrants are going to  say: Oopsy-daisy, I made a mistake. Venezuela really is better than  California.

I don't think so. There is nothing that can be put in a 30-second ad  that is going to cause somebody who is here to decide they want to be  back there. These are people who walked here from Venezuela. They went  through the Darien Gap. They dealt with the forest. They dealt with the  snakes. They dealt with the predators. They dealt with the drug  dealers.

They came into our country at great personal risk. They are going to  see a 30-second ad praising Donald Trump and decide to walk back or  even fly back? What a stupid excuse that is for the obvious election  interference of spending $200 million of taxpayer money on ads praising  Donald Trump.

Let's look at what is happening at the VA. They fired 2,000 people  there. They are still hiring, but they have fired 2,000 people there.  They have a nursing shortage in this country. The nurses they have  fired are going to find jobs elsewhere very quickly, and they are not  going to get them back.

The VA has stopped its clinical trials on cancer. Even people who are  not veterans may be dying next decade because of the research that is  not being done this decade. They are canceling operations. They are  increasing the wait times at the VA. They have fired the suicide crisis  line counselors.

There is veterans' blood on the hands of a man who never served his  country. That is right. Elon Musk never served in the South African  Army.

My district includes the Pacific Palisades. I thank so many of my  colleagues for their expressions of sympathy. I have had a chance to  work, as I always do, with my constituents dealing with government. It  is sometimes frustrating. There are short deadlines imposed on people  who have fled their homes and form letters that are confusing as hell  and make people think they are not eligible.

How do we make it all worse? Fly to my district, as the President  did, and announce the elimination of FEMA entirely, while I have FEMA  workers working 12 hours a day with my constituents, trying to solve  problems. Offer the FEMA workers, including the temporary workers, a  buyout. In any disaster we go in, we have to hire temporary workers.  They may only have a 3-month or 4-month job, but they are offered 8  months of pay to stay home. What a way to deal with a disaster.

Then the President says he wants to impose conditions on the aid.  They want to abolish the California Coastal Commission which takes  steps to prevent billionaires with beachfront property to not wall off  the beach and prevent anybody else from getting in the sand. I can see  why Donald Trump would identify with those billionaires. That is the  condition he wants to impose?

I voted for aid for hurricane victims in Louisiana, and it never  occurred to me to turn to a victim after a hurricane in Louisiana and  tell them to stay on their cousin's couch and no Federal aid until  their State changes its abortion laws.

Now is not the time to take hostage fire victims or hurricane victims  in an effort to try to force a State government to take an action that  this or that Member of Congress or this or that President wants them to  take.

I want to assure the country we are going to build back better. We  are going to make sure that the Palisades does not burn again. We have  a very strict fire building code that is applicable to all new  construction in the Palisades and other fire-prone areas.

Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, my party has put confidence in me and made  me the chief Democrat dealing with the Subcommittee on Capital Markets.  Our SEC oversees our capital markets which are the nerve center of  global capitalism. Virtually all the most powerful companies in America  and really the world focus on one goal, and that is to increase the  value of their companies' stock on our capital markets.

Our capital markets are the envy of the world. The securities traded  there are worth over $100 trillion. It is fragile. It is delicate. It  is the nerve center of global capitalism. Why don't we just let big  balls take a whack at it? What could go wrong?

Whether it is crime in the streets or crime in the suites, we should  not defund the police. We don't defund the men and women in blue, and  we don't defund the Securities and Exchange Commission that oversees  the stock and bond markets.

The SEC has a budget of $2 billion. It secured over $3.2 billion in  fines, in effect, to those on Wall Street that did the wrong thing. It  more than paid for itself and--no, that was $3.2 billion that went back  to investors, $8.2 billion in fines. The Federal Government made four  times its money on the SEC.

There are those at DOGE that want to, in effect, abolish the SEC and  get the same kind of securities regulation on Wall Street that they  have in Botswana or Kazakhstan--that is to say, no regulations at all-- and see what happens.

Two years from now we will have to see. Did the SEC under the Trump  administration secure $8.2 billion paid to the Federal Government or  $3.2 billion returned to investors? If not, it will not be because  there is no crime in the suites, that there is no crooks on Wall  Street. It will not be because the wolves of Wall Street have become  lambs. It will be because they defunded the police of Wall Street.                         Our Relationship with China

Mr. Speaker, a lot of attention is being spent here in Congress on  China. With 28 years of experience on the Foreign Affairs Committee, I  would like to address that issue. The big part of the problem started  when this Congress voted to give most favored nation status to China.  That was at the beginning of this century. We were told it would only  increase our trade deficit by a billion dollars a year. That prediction  was off by 4,000 percent.

The vast majority of Democrats voted ``no'' on that bill, which was  the action which made China a worldwide economic superpower. It got  China into the international trading organizations and opened up access  to our markets. We voted ``no'' when a Democratic President was  twisting our arms to vote ``yes.'' It was our proudest moment. I hope  my Republican colleagues will have a proud moment when they stand up to  a President of their own party.

Unfortunately, Republican votes and a few Democratic votes passed  that. We now have our markets wide open to China. Their markets aren't  particularly open to us, and we have huge trade deficits. Those trade  deficits with China were $150 billion higher under the Trump  administration than they were under the Biden administration. They were  particularly high in the partial Trump administration before COVID. It  wasn't a COVID thing. Trump's policy is to yell loudly and accomplish  nothing when it comes to dealing with our trade deficits with China.

Trump talks about other countries eating our lunch. Under his first  administration, China ate our lunch, our dinner, our dessert, and our  snacks. Americans are investing in Chinese stocks, and the question I  would ask at hearing after hearing is: Can anybody give me a reason why  we should use our tax system and lose our tax dollars to incentivize  Americans buying Chinese stocks? And not a single member can give a  reason. Not a single witness can give a reason why we should do that.

We forgo hundreds of millions or billions of dollars in taxes on the  gains people earn on investing in Chinese stocks. We encourage them to  invest in the Chinese economy with our tax dollars. Only one Republican  has stepped forward and cosponsored my legislation to eliminate the  capital gains allowance, the tax incentive for investing in Chinese  stocks.

Why is that? The billionaire class wants subsidies for every  investment they make, even when they are building the Chinese economy  or the Russian economy or the Iranian economy. It is time to stand up  to the billionaire class. China cannot be confronted if people are not  willing to do so.

We also need to take steps so that Chinese stocks are not included in  index funds and so that every company that reports to the SEC informs  its shareholders of what risk they have due to their dependence on  China and what they are doing about it so that every private company is  derisking from China and doing everything they can. Then, God forbid,  if China wants to end the trade relationship or, God forbid, China  invades Taiwan, these companies have minimized the risk that our  economy faces.

One area where we need to be particularly strong is in those islands  in the Pacific between the United States and China. My father fought in  the Pacific. He landed the boats on island shores. We need to maintain  our influence in places like the Solomon Islands  and the Cook Islands. Solomon Islands are a place where thousands and  thousands of American Marines died and many in the Navy, as well.

What have we done? We have eliminated our aid program. These  countries are very small. These islands are small. The aid programs are  small. Yet, they have a tremendous impact on influence in these  strategic islands. We eliminated $21 million for the Solomon Islands.  We eliminated $95,000 for the Cook Islands.

Is this how we confront China, or is this how we have performative  savings?

Now, we need to confront China. One way we also need to confront  China is in international lending and the credit rating agencies, the  bond rating agencies that rate the creditworthiness of countries. We  need to tell those who rate the other countries' creditworthiness that  if they don't repay a phony debt to China, a debt trap debt to China,  that should not be counted against them.

What do I mean? When China makes a loan to Sri Lanka, that they know  Sri Lanka is not going to be able to pay for that project. They put in  there: Oh, if you don't pay, we get to control your port. Sri Lanka  should be encouraged: Don't give your port to China. Give your middle  finger to China, and you will able to borrow from American banks and  European banks and international lending associations.

We should never allow a credit rating agency under our control to  ding a country that is subject to this kind of blackmail from China.                         Foreign Aid is a Good Thing