Recognizing September As Childhood Cancer Awareness Month


Mrs. TRAHAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of September as  Childhood Cancer Awareness Month and to highlight two bipartisan bills,  the Give Kids a Chance Act and the BRAIN Act, that will help save  lives. Cancer is a disease which affects nearly every household and  community around the country, and nowhere is it more heartbreaking than  when it affects our children.

This month marks an opportunity to raise awareness for childhood  cancer and support research for new treatment and therapy avenues. Just  this year alone, nearly 10,000 children will be diagnosed with  pediatric cancer. This is an issue that could not be more important and  pressing.

The Give Kids a Chance Act removes many of the hurdles and barriers  to researching treatments for rare pediatric diseases. It restores FDA  incentives through the Rare Pediatric Disease Priority Review Voucher  Program, encouraging companies to develop drugs for rare childhood  diseases. The PRV program has already helped develop new treatments for  200,000 patients spanning nearly 50 rare diseases. Muscular dystrophy,  sickle cell, and tropical diseases have all seen medical breakthroughs  during this program.

Give Kids a Chance will also reauthorize the FDA to take action  against drug sponsors that fail to comply with pediatric study  requirements. Thus, ensuring that patients get the latest and best  treatments that they require. As Dr. Benjamin Ebert, President of Dana- Faber, said, ``sustained federal investment is needed to ensure that  every child has the opportunity for a life free from disease.'' This  bill would cement that investment and sustain our leadership in  biotechnology, while costing the taxpayer nothing.

Similarly, the BRAIN Act is another common-sense, bipartisan piece of  legislation that  will advance pediatric care. Recently, brain cancer has passed leukemia  as the leading cause of cancer-related deaths of pediatric patients.  While the number of cases is growing, survival rates have remained  stagnant for 45 years. This needs to change.

The BRAIN Act will increase awareness for clinical trials, invest  funding into glioblastoma therapeutics and cellular immunotherapy  research, and authorize the FDA to ensure brain tumor patient access to  clinical trials. Many aggressive pediatric cases have a survival rate  of less than the average school year. We have the responsibility and  opportunity to try and change that. Echoing what David Arons, of the  National Brain Tumor Society, stated, ``now is the time to build on  government support for research and access to care for cancer  patients.''

During this Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, I urge my colleagues to  support these two bipartisan bills and give pediatric patients, across  the country, a better chance to fight and survive.