Congratulating Salem High School


Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the extraordinary  accomplishments of the Salem High School debate team, which recently  claimed its second consecutive VHSL Class 4 State championship with a  decisive 32-8 victory over Dominion High School. This victory marks the  20th State title for legendary Head Coach Mark Ingerson, 18 in speech  and forensics and now 2 in debate.

Salem's dominance was on full display as the team captured individual  State championships in three of four events. Senior captain Claire  Rawlins led the way with a perfect 6-0 record in Lincoln-Douglas  debate, tackling the timely question of artificial general  intelligence. With four career State titles and a remarkable 29-3  record, Claire's leadership is unmatched.

In public forum, seniors U.V. Singh and Grayson Smith went  undefeated, while sophomore Dylan Hancock earned Salem's first-ever  congressional debate title with near-perfect speaker scores. Several  other Spartans, including medalists Rebekah Steinweg, Luke Stovall,  Kody Hinnant, and Abby Jones also delivered outstanding performances.

Also competing for Salem were Charlie Bain, 12th grade, and Nesa  Garcia-Perez, 10th grade, in congressional debate, and Leah Johnson,  10th grade, and Ashley Toapanta, 10th grade, in policy debate. Students  London Basham, Harper Rocovich, and Caroline Loveday also competed  admirably at the regional and State semifinal levels.

Special thanks go to Assistant Coach Rachel Wurster for her guidance  and commitment to these students.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to honor the Salem High School debate team  for their achievements, integrity, and the example they set for  academic excellence in Virginia and beyond.            Congratulating the Skyline High School Wrestling Team

Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and congratulate  the Skyline High School wrestling team on winning the 2025 Class 3  State wrestling championship, the first State title in the school's  history.

Under the leadership of Head Coach Kyle Symons and Assistant Coaches  Joe DiVello, Brian Scott, Alan Kroh, Jon DiVello, and Josiah Huston,  Skyline's 13 wrestlers delivered a historic performance, scoring 218  points and sending six athletes to the finals.

Congratulations to individual State champions Paden Alyea, Parker  Withers, and Josiah Sykes. In addition to the State champions,  medalists also included Jacob Buffum, Vinny DiVello, Joey DiVello, D.J.  Mabie, Cody Salomon, and Carter Huston, with strong performances from  Cody Davis, Aiden Boyles, Ryan Williams, and Tytus Drake.

Skyline defeated two-time defending champion Staunton River by 39.5  points, a testament to their talent, teamwork, and resilience.

Thanks to Coach Symons, his staff, and the incredible Front Royal  community, Skyline has made history. I am proud to honor their  achievements today.

Congratulating the Spotswood High School Boys' Basketball Team

Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the incredibly special  achievement of the Spotswood High School Boys' basketball team, which  captured the State championship title for the first time in 32 years.

This remarkable victory is a testament to their talent, hard work,  and perseverance. Under the leadership of Coach Edwards, rightfully  named VHSL Class 3A Coach of the Year, these young men came mentally  prepared and demonstrated the power of teamwork and determination to  bring home the school's second State trophy.

Their success has united our community in pride and celebration. We  congratulate the following team players: Cam Pacheco, senior guard  named Player of the Year; Tyler Sprague, named first-team Class 3A all- State; Landon Davis; Rylan Baker; Reese Fisher; Will Parlee; Tsenat  Tesfay; Cayden Price; Camden Langridge; Colin Regan; and Brennyn  Stobbs.

We congratulate the Spotswood Trailblazers on this historic win. They  have made Spottswood proud. We can't wait to see what they accomplish  in the future.                        Honoring National Police Week

Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today during National Police Week to  recognize the brave men and women in law enforcement who serve our  communities, our Commonwealth, and our Nation with honor and courage.

These officers are our friends and neighbors, men and women who wake  up each day, put on the badge, and willingly face danger to keep others  safe.

Earlier this week, in Bridgewater, I joined members of local law  enforcement and Commonwealth's Attorney Marsha Garst to honor those who  lost their lives in the line of duty. Since 1776, nearly 27,000  officers have made the ultimate sacrifice, including 165 last year and  25 so far this year. Their service and their sacrifice must never be  forgotten.

Mr. Speaker, the men and women of law enforcement represent the very  best of our communities. We are safer because of their commitment, and  we are grateful for their service. To every officer who serves, we  thank them, support them, and will continue to stand with them.                   Celebrating National Small Business Week

Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, last week was National Small Business Week, a  time to celebrate the millions of small businesses that form the  foundation of our economy and our communities. These men and women  aren't just entrepreneurs. They are job creators, innovators, and the  embodiment of the American Dream.

House Republicans and President Trump are fighting to make sure they  have the tools they need to thrive. That starts with making the 2017  Tax Cuts and Jobs Act permanent. Those tax cuts are critical for small  businesses, with over 26 million relying on the 20 percent deduction to  grow, invest, and hire.

I hope we keep working to ensure small businesses can continue  driving American innovation and prosperity.