President Washington's Farewell Address


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700270/president-washingtons-farewell-address


Mr. CLINE. ``To the efficacy and permanency of your Union, a  government for the whole is indispensable. No alliances, however  strict, between the parts can be an adequate substitute. They must  inevitably experience the infractions and interruptions which all  alliances in all times have experienced. Sensible of this momentous  truth, you have improved upon your first essay by the adoption of a  Constitution of government better calculated than your former for an  intimate Union and for the efficacious management of your common  concerns. This government, the offspring of our own choice uninfluenced  and unawed, adopted upon full investigation and mature deliberation,  completely free in its principles, in the distribution of its powers,  uniting security with energy, and containing within itself a provision  for its own amendment, has a just claim to your confidence and your  support. Respect for its authority, compliance with its laws,  acquiescence in its measures, are duties enjoined by the fundamental  maxims of true liberty. The basis of our political systems is the right  of the people to make and to alter their constitutions of government.  But the Constitution which at any time exists, until changed by an  explicit and authentic act of the whole people, is sacredly obligatory  upon all. The very idea of the power and the right of the people to  establish government presupposes the duty of every individual to obey  the established government.

``All obstructions to the execution of the laws, all combinations and  associations under whatever plausible character, with the real design  to direct, control, counteract, or awe the regular deliberation and  action of the constituted authorities, are destructive of this  fundamental principle and of fatal tendency. They serve to organize  faction, to give it an artificial and extraordinary force--to put in  the place of the delegated will of the nation the will of a party;  often a small but artful and enterprising minority of the community;  and, according to the alternate triumphs of different parties, to make  the public administration the mirror of the ill concerted and  incongruous projects of faction, rather than the organ of consistent  and wholesome plans digested by common councils and modified by mutual  interests. However combinations or associations of the above  description may now and then answer popular ends, they are likely, in  the course of time and things, to become potent engines by which  cunning, ambitious, and unprincipled men will be enabled to subvert the  power of the people and to usurp for themselves the reins of  government, destroying afterwards the very engines which have lifted  them to unjust dominion.

``Towards the preservation of your government and the permanency of  your present happy state, it is requisite, not only that you steadily  discountenance irregular oppositions to its acknowledged authority, but  also that you resist with care the spirit of innovation upon its  principles, however specious the pretexts. One method of assault may be  to effect in the forms of the Constitution alterations which will  impair the energy of the system and thus to undermine what cannot be  directly overthrown. In all the changes to which you may be invited,  remember that time and habit are at least as  necessary to fix the true character of governments as of other human  institutions; that experience is the surest standard by which to test  the real tendency of the existing constitution of a country; that  facility in changes, upon the credit of mere hypotheses and opinion,  exposes to perpetual change from the endless variety of hypotheses and  opinion; and remember, especially, that for the efficient management of  your common interests in a country so extensive as ours, a government  of as much vigor as is consistent with the perfect security of liberty  is indispensable. Liberty itself will find in such a government, with  powers properly distributed and adjusted, its surest guardian. It is  indeed little else than a name, where the government is too feeble to  withstand the enterprises of faction, to confine each member of the  society within the limits prescribed by the laws, and to maintain all  in the secure and tranquil enjoyment of the rights of person and  property.

``I have already intimated to you the danger of parties in the state,  with particular reference to the founding of them on geographical  discriminations. Let me now take a more comprehensive view and warn you  in the most solemn manner against the baneful effects of the spirit of  party, generally.''

Mr. CLINE. ``Our detached and distant situation invites and enables  us to pursue different course. If we remain one people under an  efficient government, the period is not far off when we may defy  material injury from external annoyance; when we may take such an  attitude as will cause the neutrality we may at any time resolve upon  to be scrupulously respected; when belligerent nations, under the  impossibility of making acquisitions upon us, will not lightly hazard  the giving us provocation; when we may choose peace or war, as our  interest, guided by justice, shall counsel.

``Why forgo the advantages of so peculiar a situation? Why quit our  own to stand upon foreign ground? Why, by interweaving our destiny with  that of any part of Europe, entangle our peace and prosperity in the  toils of European ambition, rivalship, interest, humor, or caprice?

``It is our true policy to steer clear of permanent alliances with  any portion of the foreign world--so far, I mean, as we are now at  liberty to do it--for let me not be understood as capable of  patronizing infidelity to existing engagements (I hold the maxim no  less applicable to public than to private affairs, that honesty is  always the best policy)--I repeat it therefore, let those engagements  be observed in their genuine sense. But in my opinion it is unnecessary  and would be unwise to extend them.

``Taking care always to keep ourselves, by suitable establishments,  on a respectably defensive posture, we may safely trust to temporary  alliances for extraordinary emergencies.

``Harmony, liberal intercourse with all nations, are recommended by  policy, humanity, and interest. But even our commercial policy should  hold an equal and impartial hand: neither seeking nor granting  exclusive favors or preferences; consulting the natural course of  things; diffusing and diversifying by gentle means the streams of  commerce but forcing nothing; establishing with powers so disposed--in  order to give to trade a stable course, to define the rights of our  merchants, and to enable the government to support them--conventional  rules of intercourse, the best that present circumstances and mutual  opinion will permit, but temporary, and liable to be from time to time  abandoned or varied, as experience and circumstances shall dictate;  constantly keeping in view, that it is folly in one nation to look for  disinterested favors from another--that it must pay with a portion of  it independence for whatever it may accept under that character--that  by such acceptance it may place itself in the condition of having  giving equivalents for nominal favors and yet being reproached for  ingratitude for not giving more. There can be no greater error than to  expect or calculate upon real favors from nation to nation. It is an  illusion which experience must cure, which a just pride ought to  discard.

``In offering to you, my countrymen, these counsels of an old and  affectionate friend, I dare not hope they will make the strong and  lasting impression I could wish--that they will control the usual  current of the passions, or prevent our nation from running the course  which has hitherto marked the destiny of nations. But if I may even  flatter myself that they may be productive of some partial benefit,  some occasional good, that they may now and then recur to moderate the  fury of party spirit, to warn against the mischiefs of foreign  intrigue, to guard against the impostures of pretended patriotism--this  hope will be a full recompense for the solicitude for your welfare, by  which they have been dictated.

``How far in the discharge of my official duties I have been guided  by the principles which have been delineated, the public records and  other evidences of my conduct must witness to you and to the world. To  myself, the assurance of my own conscience is that I have at least  believed myself to be guided by them.''