Providing for Consideration of S. Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law- Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699944/providing-for-consideration-of-s-veterans-accessibility-advisory-committee-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-undersea-cable-protection-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-securing-americas-critical-minerals-supply-act


Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding time on  this important bill.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the SAVE America Act.  I am proud to cosponsor this bill.

Our democratic process depends on free, fair, and secure elections.  When Americans cast their ballots, they have to have full confidence  that their voice carries equal weight and that our elections are  protected from abuse. Yet, in recent years, alarming loopholes that  allow voting without proper identification, lengthy time to vote before  elections, or time to register when you show up to vote have weakened  the confidence in elections in States like mine, the Commonwealth of  Virginia, and undermined a core principle of our democracy.

The right to vote is one of the most important privileges of American  citizenship. That privilege must be safeguarded. Allowing individuals  to vote without verifying their identity diminishes the voices of  lawful voters and opens the door to illegal immigrants influencing our  elections. That is unacceptable.

Illegal immigrants are here in this country. They came in by over the  millions in the last 4 years. They are in California being given  driver's licenses and then using those licenses to register to vote. It  is happening all across the country. It is happening in States like  Massachusetts.

I have an article from the Boston Herald, from February 8, 2026,  titled: ``Massachusetts jury convicts illegal immigrant of identity  theft, stealing benefits, voter fraud.''

This is an example of the type of voter fraud that is going on right  here in our backyard and right in the backyard of the gentleman from  Massachusetts. I would argue that this legislation is even more  necessary now than ever.

When you had a Colombian woman unlawfully residing in Boston who was  convicted 2 days ago, following a 5-day jury trial in Federal court, of  identity theft offenses, including receiving rental assistance, Social  Security, and SNAP benefits, as well as voter fraud under stolen  identity, voting in several Federal elections, including the 2024  Presidential election, this is a real problem in Massachusetts right  now. I would argue that we need to pass this legislation to actually  take action.

The time for delay is over. I hope we can pass this today. I hope the  Senate will take it up immediately to protect the integrity of our  elections and preserve confidence in our democratic processes for  generations to come.