Critical Mineral Consistency Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700400/critical-mineral-consistency-act-of-2025


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding. I want  to say that the chairman, who is on the floor, is a good friend of mine  and one of, I think, our best leaders in the Congress. I thank him for  his continuing efforts and his willing to work together across the  aisle.

I rise, Mr. Speaker, to address the American public, of course,  through the Speaker. We are at war, Mr. Speaker. When I rise in support  of this bill,  which is a bill on which we all agree, I want to suggest that we also,  at this time of crisis, pass something that we all agree on, that we  have already voted on, that passed the House. It is legislation which  funds Homeland Security.

Within that bill are things critically important to the security of  our country, particularly at a time like this. Rosa DeLauro, the  ranking member of the Appropriations Committee, has a piece of  legislation, Mr. Speaker, that funds all the items on which we agree.  That ought to be easy. It particularly ought to be easy at a time of  crisis when we are at war and homeland security is so important.

The bill that Ms. DeLauro has put on the floor would fund the Office  of the Secretary and the executive management. It would fund the  Federal Emergency Management Agency. It would fund the U.S. Citizenship  and Immigration Services. It would fund the Coast Guard of the United  States. It would fund the Secret Service, charged with the  responsibility of defending the President of the United States and  other officials. It would fund the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure  Security Agency, CISA, as it is called. It would fund the  Transportation Security Administration. It would fund the Science and  Technology Directorate.

It would not fund Immigration and Customs Enforcement nor Customs and  Border Protection.

Now, they are tied in one bill, but surely, I hoped, Mr. Speaker, my  remarks would be compelling without us being at war, which we have been  now for, I suppose, almost 96 hours. However, certainly at this point  in time, we ought to come together at a time when we are at war on  things on which we agree.

All of the ones I listed we have already voted for. They need to be  funded. They are critical to our national security, and surely men and  women of goodwill and patriotism should stand for funding things on  which we agree.

Now, there are two things on which we do not agree, and, frankly, our  disagreement is not relevant to our national security today or tomorrow  or perhaps for at least 24 months.

Why?

It is because ICE and CBP, the Border Patrol, were funded in another  bill that has already passed and been signed by the President, and  approximately $74.8 billion has been set aside for those two agencies  already, so they are operating. Presumably their people are getting  paid because we have already appropriated money for those two.

However, we have a substantial disagreement on the operations and  activities being conducted by those two agencies, and therefore we  don't have agreement on that. It is irrelevant to their present  operations because we have already appropriated money which, by the  way, none of us voted for on this side of the aisle. We have a very  substantial difference, based upon our constitutional concerns, that  those two agencies are not acting within the strictures of the  Constitution of the United States, the laws of the United States, or  the norms of police activity in the United States of America. That is a  legitimate and honest difference of opinion, and we ought not to hoist  on the petard of the differences we have on these two agencies to  preclude funding the Office of the Secretary, the Federal Emergency  Management Agency, the U.S. Coast Guard, the U.S. Secret Service,  Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, the Transportation  Security Agency, and the Science and Technology Directorate.

What person of common sense sitting around their kitchen table would  say: Yes, we agree on those, but at a time of war, we will not give  unanimous consent to fund all of these agencies I just mentioned.

Why?

It is because we have a legitimate difference. By the way, that  legitimate difference is supported by more than 50 percent of the  American people. As a matter of fact, it is somewhere in the sixties.

I rise on this bill which is not about this because I would not get  time to speak about it otherwise, and I think it ought to be compelling  to each one of us in this body and every American citizen to be  concerned at a time of war when we are allowing a difference on one  segment of a bill to preclude us from agreeing to the segment so  critical to our domestic and international security.

I am hoping, Mr. Speaker, that my Republican colleagues, and as I  said, Mr. Westerman is not involved in this other than I am speaking on  his bill, but I hope the logic of what I am saying appeals to the  patriotism in every one of us that we ought not to allow these agencies  I have read and on which we have already voted, on which we already  agree, and which the President ought to sign, because we are holding  hostage all of them to the legitimate disagreement that we have on two  of the agencies within this bill.

Surely, I don't believe the American citizens would say that that is  a commonsense thing to do, nor do I think they would say that it was  within the best interests of this country to do.

Surely, as a democracy, we should not take the position that if we  can't agree on one of the issues, then we won't agree on any of the  issues. I suggest that would be irrational.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of the DeLauro bill, of which I  am a cosponsor, and there are some 50 others of us who are cosponsors,  to ask that the Republicans who are in charge, who are in the majority,  and who can make this decision, I ask them to give consent, unanimous  consent, to the passage of the DeLauro bill so that, and I will mention  once again, we can fund within the Department of Homeland Security a  Secretary in the executive management of Homeland Security, the U.S.  Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Federal Emergency Management  Agency, and we have big snows, big winds, big storms, and crises around  this country that require action for domestic security as we require  international security.

There is not one of us who wants to defund the Coast Guard. There is  not one of us who wants Coast Guard personnel going to work and not  getting paid. There is not one of us who wants the U.S. Secret Service  to be working and not getting paid. They have got to work because we  deem them essential employees, as the Coast Guard are essential  employees.

Under the present circumstances, where we can't get unanimous  consent, and I hope we can, I urge that we do, I urge my Republican  colleagues to say: On this we agree, and, therefore, we will move it  forward. We will send it to the President for signature, and we will  pay the members of the Coast Guard, we will pay the members of the U.S.  Secret Service, we will give emergency relief around this country from  FEMA, we will pay those who are working in the Cybersecurity and  Infrastructure Security Agency, and we will pay the people at TSA whom  all of us rely on to make sure that skies are safe.

I don't think there is a Member among us who wants to say: I don't  want to pay them. I don't want that agency to be operating.

Now they are operating because they are essential, but we are not  paying them. That is not right. In any event, we all know we are going  to pay them at some point in time when, hopefully sooner rather than  later, we open up the authority and the funding for those agencies.

We are considering suspension bills now. We expect them to get over  290 votes, and I will be one of those 290 votes on suspension bills.

Why?

It is because we agree, and it makes sense.

I welcome anybody who wants to come to the floor and say: I don't  think the Coast Guard ought to be paid. I don't think FEMA ought to be  paid, and I don't think Secret Service ought to be paid.

I welcome them to come to the floor. I don't think they are there. I  think they do agree.

Mr. Speaker, do not take hostage those employees because we have a  fundamental constitutional difference.

Now, by the way, you may think that, oh, well, we don't have a  difference. Yes, we do. We don't believe that the two agencies we want  to exempt are following the law.

Now, let me quote the border czar. His name is Tom Homan. The  President of the United States sent him to Minneapolis to work at  bringing the  confrontation in Minneapolis to a close. They knew the public was for  that.

However, when a court ruled that what Border Patrol was doing was  inconsistent with law and the Constitution, what was his response? Tom  Homan said: I don't care what the judges think. I don't care.

I tell my friends in the House--through you, Mr. Speaker, of course-- that we all ought to care that we have a law enforcement officer, the  czar of our border, who says: I don't care what the judges say.

Mr. Speaker, we are a Nation of laws, and the laws are determined,  finally, by the courts of our Nation and ultimately by the Supreme  Court.

That is why we are not prepared to vote for a bill that includes  those two agencies. Why opposition to that is so hard to believe is  because they are already funded, notwithstanding our disagreement.

We are going to continue to make the point, unlike the Vice President  of the United States who said the officers who killed two people in  Minneapolis had total immunity. The Vice President of the United States  said that. We don't agree with that. We want to debate that, and we  want to change that. We want to offer amendments. We want to have the  House consider it because I would be appalled if the whole House on  either side of the aisle wants to have law enforcement officers who  say: I don't care what the judges say.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my friends: When Ms. DeLauro asks for unanimous  consent to fund the agencies--I will not read them again, but they are  critical--I will ask them to give their consent and pass those bills  for which we have agreement.

America deserves that. Frankly, our men and women in uniform in the  Middle East deserve that. Our men and women in uniform who are here and  who may be deployed deserve that. More importantly, every citizen in  this country and every person who is in this country deserves to know  that we follow our Constitution and laws of our Nation. We take an oath  to that. Our citizens expect us to do that.

I hope that as of no later than tomorrow we will pass a unanimous  consent request to fund the personnel who are protecting this country  in a way on which we all agree and then move at some point in time to a  legitimate discussion in this body about what CBP and ICE are doing  within or without the law.