Expressing the Support of the House of Representatives for the Department of Homeland Security


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701383/expressing-the-support-of-the-house-of-representatives-for-the-department-of-homeland-security


Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman who just spoke yield? Will the  gentleman who just spoke, who is walking out, would you yield?

Mr. HOYER. My time.

Mr. HOYER. Excuse me.

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman to whom I was addressing my  question apparently doesn't want to yield and left the floor at the  advice, probably, of somebody else.

You want to speak the truth? Even if you are new--and I have been  here a little longer--there is a way to fund the TSA, to fund Secret  Service, and it  is no sham. We don't even have to sign the discharge petition. Your  Speaker, Mr. Speaker, just needs to bring the bill to the floor. It  funds everybody in the Department of Homeland Security, other than ICE  and CBP. You know that.

Mr. HOYER. I addressed the Speaker. I said, Mr. Speaker. That doesn't  mean I can't look at other people, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I addressed to you directly. I       don't want this out of my time.

Mr. HOYER. We are in the House.

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, the argument being made on the other side is  not accurate. I will give them the benefit of the doubt because,  perhaps, they don't know it is not accurate.

We have over 110 people who are prepared to vote for all of the  funding in DHS other than both of the components who recently have  snatched people off the streets of America, wearing hoods and no badges  and putting them into unmarked cars. Yes, we are not for that.

The gentleman said he was--that I asked to yield--a law enforcement  officer. I was going to ask him whether he ever wore a mask during the  course of his duties, not a gas mask, a mask to keep him secret. I was  going to ask him whether he ever went into a home without a warrant,  inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States. Yes, we want  to defend the Constitution of the United States.

By the way, unless you missed it, when we passed the appropriation  bills that have funded most of the government, we did so, and we took  DHS out and told you we are not for that. What you continue to do is to  bring to this floor something we have told you we are not for.

Mr. Speaker, if the Speaker of the House brought that bill to the  floor to fund all of DHS' components, except those two agencies, it  would pass overwhelmingly today, within this hour. I guarantee it as a  former majority leader. Assuming that all of you say, oh, we want to  fund TSA, we want to fund Secret Service, we want to fund Coast Guard-- assuming that you would follow your rhetoric, it could be done like  that. I say that as a majority leader of this House for 8 years, and I  know of what I speak.

Mr. Speaker, they talk about shutdowns. Under Ronald Reagan, there  were eight shutdowns. They lasted for an average, Mr. Speaker, of 1.3  days. Nine of those were weekend days. Why? Because Ronald Reagan and  we Democrats who controlled the House were prepared to go to the table  and make an agreement. If we couldn't make an agreement, we  nevertheless funded the government.

This President has said numerous times, Mr. Speaker, I would welcome  a shutdown of the government, all of it.

Those of you who come to the floor and try to, like Pontius Pilate,  wash responsibility away and blame it on Democrats because, yes, there  are things on which we very strongly disagree, and that is the  violation of the Constitution, the violation of statutes--and I would  have asked my law enforcement friend--the violation of norms followed  by every police department in America.

I am tired of hearing totally inaccurate information about some fraud  bill. That is not the word that was used, Mr. Speaker, but that was  implied. The bill that we want is no fraud. The bill we want would fund  TSA, Secret Service, Coast Guard, CISA, and all other agencies in DHS  tomorrow.

What is the majority bringing to the floor, Mr. Speaker? They are  bringing a bill to the floor that has failed three times.

Why? The majority has done that because Democrats don't want  warrantless searches. Democrats don't want people's doors being broken  down without probable cause. Democrats don't want people apprehended by  masked people. I grew up in an era when I was a young man where there  were a lot of people wearing masks going around assaulting people. We  didn't call them police.

Try to be honest with the American people. Mr. Speaker, we owe them  that. Tell them, look, we are afraid that if we fund all of these  components of which we all talk and support, if we do that, then we  won't make as good a deal on DHS.

We won't keep them immune from following the Constitution. We won't  keep them immune from following the laws of their State. We won't keep  them immune from the norms that police follow.

Don't come to this floor and be dishonest and say Democrats are  shutting down the government. We are not.

Democrats sure do want to raise the question and have a debate about  whether we follow the Constitution in terms of law enforcement in this  country.

Do you know why you have warrants? There are warrants because King  George could go into any house at any time, every time that he wanted  to, and the Founding Fathers thought that was wrong.

I see my chairman is standing, so he may want to speak himself and  not have me take all the time.

I would plead with my Republican friends, Mr. Speaker, be honest.  Republicans are holding off that bill because they think tactically it  will undermine what ICE is doing, undermining that two, three, four-- five people were killed by officers not following the law. Don't come  here pretending that Democrats somehow are shutting down the  government.

By the way, when Joe Biden was President of the United States, do you  know how many shutdowns there were? Mr. Speaker, the answer to that is  zero.

Mr. Speaker, let's fund the important services that the American  people deserve. Let's have the Speaker put the bill on the floor and  have 10 Republicans sign the discharge petition. We will put it on the  floor, and we will pass it overwhelmingly, I predict.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for giving me some time to try to  correct the record that is being, unfortunately, made poorly on this  floor.

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman on the other side asked me to  come back. I came back. He made a comment. I wanted to correct him. He  would not yield for that purpose.

Mr. Speaker, 86 percent of ICE is being funded. There are no silos  being undermined, except by not funding all the other agencies that we  are prepared to support--no silos.

Mr. Speaker, 85 percent of CBP is funded. You funded it, Mr. Speaker,  in reconciliation at three times, essentially, what the annual  appropriation was for those two agencies.

There ought not to be, again, this Pontius Pilate hand-wringing that  somehow we have shut down those two agencies. We have not. You provided  for that, Mr. Speaker, and they are funded.

The question is: Do you still want to use as a political tactic  shutting down all the other agencies?