Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700556/further-additional-continuing-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, ICE agents are being paid. Border Patrol  agents are being paid. The representation to the American people that  somehow we have shut down the agents of ICE is not true. You can  correct me if I am wrong, but that is what I am told.

The weeping and gnashing of teeth that I hear from some of my  colleagues--Republicans can fund right now through a unanimous consent  all the people who they are lamenting are not being paid. You have it  in your power, or the Speaker has it in his power, to agree to a  unanimous consent to pass the gentlewoman's bill.

Everybody that you are wringing your hands about--not you, sir. Mr.  Speaker, I speak to you. The hands that are being wrung are totally  without merit. We will vote for--and by the way, we did not vote for  the Department of Homeland Security on our side. There were seven of  us. The rest of us voted ``no'' because we didn't agree with what the  Department of Homeland Security and ICE were doing--not TSA, not Coast  Guard, not the other agencies, but ICE and CBP. We don't agree with  what they are doing.

What you are doing, Mr. Speaker, on that side of the aisle is to hold  everybody else hostage for a bill that we did not vote for. Stop saying  we made some deal. Our deal was to separate it out, and we were against  it. That was the deal. That is what I did. I voted for all the rest of  the bills, as my side did, and I voted against the Department of  Homeland Security because we want what they are doing stopped to  protect the American people.

Mr. HOYER. I say to my friends who keep wringing their hands like  Pontius Pilate that somebody is not paying them, the people who are not  paying everybody other than CBP and ICE, who are being paid out of a  huge fund that they have available to them, are the people that you  will not let go.

We are for funding everybody but the two agencies we have mentioned  and have a difference of opinion on. Pontius Pilate could not rid  himself of the responsibility.