Gulf of America Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690942/gulf-of-america-act


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, live from Washington, D.C., it is ``Saturday  Night Live.'' You can't make this up.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in perplexion. I first will say how much respect  I have  for Mr. Westerman. He is my dear friend and one of our best Members.  My, my, my, Mr. Speaker, Bruce is doing a lot of work this time.

Is this infantile bill to rename the Gulf of Mexico really this  House's top priority? I heard the gentlewoman say it is going to solve  all the problems, of course, if we name it the Gulf of America.

Golly day, why didn't we think of that?

The economy is shrinking for the first time since COVID-19. Costs are  going up. I think ``Saturday Night Live'' just called me. They want me  on.

Mr. Speaker, costs are going up, and small businesses are going  under. American families are worried they won't be able to keep the  lights on, keep food on the table, and keep a roof over their head, but  they are happy about Gulf of America. That will do it.

Millions of Americans risk losing their health insurance if  Republicans' Medicaid cuts go through. Yet, Republicans think this  juvenile legislation is the best use of this House's time.

This is the only thing we are doing today, Mr. Speaker. What a sick  joke this is.

Republicans worry about 400-year-old words on a map. I worry about  families in every community in America who are struggling to get by.

This bill is obviously a distraction, a joke. Where is Trump's one  big, beautiful bill that we keep hearing so much about, the one that  cuts taxes for the wealthiest among us, threatens healthcare for  millions, and pulls the rug out from under working Americans?

The majority still hasn't been able to put it on the floor. That is  how divided, dysfunctional, and divisive they are.

My dear friend, the late Elijah Cummings, with whom some of you  served, said: ``We are better than this.''

The American people are counting on us to be better than this. We  ought to be debating legislation to bring down costs, to pay our debts,  and to fix our broken immigration system.

Instead, MAGA Republicans waste our time with this childish drivel.  Not only that, they give it a prime spot on the floor schedule. This is  the only thing we are doing for America today, renaming the Gulf of  Mexico, as if that is going to solve the problems.

Mr. HOYER. Very frankly, my confidence in America does not need that.  I don't need Canada to be the 51st State. I don't need to invade  Greenland, and I don't need the Gulf of America to have confidence in  the greatest country on Earth.

Are we so small? Do we feel so belittled by the rest of the world  that we have to do this silly, silly, silly step? Hear me, we are made  smaller by this effort. Vote rationally. That would be a ``no.''