Homeowner Energy Freedom Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700218/homeowner-energy-freedom-act


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill, and I adopt the  comments of my distinguished colleague from Florida.

I also wish to speak on behalf of the unanimous consent that we will  request.

The President last night spoke to the Nation. One of the things he  said was that TSA, the Coast Guard, and FEMA are not operating. That is  accurate. They are not operating because we have a disagreement in this  House between Republicans and Democrats on whether those agencies ought  to be funded. We do have a deep and severe disagreement with the  administration with respect to how ICE and CBP are operating, contrary  to the Constitution, contrary to the laws of our country, and contrary  to the norms of police departments all over this country, which have  resulted in the deaths of a number of American citizens egregiously  and, in my view, illegally.

That unanimous consent request will simply say that we will fund all  of those agencies that are within the Department of Homeland Security  that are not controversial, not because we absolutely agree with every  expenditure, but we have come together on a consensus. The American  people, Mr. Speaker, ought to know that Democrats are prepared to vote  for the funding of TSA, of FEMA, of the Secret Service, of the Coast  Guard, and every other agency that is acting within the bounds of the  Constitution and acting legally within the bounds of the Constitution.

I ask my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, this hand-wringing  about TSA perhaps shutting down or employees of TSA working without  pay, they should not be doing that. We ought to open up TSA. We ought  to open up the  Coast Guard. They are critical employees, so they are working but  without pay. We ought to pay them. We ought to have FEMA open, as the  President said last night, so that it can serve the American people,  particularly at a time when we just had a gargantuan storm in the  northeast.

I rise in strong support of a unanimous consent that the ranking  member of the Committee on Appropriations (Ms. DeLauro) will be asking  for. This is a unanimous consent that makes sense. It makes common  sense and on which we have agreement.

What we disagree with is the unconstitutional, illegal, unlawful, and  death-causing activities of an out-of-control agency at the instance of  the President of the United States.

I ask my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, let's make sense.  Let's say yes to what we agree on.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro),  the leader on our side of the aisle on the Committee on Appropriations,  for initiating this effort. I took this time because I am not sure we  are going to have time on the other bill. I urge Members on the  Republican side of the aisle, do not object to this unanimous consent  because it does what Republicans say we ought to be doing: Funding  those agencies, those operations, those very critical activities for  the American people on which we agree.

What the American people are so frustrated about is we seem to not  even be able to move on that on which we agree. Let's show them that  yes, we can agree. And let's also recognize and admit that we have a  difference of opinion on a very critical issue, an issue at the heart  of our Constitution of how we treat individuals in this country: that  we don't go around arresting people with masks on and putting them in  unmarked cars and disappearing them, that we don't have heavily armed  troops coming out of cars into the streets of our cities to confront a  woman who is driving her car alongside and heckling the police. We may  not agree with that, but it is certainly within the bounds of our  Constitution.

Mr. Speaker, there is no reason that we ought to have TSA shut down,  FEMA shut down, the Coast Guard shut down, and the Secret Service shut  down. They are really not shut down because we are making them work,  but we are saying, by the way, we can't pay you.

If Republicans get up and say Democrats are shutting down those  agencies, they are not telling the truth because Democrats are prepared  right now to pass legislation which will be offered by the gentlewoman  from Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro) to fund everything but that on which we  disagree. Isn't that reasonable? Isn't that what we ought to be doing  as legislators, as Americans, as people who have sworn an oath to  uphold the Constitution and laws of this country?

I urge my colleagues, particularly my Republican colleagues, do not  object because your objection will be to continue to hamper the  agencies on which we agree that are serving the American people.