January 6 Attack


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698552/january-6-attack


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend for yielding. He and I have  known each other for some 60 years. We have served in this body for a  very long time.

I can remember two events. One was on September 11, 2001, and we  were, as the gentleman observed, attacked by an enemy from without.  That was horrific. America lost thousands of lives that day. We stood  on the steps of the United States Senate that evening and sang ``God  Bless America.''

On January 6, I was sitting where the gentleman from South Carolina  now stands. I saw an officer, a detail officer from the Capitol Police,  come in and take Speaker Pelosi from the rostrum. Then, the Capitol  Policeman assigned to my detail, as we call it, came up to me, took me  by the arm, and said: We have to get out of here.

I got to that door. We went through that door, and I said to him:  What has happened?

The stunning words of his reply were: The Capitol has been breached.

Mr. Speaker, I observed, and I don't know whether the cameras are  panning this House, but the other side of the aisle is empty, failing  to recognize one of the most grievous, criminal, treasonous events that  has happened during the 44-plus years that I have been in this House.

It is as if it were not a historic event, where every Member of this  House, 435 of us, ought to be rising today and saying that, America, we  will not survive that kind of conduct; that is not America; and urging  every one of our constituents, as I am going to quote George Washington  in just a minute, to honor democracy in victory and in defeat.

Al Gore lost a Presidential election 5-4. When the Supreme Court said  that the election was over, by a vote of 5-4, Al Gore did what real  patriots do. He said that the Court has declared the election ended,  and because of his love of America and democracy, and because that is  how our system works, as a nation of laws, not of men and women.

Mr. Speaker, my favorite painting in the Capitol hangs in the  rotunda. It was painted by John Trumbull. It depicts George Washington  in the Maryland State Senate Chamber as he resigns his commission as  Commander in Chief of the Continental Army at the end of the  Revolutionary War.

That painting, Mr. Speaker, is a testament to a man who so eagerly  relinquished his power and who only reluctantly reclaimed it when the  American people called him to serve as their first President.

It is a symbol of the peaceful transition of power upon which our  democracy depends.

Mr. Speaker, 5 years ago today, that painting towered over the swarm  of insurrectionists Donald Trump sent to this Capitol. That is why he  was deemed to be, as the whip said, the most culpable of the figures  involved in this insurrection.

What did he say? He told the mob to ``stop the steal'' and to ``fight  like hell.'' Then, he deployed them to the Capitol of the United States  of America, the beacon of democracy, freedom, and liberty for all the  world, and the Capitol was breached.

There, of course, was no steal, and the courts said so in court after  court after court after court. However, unlike Al Gore, President Trump  did not honor the courts. Rather, he deployed an army to come to the  Capitol, breach it, and stop democratic proceedings.

The army he deployed maimed some 140 of our brave U.S. Capitol Police  officers, several of whom lost their lives. They paraded Confederate  and Nazi symbols through these Halls, as the whip observed as well.  They erected gallows. They erected gallows on the Capitol lawn to hang  the Republican Vice President of the United States, and so stated.

Unlike the past few months, the National Guard was nowhere to be  found. Donald Trump had every opportunity to restore order. The  Republican leader of this House, Mr. McCarthy, called the White House  and said: Mr. President, you need to stop this violence.

Nothing happened. Instead, the President played the figurative fiddle  as the Capitol was sieged and our Constitution was challenged.

The same man responsible for the violence that day is now trying to  distort it and erase it. Perhaps, Mr. Speaker, that is why there is no  other Republican on the floor, to try to forget what happened, erase it  from the minds of Americans, and erase it from the history books. It  was just a group of tourists taking an amble through the Capitol.

Mr. Speaker, the President of the United States inexplicably has  described January 6 as ``a day of love.'' Mr. Speaker, I call it what  it was: a day of violence, sedition, and treason.

Trump has called those who stormed the Capitol ``unbelievable  patriots.'' Mr. Speaker, 435 of us ought to be on this floor saying:  No, sir. It was unbelievable violence and sedition.

I call those unbelievable patriots what they are: criminals convicted  of such, insurrectionists, cop killers, cop beaters, and democracy  destroyers.

In one of the first actions in his second term--the whip has  mentioned this, and others will mention it. I use the word  ``inexplicable.'' In his first days in office, some 1,600  insurrectionists who stormed this Capitol, who breached this Capitol,  and who tried to stop democracy from working were pardoned by the  President of the United States, Mr. Donald J. Trump.

David Dempsey was sentenced to 20 years. He viciously assaulted and  injured police officers defending the lower west terrace, at the lower  west terrace tunnel, using weapons made from broken furniture, pepper  spray, and flagpoles.

Daniel Joseph Rodriguez was sentenced to 12\1/2\ years after being  found guilty. He was filmed deploying fire extinguishers and dragging  Metropolitan  Police Officer Michael Fanone and repeatedly shocked Fanone in the neck  with a taser. He was pardoned.

The chief of the Capitol Police, when asked about those pardons, said  that it was deeply troubling to the Capitol Police, as well it should  be.

Patrick McCaughey, sentenced to 7\1/2\ years, used a stolen riot  shield to pin Metropolitan Police Officer Daniel Hodges to a metal door  frame while another assailant beat Hodges in the face with a stolen  baton. U.S. District Judge Trevor McFadden described McCaughey as the  poster child of all that was dangerous and appalling about January 6.

Peter Francis Stager, sentenced to 4 years and 4 months, wielded a  flagpole and repeatedly struck a defenseless officer who was lying face  down.

I would ask any member of the President's party or our party to come  to this floor and defend pardoning somebody who perpetrated a crime on  a police officer.

Stewart Rhodes, sentenced to 18 years, said this: ``Patriots,'' using  Donald Trump's word for them, ``it was a long day but a day when  patriots began to stand. Stand now or kneel forever. Honor your oaths.  Remember your legacy.'' That is what he said.

It is pride in assaulting the officers, pride in assaulting  democracy, pride in driving the Congress, thankfully for just hours,  out of this Capitol so they could not proceed in doing their  constitutional duty.

That pardon list included 600 who were charged with assaulting or  obstructing law enforcement. Mr. Speaker, so much for supporting the  thin blue line, so much for supporting the brave men and women of law  enforcement.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot afford to forget January 6. We cannot afford  to be absent, Mr. Speaker, to take a walk, to turn our backs on what  happened on January 6. To do so is to risk its repeated actions.

It did not end when a bipartisan majority in this House impeached  Trump the following week, and it still has not ended.

Mr. Speaker, I ask this House now, as I did on January 6, standing  where the gentleman from South Carolina is standing now: Do we have the  courage to stand up to a President who violates our Constitution, our  laws, and our norms?

Will enough of my colleagues across the aisle find that courage? Liz  Cheney found that courage. Liz Cheney--the third-ranking Republican in  the House of Representatives, Liz Cheney, the daughter of Vice  President Cheney--found that courage to recognize that day for the  tragedy it was. I pray others will do the same.

General Washington, whom I mentioned earlier, would do the same. He  would tell them what he told his own officers when he learned they were  conspiring to overthrow the Continental Congress just a few months  before he resigned his commission.

He said this: Express your utmost horror and detestation of the man  who wishes, under any specious pretenses, to overturn the liberties of  our country and who wickedly attempts to open the floodgates of civil  discord and deluge our rising Nation in blood.

That is what happened on January 6. On January 6, we saw the  floodgates of insurrection open. If we forget that, if we gloss over  that fact of history, if we ignore it, if we diminish its venality or  glorify the actions of the mob as Trump does, we risk letting that  dream of liberty for which our Founders pledged their lives, their  fortunes, and their sacred honor be swept away.

Let us remember January 6, lest it be repeated.

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I won't take 3 minutes. This Chamber should  be full. I said that earlier because this was not an attack on  Democrats. It is not an attack on Republicans. It was an attack on our  country, on our democracy, and on our Constitution. That is why every  Member of this House ought to be on this floor, urging Americans to do  what democracy demands, solving our differences peacefully through  elections, through debate, through votes on this floor.

We have as a centralized premise that might does not make right. The  people who stormed up Constitution Avenue coming straight from in front  of the White House and a speech by the President of the United States  have said they were doing what they thought the President wanted them  to do. We ask God to bless America. If we do not speak, we ask God to  save America.