Partnership for L.A. Schools


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695654/partnership-for-la-schools


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, one of the most important and critical  responsibilities any nation has, any community has, any State has, is  the education of its children.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight the extraordinary work of an  organization from Los Angeles that has lessons for every community in  America.

Nearly two decades ago, then-Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa partnered  with my good friends, philanthropists Melanie and Richard Lundquist, to  launch the Partnership for Los Angeles Schools. Dr. Lundquist is with  us today.

Their nonprofit is committed to strengthening public schools in some  of L.A.'s most underserved and challenging communities.

Today, under the leadership of Guadalupe Guerrero, the Partnership  for L.A. Schools manages 20 K-12 public schools, serving more than  13,500 students in Boyle Heights, Watts, and South L.A.

These are not charter schools. They are neighborhood public schools  working in close collaboration with the Los Angeles Unified School  District.

The results speak for themselves.

When the partnership began, the high school graduation rate in its  schools was just 36 percent. Today, that rate has risen to 92 percent.

The progress does not stop there. This year's partnership schools  reached their highest math performance ever and matched their strongest  literary results.

Following the pandemic, students demonstrated 3 consecutive years of  growth in math and 2 consecutive years of growth in reading.

Every partnership elementary school advanced in literacy, and nearly  all of them advanced in math, as well. Black and emergent bilingual  students, those who have historically faced the steepest barriers, made  some of the strongest gains.

I had the opportunity to see this outstanding education model at work  when I toured Santee High School, one of the partnership's campuses. I  was impressed by the students and their learning progress. I was  convinced then and am even more certain now that the partnership has  created a scalable and sustainable model for schools nationally.

The partnership is not only a success for L.A. but an example for all  of America. Their work demonstrates that when we invest in teacher  coaching, leadership development, aligned systems of support, and other  proven strategies, students make real and, importantly, lasting gains.

Many in our country have taken aim at public schools recently. The  partnership is proof that our public schools can deliver for every  child so long as we provide them with the right tools and, importantly,  the resources. The partnership continues to prove that every day.

I commend the Partnership for L.A. Schools--its educators, students,  and families--for showing our country a better path forward.

Dr. Lundquist has become a dear friend and an extraordinary shining  example for us all. I recognize my friend, Melanie, who is with me here  today, and the tens of thousands of children, teachers, and  participants who have made this such a success.

Mr. Speaker, tens of thousands of children have seen brighter futures  because of Melanie and her husband Richard's philanthropy, vision, and  dedication to improving America's public schools.

My friend, the late congressman Bill Natcher, used to say: ``As long  as you take care of the health of your people and the education of your  children, you'll continue to live in the strongest and best nation on  earth.''

Mr. Speaker, that is exactly what Melanie Lundquist and the  partnership for LA Schools are doing.

And for that, they have my thanks and the gratitude of the American  people.