Pay Our Homeland Defenders Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701359/pay-our-homeland-defenders-act


Mr. HOYER. The good news, Mr. Speaker, is that we are paying the  people who protect us, and this side will not admit it. DHS is getting  86 percent. ICE is 86 percent funded. CBP is 85 percent funded.

Don't tell the American people, Mr. Speaker, that they are not  getting paid. They are getting paid, and you know it. If you say  otherwise, you are misrepresenting the facts to the American people.

Now, somebody said ``our bill.'' It is not our bill. It is your bill.  Most of you voted for this bill and every nickel that we are asking you  to vote again on, because this was a compromised bill. All the funding  that was in Ms. DeLauro's bill was a bipartisan agreement, all of it.  That is not a political game. That is saying: We will take it.

What you are saying is: Unless you take everything, we are not going  to give you anything. That is what you are saying.

Mr. Speaker, that is not how we legislate in this House. We have to  compromise.

Now, we have some problems because you tell us if you don't allow ICE  agents to break into homes without a warrant, we will not fund TSA, we  will not fund the Coast Guard, we will not fund CISA. That is what you  are saying, but you are trying to pretend to the American people that  it is somehow us, who are ready to vote for 98 percent of the bill, but  you say: No, either all or nothing.

Think about it honestly. You are shutting down TSA. The American  people don't care who is at fault, so we are both trying to say the  other guy is at fault. But today we could come together, all--at least  400 of us--and open TSA tonight. You won't do it because you want  masked people arresting people on the streets of America without any  accountability.

That is what this is about. Democrats want accountability. They want  to honor the Constitution. They want to honor the laws of the United  States. They want to honor the norms of police activity in this  country.

That is what makes us different. We talk about an exceptional Nation.  That is why we are exceptional, and that is why Democrats want to make  sure those protections for the American people are included in this  bill.

Mr. HOYER. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be honest with one another.  This is a tactical argument. You are afraid that if you separate out  those two instances of the Border Patrol and ICE, you are afraid that  you may have to honor what the American people want, and that is  constraints. That is what you are against: constraints on illegal  actions by police officers.

The American people are hoping that you will support constraints and  support a bill, our bill. Republicans and Democrats put that bill  together that  Ms. DeLauro has introduced. Open up the government and open it up  today.