Providing for Consideration of H.R. Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700517/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-further-additional-continuing-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I will speak to the American people through  you, so I address the Speaker and the American people.

You must be confused by this debate. We have two relatively new  Members of the Congress who have spoken. I came in as Mr. Jack was  speaking and he said that we need to open DHS. We certainly have  agreement on about 80 percent of that, but the Republicans are saying  unless you agree to 100 percent, we are not going to agree to opening  DHS that ought to be opened during this time of war.

The Secret Service could be funded this afternoon. The Speaker just  has to say the word because our side will vote to open up the agencies,  but we have a difference of opinion with respect to two components of  DHS that we believe are violating the Constitution of the United  States.

We agree that we ought to open Secret Service. We agree that we ought  to open FEMA. We agree that we ought to open cybersecurity, but what is  your answer to saying: But if you don't do it all, we will not open  those agencies and have the employees paid, who, of course, are  critical employees.

You don't have an answer to that other than you want to muscle  through something that has been questioned by many courts in this land.

Now let me read you a statement that was made by the border czar.

Mr. HOYER. After a court said you must do this, the border czar, Tom  Homan, who was in Minneapolis, who--by the way, Border Patrol killed  Alex Pretti. Here is what the border czar said. Perhaps you don't care,  but he said this: ``I don't care what the judges think.'' ``I don't  care . . . ''

Yes, we here on this floor, and the Democrats on the floor in the  United States Senate believe that is improper policy for law  enforcement to say, to do, to act, to threaten people with: I don't  care what the judges say.

Bring Ms. DeLauro's bill to the floor. It will pass. It will pass  this afternoon, and all of those agents you have mentioned will be  funded.

Mr. HOYER. In addition to that, I don't know that I have heard it  mentioned, but in the bill that was passed earlier this year, DHS was  funded. ICE was funded with $150 billion, so don't get on this floor  and pretend that somehow it is not funded because that is not true.

Bring this bill to the floor. We agree on it overwhelmingly. Do not  allow the disagreement to undermine the agreement we have, particularly  at a time of war when we ought to be united.

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, frankly, these new Members of Congress  apparently don't know what I am saying. We will vote to open DHS,  including the Secretary's office, this afternoon, 1 hour from now, 2  hours from now. Bring it to the floor. Do not put in it what we all  call a poison pill, and that is two components that are already  funded--already funded.

Democrats and Republicans together can start paying the others today,  but for the objection to the unanimous consent.