Providing for Consideration of H.R. Financial Services and General Government and National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699075/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-financial-services-and-general-government-and-national-security-department-of-state-and-related-programs-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her comments and  for her support of my amendment. I regret that my amendment was  rejected by the Rules Committee, but that is not uncommon. An  overwhelming majority of Democratic amendments are rejected,  irrespective of merit.

Mr. Speaker, I suggest to you that this amendment comports with the  debate that I heard in the Rules Committee yesterday. The substance of  that debate was that we need oversight. We need to make sure that we  know what we are doing. We need to make sure that what the  administration or any administration is asking for comports with the  policies of the Congress of the United States.

If we defeat the previous question, we will offer an amendment to the  rule that allows the House to simply consider my amendment concerning  the FBI headquarters.

I will speak more on that matter later, but I am deeply concerned  that moving the FBI to the Reagan Building, as this administration  plans to do, would greatly undermine the FBI's security.

This is a picture of the Murrah Building in Oklahoma. In 1995, a guy  named McVeigh drove a step van up to the street of the Murrah Building  and blew it up, killing 168 people and injuring over 800 people. That  is a major artery in front of the Murrah Building.

The Reagan Building was designed as an open and public-private  building with public access, public accommodations, and the public  coming into the building for eating. It has a big cafeteria. It has a  big parking lot that the public uses and is used by city hall, which is  located right in the middle--or not in the middle, but surrounded by  the Reagan Building.

The amendment that I have simply says: Let's not spend any money on  moving the FBI to this building, which the Murrah Building makes very  clear, and is why the FBI Director came to me in 2009 to have this  facility, the FBI building, moved to a place where you can have  security.

We have some number of security organizations. They are all located  either in the suburbs or at Boeing Air Force base. Boeing Air Force  base is a secured piece of much acreage, so they are not subject to  that risk.

All of these agencies, including the CIA at Langley and other  agencies, four of which are in Virginia, are so that those agencies can  be as secure as we can possibly make them, so that we will not lose  people, FBI agents, CIA agents, NSA agents, or whoever, and that we  will have those facilities in a secure place. All this amendment says  is: Show us the plan to keep our people secure.

The gentlewoman, my friend from North Carolina, said, and I believe  she is accurate, that we are all concerned about the lives of people,  be they government employees or not. This amendment says: Present us  the information, GSA and FBI, that shows us that, in fact, you can make  the Reagan Building safe for a security agency.

If the motion is defeated for the previous question, we will offer  that simple amendment and give everybody in this Congress the ability  to stand up and say, yes, we want to know information before we make  this critical decision.

It is not partisan. It is not ideological. It is simply doing what  the Congress is responsible to do, and that is have oversight and make  judgments based upon the best information they can receive.

Mr. HOYER. In closing, let me emphasize that this is consistent with  what all of us say and was said in the committee yesterday. Mrs.  Houchin said it particularly well, and others on the committee, when  saying that they want the information necessary to make solid  decisions. If we adopt my amendment, that will accomplish that  objective.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote against the previous  question and for the Hoyer amendment.