Retirement Announcement of Steny Hoyer


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I would ask Mr. Scalise: Where is my 1 minute  when I need it?

Mr. Speaker, I thank my dear and close friends, Steve Womack and  Madam Speaker, for being here. I also thank my colleagues and my dear  friends, Majority Leader Scalise and Majority Whip Emmer, for being  here.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today with, obviously, mixed emotions and  reluctant conviction. There is a true story I have told many times over  the past 60 years. It is about a young man--myself--who was a student  at the University of Maryland, College Park, just a few miles from this  place.

As a freshman, like many young people, I lacked a vision for my  future. I nearly flunked out of college and didn't enroll in the 1958  fall semester. Fortunately for me, I reenrolled the following spring.

It was the spring convocation of April 27, 1959. Classes were  canceled from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. so that we could all go hear the guest  speaker. Frankly, I had not planned to attend. However, I was walking  up the hill near Cole Field House where the event was located. I saw  our guest drive up in a 1958 Pontiac convertible. That, Mr. Speaker,  was a cool car. It was so cool that I decided to go to this  convocation.

That walk was my road to Damascus. It changed my life. The speaker  was John F. Kennedy. In his remarks, he urged us to do our duty in  those days of world chaos. In particular, he charged us students to  become more active in our communities. Nancy heard those same words.

Like many hundreds of thousands of young people, I was deeply  inspired by Senator Kennedy and his words. Jack Kemp, who was my  colleague when I first came here, had a similar story. A week later, I  changed my major from business to political science.

Mr. Speaker, 7 years later, in 1966, 5 months out of Georgetown Law  School, I was elected to the Maryland State Senate. Mr. Speaker, 15  years after that, in 1981, the voters of the Fifth District elected me  to the United States House of Representatives.

I stand here now, after some 60 years in public service, including  nearly 45 years as a Member of this House. I have won elections and  lost a couple. I celebrated triumphs and suffered setbacks. I enjoyed  friendships and endured hardships.

As the song says: ``Some days are diamonds. Some days are stone.''  Happily, I have experienced more diamonds than stone.

Shakespeare advised us all: ``This above all: to thine own self be  true, And it must follow, as the night the day, Thou canst not then be  false to any man.''

In that vein, Mr. Speaker, I have decided not to seek another term in  the people's House. I make this decision with sadness, for I love this  House, an institution the Framers designed to reflect the will of the  American people and to serve as the guardian of their liberty and their  democracy.

Through the past 45 years, I have come to know many good, decent, and  patriotic Members chosen by their neighbors to represent them. They  come from both parties and all parts of the ideological spectrum.

The Congress I entered in 1981 was somewhat different. Most  Republicans and Democrats worked together in a collegial and productive  way. The leaders of the House, Tip O'Neill and Bob Michael, fostered  that environment. It was, of course, not a Congress without conflict.

In the year to come, I will have much more to say about the issues we  have grappled with and the ways this House has changed during my time.  At the outset, I have said that I spoke with reluctant conviction. That  reluctance is because I am deeply concerned that this House is not  living up to the Founders' goals.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  examine their conscience, renew their courage, and carry out the  responsibilities that the first Article of the Constitution demands.  Only in that way can we ensure that our 250 years will be a preface to  a stronger and brighter beacon in a free and principled democracy. It  will be a nation of laws, not of men. It will be a nation respected  around the world for its strength, certainly, but even more for the  ideals it represents and the justice with which it acts.

That effort must extend beyond this House. I fear that America is  heading not toward greatness but toward smallness, pettiness,  divisiveness, lawlessness, and disdainfulness.

We must respect and love one another. We must remember that we are  not great or unique because we say we are great but because we are  just, generous, and fair.

I hope that spirit can guide us the rest of this Congress because I  still have much I want to do in the coming year, not least of which is  keeping the government open. To do that, we must send all our  appropriations bills to the President in a bipartisan and timely  fashion.

There are many people I intend to thank in the coming months, but  here are a few I will recognize now:

First, my family, who has borne much of the burden of my service. I  ask them to stand.

To my late wife, Judy, who died too young and gave so much.

To my beloved daughters, Susan, Stefany, and Anne, who paid a price  for Dad's absences.

To my grandchildren and great-grandchildren, for giving me great joy.

To my mother, who thankfully lived to see her son become the  president of the Maryland State Senate.

To my staff, for serving me and their Nation with great loyalty and  ability.

To my colleagues, for trusting me with leadership.

To the people of Prince George's County, particularly the African- American community, without whom I would not have won my elections.

To the people of Maryland's Fifth District, who gave me a majority of  their votes 23 times.

To my wife, Dr. Elaine Kamarck, who has made my life whole and happy.  Thank you, Babe.

And to God, for sending me down this road so many years ago that I  call the ``Road to Damascus.''

I thank all of my colleagues--extraordinary people, decent people,  people whom their neighbors respect and sent here. The only way they  got here was through their neighbors saying that they wanted them to  represent them.

I thank you all.

Mr. Speaker, with tremendous gratitude, I yield back.