Working Across the Aisle


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700589/working-across-the-aisle


Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, this has been a historic week in many ways.  We have significant disagreements in this House. I rose a few days ago  to say to all the House Members on both sides of the aisle that we  ought to move on behalf of the American people legislation and policies  on which we agree and not allow them to be lost or unaddressed because  of the fact that we have other matters on which we disagree.

That is a successful strategy for families, for human beings, for  business, and for life, to not allow the things on which we disagree be  an impediment to moving us forward on things we can agree on.

I rise this morning because we are going to have two items about  which I am greatly concerned on the floor today. Actually, one of them  will be on the floor and one will not. I am concerned about the one  that will be, and I am concerned about the one that will not. I want to  speak briefly about them.

We will be considering a bill on the floor today that will fund the  Department of Homeland Security. There is within that bill two items on  which the parties disagree. There are also within that bill literally a  score, twoscore, perhaps threescore on which we agree. Those items will  affect whether or not we pay people who are working for the Federal  Government and for the American people.

A number of them are very important items. One is the TSA, the  Transportation Security Agency, which we all see at airports. As far as  I can tell, everybody in this House, all 435, believe they ought to be  paid.

We will have on the sea surrounding our country and perhaps in other  places, the Coast Guard patrolling for the sanctity of our borders, for  the safety of our mariners, and for the safety both of commercial and  noncommercial vessels.

There is also an agency within the Department of Homeland Security  called the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which responds to  jurisdictions and to people when disasters occur causing great damage  to communities and to people. As far as I can tell, everybody is for  funding that agency.

The Secret Service, particularly at a time of war but at all times,  has a very difficult job. They are called essential employees. They are  working now, but they are not being paid. As far as I can tell,  everybody in the House believes they ought to be paid.

Now we have a disagreement over the way that the ICE, otherwise known  as the immigration service, is handling its work, its duties. Some of  us believe that they are doing things that are outside the boundary of  the Constitution, the laws of our country and our States, and the norms  of police activity. It is a significant, important difference of  opinion that ought to be argued, that ought to be resolved, and we  resolve things through a vote on this floor.

The Border Patrol is also involved not at the border but in the  interior of our country. That is not usual and it has resulted, in the  opinion of some of us, in the taking of American lives inconsistent  with the safety of American citizens and inconsistent with the norms of  police work in America in our counties and in our cities and in our  States.

Madam Speaker, in conclusion, I hope that we will vote on a motion to  recommit which funds all of the Federal employees in question and  represents honestly to the American people that the customs agency and  ICE are already funded and were funded at the beginning of this year.