Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendments to H.R. Consolidated Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Disapproving the Action of the District of Columbia Council in Approving the D.C. Income and Franchise Tax Conformity and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Critical Mineral Dominance Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699591/providing-for-consideration-of-senate-amendments-to-hr-consolidated-appropriations-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-disapproving-the-action-of-the-district-of-columbia-council-in-approving-the-dc-income-and-franchise-tax-conformity-and-revision-temporary-amendment-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-critical-mineral-dominance-act


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Georgia for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, yesterday in the Rules Committee, I offered my  sentiments as to why we must pass all the underlying measures that are  being considered under this rule. For our rule debate here today, I  will touch upon the appropriations measure that is under consideration.

To make the record crystal clear, not once did the people's House  court a government shutdown during the appropriations process. The  various subcommittees of the Appropriations Committee did their jobs.  They worked collaboratively to deliver to the full House their  recommendations.

As Chairman Cole said more than once in the Rules Committee, these  appropriators knew their subject matter better than anyone else and  presented to the rest of us their best effort.

Then the House did its job. We passed all 12 appropriations bills and  sent them to the Senate, which had negotiated with their House  counterparts and agreed to take what had been produced in the House. In  doing so, we plowed a path toward regular order that was sorely  overdue.

Unfortunately, the Senate reneged on the agreement. The Senate did  not pass what it had agreed to pass and, instead, made a change after  the House completed its work. That delay on the part of the Senate  caused the government to shut down.

Now, what the Senate should have done was approve the six-bill  appropriations package that was negotiated in good faith. This process  should have been over and done with by now. We don't have time to be  playing games, Mr. Speaker.

Now, I wholeheartedly echo the sentiment offered by Chairman Cole  that doing the right thing for the American people is something that  does not get old.

Congress holds an explicit mandate that is outlined in our Article I  responsibilities to appropriate funding for the missions of departments  across the government. When we fail to uphold that mandate, we fail to  serve the American people. We fail to do right by them.

We must bring the appropriations process to a close. We must move  forward and complete more work in service to the American people.

Mr. Speaker, I support the rule and the underlying measures, and I  encourage my colleagues to do the same.