Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendment to H.R. Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696692/providing-for-consideration-of-senate-amendment-to-hr-continuing-appropriations-and-extensions-act-2026


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, psychologists have a word for the things the Democrats  accuse us of: ``projection.''

Mr. Speaker, I sure hope you did not watch all 7 hours of the  Democrat group therapy session last night in the Rules Committee, but  if you did, you saw what a clown show it was.

It was a crisp 40 degrees outside when we adjourned at around 1:30  a.m. this morning, but with the amount of hot air being spewed by  Democrats in the committee room for 7 straight hours, you would have  thought we were in the dead of summer.

Mr. Speaker, at this point, I don't think Democrats really agree on  anything. Last night and into the early hours of this morning, they  showed everyone that they couldn't even agree on what they were angry  about. They went off on so many tangents that it would have been a  miracle if they arrived at a single, coherent thought at any point  during our meeting.

The American people will see the exact same thing play out from them  during this debate and during general debate on the floor later today.

Apparently, the only thing Democrats can agree on is that the  government needs to stay shut down and that the American people need to  suffer even more than they have already made them suffer.

We heard from Democrats repeatedly about the millions of people they  believe are going to be affected when their own temporary COVID credits  sunset at the end of this year--their own temporary COVID credits.

Did we hear anything about the millions of Americans who got walloped  by Democrats when they shut the government down?

Did we hear an apology from Democrats to the American people for  deliberately misleading them over 40 days?

Did we hear an admission that the only reason they shut down the  government is to cover up for a catastrophic policy failure that they  concocted and set an end date on?

No, we didn't hear one of those things, not one.

Mr. Speaker, I am not surprised. This is the kind of behavior that  Americans have come to expect from Democrats. Has anyone ever noticed  how Democrats have developed such a visceral reaction when confronted  about their abdication of responsibility?

They shut the government down, and the moment you call attention to  their own actions, all they do is obfuscate and start shrieking about  unrelated things.

Scientists should study this at length and try to come up with a  cure. It is a serious affliction, as was evidenced numerous times over  in our Rules Committee meeting.

It is well past time to reopen the government and end the Democrat- concocted nightmare that Americans have been living through for over 40  straight days.

The CR before us will end that nightmare. It will get this  legislative body and the entire Nation moving once more.

Democrats should grow a spine and accept responsibility for their own  failures. I urge a ``yes'' vote on the rule.