Providing for Disposition of Senate Amendment to H.R. Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701510/providing-for-disposition-of-senate-amendment-to-hr-department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, our colleague who says they want us to bring down the  high cost of living is like the arsonist who sets the fire and then  comes out to help put it out.

Mr. Speaker, the Senate's funding proposal is not worth the paper it  is printed on. Frankly, it would be better used as kindling in a  fireplace.

I said it in the Rules Committee, and I will say it again here on the  floor: We will be darned if we go down the road of undercutting the  progress that our Republican majorities and President Trump have made  in securing the border: a record low of encounters of illegal aliens, a  dramatic reduction in fentanyl trafficking, and a return to law and  order that was robbed from the American people for 4 years under the  previous administration. Those are the things that would be sacrificed  if we passed the Senate's proposal that is nowhere near being up  to scratch.

The people's House will not bend itself into submission by  acquiescing.

Let me make one other point very clear, Mr. Speaker. Our Democrat  colleagues love to dust off the same withered line that Republicans are  the ones responsible for DHS being shut down because we control the  House, the Senate, and the Presidency. If we had a dollar for every  time they trotted out that line, DHS could be funded multiple times  over.

What Democrats never acknowledge is that the Senate operates under an  entirely different set of procedural and vote thresholds than the  House, but the American people aren't fooled. They are far smarter than  the Democrats believe they are.

As time goes on, Mr. Speaker, one thing becomes clearer and clearer:  Democrats are the carnival barkers for narratives that the American  people aren't interested in buying.

But that is their prerogative. Republicans, meanwhile, are the ones  who are governing and will continue to do so by passing this rule and  the underlying continuing resolution.

Our 8-week CR will afford us the time to deliberate, build consensus,  and advance a solution that is far greater than the Senate's jerry- built proposal, all while ensuring the 100,000-plus DHS employees get  paid.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support for the rule and the underlying measure,  and I yield back.