Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendment to H.R. One Big Beautiful Bill Act


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I call  up House Resolution 566 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 566

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 1)       to provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of H. Con.       Res. 14, with the Senate amendment thereto, and to consider       in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a       motion offered by the chair of the Committee on the Budget or       his designee that the House concur in the Senate amendment.       The Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as       read. The motion shall be debatable for one hour equally       divided among and controlled by the chair and ranking       minority member of the Committee on the Budget or their       respective designees and the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective       designees.                                point of order

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I claim time in favor of consideration of the  resolution.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, the question before the House is: Should the  House now consider House Resolution 566? Though the resolution waives  all points of order against consideration of the motion to concur in  the Senate amendment to H.R. 1, the Committee on Rules is not aware of  any violation of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act, nor has the  Congressional Budget Office identified any violation of the act.

The reason for this motion is plain and obvious. It is not a  legitimate attempt to question consideration, but simply a dilatory  tactic to further delay consideration of this historic legislation and  to give the Democrats more time to mislead Americans.

We must dispense with this question of consideration so we can move  the process forward and enact the agenda President Trump and the  American people have demanded.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to vote ``yes'' on the  question of consideration of the resolution, and I yield back the  balance of my time.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, during consideration of this resolution, all time  yielded is for the purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, Republicans stand ready to deliver H.R. 1  directly to the President's desk for his signature.

Late last year, the American people rallied en masse behind the  Republican vision for a renewed Nation. It is a nation no longer  blighted by the cataclysmic failures of the previous administration,  and a nation primed and ready to enter the golden age.

One of the many strong reinforced byproducts of our Republican vision  is the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. It is one of the most consequential  pieces of legislation that any party has ever passed and for good  reason.

The provisions interwoven in this legislation are monumental. They  are what the American people voted for in November: historic tax relief  for working families; massive investments to secure our Nation's  borders; capturing generational savings; and slashing waste, fraud, and  abuse in government programs so that they may run more efficiently for  those who truly need them.

Mr. Speaker, I could opine at length about the wins that Republicans  have secured in this bill, wins that we have been highlighting to the  American people for months. Meanwhile, our Democratic colleagues have  resorted to fear-mongering and wailing from their bully pulpits in the  hopes of deceiving the American people.

For months, we have heard Democrats claim that the sky was falling,  that all hope is lost because H.R. 1 will bring about the end times,  and a litany of other outlandish and absurd claims. They are so  desperate to smear H.R. 1 and deny the American people the policies  that the American people overwhelmingly voted for in November.

Let's again focus on what this bill accomplishes. It yields the  single greatest cut in wasteful government spending in congressional  history by slashing far more than a trillion dollars of bloat. It  preserves the greatest battle-tested set of tax cuts for working  families that our Nation has ever seen or our economy has ever  realized. It doubles down on the border priorities of the most  successful enforcement efforts by a President in our Nation's history.  It realigns our economy in defense of American workers, American  energy, American businesses, and American job creators to unleash the  engines of our economy, raise the tide of our economic standards, and  bring a new definition of American greatness to the world.

Perhaps the reason why Democrats are so desperate to smear this  legislation is because they are caught in their own self-inflicted  malaise of denial. Perhaps they still can't accept that Americans chose  Republicans to lead the Nation instead of them.

That said, Mr. Speaker, Republicans are not distracted by that fear- mongering and doomsaying of those who want H.R. 1 to fail. The facts  are on our side, and we have been cutting through the noise by bringing  those facts to the American people for months.

So that the record is clear, a vote against this legislation is a  vote to green-light the largest tax increase in American history being  levied against everyday men and women, to decimate millions of jobs  across America, and to kneecap the capabilities and readiness of the  Nation's military. This is not fear-mongering like what our colleagues  across the aisle have been engaging in. These are just facts.

Mr. Speaker, the pathway forward is crystal clear. The House must  pass this rule and pass the Senate amendment to H.R. 1 so that more  wins can be delivered to the American people. The American people  deserve to keep winning, and to deny them that opportunity is a  flagrant disservice.

This legislation is the embodiment of the America First agenda, and  we would all do well to remember that. Failure at this critical  juncture is not an option. This clock is ticking. The President and the  American people are waiting.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the  opportunity to address the American citizens for just a couple of  minutes.

I know many of our citizens are concerned about some of the language  in the bill, and I think maybe the reason they are concerned is because  the people that are telling them what is in the bill never bothered to  read the bill, so I thought I would just read to them a part.

If the Democrats have read this, then they are lying to the general  public.

This excerpt is on SNAP. ``Exceptions. Paragraph (2) shall not apply  to an individual if the individual is-- (A) under 18, or over 65, years  of age;

(B) medically certified as physically or mentally unfit for  employment;

(C) a parent or other member of a household with responsibility for a  dependent child under 14 years of age . . .''

When the Democrats are telling you that we are kicking disabled  people off of SNAP or we are kicking disabled people off of Medicaid,  it is an absolute lie.

Look at pages 16 and 17 of the legislation. It will take about 60  seconds to read it. That is exactly what it says.

Ms. FOXX.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I would say nice try to the gentleman from  Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern).

Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairwoman  Virginia Foxx of North Carolina for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, indeed, Republicans were elected last November, but with  promises made, promises kept.

Despite the extraordinarily ignorant lies on the other side, the  American people know that the bill that we will be voting on today  reduces taxes, creating jobs.

It is the elimination of taxes on tips and overtime. It provides for  securing the border. It provides for energy independence. It provides  for the ability to have peace through strength. All of this is in the  bill.

On compassion, it is not compassion to support programs that are  ultimately going to fail. Republicans want people who need assistance  to receive assistance.

Margaret Thatcher has identified what they are proposing, and that is  that socialism will work until you run out of other people's money to  spend.

They are putting the poor people of America at risk. We are the ones  with compassion.

Additionally, with promises made, promises kept by Donald Trump, I  have lived it. I led the delegation to move the Embassy from Tel Aviv  to Jerusalem. He did that. People at the State Department said that we  shouldn't do it because it leads to dislocation. No, it led to the  Embassy being in Jerusalem, and it led to the Abraham Accords.

We know that last week the President was advised not to bomb Iran,  that it would lead to World War III. No, it has led to a cease-fire and  the ability to have the Abraham Accords extended to other countries,  including Syria.

I am really grateful that Lindsey Graham was such an adviser. The  President acted despite the naysayers that we have all around us.

I just appreciate Donald Trump. Promises made, promises kept.

Ms. FOXX.

Mr. Speaker, my Democratic colleagues continue to rail against  commonsense community engagement requirements, which require able- bodied adults without an exemption to spend 20 hours per week working,  volunteering, enrolling in school, or participating in a work  development program.

Let's be perfectly clear. These work requirements apply only to able- bodied adults without young dependents who don't have a disqualifying  condition.

Individuals who are exempt from these requirements include pregnant  women, individuals under the age of 19 or over the age of 64, foster  youth and former foster youth under the age of 26, members of Tribes,  individuals who are considered medically frail, and individuals who are  already in compliance with the work requirements under Temporary  Assistance for Needy Families, TANF, or the Supplemental Nutrition  Assistance Program, SNAP.

The list goes on, but our priority remains the same. It is to root  out waste, fraud, and abuse and to strengthen and sustain Medicaid for  those for whom the program was intended to serve: expectant mothers,  children with disabilities, the poor, and the elderly.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, all time yielded is for the purpose of debate,  and I do not yield for that request.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, all time yielded is for the purpose of debate.  I do not yield for that request.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I do not yield.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, wow, that gambit was riveting.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, thank you for reminding us of the language we  should be using in this Chamber.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, as the President has said numerous times,  there will be no cuts to Medicaid. The One Big Beautiful Bill Act  protects and strengthens Medicaid for those who rely on it--pregnant  women, children, seniors, people with disabilities, and low-income  families--while eliminating waste, fraud, and abuse.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act removes illegal aliens, enforces work  requirements, and protects Medicaid for the truly vulnerable.

For our colleagues on the other side who say illegal aliens are not  receiving this, we understand that 1.4 million people do not meet  citizenship and immigration status requirements for Medicaid enrollment  but would be covered under current law and programs funded by the  States. We know that because we have a CBO score.

People who have supported the Democratic Party policies for years  cannot come to this floor and question the morality of Republicans.

President Trump has his pen in hand and is waiting for the House to  complete its work. We have championed this legislation for months, have  guided it through the appropriate processes, and now we are on the 1  yard line.

America deserves to move even further into the golden age. H.R. 1  unlocks the opportunity to do that. It is time to get this done.

Let's be crystal clear about the content of this historic bill. We  are restoring our borders once left defenseless and without redress. We  are protecting our great Nation by investing in our military and  military families. We are preserving tax cuts that made the United  States economy the envy of the world just 8 years ago. We are reviving  our Nation's fiscal outlook by finally cutting wasteful spending and  unleashing our economy from harmful restraint--restore, protect,  preserve, and revive. The failure to act would yield only the opposite.

Our Democrat colleagues would tear down the border wall and return us  to open-border policies. They would have us oversee a continued decline  in our military readiness despite unprecedented theaters of global  conflict. They would destroy our economy in their unending appetite for  continued tax increases to feed their spending binges.

Mr. Speaker, the choice is clear. We must deliver. We must deliver a  renewed, restored, and revived Nation and grant voters the America they  stood for just 8 months ago.

Mr. Speaker, in a moment, I will offer an amendment to the  resolution, which would correct a technical error in the rule.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the previous question,  ``yes'' on the amendment, and ``yes'' on the rule.                        Amendment offered by Ms. Foxx

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I offer an amendment to the resolution.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I urge support for the resolution, as amended.