Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''; Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Defining Larger Participants of A Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment Applications''; Providing for Consideration of H.R. No Rogue Rulings Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act; and for Other Purposes


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I call  up House Resolution 294 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                 H. Res 294

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the joint resolution (S.J.       Res. 18) disapproving the rule submitted by the Bureau of       Consumer Financial Protection relating to ``Overdraft       Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''. All points of       order against consideration of the joint resolution are       waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All       points of order against provisions in the joint resolution       are waived. The previous question shall be considered as       ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto       to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one       hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair       and ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial       Services or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to       commit.

Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the joint resolution (S.J.       Res. 28) disapproving the rule submitted by the Bureau of       Consumer Financial Protection relating to ``Defining Larger       Participants of a Market for General-Use Digital Consumer       Payment Applications''. All points of order against       consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint       resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint       resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage       without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate       equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking       minority member of the Committee on Financial Services or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to commit.

Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1526) to amend       title 28, United States Code, to limit the authority of       district courts to provide injunctive relief, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committee on the Judiciary now printed in       the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as       amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill,       as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 4.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 22) to amend       the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require proof       of United States citizenship to register an individual to       vote in elections for Federal office, and for other purposes.       All points of order against consideration of the bill are       waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of       order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on       any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening       motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on House Administration or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 5.  House Resolution 293 is hereby adopted.

Sec. 6.  House Resolution 164 is laid on the table.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.

During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, last night, the Rules Committee met and  produced a rule, House Resolution 294, providing for consideration of  four measures: S.J. Res. 18, disapproving the rule submitted by the  Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection relating to ``Overdraft  Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''; S.J. Res. 28,  disapproving the rule submitted by the Bureau of Consumer Financial  Protection relating to ``Defining Larger Participants of a Market for  General-Use Digital Consumer Payment Applications''; H.R. 1526, the No  Rogue Rulings Act of 2025; and H.R. 22, the Safeguard American Voter  Eligibility Act.

House Resolution 294 provides for consideration of S.J. Res. 18 and  S.J. Res. 28, both under closed rules, with 1 hour of general debate  each, equally divided and controlled by the chair and rank minority  member of the Committee on Financial Services or their respective  designees and provides each one motion to commit.

The rule further provides for consideration of H.R. 1526, the No  Rogue Rulings Act of 2025, under a closed rule. The rule provides 1  hour of general debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and  ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their  respective designees and provides for one motion to recommit.

The rule further provides for consideration of H.R. 22, the Safeguard  American Voter Eligibility Act, under a closed rule. The rule provides  1 hour of general debate equally divided and controlled by the chair  and ranking minority member of the Committee on House Administration or  their respective designees and provides for one motion to recommit.

Finally, the rule provides that H. Res. 293 is hereby adopted and  provides that House Resolution 164 is laid on the table.

The rule before us today provides Congress with yet another  opportunity to stand for consumer choice and business innovation in our  Nation. It provides an opportunity to defend the integrity of our  elections, and it provides for a historic opportunity to rein in rogue  judges and return public policy decisions to their rightful branches of  government.

H.R. 22, the Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act, or SAVE Act,  would amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require  proof of U.S. citizenship to register an individual to vote in  elections for Federal office.

The only people who should vote in American elections are American  citizens. There should be no debate or question about that. The SAVE  Act adds additional layers of protection to elections right here in our  own country. It is an opportunity worthy of bipartisan support.

H.R. 1526, the No Rogue Rulings Act of 2025, would limit the  authority of district judges to provide sweeping injunctive relief on a  nationwide or exceedingly broad scale.

As of late, we have certainly seen a slew of rulings by rogue judges  that surpass their own constitutional authority. Americans are  rightfully concerned about this very issue.

Let me be clear. This is judicial warfare in the flesh. Without  question, exceeding constitutional mandates as a matter of judicial  philosophy does nothing more than blight justice itself.

S.J. Res. 18, a Congressional Review Act resolution, would overturn a  midnight rule issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, CFPB,  that undercuts the ability of lower-income Americans to access  liquidity.

To put it very simply, this CFPB's rule hurts the very consumers that  it purports to protect.

One of the likely outcomes of this rule being fully implemented would  be low-income Americans being expelled from the financial system  entirely due to lack of overdraft protection. It is time that we add  this midnight rule to the burn pile.

S.J. Res. 28, another Congressional Review Act resolution, would  overturn another CFPB rule that unjustly shackles private-sector  companies that operate within the digital asset marketplace.

This rule is billed as a ``consumer protection'' mechanism, but what  it really does is misclassifies an entire segment of digital products  with the aim of regulating them straight into the ground. The CFPB  overstepped its regulatory authority in its pursuit of subjugating the  American economy in the name of consumer protection. This is another  misguided rule that we must render null and void.

Mr. Speaker, before I reserve, I want to take a moment to recognize  the good faith efforts of Speaker Johnson in helping maintain a strong  family-centric posture here in the people's House.

Leading from the front and building consensus are not always easy  endeavors. All of us understand this to be true. However, when done in  the right ways and for the right reasons, like what the Speaker has  done, we get positive resolutions.

It is obvious that we have a critical mass of Members on what I  consider an existential question for this body and that the related  discharge effort derailed our agenda for a short time. However, we are  back at our post, and our objective right here and now is to move  forward.

At the end of the day, our eyes must remain affixed to our very own  North Star. Our North Star is governance, Mr. Speaker. Deviating from  governing does not serve the American people, nor does it make good on  the mandate they entrusted us with.

The compromise agreement of dead pairing that was formulated and led  by the Speaker and others is grounded in existing precedents,  practices, and, ultimately, common sense.

This is a viable pathway forward that meets two critical imperatives.  It allows the clockwork and business of this body to remain unabated  while extending due deference to our own majority's own governing  principles.

It is not the prerogative of this Republican majority now, nor will  it ever be, to use tools of the minority to secure legislative  victories. Republicans are the ones manning the helm here, and we must  act like it.

In addition, I will add that I firmly believe, as do many others,  that Speaker Johnson's work in addressing the concerns raised last week  and taking sizable steps to further intertwine rock-solid family values  into the fabric of this House are very commendable.

Mr. Speaker, the solution we are going to vote on today to allow  mothers and fathers to continue to represent their constituents and to  be able to cast their votes is a great solution. It is one that existed  in this Congress before. It is a tried and true method. It broadens the  ability of people to vote when they cannot be here to vote. We have had  situations where we have had people rolled in on gurneys to be able to  vote.

Mr. Speaker, this is a much fairer way to do this in the way that we  are doing it now.

I also remind my colleagues who are speaking against or saying we are  not dealing with the tariffs issue is that former Speaker Pelosi,  Senator Schumer, and other Democrats railed against Chinese tariffs  years ago but did nothing about them. They even supported President  Biden's preserving of the tariffs from the Chinese most recently, and  they said nothing about it here.

President Trump is doing something about the tariffs. He is  responding in ways that will strengthen the international economic  position of the United States and protect American workers. He is  showing leadership where the Democrats have shown none.

Mr. Speaker, we have nothing to be ashamed of. We are here solving  problems for the American people every day. We are responding to what  we were asked to do in the last election.

I just point out to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern)  that Republicans had a majority in the 118th Congress, the most recent  Congress. We are now in the 119th Congress.

We deemed only two items that were passed in the Committee on Rules.  In the 117th Congress, when the Democrats controlled the Congress, they  deemed 38 different items as passed in the Committee on Rules.

There is an old saying, Mr. Speaker: ``Those who live in glass houses  shouldn't throw stones.''

Mr. Speaker, we are not afraid to debate tariffs, but we have four  bills to debate here today. That is the business that we need to be  dealing with.

I will point out to my friends, again, people who live in glass  houses should not throw stones.

The Democrats love to claim foul on Republicans shutting off national  emergencies, but perhaps they should reconsider given their own record  when it comes to tolling day counts.

They want to claim that Republicans are stopping time, but perhaps  they forget just a few short years ago, in the Democrat-controlled  117th Congress, their own House rules package, H. Res. 8, conveniently  stopped time for both legislative and calendar days regarding a myriad  of processes.

Let me read, Mr. Speaker, from their rules:

``Each day during the period addressed by paragraph (1) shall not  constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the War Powers  Resolution, 50 U.S.C. 1546.

``Each day during the period addressed by paragraph (1) shall not  constitute a legislative day for purposes of clause 7 of Rule XIII.

``Each day during the period addressed by paragraph (1) shall not  constitute a calendar or legislative day for purposes of clause 7(c)(1)  of Rule XII.''

Now, what is this, the pot calling the kettle black? I am just not  sure of that. I do think it is important, though, to remind our  colleagues on the other side of the aisle that this happened. Mr.  McGovern wants the country to know what is going on here. We want the  country to know what is going on here, too.

Let me say that this is a package that all four minority members of  our committee voted in favor of, by the way. These manipulations were  maintained for nearly 18 months in subsequent rules with continued  support by the committee's minority counterparts.

Similarly, when it comes to the National Emergencies Act, in a rule  they permanently blocked votes terminating the COVID national  emergency, despite Mr. Gosar introducing two separate disapproval  resolutions.

Mr. Speaker, be careful what you accuse us of because we have the  facts and the record on our side.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, the Reading Clerk told us what we were here to  do today. In my opening remarks, I read out what it is we are here to  do today. We have a rule, and then we are going to have four bills to  vote on. That is what we are here for.

Our Democratic colleagues are desperate. They do not want to talk  about this rule and what it does or the underlying bills. They want us  to try to look at shiny objects over here, Mr. Speaker, that have  nothing to do with what we are here to do today.

What Republicans want to do is focus on what we are here to do today.  We could talk about tariffs sometime, yes. We are happy to do that, but  let's talk about what we have to do here.

The Democrats don't want to talk about these because they correct  issues that the Biden administration did wrong, these midnight rules of  the CFPB. They don't want to talk about the rogue judges who have been  overruled by the Supreme Court. They don't want to talk about what is  happening here and now. They want to try to distract the American  people with other issues.

Mr. Speaker, let's deal with the issues at hand. Let's focus on  those, do our job as Members of Congress, and get on with our business  today.

I am going to take a little time to address the importance of the No  Rogue Rulings Act and why the American people are demanding action  against this unchecked abuse of nationwide injunctions.

The fact is activist liberal judges have been utilizing nationwide  injunctions in an unprecedented fashion. There have been 17 identified  cases in which Federal courts issued nationwide injunctions between  January 20, 2025, and March 27, 2025, against the Trump administration.

Compare this to the 19 injunctions issued during the entire Obama  Presidency, 8 years, Mr. Speaker. Fifty-five such injunctions were  issued against the first Trump administration, 4 years, Mr. Speaker. If  we look back to the Presidency of George W. Bush, only 12 nationwide  injunctions were issued in 8 years. Some estimate that only 27  nationwide injunctions were issued in the 20th century. This  exponential increase demands action.

Nationwide injunctions frequently extend far beyond the immediate  parties in a lawsuit, affecting entire populations and jurisdictions  not involved in the original dispute. These overreaching rulings create  significant uncertainty about Federal policies, drain taxpayer  resources, and embolden unelected judges to subvert the will of the  American people by thwarting the democratically elected President and  Congress.

Article III authorizes Congress to determine what types of cases  inferior courts have jurisdiction to review. In some past cases,  Congress has exercised this power by stripping Federal courts of  jurisdiction to hear certain classes of cases, but that drastic action  is avoided in this legislation. Instead, it takes a very measured  approach. The bill would curtail the scope of injunctive relief but  still allow for nationwide injunction under the appropriate  circumstances.

Injunctions would still be permitted. What won't be permitted is  having an activist judge from a liberal enclave in the country impose a  decision that goes far beyond the subject presented before him or her  in the courtroom.

The American people shouldn't be robbed of exercising their policy  preferences by judicial extremism, and it would apply evenly to future  Democratic and Republican administrations alike.

The policies being put forth by the Trump administration are novel,  creative, and bold. That is what the American people expected when they  voted for President Trump. Just because a policy is untested or  unprecedented doesn't mean it is illegal. Democrats may impugn  President Trump all they want, but these fundamental constitutional  concerns are best settled at the appellate level.

This legislation does nothing to affect the proper avenues for  constitutional challenges. Congress has always reserved this power to  bring order to the judicial branch. We simply want to impose some order  on the chaotic episodes unfolding in our courts.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I have to respond about the fact that we are denying new  mothers and prospective mothers the opportunity to vote with this  legislation. That is just not true. It is going to need to be refuted  over and over again.

What we have done is accommodate not only prospective and new mothers  but we have also accommodated other Members who might need that  accommodation. Let me be clear about that. That is absolutely true.

Mr. Speaker, House Republicans remain laser focused on governing and  advancing legislation that addresses pertinent issues across the  Nation. Our foot is placed firmly upon the gas pedal of solving  problems the American people want us to solve.

The four pieces of legislation that will be considered under this  rule are part of our governing efforts and are in alignment with the  mandate that Americans gave us last November. Shielding consumer  choice, protecting consumer choice, and combating foreign influence  within higher education in America are issues that Americans care  about. We have heard their concerns, and we are addressing them yet  again this week.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the previous  question and ``yes'' on the rule.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment to H. Res. 294 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 7. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       joint resolution (H.J. Res. 91) relating to a national       emergency by the President on April 2, 2025. All points of       order against consideration of the joint resolution are       waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All       points of order against provisions in the joint resolution       are waived. The previous question shall be considered as       ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto,       to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one       hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair       and ranking minority member of the Committee on Foreign       Affairs or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to       recommit.

Sec. 8. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the       consideration of H.J. Res. 91.