Providing for Consideration of H.R. Department of Defense Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.R. Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act; Providing for Consideration of S. Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act; and Waiving A Requirement of Clause 6(A) of Rule Xiii with Respect to Consideration of Certain Resolutions Reported From the Committee on Rules


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693550/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-department-of-defense-appropriations-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-digital-asset-market-clarity-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-anti-cbdc-surveillance-state-act-providing-for-consideration-of-s-guiding-and-establishing-national-innovation-for-us-stablecoins-act-and-waiving-a-requirement-of-clause-6a-of-rule-xiii-with-respect-to-consideration-of-certain-resolutions-reported-from-the-committee-on-rules


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Georgia for yielding  time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and the underlying  legislation. The four separate measures being considered under this  rule all have a singular commonality. They serve to put American  interests first, where they should always be.

All of us can agree that within the global markets, and on the global  stage, America must always remain competitive and stand tall. That is  not sometimes. That is not occasionally. That is not part of the time.  That is always.

From protecting consumer privacy to ushering in a new era of  financial innovation, providing for the common defense of the Nation to  strengthening the dominance of the American dollar, these pieces of  legislation are as consequential as they are vital.

This is the caliber of legislation that the American people expect  our Republican majority to deliver. Republicans here in the people's  House continue to exceed that mark. We have done it many times before,  and this week, we will do it again.

One of the four bills being considered under this rule is H.R. 4016,  the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2026. This legislation  provides for appropriations for the DOD for the fiscal year ending on  September 30, 2026.

Mr. Speaker, you know as well as I do that Congress' first solemn  responsibility, one of many, is to provide for the common defense of  the Nation.

In total, H.R. 4016 provides $831.5 billion and adheres to the  budgetary top line put forward in the President's FY26 budget request.

Consider for a moment the provisions contained within this  legislation that uphold Congress' responsibility.

Mr. Speaker, there is $189 billion for Active-Duty, Reserve, and  National Guard military personnel, which is $6.6 billion above the  fiscal year 2025 enacted level. There is an increase of 3.8 percent in  basic pay for all military personnel beginning January 1 of next year.  There are sizeable investments in research and development, procurement  efforts, and operation and maintenance.

Mr. Speaker, I will vote ``yes'' on the rule and ``yes'' on the four  underlying measures, and I urge my colleagues to do the same.