Providing for Consideration of H.R. Financial Services and General Government and National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699072/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-financial-services-and-general-government-and-national-security-department-of-state-and-related-programs-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I call  up House Resolution 992 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 992

Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this       resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule       XVIII, declare the House resolved into the Committee of the       Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of       the bill (H.R. 7006) making further consolidated       appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2026,       and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall       be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration       of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to       the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees.       After general debate the bill shall be considered for       amendment under the five-minute rule. The bill shall be       considered as read. All points of order against provisions in       the bill are waived. Clause 2(e) of rule XXI shall not apply       during consideration of the bill. No amendment to the bill       shall be in order except those printed in the report of the       Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such       amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the       report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the       report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for       the time specified in the report equally divided and       controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be       subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand       for division of the question in the House or in the Committee       of the Whole. All points of order against such amendments are       waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for       amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the       House with such amendments as may have been adopted. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill       and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening       motion except one motion to recommit.

Sec. 2.  The chair of the Committee on Appropriations may       insert in the Congressional Record not later than January 16,       2026, such material as he may deem explanatory of H.R. 7006.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.  Scanlon), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the bill and the  underlying legislation.

Yesterday, the Rules Committee met and produced a rule, House  Resolution 992, providing for the House's consideration of a single  measure, H.R. 7006, the Financial Services and General Government and  National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs  Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2026.

The rule provides for consideration of H.R. 7006 under a structured  rule, with two amendments made in order. Further, the rule provides 1  hour of general debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and  ranking member of the Committee on Appropriations, or their respective  designees, and one motion to recommit.

Mr. Speaker, following last week's progress in advancing three  separate appropriations bills through the committee and on the floor,  we have returned this week to continue our work. H.R. 7006 was  negotiated in good faith on a bipartisan, bicameral basis.

President Trump's priorities, alongside the priorities of the  American people, are interwoven within this important package.

Let me make this abundantly clear, Mr. Speaker: Not only does this  legislative package contain no poison pills, but it also cuts foreign  aid by 16 percent. That is more than $9 billion.

Further, this package is part of an agreement that keeps fiscal year  2026 spending below the level that has been forecasted under the  current continuing resolution.

We are enacting targeted funding to accelerate entrepreneurship and  economic prosperity, guard our Nation's national security posture and  apparatus, and further cement true, unyielding, American leadership on  the international stage.

At the very same time, we are slashing incompatible mandates and  provisions that were cooked up during the Biden administration that  would have weakened America's trajectory to greatness.

With fiscal restraint and an eye toward paving a new and prosperous  path for our Nation, anything--yes, anything--can be possible.

As I said in the committee yesterday afternoon, gone are the days of  inflated omnibuses that have bogged down and constrained this  legislative body. Indeed, we are moving in a better direction and  chucking the Biden budget into the grave where it belongs. Good  riddance.

The bipartisan and bicameral underpinnings of this legislative  package make a compelling case as to why the House must pass it  immediately.

Mr. Speaker, we are here to debate this appropriations package, not  every other issue under the Sun. I urge my colleagues not to lose sight  of the legislative package at hand: We have a bipartisan, bicameral  appropriations package free of poison pill riders that bring us closer  to fulfilling our Article I responsibilities.

My colleague says Republicans are in control, but the very bills we  have passed and are passing are bipartisan. We are working across the  aisle, which we should do. Our friends can't have it both ways. They  can't say we are in control, therefore, everything is our fault, and  say at the same time that these are good bills built upon bipartisan  support.

There will no doubt be time to debate other matters, but today the  matter at hand is an appropriations package containing the Financial  Services and General Government bill and the National Security,  Department of State, and Related Programs bill.

Might I add that national security is the number one issue in our  Federal Government. We need to stay focused and complete the task at  hand.

Again, we should be focused on the issue at hand. Mr. Speaker, we  never celebrate the loss of life on our side. We don't celebrate the  loss of life in the recent shooting, but we cannot absolve people of  the actions they are taking to disrupt ICE's operations.

We certainly shouldn't be looking at ICE agents, condemning ICE  agents who are showing up to do their jobs. Democrats have been  questioning the authority and jurisdiction of ICE's actions in  Minnesota.

Let's shed some light on what ICE has been doing. They arrested a  criminal illegal alien from Somalia with a record of multiple counts of  credit card fraud, drug possession, controlled substance possession,  and drug trafficking. This criminal was issued a final order of removal  in 2022.

ICE also arrested a criminal illegal alien from Laos with three prior  convictions for selling drugs as well as convictions for assault and  contributing to a minor's delinquency. This criminal was issued a final  order of removal in 2009, Mr. Speaker.

A criminal illegal alien from Mexico previously arrested for child  cruelty and battery was also picked up by ICE. This criminal was issued  a final order of removal in 2009.

In addition, there was a criminal illegal alien from Mexico  previously arrested for cruelty toward a child, and a criminal illegal  alien from Somalia previously arrested for dangerous drugs and  possession of narcotics.

We are talking about dangerous people, Mr. Speaker. The list goes on  and on. Let's be clear, ICE is targeting criminal rings, and the Trump  Administration isn't ignoring fraud as Governor Walz had done for  years. They are targeting that criminal ring for immigration  violations, just as they have done elsewhere.

Not long ago, ICE agents arrested more than 150 illegal alien sex  offenders during a major enforcement surge across the State of Florida.  ICE is focusing on rings of criminality, and they will pursue them  wherever they might be, political correctness be damned. Americans are  better off under this approach.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, this majority continues to roll up its sleeves and  advance the core priorities of the American people and President Trump.  We are absolutely exercising our Article I responsibilities by passing  appropriations bills.

With our unifying vision and some elbow grease, we are making  significant headway that benefits the American people and our entire  Nation. The legislative package contained under this rule is yet  another commitment that we are seeing through to completion. Its  provisions and intent confirm this through and through.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the previous  question, ``yes'' on the rule, and ``yes'' on the underlying bill.

The material previously referred to by Ms. Scanlon is as follows:     An Amendment to H. Res. 992 Offered by Ms. Scanlon of Pennsylvania

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 3. Notwithstanding any other provision of this       resolution, the amendment specified in section 4 shall be in       order as though printed as the last amendment of the report       of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution if       offered by Representative Hoyer of Maryland or a designee.       That amendment shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally       divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent.

Sec. 4. The amendment referred to in section 3 is as       follows:

At the end of division A (before the short title), insert       the following:

Sec. __ Any remaining unobligated balances from amounts       originally made available under the heading ``General       Services Administration'' in the Financial Services and       General Government Appropriations Act, 2016 (title V of       division E of Public Law 114-113), the Financial Services and       General Government Appropriations Act, 2017 (title V of       division E of Public Law 115-31), the Financial Services and       General Government Appropriations Act, 2023 (title V of       division E of Public Law 117-328), or the Financial Services       and General Government Appropriations Act, 2024 (title V of       division B of Public Law 118-47) for the new Federal Bureau       of Investigation consolidated headquarters facility in the       National Capital Region that were subsequently transferred       pursuant to a notification received by the Committees on       Appropriations from the Acting Administrator of the General       Services Administrator on September 19, 2025, may not be       further obligated until the General Services Administration,       in consultation with the Federal Bureau of Investigation,       submits to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of       Representatives and the Senate the contracted and completed       architectural and engineering plan for the Federal Bureau of       Investigation's new headquarters building for review. Any       classified portion of the architectural and engineering plan       shall be submitted through a classified annex.