Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Buffalo Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H. Con. Res. Denouncing the Horrors of Socialism; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Unlocking Our Domestic Lng Potential Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Researching Efficient Federal Improvements for Necessary Energy Refining Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696900/providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-national-petroleum-reserve-in-alaska-integrated-activity-plan-record-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-buffalo-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-amendment-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-coastal-plain-oil-and-gas-leasing-program-record-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-h-con-res-denouncing-the-horrors-of-socialism-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-unlocking-our-domestic-lng-potential-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-researching-efficient-federal-improvements-for-necessary-energy-refining-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-common-sense-law-enforcement-and-accountability-now-in-dc-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-district-of-columbia-cash-bail-reform-act-of-and-for-other-purposes


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I call  up  House Resolution 879 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 879

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House any joint resolution       specified in section 2 of this resolution. All points of       order against consideration of each such joint resolution are       waived. Each such joint resolution shall be considered as       read. All points of order against provisions in each such       joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on each such joint resolution and on       any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening       motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on Natural Resources or their respective designees;       and (2) one motion to recommit (or commit, as the case may       be).

Sec. 2. The joint resolutions referred to in the first       section of this resolution are as follows:

(a) The joint resolution (S.J. Res. 80) providing for       congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United       States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Land       Management relating to ``National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska       Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision''.

(b) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 130) providing for       congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United       States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Land       Management relating to ``Buffalo Field Office Record of       Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''.

(c) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 131) providing for       congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United       States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Land       Management relating to ``Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing       Program Record of Decision''.

Sec. 3. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the concurrent resolution (H.       Con. Res. 58) denouncing the horrors of socialism. All points       of order against consideration of the concurrent resolution       are waived. The concurrent resolution shall be considered as       read. All points of order against provisions in the       concurrent resolution are waived. The previous question shall       be considered as ordered on the concurrent resolution and       preamble to adoption without intervening motion except one       hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair       and ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial       Services or their respective designees.

Sec. 4. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1949) to repeal       restrictions on the export and import of natural gas. All       points of order against consideration of the bill are waived.       The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on       any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening       motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on Energy and Commerce or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 5. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3109) to       require the Secretary of Energy to direct the National       Petroleum Council to issue a report with respect to       petrochemical refineries in the United States, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All       points of order against provisions in the bill are waived.       The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the       bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their       respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 6. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5107) to repeal       the Comprehensive Policing and Justice Reform Amendment Act       of 2022 enacted by the District of Columbia Council. All       points of order against consideration of the bill are waived.       The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by       the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform now printed       in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as       amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill,       as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight and       Government Reform or their respective designees; and (2) one       motion to recommit.

Sec. 7. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5214) to       require mandatory pretrial and post conviction detention for       crimes of violence and dangerous crimes and require mandatory       cash bail for certain offenses that pose a threat to public       safety or order in the District of Columbia, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committee on Oversight and Government       Reform now printed in the bill shall be considered as       adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the bill, as       amended, are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 8. Upon transmission to the Senate of a message that       the House has passed H.R. 4405, House Resolution 581 shall be       laid on the table.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and the underlying  legislation.

Yesterday, the Rules Committee met and produced a rule, H. Res. 879,  providing for the House's consideration of eight separate measures.

The rule provides closed rules for consideration of S.J. Res. 80,  H.J. Res. 130, H.J. Res. 131 with 1 hour of debate equally divided and  controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on  Natural Resources, or their respective designees, for each joint  resolution. The rule provides each such joint resolution one motion to  recommit.

Further, the rule provides closed rules for the consideration of H.R.  1949 and H.R. 3109 with 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled  by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and  Commerce, or their respective designees, for each bill. The rule  provides each bill with a motion to recommit.

Additionally, the rule provides for consideration of H. Con. Res. 58  under a closed rule with 1 hour of debate equally divided and  controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on  Financial Services, or their respective designees.

The rule also provides for consideration of H.R. 5214 and H.R. 5107  under closed rules with 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled  by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight  and Government Reform, or their respective designees, on each bill. The  rule provides for one motion to recommit for each bill.

Finally, the rule tables H. Res. 581 upon the transmission of a  message to the Senate that the House has passed H.R. 4405.

Mr. Speaker, after over 40 days of the Democrat government shutdown,  the House has returned to regular order, and this majority is  continuing to push forward with the America First agenda, the American  people's agenda.

All of these pieces of legislation we are considering today are in  alignment with the American people's demand and President Trump's  executive orders that we maintain a robust posture of American energy  dominance.

You know, Mr. Speaker, our Democrat colleagues have developed a  strong proclivity to thumb their noses at the development of energy  that comes from American soil. One must wonder why they choose to do  that. They pay lipservice to environmental protections and reducing  greenhouse gas emissions, but it is just a fact that American oil and  American natural gas are cleaner and more environmentally friendly than  any from our global competitors.

Why would they cede our dominance on the global stage in favor of  hostile actors who lack even the most basic environmental protections?

We are blessed as a nation to have vast repositories of natural  resources that we can draw from and utilize accordingly. When we ignore  the opportunities to harness these resources for our benefit, we deny  ourselves the opportunity to grow more self-sufficient.

H.R. 5214 and H.R. 5107, two measures reported from the Oversight and  Government Reform Committee, focus on restoring law and order in our  Nation's Capital City, a city that ought to be a model for the rest of  the Nation to follow.

H.R. 5214 would revoke cashless bail in the District of Columbia and  would require mandatory pretrial and postconviction detention for  crimes of violence and other dangerous crimes.

H.R. 5107 would repeal the Comprehensive Policing and Justice Reform  Amendment Act of 2022 enacted by the District of Columbia Council. This  act targeted police officers in D.C. for simply doing their duties, and  it led to over 1,600 officers being removed from the city's force.

Thanks to President Trump's efforts, the streets in D.C. are safer,  and we have the opportunity through these two measures to add to that  progress.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, we have H. Con. Res. 58, a resolution  denouncing the horrors of socialism. Most of us here in this body  recognize how dangerous the plague of socialism really is. We  understand its history of failure and oppression. Throughout history,  this ideology has collapsed into the most brutal of dictatorships,  communist regimes, and outright totalitarian rule.

Many are quick to avert their eyes and cover their ears when  presented with facts about the horrors of socialism, how many  individuals across the world have suffered and died because of it. This  resolution will put everyone in this body on record. The American  people will see who espouses this caustic ideology and those who reject  it.

Mr. Speaker, while it is true there have been 80 closed measures,  this number needs context. Twelve of the closed rules were in the rules  package, which passed 2 weeks before the 119th Rules Committee even  organized to begin meeting. Additionally, 25 measures were CRAs. They  don't allow for an amendment. Sixteen were bills that received no  amendments, meaning 41 measures were closed by definition. It is also  important that four of the closed rules are duplicates from a previous  failed rule. In reality, only 27 measures have been closed by  discretion of the Committee.

Additionally, the Rules Committee under Republican control has simply  been more productive, producing more total rules than our colleagues  ever did. For example, during the most recent Democratic-controlled  Congresses, the Rules Committee produced 127 total rules in the 116th  Congress and 163 in the 117th Congress. Contrast this to the 200 total  rules in the Republican-led 118th Congress. For the 119th, we are on  pace to once again produce nearly 200 rules for the Congress.

Mr. Speaker, we are doing our job. We are not closing out debate. We  are having plenty of debate. There are plenty of opportunities for our  colleagues to offer amendments.

Ms. FOXX.

Mr. Speaker, let's be clear: Republicans don't oppose the full  transparency of the Epstein files. We embrace the Oversight Committee's  task of doing just that. We embrace Representative Massie's legislation  here today by putting it up for a vote under suspension. I will be  voting for it.

We already have a House investigation that carries the full force of  law, and there is no opposition to respecting the majority's wishes to  get this codified into law. Let's get to it. Let's get to the vote and  end these false debates, straw man arguments, and non sequiturs.

We tried to pass this bill last week, but Democrats wouldn't agree to  doing so. Let's vote now. Democrats should stop, listen, and take yes  for an answer.

Mr. Speaker,

At the top of this page, I have written: ``Democrat hypocrisy on  Epstein.'' Mr. Speaker, that is what we are hearing today.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to be a member of the House Oversight and  Government Reform Committee. I am proud to have supported the full  investigation into the Epstein files on that committee.

Furthermore, I am proud to have supported formalizing that  investigation by taking the decisive step in directing that  investigation by a special rule provided by the Rules Committee. This  gave the Oversight Committee's investigation the full weight of the  House of Representatives behind the committee's existing subpoena  power. It is very important in this debate.

Mr. Speaker, let's get things straight here. In just a matter of  hours, we will vote on the Massie bill. That won't preclude the  existing House Oversight and Government Reform Committee's  investigation in any way. That is a great thing because that  investigation is yielding results.

We now know that one of Jeffrey Epstein's closest confidantes was  apparently Larry Summers, a Cabinet member in the Clinton  administration. We now know that a Democrat Member in this body, Stacey  Plaskett, was colluding with Jeffrey Epstein in real time during a  hearing. The subject matter was how to take down President Trump. We  can't make this stuff up.

We now know that Epstein himself hated President Trump. It is in  black and white. We now know that one of the chief Epstein victims  stated that President Trump never acted inappropriately.

Don't forget that oversight investigations specifically subpoenaed  Bill and Hillary Clinton for their ties to Jeffrey Epstein. They  haven't been quick to step into the breach and exonerate themselves,  have they?

The truth will continue to come out, as it has, because of  Republicans and a current Republican-led House Oversight and Government  Reform Committee investigation, one that already carries the full force  of law. Let's see where that leads.

Mr. Speaker,

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker,

Mr. Speaker, we need to get facts straight here. President Trump's  Department of Justice in his first term arrested and prosecuted Jeffrey  Epstein. We, on our side, want justice to prevail in this case and in  every case.

Speaker Johnson has always been clear that if the discharge petition  reached the necessary signatures, then the House would consider the  legislation, and that is what we are providing for in our rule today.

In fact, as soon as the petition hit 218 votes last Wednesday, House  Republicans offered a unanimous consent request to pass the legislation  then.

However, the Democratic leader would not give consent to do that last  week.

Why?

It is because they are not really interested in this. They are  interested in some other things.

Mr. Speaker, I have to correct the Record.

Mr. Massie did not request time from me. I am the person who controls  the time on the Republican side. He did not request time from me. I  would have given him time.

Mr. Speaker,

Our colleagues want Americans to believe that this discharge petition  and underlying legislation are the be-all and end-all in this  investigation. However, it is House Republicans who have worked  tirelessly to achieve true justice for victims.

To date, the significant information that has come out has come from  the Oversight and Government Reform Committee as a result of it issuing  13 subpoenas. We have released 65,000 pages of documents from the  Department of Justice; the Epstein estate, which was not mentioned in  the underlying legislation; the former U.S. attorney; and others.

Let me say it again. The unanimous-consent request to pass the  legislation immediately last week was blocked by the minority leader,  full stop. If Democrats truly cared about finding justice immediately  for victims, this legislation would have been passed last week.  Instead, they want political theater to capitalize on.

House Republicans, on the other hand, remain focused on truth,  accountability, and delivering real justice for Epstein's victims, not  political points.

Mr. Speaker,

Mr. Speaker, those of us who did not sign the discharge petition are  just as concerned about the victims or, as some are calling them,  survivors as our colleagues who signed the discharge petition.

We share contempt for anyone who abused anyone else. I have stood on  this floor many times, Mr. Speaker, to speak out for victims and  survivors of people who have been abused and against anyone who breaks  the law or takes advantage of an innocent person.

We will not be characterized as insensitive to that, but House  Republicans  who didn't sign the discharge petition remain focused on truth,  accountability, and delivering real justice for Epstein victims.

Again, I will point out that it was under President Trump's  Department of Justice that Jeffrey Epstein was arrested and tried. We  have not tried to avoid this situation. We want things done the right  way. We want maximum justice for these victims and survivors.

Our rule today simply expedites consideration of the Massie-Khanna  legislation. As I said, we would have liked to have seen it pass last  week when we gave an opportunity for it, but it was blocked by the  Democratic minority leader.

Mr. Speaker, I ask for support for this rule and the underlying  legislation. I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the previous  question and ``yes'' on the rule.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment to H. Res. 879 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 9. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 6074) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986       to extend the enhancement of the health care premium tax       credit. All points of order against consideration of the bill       are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points       of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill       and on any amendment thereto to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 10. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the       consideration of H.R. 6074.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.