Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protecting Access for Hunters and Anglers Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Deporting Fraudsters Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Bill to Outlaw Wounding of Official Working Animals Act of and Relating to Consideration of Motions to Suspend the Rules


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700836/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-protecting-access-for-hunters-and-anglers-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-deporting-fraudsters-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-bill-to-outlaw-wounding-of-official-working-animals-act-of-and-relating-to-consideration-of-motions-to-suspend-the-rules


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I call  up House Resolution 1115 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 1115

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 556) to       prohibit the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of       Agriculture from prohibiting the use of lead ammunition or       tackle on certain Federal land or water under the       jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior and the       Secretary of Agriculture, and for other purposes. All points       of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The       amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the       Committee on Natural Resources now printed in the bill shall       be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be       considered as read. All points of order against provisions in       the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall       be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Natural Resources or their       respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1958) to amend       the Immigration and Nationality Act to clarify that aliens       who have been convicted of defrauding the United States       Government or the unlawful receipt of public benefits are       inadmissible and deportable. All points of order against       consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the       nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on the       Judiciary now printed in the bill shall be considered as       adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the bill, as       amended, are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 4638) to amend       the Immigration and Nationality Act to provide that an alien       who has been convicted of harming animals used in law       enforcement is inadmissible and deportable, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committee on the Judiciary now printed in       the bill, modified by the amendment printed in the report of       the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be       considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be       considered as read. All points of order against provisions in       the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall       be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 4.  Debate on motions that the House suspend the       rules, under clause 1 of rule XV, relating to the joint       resolution (H.J. Res. 139) proposing an amendment to the       Constitution of the United States requiring a balanced budget       for the Federal Government, shall be extended to one hour.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mr. Speaker, last night, the Rules Committee met and produced a rule,  House Resolution 1115, providing for the House's consideration of H.R.  556, H.R. 1958, and H.R. 4638.

The rule provides for consideration of H.R. 556, the Protecting  Access for Hunters and Anglers Act, under a closed rule. The rule  provides 1 hour of general debate equally divided and controlled by the  chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural  Resources, or their designees, and provides for one motion to recommit.

The rule further provides for consideration of H.R. 1958, the  Deporting Fraudsters Act of 2026, and H.R. 4638, the Federal Working  Animal Protection Act, both under closed rules. The rule provides each  1 hour of general debate equally divided and controlled by the chair  and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their  respective designees and provides for one motion to recommit for each  bill.

Additionally, when considered under suspension of the rules, the rule  provides additional debate time to 1 hour of general debate for H.J.  Res. 139, proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United  States requiring a balanced budget for the Federal Government.

Mr. Speaker, the three measures that underpin this rule all share a  singular, defining characteristic: They are in alignment with the  priorities and demands of the American people.

What do the American people want, Mr. Speaker? I will tell you what  they want. They want a restoration of law and order so that illegal  aliens are deported, especially when they are convicted of having  committed criminal acts.

Republicans are answering that demand by putting forth H.R. 1958 and  H.R. 4638. These two pieces of legislation zero in on criminal aliens  who have defrauded the government and criminal aliens who commit  violent acts against law enforcement working animals in the line of  duty.

Mr. Speaker, when I say that we back the blue, I am talking about the  men and women of law enforcement and the trained animals that stand  alongside them in the line of duty.

Those who choose to oppose this legislation, I can guarantee, are  members of the same party that has voted to keep the Department of  Homeland Security shut down and has voted in the past to defund the  police. You and I both know, Mr. Speaker, which party it is that I am  referring to here. It is obvious.

Americans want a Federal Government that respects consumer choice and  the exercising of our freedoms, not a Federal Government that seeks to  regulate every single aspect of our lives. That is why Republicans are  putting forth H.R. 556, which would tear down regulations that have  dictated how men and women across the Nation can hunt and fish on  select pieces of land under the control of the Secretary of the  Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture, respectively.

These are two essential parts of life that Americans are incredibly  fortunate to engage in and enjoy. I believe all should respect that,  but the Federal Government, under Democratic control, has time and  again viewed these activities as nothing more than a target to  overregulate. Is anyone surprised by this? I don't believe so.

Now, Mr. Speaker, I will guarantee that our colleagues across the  aisle won't spend their time debating this slate of bills with us  today. I would be pleasantly surprised if they actually chose to do  that. Instead, they will do the same thing they always do: stomp their  feet, huff and puff, and yell about unrelated things until they are  blue in the face. It is like muscle memory for them at this point.

Meanwhile, Republicans will be focused on the task at hand, like they  always are. They stand ready to deliver, and they intend to do so, yet  again, with these three pieces of legislation.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Massachusetts for  his kind comments. I send them back to him and wish him a happy St.  Patrick's Day. I appreciate him making my prediction in my opening  remarks come true.

Mr. Speaker, I am a huge animal rights lover too, and I have a dog I  say that owns me.

My colleague just talked about one example that worked out well, but  we know lots and lots of examples where these things don't work out  well, and that is why we need this legislation. It is because acts of  cruelty toward animals who are working often fall between the cracks.

My colleague also just said that no one will see any benefits from  the Working Families Tax Cut, yet thanks to this important legislation,  Americans could receive nearly a $4,000-tax refund this year. The  average take-home pay boost is $10,900, and the average tax cut for  middle-income Americans is 15 percent.

Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.  Taylor).

Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I will point out to my colleague that, yes, gas jumped  in the last month, but it is still a lot less expensive than it was  under President Biden.

Thankfully, under President Trump, gas prices were cut almost in  half. The number one role of the Federal Government, Madam Speaker, as  we all know on our side of the aisle, is defense of this Nation.

Madam Speaker, the need for legislation like H.R. 1958 is not  hypothetical. Fraud is a serious crime, and it is essential we ensure  foreign national fraudsters cannot continue to exploit the American  taxpayers.

While my colleagues will argue that there is no fraud currently, here  are just a few recent examples: ``A 3-year-old girl's Social Security  number had been used for `two credit cards and two auto loans, with an  outstanding balance of more than $25,000.''

The second example is: ``Fraud by illegal immigrants destroying  children's  lives.'' These are quotes, Madam Speaker. Including the life of: ``A 9- year-old boy who was denied Medicaid because wages were reported on his  Social Security number. A 13-year-old girl who was denied as a  dependent on her family's tax return because she supposedly made too  much money.''

These are because illegal aliens are stealing Social Security numbers  and using them.

In 2019, the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of  Mississippi announced the prosecution of 119 illegal aliens for crimes,  including ``misusing Social Security numbers of American citizens.''

I have the sources for all of these, Madam Speaker.

In June 2020, the Justice Department announced that an illegal alien  from Guatemala was sentenced to 3 months' imprisonment for ``[using]  another person's Social Security number to get a job and for tax  purposes.''

In October 2023, an illegal alien who was arrested by the U.S. Border  Patrol near Hidalgo, Texas, in September 2022 and then released by the  Biden administration, pleaded guilty to illegal use of a Social  Security number.

In November 2025, The New York Times highlighted the case of Daniel  Kluver, a Minnesota man whose identity was stolen by a Guatemalan  illegal alien with a criminal history and multiple deportations.  Because of the identity theft, Kluver lost thousands of dollars through  garnished wages and increased taxes. He spent years unsuccessfully  trying to untangle the mystery of his stolen identity.

The stories go on and on, Madam Speaker, so there is a real reason  for this legislation.

Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

First, let me say, we know what the role of the Federal Government  is. It is outlined in the Constitution of the United States. Many of  the things that my colleague wants us to be involved in--and we have  been involved in--are the things that have caused us to have a $38  trillion debt at the Federal level, and so doing everything that we can  to reduce fraud is really very important.

Let me say, if we have people who are here legally, as Americans have  done for Americans, we will do for them. But those who come here  illegally--and the term is illegal alien--then we do not have any truck  with them. We want them to obey the law, just like we want everybody  else to obey the law.

If they commit fraud, then we want them gone, out of this country.  They shouldn't be here to begin with because they come in illegally.

If we want to address the high cost of living in this country, we  must confront fraud. We must confront fraud. Democrats should be  joining us, not opposing the commonsense effort.

Let's talk about the rhetoric from our colleagues on our record of  fiscal soundness this Congress and the Democrats' record of spending  addiction. We just finished the FY26 appropriations package--of course,  minus the funding for Homeland Security. We saved nearly $14 billion  compared to last year's appropriated levels. Let's not forget that  comes on the heels of cutting $9 billion of waste and fraud through a  rescissions package just months earlier, and that came on the heels  of cutting $1.4 trillion of waste, fraud, and abuse through  Republicans' reconciliation effort.

Democrats are lying in wait to vote for higher taxes on working  families yet again if they have the opportunity. What they don't  understand is that the government doesn't have a tax flow problem. We  have a fundamental spending problem in Washington. Again, that spending  is not on what the Federal Government should be spending it on, which  is the defense of this Nation, but is on spending on things that are  not outlined in the Constitution for us to be doing.

When Democrats had full control of the levers of power and passed  their reconciliation packages, they expanded the Federal Government  with an unprecedented $11 trillion in spending. Yes, Madam Speaker, I  said $11 trillion in additional spending, $6 trillion of which has been  added to the national debt.

There is simply no comparison between what Republicans have  accomplished this Congress and the Democrats' spending addiction. We  have lowered the deficit. We have cut trillions in waste. We have  secured tax relief for working families. Democrats opposed us on every  front.

Guess what. Our deficit is finally being addressed. The Federal  Government's cumulative deficit for fiscal year 2026 at the end of  November was 19 percent lower than the year prior under Biden.

Be it by reconciliation, rescission, or through the regular-order  annual appropriations process, this Congress is cutting spending,  driving down inflation, and returning money to taxpayers.

Madam Speaker, that is really the fundamental difference between  Democrats and Republicans. We believe that the public should hold on to  as much of its money as possible, not turn that money over to  bureaucrats to spend.

Don't buy the empty rhetoric of congressional Democrats. They ran on  affordability in the Commonwealth of  Virginia, but just recently, they slapped on a regressive payroll tax  that will squeeze billions out of workers' paychecks.

Congressional Democrats are on record voting against tax relief for  tipped workers, Social Security recipients, working moms, and the  working class when they voted against the Working Families Tax Cut Act.

Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, this is not a serious proposal.

Madam Speaker, it is really rich. Now, it is the fault of Republicans  that the Department of Homeland Security is not funded. It is just too  rich.

Crime is down in this country because we have shut down our border  and denied people coming in illegally.

Madam Speaker, we need to fund all of Homeland Security so that we  can keep the border closed. Obviously, our colleagues want to open the  border again just like President Biden did. There were people waiting  at the border when President Biden was elected  with shirts on that said: Thank you, Biden. We can't do that. We need  to fund all of Homeland Security at the same time.

By the way, Madam Speaker, it was the Bipartisan Policy Center that  said that the 19 percent reduction in deficit had occurred.

Mr. Speaker, our colleagues across the aisle said that they want to  keep the border closed. If they are serious about keeping the border  closed and safe, then how are they going to do it without funding  border patrol and they don't want to fund border patrol?

Mr. Speaker, our colleagues across the aisle have spent their time  during this debate drawing caricatures, weaving a tapestry of  tangential statements, and engaging in theatrics. This is unserious  behavior, Mr. Speaker.

Might I remind them we are here debating substantive legislation that  aligns with the priorities of the American people. Our colleagues  across the aisle are welcome to join us in supporting them, standing  for law and order, and returning freedom and choice back to the custody  of the American people where they belong.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the previous  question and ``yes'' on the rule.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:   An Amendment to H. Res. 1115 Offered By Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 5. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 7481) making appropriations for the Department of       Homeland Security for the fiscal year ending September 30,       2026, and for other purposes. All points of order against       consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be       considered as read. All points of order against provisions in       the bill are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill and on any further       amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion       except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled       by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Appropriations or their respective designees; and (2) one       motion to recommit.

Sec. 6. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX and Clause 8 of rule XX       shall not apply to the consideration of H.R. 7481.

Sec. 7. The Clerk shall transmit to the Senate a message       that the House has passed H.R. 7481 no later than three       calendar days after passage.