Providing for Consideration of H.R. Extension of Authorities of Title VII of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701824/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-extension-of-authorities-of-title-vii-of-the-foreign-intelligence-surveillance-act-of-1978


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Georgia for yielding  time, and I thank him for the yeoman's work that he does as a member of  the Rules Committee, a member of the Agriculture Committee, and a  member of the Intelligence Committee. He knows what he is talking about  here tonight because of the work that he has done over the years,  particularly on the Intelligence Committee.

Mr. Speaker, I don't think anybody in this country can deny that we  are living in a very dangerous world. We are dealing with terrorism and  narcoterrorism constantly.

I want to compliment all the segments of our Conference. Many people  don't realize the range of ideas and talents that we have in the  Republican Conference. It does sometimes take us a while to consider  all the ideas that Members have, but we have some very strong people in  our Conference whose reason for being here is to protect the American  people. It takes a while sometimes for the Conference parts to come  together to do what we are elected to do: use the agencies of the  Federal Government to protect the American people.

The people's House is doing its job tonight by reauthorizing FISA 702  with the excellent reforms that my colleague has outlined.

This is not incompetence. It is responsible legislating, Mr. Speaker.  FISA 702 expires on Monday night, April 20, at 12:01. We must pass a  reauthorization of that so it can go to the Senate, be passed by the  Senate, and signed by the President before it expires.

We are doing our job, Mr. Speaker, as the people's House. I commend  my colleague from Georgia for the work that he and all of my colleagues  who came together have done to come up with a very good bill that we  are going to pass later tonight.

Mr. Speaker, I urge everyone to vote for the rule and to vote for the  underlying bill.