Recognizing Valencia Abbott


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Valencia Abbott, of  Rockingham Early College High School, who was recently named the 2025  National History Teacher of the Year.

This is a monumental accomplishment and one that speaks volumes to  Ms. Abbott's passion for education and her dedication to the students  she serves.

Not only is Ms. Abbott the 2025 National History Teacher of the Year,  but she is also the 2025 North Carolina History Teacher of the Year.

Mr. Speaker, it is clear to me and to countless others that Ms.  Abbott represents the best that Rockingham County Schools and North  Carolina have to offer.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Ms. Abbott on her well-deserved  recognition, and I thank her for her continued dedication to educating  Rockingham County's future leaders.                 Recognizing Vance Dalton Upon His Retirement

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Vance Dalton, who recently  retired from AgSouth Farm Credit after three decades of unwavering,  passionate service.

I have been very fortunate to call Vance a friend for many years. He  is a salt-of-the-earth person who is loyal, caring, and pleasant to  everyone he meets. He has a deep faith that stands him in good stead.

During his time at Farm Credit, he built long-lasting friendships and  relationships with the people Farm Credit is proud to serve, and he  created long-lasting value every step of the way.

Mr. Speaker, everyone who is fortunate enough to have worked  alongside Vance, to know him, or to even call him a friend agrees with  this sentiment.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Vance on a well-earned retirement. May  God continue to bless him and his family as he enters a new and  exciting chapter in his life.                           Recognizing Scottie Cook

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Mr. Scottie Cook, a career  and technical education teacher in the Alexander County School System.

In September, Mr. Cook was recognized as a winner of the Harbor  Freight Tools for Schools Prize for teaching excellence. Mr. Cook was 1  of only 25 winners throughout the entire Nation and the only teacher in  North Carolina to receive the award in 2025, a remarkable  accomplishment, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. Cook's passion and service with a career in technical education  have left an indelible mark on the lives of his students. There is no  question about it.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Mr. Cook on this well-deserved  recognition.