Recognizing Vance Patterson


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701984/recognizing-vance-patterson


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Vance Patterson, an  exemplary North Carolinian and someone I consider myself very fortunate  to call a friend.

Vance describes himself as a ``serial entrepreneur,'' and when you  come to  learn of his story, that description matches him perfectly.

He is someone who embodies the entrepreneurial and innovative spirit  that is interwoven within the fabric of our Nation. It is what makes  our Nation the greatest on the face of the Earth.

In 1989, he founded the Patterson Fan Company that manufactured  industrial fans for national and international markets. Soon  thereafter, Vance went on to start two dozen other companies. He is a  serial entrepreneur, indeed, Mr. Speaker.

However, that is not all, Mr. Speaker. There is a lot more to Vance's  story and work. For over 50 years, he has been married to his lovely  wife, Mary Jo, and they are parents to four wonderful children and  grandparents to over a dozen grandchildren.

In 2011, Vance and Mary Jo traveled to Washington and visited the  National Archives, where they witnessed the Charters of Freedom, the  three original documents that are the cornerstone of our Republic.

After seeing the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and  the Bill of Rights, Vance says that he experienced a deep emotional  experience and had goose bumps.

Many Americans travel to the National Archives every year to see the  documents that are so ingrained in our heritage and our society.  Unfortunately, in the past, not every American who wished to see our  Nation's founding documents in person were able to.

Vance remained so inspired after seeing the Charters of Freedom that  he and Mary Jo decided to make this emotional experience one that  should be available to students and citizens across the Nation.

Like so many others, Vance felt inspired and a renewed sense of  patriotism after seeing the Founding Fathers' names on the Bill of  Rights. Unlike many others, Vance channeled that feeling of patriotism  into tangible monuments.

Upon returning home to North Carolina, Vance and Mary Jo established  Foundation Forward, Inc. Foundation Forward, Inc., has a worthy goal of  educating the public on the contents of the Declaration of  Independence, the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights.

This goal is accomplished by Vance's group, which builds monument  displays that showcase the Charters of Freedom. These displays are  often located near courthouses, in county squares, and are made  accessible to all. In total, there are 73 completed settings across 17  States, with 25 more that are currently in the works. What a wonderful  and worthy endeavor, indeed, Mr. Speaker.

To top it all off, Vance is now on the cusp of completing a book  about his life so that others can come to learn from his own vast  experiences, the successes and the failures.

It is one thing to go through life, become successful, and reap all  the positives of what you have sown, but it means far more when you do  exactly that and then share your story so that others may gain the  perspective and wisdom that led you to where you are today.

I believe that many who will come to read Vance's book will be  inspired and moved within their own lives and with their own endeavors,  whether it be personal, professional, or both.                         Recognizing Frances Laterman

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Frances Laterman and The  Antisemitism Studies Laboratory at Baruch College in New York.

Through generous contributions made by the Laterman Family Foundation  and AddressHate, a not-for-profit organization that uses new  technological methodologies to disrupt the spread of online hate, this  wonderful laboratory was made possible.

Frances Laterman, one of the original founders and current president  and trustee of the foundation, is a wonderful human being. Aside from  her entrepreneurial and artistic spirit, which are incredibly strong,  she holds a solemn commitment to give back to her community through  meaningful social impact.

There is no doubt in my mind that the communities she has served and  continues to serve have benefited greatly from her passion.

The mission of The Antisemitism Studies Laboratory is to educate,  create understanding, support research, and address the pressing  challenges of anti-Semitism locally, nationally, and globally.

With the abhorrent rise of anti-Semitism across the United States and  the world, this laboratory, as well as its dedicated members and  educators, are needed now more than ever.

When I served as chair of the House Committee on Education and  Workforce, I exposed to the world how anti-Semitism had infiltrated  college campuses across our Nation, and I am still calling attention to  it to this very day.

I continue to meet with countless Jewish students who are concerned  for their well-being, and the well-being of their friends, who are  facing anti-Semitic harassment.

I continue to meet with countless advocates who are calling attention  to this issue and are dedicating their time and efforts to educating  others about it, as well.

This is certainly an issue of our time, Mr. Speaker.

I thank Mrs. Laterman, her family, the members of the Foundation, and  many others for their continued support of the Jewish community, and  for helping accelerate an educational endeavor that will go on to make  tremendous strides in combating anti-Semitism.

May they all continue to be blessed.

Mr. Speaker, I am very much looking forward to the positive progress  that the Antisemitism Studies Laboratory will make in the coming months  and years.