Relating to Consideration of the Senate Amendment to H.R. Rescissions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693717/relating-to-consideration-of-the-senate-amendment-to-hr-rescissions-act-of-2025


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I call  up House Resolution 590 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 590

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution, the House       shall be considered to have taken from the Speaker's table       the bill (H.R. 4) to rescind certain budget authority       proposed to be rescinded in special messages transmitted to       the Congress by the President on June 3, 2025, in accordance       with section 1012(a) of the Congressional Budget and       Impoundment Control Act of 1974, with the Senate amendment       thereto, and to have concurred in the Senate amendment.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.

During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and of the  underlying legislation. This evening, the Rules Committee met and  produced a rule, House Resolution 590, providing for the House's  consideration of the Senate amendment to H.R. 4, the Rescissions Act of  2025. Passage of this Rule will send H.R. 4 directly to the President's  desk.

Mr. Speaker, if you told the American people that wasteful spending  overtook Washington during the Biden-Harris administration, they would  not be surprised. Their jaws would not drop, and their pupils would not  dilate in utter shock.

The American people saw the fiscal ruin that was created by the  previous administration. That is why they overwhelmingly chose  Republicans to lead the Nation and restore fiscal sanity. That  restoration is here, Mr. Speaker. H.R. 4 is part of our efforts to get  Washington's fiscal house in order.

H.R. 4 rescinds $9 billion in spending that the President has  identified as wasteful and unnecessary. As I said in the Rules  Committee, it is unfortunate that the Senate was not able to execute  all of President Trump's recommended rescissions. That said, there are  many pertinent rescissions that remain, and they are very impactful.

Now, our Democrat colleagues will scoff and say that this $9 billion  we are clawing back is a drop in the bucket; that it is merely peanuts.  That is where they are wrong, Mr. Speaker. The thing is that in their  arguments against H.R. 4, Democrats can only grasp at straws. Their  positions are weak, and their claims are even weaker. They will talk in  circles and just bloviate. In the end, they simply don't make any  points that are worth remembering. They will rail against H.R. 4 so  much that they say absolutely nothing.

Here is the truth. If this rescissions package was not put forth and  passed by Congress, taxpayer dollars would still be funneled to  ideologues at PBS and NPR and taxpayer dollars would continue to be  funneled to all manner of foreign aid repositories that do not align  with the fiscal sensibilities and values of the American people. That  money, the people's money, would continue to be squandered. That is the  truth of the matter.

Republicans understand that $1 of taxpayer money wasted is $1 too  many. We must pass this rescissions package and send it to the  President so that we can continue our work and continue to secure wins  for the American people.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, two words from me: Low energy.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, we all know from watching  the last 4 years the Democrats have been working for an autopen the  last 4 years and not the American citizens.

As a guy from a small town, I want my friends on the other side of  the aisle to know this. My town is so small that we literally don't  have a red light unless the train comes through. We don't need big-city  people telling us how to live. We get along just fine.

In fact, right down the road from my house, a person can open up a  cooler and pull fresh vegetables out of there based on the honor  system. The bag says how much someone is supposed to pay for them.  There is a box with cash in it.

Mr. Speaker, try that in one of your metropolitan areas. While I hear  my colleague talk about how much help we in the small town need for  more government, as a small-town guy, the deficit and the debt scares  us. It does.

Let's talk about the facts about this package. If there is anything  that is wrong with the package, it is that it doesn't cut enough.

The net increase in spending so far this fiscal year, the last 9  months, is $318 billion.

Let me say that again for the American citizens.

The net increase in spending has gone up $318 billion in the last 9  months.

This piece of legislation cuts less than one-half of 1 percent of  discretionary spending. It is a rounding error on the increase. I wish  that DOGE were working as effectively today as it was the first several  months of the year. I hope that we, as Republicans, get back to  exposing where the American tax dollars have been wasted over the last  several years.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage people to vote for this minor cut, but a  minor cut is better than no cut.

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, if this $9 billion House  rescissions package doesn't reach President Trump's desk, Congress will  have blown the political opportunity of a lifetime.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today with a simple message to my colleagues:  This is a baby step, but if we don't take it, we are not living up to  our promises. We all ran on fiscal responsibility, so let's be  responsible now and for future rescission packages.

This is low-hanging fruit in the eyes of America, but it breaks the  cycle of spending without accountability. It is proof that Congress can  and will act responsibly when it wants to.

When the American people put President Trump in office, they demanded  lasting changes to a bloated Federal Government. We must not let them  down.

Mr. Speaker, give me a break. Republicans are finally offering  taxpayers relief from years of spending from Democrats. Again, with  President Biden they expanded the Federal Government with an  unprecedented $11 trillion in spending, $6 trillion of which has been  added to the national debt. It needs to end. We voted to end it in H.R.  1. We are ending it in this package here today, and we won't stop  fighting for taxpayers.

Ms. FOXX.

Here we go again, not talking about the subject at hand but trying to  distract people. It is the same old, tired song and dance. Our friends  revert to demonizing and misrepresenting the big, beautiful bill. They  say you can't make this stuff up, but that is what they do.

We are having one success after another, and it is driving our  friends across the aisle to distraction.

When they had full control of the levers of power just a few years  ago, they expanded the Federal Government with an unprecedented $11  trillion in spending, $6 trillion of which has been added to the  national debt.

What is most revealing is their refusal to articulate a single  program, a single outlay, or a single area of Federal spending they  want to reduce on behalf of taxpayers. They want every single dime of  taxpayer money, and they don't like the historic cutting of $1.6  trillion in waste, fraud, and abuse in H.R. 1. They can't stomach the  $9 billion here in this discretionary cuts to wasteful spending. There  is no upper limit to the amount of taxpayer dollars they will throw at  their government-centered schemes.

How about a million? Can democrats articulate a cut to Federal  spending in the amount of a million? How about in the thousands, like  the $500,000 for electric buses in Rwanda or the $8,000 for promoting  vegan food in Zambia that we are cutting now? They can't do it, and  that is very unfortunate because it has dire consequences for our  Nation.

The fact is, we can't work in a bipartisan fashion to cut Federal  spending anymore, and that wasn't always the case. Our colleagues are  addicted to a tax-and-spend formula that has been bankrupting our  government.

But we won't stand idly by. We won't wait on Democrats to take their  heads out of the sand or wake up from this woke-induced coma. We are  taking bold action at every level and in every facet of the Federal  Government to get our Federal spending under control. We will do it  $8,000 at a time when we have to or $1.6 trillion at a time when we  can. We have been given this mandate, and the American people are  counting on us.

Mr. Speaker, let's talk about the Public Broadcasting Act of 1967,  which mandates that all public broadcasting programs must demonstrate  strict adherence to objectivity and balance in all programs. There are  a myriad of statistical studies that prove that they are not.

Perhaps most damning for NPR is the fact that it had to utilize a  $1.9 million Federal grant to ``improve objectivity and diverse  viewpoints'' last year. This is despite the fact that NPR's CEO  recently testified, as our colleague said, that she didn't witness any  bias at the organization. Then why the need for the Federal grant?

The problem with the Public Broadcasting Act is that it lacks an  enforcement mechanism, so we will go with our constitutional  prerogatives here to enforce the law. It starts with the rescission of  funding.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, we are far from weak. We are doing what the  American people want us to do, and that is to let them keep more of  their money and not take it and let unnamed bureaucrats spend it on  their behalf.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I am not quite ready to close, but will be  shortly.

Mr. Speaker, all night, our colleagues across the aisle have been  talking about what we are not here to discuss, which is this  rescissions package. They keep trying to distract the American people  with things that we are not here to talk about.

The American people do not want to see their hard-earned tax dollars  being squandered, not one bit. At its core, H.R. 4 is about shutting  off the spigot of wasteful money, clawing back the tax dollars of  Americans, and ensuring that wasteful and unnecessary spending is  uprooted and left to wither and die.

It is just that simple. That is all there is to it. With more  rescissions packages on the horizon, the President and Speaker have  indicated that the best is yet to come.

We are doing our job to help save the American taxpayers' dollars. We  know how hard it is to earn those dollars, and we don't want to see  them squandered.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the previous  question, ``yes'' on the rule, and ``yes'' on the underlying bill.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment to H. Res. 590 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 2. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 4405) to require the Attorney General to release       all documents and records in possession of the Department of       Justice relating to Jeffrey Epstein, and for other purposes.       All points of order against consideration of the bill are       waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of       order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on       any amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening       motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees; and       (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 3. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX and clause 8 of rule XX       shall not apply to the consideration of H.R. 4405.

Sec. 4. The Clerk shall transmit to the Senate a message       that the House has passed H.R. 4405 no later than one week       after passage.