Uncovering Widespread Fraud in Obamacare


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698438/uncovering-widespread-fraud-in-obamacare


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise to include in the Record a copy of the  article, ``Ghostbusting ACA Fraud: Millions Who Don't Use Their Health  Insurance Expose Abuse in the Program'' and a document from the  Committee on Ways and Means entitled ``Watchdog Report Uncovers  Widespread Fraud in Obamacare.''               [From Paragon Health Institute, Oct. 1, 2025]   Ghostbusting ACA Fraud: Millions Who Don't Use Their Health Insurance                        Expose Abuse in the Program          (By Niklas Kleinworth, Liam Sigaud, and John R. Graham)

Individual coverage exchange plans created by the       Affordable Care Act (ACA) have a glaring problem: nearly 12       million enrollees, or 35 percent of all exchange enrollees in       2024, do not use their benefits at all. For these enrollees,       known as zero-claim enrollees, health coverage did not       translate to health care. Many zero-claim enrollees are known       as ``phantoms''--people who are enrolled but not practically       in the market because they are enrolled in other coverage or       are unaware of their exchange plan coverage. Large insurers       benefit greatly from phantom enrollment, as they collect       billions of dollars in taxpayer funds to cover individuals       who cost them nothing.

Our analysis shows that these enrollees are not just       healthy enrollees with no need for care. They are part of a       larger story about how Biden COVID credits are driving       perverse incentives. Insurers and middlemen are responding to       these incentives, and unscrupulous brokers are enrolling       anyone they can. Evidence shows millions of Americans fell       victim to enrollment in fully subsidized plans without their       knowledge or consent. This fraud harms patients who lose       their health coverage or face penalties at tax time. It also       harms taxpayers who foot the bill for these schemes.

This policy brief presents a state-by-state analysis       describing how zero-claim enrollment corroborates much of       Paragon's previous work on improper enrollment and fraud in       the ACA exchanges. We also debunk claims that young, healthy       enrollees without claims are serving to diversify the risk       pool and improve the market.                                KEY TAKEAWAYS

Rising numbers of zero-claim enrollees--people who did not       file a single medical claim--bolster evidence of rampant       fraud in ACA exchanges. Many of these enrollees are       phantoms--people unaware of their coverage or enrolled in       other plans.

Biden COVID credits drove fraud by creating zero-dollar       plans that are fully subsidized by taxpayers and require no       enrollee contributions. Unscrupulous brokers enrolled many       people without their knowledge and many others after       manipulating information on applications to maximize       subsidies.

The sharp increase in zero-claim enrollment from 2021 to       2024 is not explained by meaningfully higher enrollment among       young, healthy beneficiaries.

Zero-claim enrollment numbers dwarf potential coverage loss       estimates of not extending the COVID credits. This anomaly       suggests that when the COVID credits expire on schedule at       the end of 2025, they will likely have little to no negative       effect on access to health care services or health.

To curb fraudulent enrollment that harms both patients and       taxpayers, Congress must allow the Biden COVID credits to       expire on time.                                          ____         [From the United States House Committee on Ways & Means]   Ways and Means: Watchdog Report Uncovers Widespread Fraud in Obamacare

Fraud prevention failures in Obamacare lead to insurance       subsidies for fake enrollees.

Initiated by a Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, and       Judiciary request in 2024, the Government Accountability       Office (GAO) led a covert operation resulting in fictitious       applicants receiving Obamacare subsidies.

100 percent of the fake applicants were approved for       subsidies in 2024.

18 out of 20 (90 percent) fake identities remain enrolled       and subsidized in 2025, proving the system cannot detect       fraudulent identities.

Marketplaces approved coverage even when required documents       were never submitted or when GAO submitted fake       documentation.

This includes fake proof-of-citizenship, validating       concerns that taxpayers have been subsidizing illegal       immigrants.

Monthly subsidies paid to health insurers on behalf of       GAO's fake identities exceeded $12,300 per month.

Data analysis shows widespread systemic fraud with       taxpayers on the hook for costs.

In 2023, one SSN was used to enroll in more than 125       different insurance policies, accumulating over 26,000 days       of subsidized coverage--the equivalent of 71 years.

66,000 SSNs in 2024 had more than a year's worth of       subsidized coverage, meaning multiple SSNs were being reused       across different policies.

$21 billion in subsidies were paid out with no evidence of       tax reconciliation for 2023--meaning 32 percent of all       subsidies paid to enrollees with SSNs had no confirmation of       repayment, or verification signaling likely massive improper       payments.

Insurers collect subsidies for deceased individuals through       unauthorized plan switches.

58,000 SSNs receiving subsidies matched Social Security       death records.

At least 7,000 were dead before coverage even began,       insinuating identities were used by fraudsters.

$94 million in taxpayer-funded subsidies were sent to       health insurers on behalf of deceased individuals.

Bad actors engaged in unauthorized enrollment activity to       chase commissions, resulting in:

160,000 likely unauthorized changes by three or more       brokers in 2024.

CMS itself received 275,000 complaints in just eight months       (January to August 2024) from Americans who were enrolled in       or switched into plans without their consent.