Agoa Extension Act


Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam Speaker, I appreciate the diligent work  of the full committee chairman, Chairman Smith, to prioritize this  issue.

Madam Speaker, we have an opportunity to advance the bipartisan  legacy of the African Growth and Opportunity Act, a program which has  been a pillar of U.S. trade and economic engagement throughout sub- Saharan Africa.

As we all know, trade requires consistent engagement. With over  17,000 tariff lines and complex supply chains, trade is a detailed and  dynamic system which values certainty.

AGOA is a unique opportunity to strengthen trading relationships  through market signals and cooperation on our partners' trade and  investment policy, rule of law, as well as worker and human rights. We  cannot sit on the sidelines while our global adversaries, including the  Chinese Communist Party, spread their malign influence across the  continent.

As the Trump administration engages on trade, AGOA can be a  complementary trade policy as we look to build mutually beneficial  reciprocal trade. Though preference programs can be the foundation of  our engagement with developing countries, they should never be the  extent of it.

Take Kenya, for example. It has been a beneficiary of the program  since it  began. When AGOA first went into effect in 2000, Kenya had very limited  trade with the United States. Under AGOA, Kenya's GDP has grown  exponentially, as have their imports from the U.S. As their economy has  succeeded, so has their capacity for trade.

This was why I was so eager to see the first Trump administration  work to advance bilateral negotiations with Kenya, and I hope to see  continued progress with Kenya and other potential partners.

As the world works to avoid overreliance on unreliable single  sources, redundant supply chains for both inputs and markets for our  outbound products are key. Stronger partnerships across Africa can be a  solution for many of these items, from critical minerals to  agriculture.

With the fastest growing population and untapped economic potential,  we must maintain reliable and proactive engagement across the  continent.

Madam Speaker, again, I welcome all my colleagues to join me in  supporting this bipartisan program.