Dismantling the Department of Education


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from  Connecticut for her relentless attention on this issue.

First, when we talk about protecting the Department of Education, I  think we have to first--when we talk about dismantling the Department  of Education, we keep saying we are going to return education to the  States. Education never left the States. It has always been with the  States.

What the Department of Education has done has been civil rights. The  Department of Education has nothing to do with curriculum, teacher  qualifications, or the courses needed to graduate from high school. All  of those are local and State.

The Department of Education's Federal interests is civil rights  beginning in 1954 when the Supreme Court decreed that we could not  maintain so-called separate but equal schools.

In Brown v. Board of Education, the court said: ``It is doubtful that  any child may reasonably be expected to succeed in life if he is denied  the opportunity of an education. Such an opportunity . . . is a right  which must be made available to all on equal terms.''

The court then concluded that segregation of students by race denies  the students of a minority race of an equal educational opportunity  because separate facilities are inherently unequal.

That is what the Supreme Court did in 1954. They didn't tell the  State what they would teach. They just said students can't be  segregated.

In 1965, the Elementary and Secondary Education Act addressed  inequality in education. Title I addressed it by putting money into  low-income areas. We fund education with the real estate tax,  guaranteeing that low-income areas won't be at a disadvantage, so title  I comes in with money for low-income areas.

Other provisions in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act talk  about students with disabilities and making sure students with  disabilities have a free and appropriate public education. It also  supports those for whom English is a second language. It eliminates  racial achievement gaps. That is what the Federal role in education is,  not what the courses are.

With higher education, Title IX talks about equality of the  activities of men and women. We don't tell colleges what to teach, but  we just make sure we have Pell grants and student loans so that people  can go.

When we dismantle the Department of Education, we are not returning  anything to the States. We are just eliminating civil rights. It is no  surprise that the first victim in the dismantling of the Department has  been the Office of Civil Rights. The Office of Civil Rights enforces  civil rights.

The big, ugly bill that they passed earlier this year cuts back on  student loans and Pell grants so fewer students can attend. Other  actions have been limiting equal opportunity in education.

That is why the dismantling of the Department of Education is so  reprehensible. It is not because we are so-called returning anything to  the States. It is because we are dismantling civil rights.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Connecticut for all of her  work and for her relentless attention on this issue and making sure  people understand what is going on.