Empowering Employer Child and Elder Care Solutions Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699005/empowering-employer-child-and-elder-care-solutions-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 2270, the Empowering  Employer Child and Elder Care Solutions Act. Unfortunately, it doesn't  solve anything. It doesn't provide any additional child or elder care.

What it does is take money out of people's pockets because, under  current law, employers must pay hourly workers time and a half for  hours worked over 40 hours in a week. That overtime rate is based on a  worker's regular rate of pay, which includes not only the cash payment  but also non-wage compensation and presently includes the value of  child or dependent care services when employers decide to provide them  as part of the benefit package.

Existing law already provides incentives for these benefits, allowing  employers to deduct them as a cost of doing business and offering tax  preferences for certain child and dependent care assistance.

This bill would change the Fair Labor Standards Act to exclude the  value of these services from the regular rate used to calculate  overtime.

Despite its name, the bill does not require employers to provide any  child or elder care. Instead, it just reduces the cost of overtime if  they provide it. That is the problem. In practice, this bill encourages  employers to keep workers on the job longer rather than expanding  access to affordable care. It increases the time away from families  while offering no assurance that any support for childcare will be  provided. Workers who already receive these benefits will see their  overtime pay reduced.

There is no evidence that these workers who do not receive this  benefit are likely to get the benefit. The only group we know for  certain will be affected is those who already have it, and they will  lose money on overtime. That makes no sense. I don't know how that  solves anything.

I would hope that we would not reduce workers' pay. To do that, we  have to oppose the legislation.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.  Lee), who is a distinguished member  of the Committee on Education and Workforce.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage people to support the motion to recommit,  which would actually create childcare availability.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter from the AFL-CIO which  says, in part: `` . . . there is no evidence that reducing the overtime  rate for employees will spur a widespread willingness of employers to  offer reimbursement for child or elder care.''                                     AFL-CIO, Legislative Alert,                                                   January 12, 2026.

Dear Representative: On behalf of the 15 million workers       and 64 affiliate unions represented by the AFL-CIO, I urge       you to oppose the following anti-worker bills scheduled for       consideration on the House floor this week: the Flexibility       for Workers Education Act (H.R. 2262), the Empowering       Employer Child and Elder Care Solutions Act (H.R. 2270), and       the Tipped Employee Protection Act (H.R. 2312).

H.R. 2262, Flexibility for Workers Education Act, would let       employers require workers to attend job-related training       without paying them for that time. The bill allows employers       to label training as ``voluntary,'' even when workers feel       pressured to attend to keep their jobs or advance, and       removes current protections that ensure training closely tied       to a worker's job is paid. As a result, employers could push       essential training outside of regular work hours and off the       clock, increasing unpaid work for low-wage workers.

H.R. 2270, Empowering Employer Child and Elder Care       Solutions Act, would exclude from the calculation of an       employee's regular wage rate any employer reimbursement for       child or elder care when calculating an employee's overtime       rate of pay. Under this bill, employees who receive these       reimbursements would see their overtime wage rate cut.       Reducing a worker's overtime earnings will not help them       afford the cost of child or elder care. Instead, it will make       life harder. And there is no evidence that reducing the       overtime rate for employees will spur a widespread       willingness of employers to offer reimbursement for child or       elder care. Workers need both decent wages and access to       affordable child and elder care. There are ways to achieve       the latter without attacking the former.

H.R. 2312, the Tipped Employee Protection Act, would change       federal wage law in a way that makes pay more unstable for       many low-wage workers by allowing employers to treat almost       any worker as a ``tipped employee'' if they receive even       small or occasional tips over a time period the employer       chooses, whether that is a single day or an entire month.       This could allow employers to pay the tipped subminimum wage       to workers such as baristas, hotel staff, delivery drivers,       salon workers, stadium staff, and other service workers who       do not regularly earn tips. For example, a worker who waits       tables would be paid the full minimum wage for non-tipped       cooking shifts, but under this bill the employer could       average tips earned earlier in the week and use them to       justify paying $2.13 an hour for cooking shifts as well,       which would cut weekly pay. By weakening existing rules that       limit when the tip credit can be used, the bill would result       in reduced take-home pay for workers, give employers greater       control over how workers are classified and paid, make it       harder for workers to know if they are being paid correctly,       and increase the risk of wage theft in industries where it is       already common.

Collectively, these bills nickel and dime workers' pay at a       time when so many struggle to afford the basics. Wages should       be raised, not cut. Please vote no on H.R. 2262, H.R. 2270,       and H.R. 2312.            Sincerely,                                                     Jody Calemine,                                      Director, Government Affairs.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, this bill does nothing to solve,  as I said, the elder or childcare crisis in this country. It does not  create affordable care, and it does not guarantee a single new benefit  for working families.

What it does do is reduce overtime pay for workers who already  receive these benefits while encouraging employers to keep people at  work longer without fully paid compensation. That means more time away  from loved ones, less money in workers' pockets, and probably more need  for childcare.

If we are serious about supporting families, then Congress should be  expanding access to affordable care, not cutting wages under the guise  of helping workers. We could really do some help by supporting the  motion to recommit and passing the Child Care for Working Families Act.  That would actually lower costs for families and create childcare  opportunities.

Mr. Speaker, I hope we would support the motion to recommit, and I  yield back the balance of my time.