Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694942/energy-and-water-development-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of my amendments  to H.R. 4553, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies  Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2026, and in opposition to the  underlying bill.

The bill itself cuts over $750 million from the FY25 spending levels,  revokes $5 billion from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, zeroes out  Army Corps programs that clean up radioactive waste and blocks clean  energy initiatives. My four amendments support essential funding for  our National Labs and our continued goal to restore the Chesapeake Bay.  Specifically, three of my amendments support the Continuous Electron  Beam Accelerator Facility and the High Performance Data Facility at the  Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility, commonly known as JLab,  in Newport News, Virginia, and my fourth amendment supports the U.S.  Army Corps of Engineers' ongoing oyster restoration work in the  Chesapeake Bay. Unfortunately, only one of these amendments will be  considered on the floor.

My first amendment No. 41, included in the bipartisan en bloc,  highlights the importance of an optimal runtime for the Continuous  Electron Beam Accelerator Facility, or CEBAF. CEBAF is a world-leading  facility studying the inner properties of nuclei, such as the quark and  gluon structure of protons and neutrons. The research conducted at this  facility has vastly improved our understanding of the fundamental make- up of matter and is actively supporting collaborative research globally  in medium energy physics. Currently, numerous PhD students and  researchers are waiting to use the facility for experiments, and the  backlog continues to grow as more scientists hope to use this critical  technology. To meet the research needs and to optimize the use of this  facility, CEBAF requires an additional $11 million to operate for an  optimal runtime of 34 weeks. The current level included in the bill  seriously underfunds CEBAFs operations. A funding level of $166 million  for CEBAF operations should be included in the final legislation.

My second amendment No. 42, emphasizes the need for funding  critically needed infrastructure improvements at CEBAF. The workforce  at JLab is rapidly growing with the increased use of CEBAF and the  installation of the Department of Energy's High Performance Data  Facility. For JLab to effectively support its employees and  researchers, the lab needs increased funding to build a modern  workspace to match the research conducted at this facility. The final  appropriations bill should include $38 million for JLab to update its  CEBAF infrastructure.

My third amendment No. 44, highlights the importance of the planning  and construction of the High Performance Data Facility. The High  Performance Data Facility will serve as a state-of-the-art computing  facility supporting the Department of Energy's Office of Science  Scientific User facilities. In collaboration with Lawrence Berkeley  National Lab, this project will address the forthcoming increased  volume of data that will need to be processed in real time and ensure  researchers have the ability to manage large quantities of data  reliably and efficiently. As a result of lower than anticipated funding  in fiscal year 2025, this project, which will serve the rapidly growing  data infrastructure needs across the National Labs, requires additional  funding and support. The final appropriations bill should include at  least $25 million to ensure that the High Performance Data Facility is  completed by 2030.

My fourth amendment No. 39 emphasizes the important work being  conducted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to create new oyster  habitats in the Chesapeake Bay. Oysters' natural ability to filter  pollutants out of water make them an ideal partner in cleaning our Bay.  The Corps serves as the lead agency for this endeavor and providing  them with the necessary resources to continue growing the oyster  population in the Chesapeake Bay will enable us to meet our water  quality goals. The final appropriations bill should include $7.5  million for the Corps' oyster restoration work.

I would like to thank Representatives Robert Wittman and Jennifer  Kiggans for cosponsoring my amendments supporting JLab, and I would  like to thank Representatives Robert Wittman and Sarah Elfreth for  cosponsoring my amendment supporting oyster restoration in the  Chesapeake Bay. While I was glad to see the inclusion of my first  amendment to the bipartisan en bloc, the underlying bill does not  adequately fund the important work being conducted at our national labs  and by the Army Corps of Engineers. This bill abandons critical  research in science, diminishes the importance of clean energy, and  weakens the government's ability to restore and conserve our  environment. For that reason, I oppose passage of this legislation.