Enhancing Detection of Human Trafficking Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700363/enhancing-detection-of-human-trafficking-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4307, the Enhancing  Detection of Human Trafficking Act.

This bipartisan bill is led by the gentleman from Michigan (Mr.  Walberg) and the gentlewoman from Georgia (Mrs. McBath). It directs the  Secretary of the Department of Labor to develop and implement effective  training to ensure that the Department of Labor enforcement personnel  continue to be educated on identifying and responding to human  trafficking.

It also ensures that Department of Labor employees are aware of how  to refer potential cases of human trafficking to the Department of  Justice and other appropriate authorities.

It requires a new annual report to Congress on the Department of  Labor's trafficking prevention efforts, which will help guide the  committee's future oversight efforts.

The Department of Labor's worker protection agencies play an  essential role in enforcing Federal labor standards, ensuring workers  are paid what they have been promised by their employers, and  protecting health and safety in the workplace. Adequate training  ensures that investigators are equipped to recognize red flags, such as  confiscated identification documents, withheld wages, restricted  movements, threats, coercion, and other indicators of forced labor.

These efforts should be appropriately funded, and the Department of  Labor must continue to play a key role in fighting human trafficking.  Wage and Hour investigators are often on the front lines and may be the  only Federal officials in a position to encounter workers trapped in  exploitative conditions.

Unfortunately, President Trump's fiscal 2026 budget request proposed  cutting funding for the Wage and Hour Division by nearly 10 percent and  reducing staffing by roughly 250 employees for non-H-1B activities.

Over the course of the past decade, the number of Wage and Hour staff  has fallen from a little over 1,400 in fiscal year 2017 to just under  1,200 in fiscal year `25, an 18 percent decline, even as the Wage and  Hour Division has tracked a 150-percent increase in child labor  violations over the same period.

It is critical to follow up this authorization with additional  funding because, without the additional funding, this bill could result  in even fewer resources available for the Department to carry out their  core missions because it imposes additional burdens on agency staff.  Additional funding could allow the Department to continue its core  functions and fulfill the responsibilities outlined in the bill.

No one should be forced to work under threats, abuse, or  intimidation. This legislation recognizes the essential role the  Department of Labor and worker protection agencies play in protecting  vulnerable workers and holding traffickers accountable.

For these reasons, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this  bipartisan proposal, and I yield back the balance of my time.