Extreme Heat Caucus


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695655/extreme-heat-caucus


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for  yielding and for organizing this Special Order.

Mr. Speaker, this summer, Americans from coast to coast are enduring  the hottest temperatures in recorded history. Days are not just  uncomfortable, they are life-threatening for millions of workers across  the country.

From agricultural workers in the fields, to warehouse employees, to  construction crews and factory staff, many are laboring in extreme heat  with no Federal protection from one of the oldest, most serious, most  common workplace hazards, and that is, of course, heat stress.

The science is clear, the medical evidence is overwhelming, and the  moral case is undeniable. Yet, the Occupational Safety and Health  Administration, OSHA, still lacks a national standard to protect  workers from dangerous heat exposure on the job.

In addition to the important legislation mentioned by the gentleman  from Arizona to address the issue, I am a proud cosponsor of the bill  introduced by the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Chu) to prevent  senseless deaths of workers due to heat. The bill honors the memory of  a farm worker who tragically died after working 10 straight hours in  105 degree heat without access to shade, water, or a break. His death  was preventable, as are the deaths of so many others happening every  year.

We have known for a long time that it does not have to be this way.  In the fourth century BC, Alexander the Great was counseled to guard  against heat stress as his troops marched through the desert. Heat  stress is even documented several times in the Old Testament. Our own  military adopted a heat stress prevention program in 1952, and I  remember when I was in basic training in the Army, when the heat  reached certain temperatures, we would have to loosen the bottom of our  pants and stop doing physical training, or PT. The National Institute  of Occupational Safety and Health, NIOSH, advised OSHA on the need to  protect workers from heat stress back in 1972, and again in 1986, and  yet again in 2016.

Workers have waited long enough. Thanks to Representative Chu's  leadership, we have reintroduced a bill that will end delays and  excuses and finally bring workers the commonsense protection they  deserve. Within one year, OSHA would be required under the bill to  finally issue an enforceable rule setting out the strongest feasible  protections against heat illness. It empowers OSHA to require rest  breaks, access to water, shaded or cool recovery areas, and training  that delivers information in a language and format that workers can  certainly understand. These are simple and sensible safeguards that  will save lives.

As the climate crisis accelerates, workers are increasingly at risk.  Heat stress is a predictable problem, but it is also a preventable  problem. The urgency of the crisis requires us to act now, and this  legislation is the roadmap for that action. Workers' lives depend on  it.

I thank the gentleman from Arizona for forming the Extreme Heat  Caucus and for organizing this Special Order to give us the opportunity  to emphasize the importance of this issue.