Home School Graduation Recognition Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700371/home-school-graduation-recognition-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6392, the Home School  Graduation Recognition Act. The bill reinstates and clarifies present  law to make clear that homeschooled students are eligible for Federal  student aid so that they can pursue higher education.

Under the Higher Education Act, students who complete a home school  program recognized under their State's law qualify for title IV aid,  including Pell grants and Federal student loans. Each State sets its  own requirements for the education of homeschooled students.

The HEA confirms that homeschoolers must meet their State's  eligibility requirements to receive Federal student aid if educated at  home according to those State rules. HEA does allow schools to set  their admission standards for students, including those educated at  home, but no homeschooled student should be denied Federal higher  education assistance just because they do not technically have a  regular high school diploma. This bill clarifies that eligibility if  they have qualified under their State laws.

Mr. Speaker, I do urge my colleagues to support the bill in its  efforts to clarify the laws to ensure students access to higher  education. Of course, that being said, the bill may clarify some  students' right to Federal student aid, but the action does not go far  enough to mitigate the damage done since the Trump administration came  in about 1 year ago. By illegally dismantling much of the Department of  Education, firing critical Federal financial aid staff, and limiting  access to Federal aid in the big, ugly law, the Trump administration  has only put higher education further out of reach for many.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 6392 because the  bill makes it clear that homeschooled graduates have access to higher  education.

By further clarifying the intent of the Higher Education Act, this  bill would ensure that students who complete a home school program  recognized under their State's law can continue to qualify for title IV  aid, including Pell grants and Federal student loans.

Fortunately, this bill will help ensure that these students can  access an affordable, high-quality degree while this action taken by  this body is reducing and denying aid to others.

Mr. Speaker, I ask that we pass the bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.