Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698382/lower-health-care-premiums-for-all-americans-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the so-called Lower Health Care  Premiums for All Americans Act.

This package includes two partisan proposals marked up in the  Education and Workforce Committee. First, it recklessly expands  association health plans which would allow small employer groups and  individuals to join associations to offer health insurance that are  subject to fewer regulations than traditional plans in the individual  and small group markets.

AHPs would make it easier for associations to cherry-pick small  employers with younger, mostly male workforces who are healthier and  can be charged lower rates. Smaller employers whose workers are older  and sicker would remain in the traditional market. Simple arithmetic  dictates that if you pull healthy groups out, then all of those left  behind will be paying more.

Furthermore, these plans, if history is any guide, will show that  they are more vulnerable to fraud and insolvency than those in the  marketplace.

The second proposal is the Self-Insurance Protection Plan which would  prohibit the Department of Labor and States from ever regulating stop- loss  insurance, inviting nefarious practices that could hurt consumers and  employers by creating loopholes for plans that will escape any  regulatory oversight.

Further, Mr. Speaker, this plan does nothing to extend the ACA  enhanced tax credits which are set to expire. Millions of people will  see their premiums skyrocket, and millions more won't be able to afford  any insurance at all. If we bring up the bipartisan bill, then we could  avoid that result.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.  Adams), the ranking member of the  Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.  McClellan).

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time  remaining.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.  Underwood).

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time  remaining.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.  Dexter).

Mr. Speaker, this bill does nothing to reduce costs for all  Americans. By weakening protections, undermining State oversight, and  siphoning healthy individuals out of the ACA, this bill will actually  increase premiums and reduce oversight and protection for families.

We need to extend the 3-year extension for the enhanced tax credits.  I oppose the bill and urge my colleagues to do the same.