Muhammad Ali American Boxing Revival Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701210/muhammad-ali-american-boxing-revival-act-of-2026


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4624, the Muhammad Ali  American Boxing Revival Act.

This bill amends the Federal law governing safety, transparency, and  integrity in professional boxing, the only professional sport that is  federally regulated.

The original law regulating boxing was enacted to end corrupt  promoters' abilities to corner the market by locking up top talent and  requiring any would-be challengers to surrender their promotional  rights or agree to new representation chosen by the promoter. Some  particularly powerful promoters allegedly even threatened or bribed  sanctioning organizations to manipulate their rankings.

Thanks to current law, those days are over. As a result of that law,  boxers at the top of the sport take home approximately 80 percent of  the revenue associated with a match.

The bill we are voting on today is the result of bipartisan work that  went into improving it. Specifically, Chairman Walberg, Workforce  Protections Subcommittee Ranking Member Omar, Representative Stevens,  and I came together, identified key issues, and made meaningful fixes  to strengthen the legislation. These changes were significant, and the  bill we are considering is much better than the version that was  introduced.

For example, we improved health and safety protections for fighters,  particularly when it comes to brain health, which is an important  priority, by adding additional neurological testing.

The bill now ensures that qualified ringside physicians are  available, strengthens emergency preparedness by requiring onsite  medical personnel, and expands pre-bout medical testing.

We also enhanced boxers' economic security. We increased minimum  insurance coverage for injuries, added accidental death coverage, and  raised the minimum compensation per round.

We also took steps to protect the integrity of the sport. The bill  now incorporates consistent antidoping standards, increases drug  testing, and begins to address the problem of too many championship  titles diluting competition.

We added protections for fighters under contract by limiting contract  length, ensuring opportunities to compete will be compensated, and  giving boxers a fair chance to pursue other opportunities.

These practical, bipartisan improvements are a significant win for  boxers' health and well-being, as well as their economic futures.

As the bill moves forward in the legislative process, the Senate can  and should build on the progress we have made in the House and continue  to improve this legislation before it becomes law.

For example, the Senate could ensure enforceability of the Boxing  Act's rights by prohibiting any contract between a boxer and a UBO or  boxing service provider, including clauses that bar class action  proceedings or mandates to bring disputes to private arbitration.

Mr. Speaker, I support the bill and thank the authors, Representative  Sharice Davids of Kansas and Brian Jack of Georgia, for their work on  this legislation.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.  Omar), the ranking member of the  Subcommittee on Workforce Protections.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is far better today because of the bipartisan  work that went into it.

Together, we have improved safety standards, strengthened financial  protections, and added important safeguards for fighters.

These changes will help ensure that boxers are better protected both  in and out of the ring and that the sport moves forward with greater  integrity and accountability.

As all the speakers on this side have mentioned, there is more work  that could be done to strengthen the bill, especially as it pertains to  private right of action and binding arbitration. This bill has come a  long way and is significantly improved from its introduced version.

I support the bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.