Promoting Responsible Oversight to Eliminate Communist Teachings for Our Kids Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697533/promoting-responsible-oversight-to-eliminate-communist-teachings-for-our-kids-act


I rise in opposition to H.R. 1069, the so-called PROTECT Our Kids  Act. This bill would add a new stipulation that disqualifies public  schools from receiving Federal funds under the Elementary and Secondary  Education Act if the school receives contributions, materials, or other  resources from China or an individual or entity acting directly or  indirectly on behalf of the Government of the People's Republic of  China.

The bill gives no guidance on what ``acting directly or indirectly on  behalf of'' means or how you are supposed to know and how a parent's  contribution to a school program should be evaluated, and really, are  you supposed to scrutinize all parents' contributions or just those  from parents of Chinese-American students?

H.R. 1069 would specifically prohibit Federal funding for any school  that operates the program sponsored by the Confucius Institutes or  Confucius classrooms. It is worth noting that although there may have  been a lot of programs in the past, right now there may be as few as  five Confucius Institutes in this country serving K-12 students. The  provisions of this bill will have to be administered not by those five  school systems, but every school district--15,000 school districts-- will have to administer the provisions of this bill.

As written, the bill would create significant administrative burdens  to our schools and chill community investment in our children. For  example, the bill would disqualify a school from receiving Federal  funds by simply accepting donations from a Chinese immigrant if it  turns out the immigrant is acting indirectly on behalf of the  Government of the People's Republic of China. That is if you can find  out.

The bill bestows upon the Secretary of Education the sole discretion  of deciding if an individual is acting indirectly on behalf of the  Chinese Government, the very department which the Trump administration  is actively dismantling. Without any additional funding or dedicated  help, schools would have to become investigators and determine if an  individual who wanted to donate to the school or participate in  parents' contributions could possibly be tied to the Chinese  Government. The justified fear of losing critical Federal funds would  almost assuredly lead schools to eye any well-meaning donations  skeptically, sowing distrust in our neighbors.

Now note, there is no limit to this level of funding. It doesn't say  contributions over $1,000 or over $10,000. It is any contribution. It  must be said that there is no credible evidence to support the claims  that China is exerting any inappropriate or undue influence over  America's K-12 public schools. Even the report from the group Parents  Defending Education, which makes these allegations, offers speculation  rather than verifiable incidents or actual influence.

However, even if we are able to verify that China poses a credible  threat to our K-12 schools, this bill, as written, does nothing to  actually address any national security threats. Instead, it seeks to  punish schools for accepting educational materials or participating in  cultural exchange programs. Actually, our schools would be the victims  of the undue foreign influence, but instead of deterring the bad  actors, the bill seeks to punish the victim and, in effect, punish our  students. The bill is, therefore, poorly written, poorly  tailored, misdirected, and ultimately counterproductive and not a  targeted national security measure.

Similar to H.R. 1005 and H.R. 1049, which we considered yesterday,  H.R. 1069, if passed, would force school districts already facing  shortages of teachers, counselors, and support staff to divert critical  time and resources from instruction to completing bureaucratic  paperwork. This is the very definition of an unfunded mandate. It  imposes obligations on 15,000 school systems without offering any  capacity or funding to meet that obligation.

Lastly, we have to note that the Trump administration is in the  process of trying to abolish the Department of Education, with key  responsibilities being shifted to other agencies. We are left with a  chaotic patchwork of authority and no one apparently left to actually  administer the provisions of this bill.

For those reasons, Mr. Speaker, I recommend a ``no'' vote on the bill  and reserve the balance my time.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire how much time is  remaining.

Mr. Speaker, when you hear the title, PROTECT Our Kids Act, you  wonder what this bill is all about. You might think it protects kids  from guns, protects kids from bullying, or protects kids maybe from  online predators; but no, this is from the foreign influence of China.

There is no credible evidence of any improper influence in K-12  schools, yet this is what the bill is about. It imposes sweeping  penalties that do nothing to enhance national security. It only harms  students. The apparent target of this legislation seems to be the maybe  five school districts that have Confucius Institute programs, but it  applies the provisions of the bill to 15,000 school systems in America.

All of this unfolds while the Trump administration works to dismantle  the Department of Education, leaving critical responsibilities  scattered throughout agencies. This bill wastes critical resources  without any apparent benefit.

Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose the bill, and  I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.