Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698148/promoting-efficient-review-for-modern-infrastructure-today-act


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of my amendment  to H.R. 3898, the PERMIT Act, and in opposition to the underlying bill.

For the last fifty years, the Clean Water Act has provided the  federal government with the means to hold polluters accountable for  contaminating our Nation's wetlands, rivers, lakes, and sources of  drinking water. The Clean Water Act, in many cases, has been the sole  reason why decades of pollution threatening the health of our  communities has been reversed and why countless bodies of water  throughout the country are now being preserved for future generations.  The PERMIT Act will reverse progress and give polluters the ability to,  once again, contaminate our waters by minimizing many of the critical  protections in the Clean Water Act. This legislation establishes  blanket Clean Water Act exemptions for toxic and cancer-causing  chemicals stemming from pesticide use, agriculture, and wildfire  management. This legislation also shields polluters from liability for  pollutants that they do not disclose on their permit applications, even  if they know that their operations result in the introduction of these  pollutants.

In Southeastern Virginia, one of our region's most critical resources  is the Chesapeake Bay. The Bay provides our local economy with many  opportunities in recreation, business, education, and tourism.  Throughout the watershed, the Bay brings in nearly $14.3 billion in  annual revenue and supports nearly one million jobs. The federal  government and the states in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed recognize  that our communities rely on the health of the Bay and signed the  Chesapeake Bay Watershed Agreement to regulate pollutants and implement  standards like the Total Maximum Daily Load, or TMDL. It is extremely  concerning that the PERMIT Act includes language specifically targeting  the Chesapeake Bay Watershed Agreement's TMDL by weakening the federal  government's role in its implementation. My amendment strikes this  language from the bill. The long-standing collaboration between the  federal government and the states should not be diminished.

I would like to thank the twelve members who cosponsored my amendment  to strike this language. Because this amendment is not included and  because of the various provisions in the underlying bill that endanger  the protection of our Nation's waters, I oppose passage of this  legislation.