Stennis Center for Public Service Winter 2024 Public Service Review


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to encourage my  colleagues and all Americans to read the recently published Winter 2024  edition of Public Service Review.

The Review is a quarterly publication of the Stennis Center for  Public Service. The Stennis Center is a federal, bipartisan legislative  branch agency established by the United States Congress to promote  public service and strengthen the highest ideals of public service in  America. Established in 1988 in honor of the late Senator John C.  Stennis of Mississippi, the Stennis Center provides a variety of public  service programs and development opportunities for young people,  leaders in local, state, and federal government, and congressional  staff. In addition to its Starkville, Mississippi, headquarters, the  Center also has a Washington, D.C. office on Capitol Hill. I am proud  that several members of my staff, including my Chief of Staff, my Staff  Director on the Committee on Education and Workforce, and my Education  Policy Director on the committee have served as Stennis Congressional  Staff Fellows in the 115th, 117th, and 119th Congresses respectfully.

The Winter 2024 edition of Public Service Review comes at a pivotal  moment as we are in the early months of a new Congress and a new  administration. In this time of transition, elevating the importance of  public service is critical. The contributors to this edition, including  senior public servants and participants in the Stennis Program for  Congressional Interns, reflect on what it means to serve and to lead  with purpose, integrity, and heart.

I am proud that this edition includes an interview conducted by  Meziah Scott, a graduate of Virginia State University, of Michael Maul,  Director of the Department of Planning and Budget for the Commonwealth  of Virginia. Their conversation centers on adaptability and  collaboration in the public sector, with Director Maul emphasizing the  vital role of mentorship in building a stronger future for government  leadership.

This edition includes other student led interviews by Cameron Mayers  from the University of Mississippi School of Law, Adam Royko from  Cleveland State University, Zahra Wakilzada from Georgetown University,  Sydney Aalbers from Texas Tech University, Skylar Kil from Tulane  University, Vivian Tarbert from Smith College, TaylorAnn Wooley from  Black Hills State University, Javier Kowalchuk from the University of  Florida, and Trinity Wilson from Alcorn State University.

Each of these students should be proud of the work they contributed  to the Winter 2024 edition of Public Service Review. Their interviews  of individuals who have devoted their lives to public service reflects  the heart of this publication and the work of the Stennis Center--the  belief that public service is enriched by diversity of thought,  background, and experience.

Mr. Speaker, again, I encourage my colleagues and all Americans to  read the latest edition of Public Service Review. The Winter 2024  edition and previous editions can be accessed online by visiting  www.stennis.gov.