Tipped Employee Protection Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698964/tipped-employee-protection-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 2312, the Tipped Employee  Protection Act. It is actually the tipped employer protection act.

Today, we are discussing one of several bills that House Republicans  claim will benefit workers but ultimately falls short of what workers  need.

H.R. 2312 would redefine the Fair Labor Standards Act, the FLSA, to  make workers more vulnerable to wage theft and give employers an excuse  not to pay workers what they are otherwise owed.

Under present law, the FLSA allows employers to take a tip credit  only if employees are in jobs where they regularly and customarily earn  at least $30 a month in tips. If workers split their time between jobs  that regularly earn tips and jobs that don't, such as one shift as a  restaurant server and another as a restaurant line cook, the employer  can apply the tip credit today only to the tip-earning shifts.

This bill would tear down that distinction.

Ultimately, the bill seeks to expand the pool of workers that  employers can pay a subminimum wage rather than the full wage. This is  problematic because tipped workers are paid less per hour and have less  access to benefits such as sick leave, healthcare, short-term  disability, and life insurance.

In fact, the Federal tipped minimum wage is only $2.13 an hour.  Instead of giving workers a leg up, this bill offers bad actors an  opportunity to cut corners and shortchange their workers.

Mr. Speaker, for that reason, I oppose the bill and urge my  colleagues to do the same.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.  Titus).

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.  Budzinski).

Mr. Speaker, we received a letter from the Union SEIU, which says in  part that this bill, the so-called Tipped Employee Protection Act,  would amend Federal minimum wage and overtime law by broadening the  definition of tipped employee and increasing the employer's power to  move workers in and out of tipped employee status, including allowing  employers to decide on a daily or weekly basis whether a worker counts  as a tipped worker.

This is a harmful and ill-conceived bill in every possible way. Most  tipped workers already struggle to make ends meet. We should be doing  away with the subminimum wage for tipped workers, not incentivizing and  expanding tipped work.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a January 13, 2026, letter from  SEIU.                                                   January 13, 2026.

Dear Representative: On behalf of SEIU's 2 million members       and worker leaders, I write to urge you to vote NO on a slate       of ``labor'' bills expected to come to the floor for a vote       this week. The bills Republicans are bringing to the floor do       not represent serious attempts by Speaker Johnson or the GOP       to help working people or working families. This is the party       that just this last week stripped five states of $10 billion       in childcare funding and funding to needy families. This is       the party that shut the government down because they were       unwilling to save 22 million people from having their health       care costs dramatically rise or are lost. These pieces of       legislation do not represent any serious effort at curbing       costs or making life better for everyday people.

The bills are as follows: H.R. 2988--Protecting Prudent       Investment of Retirement Savings, H.R. 2270--Empowering Child       and Elder Care Solutions Act, H.R. 4366 Save Local Business       Act, H.R. 2312--Tipped Employee Protection Act, H.R. 2262--      Flexibility for Workers Education Act. Far from making       conditions better for working people, these bills weaken       existing protections and further stack the deck in favor of       employers and against workers.

H.R. 2988, the Protecting Prudent Investment of Retirement       Savings Act, amends the Employee Retirement Income Security       Act of 1974 (ERISA) to codify Trump Administration rules that       undermine workers' retirement security by, among other       things, chilling fiduciaries' consideration of a set of       important financial risks and I opportunities. This bill       misguidedly attacks Environmental, Social, and Governance       (``ESG'') considerations in fiduciary decision-making as       ``woke'' rather than legitimate and important factors to be       considered in decision-making.

H.R. 2270, the Empowering Employer Child and Elder Care       Solutions Act, would allow employers to pay their workers       less overtime than they are owed by excluding child and       dependent care services and payments from the rate used to       compute overtime compensation. Rather than incentivize       employers to subsidize care, this bill could encourage       excessive work without fairly compensating the workers or       doing anything to make childcare or elder care more       affordable or accessible.

H.R. 4366, the Save Local Business Act, would limit       workers' protections under labor and employment laws by       adopting a single, weak, joint employer test for both the       Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA) and the National       Labor Relations Act (NLRA). Joint employer tests are used to       determine who is responsible for wrongdoing when there are       multiple entities with the power to determine employment       conditions. An improperly narrow FLSA or NLRA standard would       make it harder for workers to hold the right entities       responsible for abuse. Further, a narrow NLRA joint employer       standard effectively extinguishes the collective bargaining       rights of millions of workers by permitting companies that       control their jobs to escape the bargaining table. SEIU       represents tens of thousands of workers, including janitors,       security guards, and healthcare workers, who would have their       rights weakened if this bill passes.

H.R. 2312, the Tipped Employee Protection Act, would amend       federal minimum wage and overtime law by broadening the       definition of tipped employee and increasing employers' power       to move workers in and out of tipped employee status,       including allowing employers to decide on a daily or weekly       basis whether a worker counts as a tipped worker already       struggle to make ends meet. We should be doing away with the       subminimum wage for tipped workers, not incentivizing and       expanding tipped work.

H.R. 2262, the Flexibility for Workers Education Act, would       carve out time spent participating in education or training       related to employment from the calculation of a worker's paid       time. This bill would undercut the longstanding principle       that FLSA requires minimum wage and overtime protections for       all time that employees spend working for the benefit of the       employer, and would enable employers to steal time from       employees by scheduling unpaid--but essential to the job--      training.

As stated above, these bills would hurt working people by       chipping away at existing legal protections meant to protect       workers from harm. They are unnecessary and burdensome new       legal requirements that do nothing to improve working       conditions. We strongly urge you to vote NO on all the above       bills.

If you have any questions, please contact Sarah Heydemann.            Thank you,                                                         John Gray,      Director, Legislation, Service Employees International Union.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I also include in the Record a  January 13, 2026, letter from the Economic Policy Institute to Speaker  Johnson.                                                  January 13, 2026.      Re Opposition to H.R. 2988, Protecting Prudent Investment of           Retirement Savings Act; H.R. 2270, Empowering Child and           Elder Care Solutions Act; H.R. 4366, Save Local Business           Act; H.R. 2312, Tipped Employee Protection Act; and H.R.           2262, Flexibility for Workers Education Act.       Hon. Mike Johnson,      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Members of Congress: The undersigned organizations       dedicated to worker rights and building a just and inclusive       economy write in opposition to H.R. 2988, Protecting Prudent       Investment of Retirement Savings Act; H.R. 2270, Empowering       Child and Elder Care Solutions Act; H.R. 4366, Save Local       Business Act; H.R. 2312, Tipped Employee Protection Act; and       H.R. 2262, Flexibility for Workers Education Act. If enacted,       these bills would harm workers by weakening longstanding       labor and employment laws, leading to lower pay, reduced       employer accountability, and more precarity.      H.R. 2988, Protecting Prudent Investment of Retirement           Savings Act

The Protecting Prudent Investment of Retirement Savings Act       would amend the Employee Retirement Income Security Act       (ERISA) to block retirement plan fiduciaries from considering       climate change and other environmental, social, and       governance factors when they select retirement investments.       The bill would constrain plan fiduciaries' ability to account       long-term financial risks in their investment decisions,       which would undermine workers' retirement security.      H.R 2270, Empowering Employer Child and Elder Care Solutions           Act

The Empowering Employer Child and Elder Care Solutions Act       would exclude child, dependent, and elder care payments from       the rate used to compute overtime compensation for eligible       workers. This would result in workers receiving less overtime       than they are owed under current law, which would in turn       incentivize employers to impose longer workweeks on already       over-worked employees. Further, workers who face longer       workweeks as a consequence of H.R. 2270 would likely       experience higher childcare costs as childcare providers who       operate during nontraditional hours (including evenings and       weekends) tend to cost more. H.R. 2270 would contradict the       basic premise, going back to 1938. that employers should be       deterred from requiring employees to work excessive and       burdensome hours.      H.R. 2262, The Flexibility for Workers Education Act

The Flexibility for Workers Education Act would amend the       Fair Labor Standards Act to excuse employers of their       responsibility to pay workers for trainings or other       professional development opportunities that are outside of       regular work hours. Despite the bill's generous-sounding       title, this bill would not give workers any more flexibility.       Instead, it allows employers to hold trainings and       professional development opportunities after work hours and       not pay workers who attend--as long as the employer does not       say it's required. However, employers can still lead workers       to believe these trainings and professional development       opportunities are required, which would result in workers not       being paid for their time.      H.R 2312, Tipped Employee Protection Act

This bill amends the FLSA's definition of ``tipped       employee'', by allowing employers to classify workers as       tipped employees--and thus allow employers to take a tip       credit--if workers receive (1) any amount of tips (2) over a       period of time selected by the employer, (3) regardless of       the employees' duties. Eliminating the requirement that       workers must be ``engaged in an occupation in which he       customarily and regularly receives more than $30 a month in       tips.'' And allowing employers to choose any time period       would give employers nearly unfettered discretion to re-      classify almost any worker receiving any amount of tips for       any amount of time as tipped employees and pay them a       subminimum wage of $2.13 an hour, including for time spent       doing non-tipped duties. This goes well beyond reversing the       80/20 rule challenged by the restaurant industry and would       only further exacerbate the precarity of workers in an       industry that already includes many of the nation's lowest-      paid occupations and suffers from already high rates of wage       theft. If Congress truly wants to protect tipped workers, it       should pass the Raise the Wage Act, which would raise the       federal minimum wage floor and gradually phase out the       subminimum wage for tipped workers.      H.R. 4366, Save Local Business Act

The ``Save Local Business Act'' would ensure that trillion-      dollar corporations like Amazon can use subcontracting and       outsourcing arrangements to escape accountability to their       workers. Businesses have long relied on subcontracting       arrangements--such as hiring workers through temporary       staffing agencies--to avoid their responsibility to comply       with the FLSA and NLRA, even though they maintain power to       control working conditions and that the workers are integral       to their business. These contracting work-arounds were       present when the FLSA and NLRA were passed in the 1930's, and       versions of this outsourcing are used today by companies.       Indeed, businesses across the economy--including in labor-      intensive and low-paid sectors like construction, home and       health care, janitorial and       building services, hotels and hospitality, and warehousing       and logistics--use similar contracting arrangements to       insulate themselves from accountability. Limiting employer       accountability and enabling corporations to avoid       responsibility for violations of workers' rights under the       FLSA and the NLRA will hasten race-to-the-bottom on labor       standards, with businesses that treat their workers fairly       finding it harder to compete.

Should H.R. 2988, Protecting Prudent Investment of       Retirement Savings Act; H.R. 2270, Empowering Child and Elder       Care Solutions Act; H.R. 4366, Save Local Business Act; H.R.       2312, Tipped Employee Protection Act; and H.R. 2262,       Flexibility for Workers Education Act be brought to the       floor, we strongly urge all Members of Congress to vote No.

With any questions, please reach out to Charlotte Dodge,       National Employment Law Project; Sam Sanders, Economic Policy       Institute or Michelle Feit, National Partnership for Women &       Families.            Sincerely,      Economic Policy Institute.      National Employment Law Project.      National Partnership for Women & Families.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, this is an open invitation for  employers, particularly those involving restaurants and hotels, to  lower their employees' wages by combining traditionally tipped  occupations with nontipped occupations. For example, they will be able  to put a line cook on the floor for a few hours a day and then apply  the tip credit to all of the hours that the employee works.

Tipped workers already are paid less per hour and have less access to  benefits such as paid sick leave, healthcare, short-term disability and  life insurance, and under this bill employers would be given a pass to  not pay workers what they otherwise would have been owed.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to reject the bill, and I yield back  the balance of my time.