Transparency in Reporting of Adversarial Contributions to Education Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697440/transparency-in-reporting-of-adversarial-contributions-to-education-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 1049, the  Transparency in Reporting of Adversarial Contributions to Education  Act, the TRACE Act. This bill suffers from many of the same  shortcomings in the earlier bill we just discussed. This bill, H.R.  1049, would require schools to allow parents to access certain  information if it was paid for by a foreign entity of concern. It  doesn't say ``China.'' It says ``foreign entity of concern.''

This includes all teachers' and administrators' professional  development material and salary information, as well as the school  districts' contracts and records for all materials purchased from or  paid for by a foreign entity of concern. While this is not currently  required by law, parents now already have access to their children's  records, including their curriculum, under the Protection of Pupil  Rights Amendment, or PPRA.

It is worth noting that there is no evidence that foreign entities of  concern are contributing to public schools at any scale. We have  already noted that there are five Confucius Institutes throughout the  United States, throughout 15,000 school systems.

H.R. 1049 would impose new layers of reporting, auditing, and  bureaucracy on every school district in the Nation. Yet, once again,  this is without allocating a single dollar to support these added  responsibilities.

For years, my Republican colleagues have warned against unfunded  mandates. They have rightly criticized Federal actions that impose  requirements on States and local communities that cannot afford to  implement those policies.

Yet, H.R. 1049 is precisely that, another unfunded mandate wrapped  around rhetoric but lacking in substance. At a time when our schools  need smaller class sizes, they need to pay teachers more, and they need  more academic support for students, the last thing they need is a new  stack of new Federal compliance paperwork.

That would include the professional development to inform every  school official what a foreign entity of concern is and where they can  get the most recent list.

Let me underscore the broader point though. At the same time as  congressional Republicans are creating additional bureaucratic hurdles  for K-12, the Trump administration is actively dismantling the  Department of Education.

Who is going to enforce these mandates anyway?

I challenge my colleagues, many of whom privately acknowledge that  abolishing the Department of Education is a mistake, to actually oppose  those actions publicly. Our schools need stability and support, not  disarray and mixed messages.

Mr. Speaker, again, I oppose the bill, and I reserve the balance of  my time.

Mr. Speaker, if there was real evidence of influence, I think we  would have heard specifically what that evidence is. We haven't.

My colleagues keep talking about China, about the Confucius  Institute. At last count, there were only five active programs in  15,000 school divisions. There used to be more. There are only about  five now.

This bill is going to be hard to manage. It is difficult, if not  impossible, to easily access the most recent list of foreign entities  of concern.

As we have pointed out, this bill doesn't talk about China. It talks  about foreign entities of concern. That list can change without notice.  In fact, the most recent list from the Department of State has 91  listings, 12 added since Labor Day of this year. Good luck to those  15,000 superintendents who have to keep up with that list, with the  added problem that the Departments of Energy and the Treasury also keep  separate lists. Those 15,000 superintendents have to keep up with those  lists, too.

At its core, this is just another unfunded mandate, where you have to  train 15,000 superintendents and unlimited numbers of principals so  they will know what a foreign entity of concern is and how to deal with  it with this new legislation. It burdens our already overstretched  schools with new reporting requirements, new paperwork, and new  bureaucratic hurdles, all without adding a single dollar to help them  meet their obligations. Our educators deserve meaningful support, not  legislative gestures that create more problems than they solve.

For these reasons, I will be voting ``no'' and urge my colleagues to  reject this measure and refocus our efforts on policies that will  actually strengthen our public schools.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.