Trump's Labor Agenda: Unsafe and Underpaid


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695574/trumps-labor-agenda-unsafe-and-underpaid


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for  yielding, and I thank her for organizing this Special Order so we can  discuss the actions of the Department of Labor.

Right now, the Trump administration and congressional Republicans are  starting to implement an aggressive deregulatory agenda that harms  workers. Trump's deregulatory agenda weakens workers' civil rights,  undermines worker protections and hard-earned wages, and downgrades the  U.S. economy.

Right now, the Trump administration is in the process of rolling back  labor regulations that do a lot of things, such as promote  nondiscrimination and strengthen the regulations we have. The ones they  are trying to undermine are the regulations that promote  nondiscrimination and strengthen registered apprenticeship standards.  They are rolling those back.

They are rolling back the regulation that prevents the privatization  of State civil services. They are rolling back the regulation that  strengthens fair wage protections for home care workers that would  enable them to keep minimum wage and other protections. They are  rolling that back.

The regulation requiring Federal contractors to pay workers at least  $15 an hour. They are rolling that back. They are rolling back  regulations to create clear and specific requirements for occasions  when employers must require the use of respirators that prevent  exposure to toxic chemicals that can cause cancer and other diseases.

Regulations to bolster labor protections for farmworkers on guest  worker visas; they are rolling those protections back.

The implementation of Federal law requiring affirmative action for  employees and applicants with disabilities, ensuring that they are  hired, retained, and promoted by Federal contractors; they are rolling  that back.

Enforcement of antidiscrimination and affirmative action requirements  that ensure that Federal contractors are for equal employment  opportunities for workers, they are rolling that back.

There are more rollbacks waiting in the wings, because, in fact, the  Labor Department in a draft rule that is sitting in the White House  regulatory office right now would likely weaken the rules that prohibit  children from working in particularly dangerous jobs.

All workers deserve to be paid fairly, earn good benefits, and come  home safely at the end of the day. If we truly want to prioritize  workers, then we  must strengthen the laws, including regulations that protect workers'  health and safety on the job and that empower workers' ability to form  unions and bargain for their rights.

The Trump administration, instead, is rolling back regulations that  protect workers. We should be doing better.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for organizing this Special  Order and giving us the opportunity to discuss what is going on with  the Department of Labor.