Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, today, we are considering S. 222, the Whole Milk for  Healthy Kids Act of 2025.

School meals play a critical role in reducing child hunger and  providing children with the healthy food they need in this country.  Milk offered as part of these meals can deliver essential nutrients  that are central to a child's development. That is why it is important  that students be provided with the most nutritional options.

Child nutrition standards for school meals, including milk options,  are guided by the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, DGAs, which are  periodically updated based on recommendations from child nutrition  experts and public input.

The latest DGAs, supported by the American Heart Association, the  American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Public Health Association,  the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, and over a dozen other public  health advocate organizations, agree that fat-free and low-fat milk are  the healthiest options for children.

The DGAs must follow the Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee's  evidence-based recommendations to maintain current limits on saturated  fat, sugars, and sodium. Simply put, nutrition standards must be guided  by scientists, not politicians and industry lobbyists. If there is a  controversy, that should be debated at meetings of the Dietary  Guidelines Advisory Committee, not with a group of politicians.

S. 222, the Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act of 2025, disregards  evidence-based recommendations by removing the statutory requirement  that milk options served must align with the DGAs and exempts the  saturated fat found in milk from the total regulatory limits on  saturated fat in school meals. This would allow schools participating  in the National School Lunch Program to serve dietary options, such as  whole milk, that do not align with the current science-based  recommendations, which protect children's health.

For these reasons, Mr. Speaker, the bill should be defeated.

I do recognize, however, that there are some improvements to existing  law in the bill, including better options for students seeking a non- dairy alternative. Schools will now have an easier process to serve  nutritionally equivalent, nondairy beverages, such as soy milk, and  provide that they may be served in the regular lunch line. Increasing  access to plant-based meals and beverages in the lunchroom is a goal  everyone should be able to support. However, this is not enough of an  improvement, considering the bill's other shortcomings.

Whole milk contains far more saturated fat, cholesterol, and calories  than fat-free and low-fat milk. Experts agree that saturated fat from  whole milk increases the risk of heart disease, the leading cause of  death in this country.

In fact, the majority of Americans consume too much saturated fat.  More than 80 percent of the U.S. population exceeds the recommended  limit. This bill needlessly inserts politics into what should be a  science-based process, to the detriment of our children's health.

The Trump administration has demonstrated time and time again its  disregard for public health and evidence-based interventions, and these  revisions to the DGAs in this bill will have the same disregard for  following the evidence. However, hopefully, future administrations will  recommit to science and the decades of nutritional guidance that ensure  children will receive the healthiest meals possible.

Mr. Speaker, I am also disappointed by the majority's decision to  depart from precedent by moving a limited child nutrition bill outside  of a comprehensive child nutrition reauthorization.

More to the point, this is the only piece of legislation that our  committee has considered this year that amends laws governing child  nutrition programs.

We have considered no bills that improve access to free school meals;  no bills to improve the Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women,  Infants, and Children, the WIC program; no bills to improve options for  summer food programs; no bills to improve the Child and Adult Care Food  Program, and no bills to address the need for healthy meals after the  school day is over.

The majority did, however, choose to advance that big, ugly bill  which contains Medicaid and SNAP cuts, which will result in a drastic  reduction in the number of students eligible for free school meals.

Mr. Speaker, for these reasons, I oppose the bill, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, as earlier noted, S. 222 does make some improvements to  the whole milk debate with its inclusion of better options for students  seeking nondairy alternatives. The gentleman from Louisiana spoke to  those provisions, and that is something that is supported by our  Nation's nutritionists, pediatricians, and scientists.

However, I remain disappointed that the bill overall makes school  meals less healthy. This bill goes against the dairy industry's stated  commitment to ensure that students have access to the healthiest dairy  options consistent with the DGAs. The DGAs make clear that fat-free and  low-fat milk are the healthiest options for children 2 years and older.  Whole milk contains far more saturated fat, cholesterol, and calories  than fat-free and low-fat milk.

In a nation where the obesity rate among children is over 16 percent  and the children are already facing obesity-related challenges such as  type 2 diabetes, high cholesterol, and high blood pressure, we should  not ignore the stance of dieticians, nutritionists, pediatricians, and  the overall science.

Mr. Speaker, I am committed to ensuring that students have access to  the healthiest dairy options in accordance with science-backed  guidelines, but S. 222 contradicts that commitment by interfering with  the independent process that aligns child nutrition standards with the  latest science.

Furthermore, let me just point out that after months of Republican- led political brinksmanship, we are still considering a bill that does  nothing meaningful to address childhood obesity, nutrition, or hunger.

The bottom line is that Members of Congress should not inject  politics into child nutrition standards at the expense of nutritious  school meals that our children need.

For those reasons, I urge my colleagues to oppose S. 222, and I yield  back the balance of my time.