Nomination of Linda McMahon


Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, over the last few months, there has  literally been more than 10,000 Californians who have made it a point  to reach out to me by phone calls, by letters, by emails to say one  thing loud and clear: Stand up for public education.

There are students throughout California, teachers throughout  California, parents throughout California, and I am sure beyond in all  of our States who are afraid that Donald Trump is going to decimate  Federal funding for public schools. And from what we have seen, they  have every right to be concerned.

You see, only 1 month into office, the richest President in our  history has teamed up with the richest man in the world to slash public  funding across the board, including in education.

They have already terminated nearly $1 billion in contracts with the  Education Department alone. They have fired or placed on leave  Education Department staff. These are hard-working Americans dedicated  to everything from protecting the civil rights of students to special  education, to student aid. And they are making it clear that this is  just the beginning.

President Trump has bragged that he actually wants to eliminate the  Department of Education, threatening the quality of education of 80  percent of students who go to public schools.

Colleagues, that is the situation. That is the context in which we  find ourselves today as we consider the nomination of Linda McMahon to  serve as Education Secretary.

We could talk about Linda McMahon's qualifications, or, frankly, lack  thereof, but I am not shocked because President Trump isn't looking for  someone with the background or the commitment to strengthen education  in America. He is looking for someone to destroy it. President Trump  has said publicly that he wishes that Mrs. McMahon would ``put herself  out of a job.'' And it is clear that she is ready to do it. And to  justify it, I know I have heard of her countless accusations of  Department of Education overreach or that the Department is just too  big. Now, if we are saying this because of the budget cuts Republicans  are starving for to underwrite the tax rate for the wealthy, let me  remind us all that the Department of Education is the smallest Agency  in the Cabinet by a lot.

The Department is responsible, though, for promoting equal access to  education; ensuring protections and support for students with special  needs; defending the civil rights of tens of millions of students; and,  yes, managing the student loans and Pell grants that students need to  afford an education, just like I did when I was graduating from San  Fernando High School, trying to figure out how I was going to be able  to pay for college.

Yet Linda McMahon and Republicans in Congress will try to sell us on  the idea that education should be left to States and to local  communities.

Tell that to the young student who is struggling to read by the  fourth grade but whose school doesn't have the resources they need to  help them catch up. Tell that to the parents of an eighth grader who is  behind in math who fear that their child will never be able to make up  the time that they lost during the pandemic.

While it is true that State and local communities play the primary  role in education, it is actually the Federal Government that helps  close the gaps. That is part of what makes our country strong--the idea  that no matter where you live, no matter who your parents are, or what  tax bracket your family is in, you have the right to a good education  because, after all, it is the surest path to achieve your American  dream.

And, yes, it is personal for me. As I mentioned, I am a proud product  of public education, a graduate of San Fernando High School--go Tigers.  Upon completion of my high school education, I was accepted and had the  blessed opportunity to attend the Massachusetts Institute of  Technology, where I earned my degree in mechanical engineering. That  led to a better life and more opportunities--exactly what my parents  worked so hard and sacrificed for. That is the American dream. And I  know that, by far, I am not alone.

That is why I find it outrageous that Mrs. McMahon and Republicans  can so callously plan to take a chain saw to the American dreams of so  many current and future students.

But, today, we are here to say that tens of millions of public school  students are not line items on your chopping block. They deserve  better. Our country is better than this.

I urge all of my colleagues to reject President Trump's attempts to  abolish the Department of Education and to reject Linda McMahon's  nomination or any nominee who is willing to carry out his wishes.