Providing Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; the `omnibus' Low NoX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, I know we are working our way through a  series of votes. Many people are at lunch or wrapping up lunch. We have  a little bit of business still ahead of us, but I want to take a minute  just to remind this body what has transpired here over the last 24  hours: evidence again, actions again demonstrating that Donald Trump  and Republicans in Congress are stopping at nothing to attack  California for the audacity of working to protect the health of  Californians and for having the audacity to lead the clean energy  economy.

But as I have said repeatedly over the last couple of days, it is not  just what Donald Trump's EPA and Senate Republicans are doing that is  problematic; it is how they made this possible--by fundamentally  changing how the Senate operates through rules changes last night.

Now, it was not a magic trick. Before dinner yesterday, these bills  to gut California's Clean Air Act authority were recognized as regular  bills, subject to the filibuster rule requiring 60 votes to move  forward, open to full debate and amendments, but somehow, after  dinnertime yesterday, once Senate Republicans were done with overruling  the Parliamentarian, these bills were now not subject to the  filibuster.

For the record and for the public's recognition, this is the first  time in Senate history that the majority has used a nuclear option to  take joint resolutions that were subject to the filibuster one minute  and eliminate the filibuster for them the next. You may hear them try  to deny it, but it is all on the record.

So let me recap. The Senate Parliamentarian, through the Chair,  confirmed that all points of order are waived during a Congressional  Review Act resolution. That is in the law. But the majority voted to  ignore that provision of the law and raise one anyway.

Then the Senate Parliamentarian, through the Chair, confirmed that  these resolutions do not qualify--repeat, do not qualify--for expedited  consideration, but the majority voted to override the Parliamentarian  again and plow ahead anyway.

But no one should be fooled. What happened on the floor, as witnessed  by the public, was nothing short of a power play that fundamentally  changed how the Senate works.

Why? What was the driving impetus here? Was it President Trump? Is it  the fossil fuel industry and what they want? Or did you happen to just  think changing these rules and the way the Senate operates was simply a  good idea? I would love to hear you make that case. But I know that one  of the results of last night's actions and today's votes is that  Californians will be forced to breathe dirtier air than they should  have to.

California is being targeted for its leadership--it is that blatant;  it is that obvious--because, yes, for over half a century, we have been  the innovators and trailblazers in the fight against pollution.

A little bit of a history refresher here. Back in 1966, California  established the first tailpipe emission standard for passenger vehicles  in the Nation, responding to California's unique air quality needs with  policy based on science and data. A year later, California established  the California Air Resources Board to more comprehensively address the  severe air pollution and its consequences.

Then, some of you may remember a catastrophic oilspill off the coast  of Santa Barbara. Californians rose up and demanded stronger  environmental protections, and this became the birth of the modern-day  environmental movement and eventually the first Earth Day in 1970,  which has grown in its recognition and celebration.

That same year, Congress passed the Clean Air Act on an overwhelming  bipartisan basis. That original Clean Air Act authorized the waiver  provision that allows California to set our own separate and more  ambitious vehicle emissions standards.

Fast-forward to the year 2006, when California passed the Global  Warming Solutions Act, stating the bold goal of reducing emissions to  1990 levels by the year 2020. It was the first in the world set of  goals to establish both the regulatory and market programs to achieve  real-world reductions in the greenhouse gas emissions that were causing  climate change.

I remember it vividly because that same year, I ran for State senate  because I wanted to be part of crafting policies to actually achieve  those goals and implementing those policies and programs. I went on to  serve for 6 years as chair of the California State Senate Committee on  Energy, Utilities and Communications.

Since then, California has continued to lead the Nation with  increasingly ambitious goals for cutting emissions.

It is a remarkable history when you stop and think about it and  especially when you recognize that it hasn't just been Democrats that  have been driving this.

As President, former California Senator Richard Nixon signed into law  landmark legislation, including the National Environmental Policy Act,  the Clean Air Act of 1970, the Endangered Species Act, and the creation  of the EPA.

Yes, folks watching at home, Republicans did that.

As Governor, Ronald Reagan established the California Air Resources  Board, committing California to a comprehensive, statewide approach to  aggressively address air pollution in California.

A Republican did that.

It was Republican Governor Pete Wilson who established the California  EPA.

A Republican did that.

It was Republican Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger who signed the 2006  Global Warming Solutions Act into law.

A Republican did that.

As a result of bipartisan efforts, in 2025, California achieved a  diverse portfolio of clean energy resources--think not just conceptual  but actually operational solar energy, wind energy, geothermal energy-- all while fostering the fourth largest economy in the world. And we  have a plan to decarbonize nearly every sector of our economy, from  transportation to electricity, to manufacturing, to agriculture,  construction, and buildings.

It is that long-term vision that has diversified our energy sources  so that after seasons of extreme weather, we can still take advantage-- more importantly, take advantage--of hydropower opportunity after  rainstorms or reap the benefits of expanded wind and solar energy  because we have grown our battery storage, technology, performance, and  capabilities and capacity.

Now, here is where the rubber meets the road, colleagues. Most of you  were not here last night in the wee hours of the morning when I  explained that California, at the State and local level, has already  done almost all they can to push the most ambitious regulatory agenda  in the country to reduce emissions. They have done what they can from  what is within their jurisdiction. We are investing in R&D into cleaner  locomotives. We are investing in port electrification. We are making  breakthroughs in hydrogen marine technologies like the first hydrogen  fuel cell ferry in the United States.

But despite all this progress, despite all this innovation, despite  all this investment, we are still shy in too many regions of attaining  Federal clean air standards. Why? That is a logical question. If  California is doing so much, why?

Well, California has done everything it can, but the Federal  Government has not. We need the Federal Government to do its part.

Unless or until we have a Federal Government that says we need more  ambitious goals and standards for the Nation, then California needs and  deserves the ability to lead for itself, to protect Californians. That  is why these waivers have been so important, because absent the Federal  Government doing its part--and I am not holding my breath for the next  3\1/2\ years waiting for the Trump EPA to do so--California needs the  Federal waivers to get the job done.

But I know that even after all this progress, the detractors will  fall back on the same tired playbook of excuses. We know that the big  oil industry sees California's clean cars and clean truck sales as  existential threats. California has made tremendous advancements not  just in technology but in markets, but that is why the fossil fuel  industry has launched an all-out assault on California's rules.

I will give you just one example. If you happened to be reading the  Wall Street Journal this past January, you might have picked up the  paper to find an op-ed with the headline ``Biden's EPA Tries to Put One  Over With EV Mandate.'' That kind of sounds a little ominous, but if  you read who the authors were--the authors went on to complain about  how slow and laborious the process is for the EPA to revoke a  California waiver administratively. They literally tripped themselves  up searching for every possible way to weaponize the Congressional  Review Act to take down California's waivers.

Now, who were those authors? The authors were partners at the law  firm of Boyden Gray, who represent oil and gas clients and who were in  court actively trying to repeal California's waivers. So it makes a  whole lot of sense when you realize that they wanted to publish this  op-ed by January 8, just 12 days before January 20, when Donald Trump  was sworn into his second term.

It is certainly no surprise that a month later, the EPA attempted to  submit waivers as rules for congressional review, claiming that the  Biden EPA had withheld them. Now, that is a little rich, to accuse the  Biden administration of withholding EPA waivers when the first Trump  administration did the exact same thing, and so did every other EPA  before it, both Republican and Democratic, in its entire 50-plus-year  history of the California waiver provision.

In fact, when Donald Trump's EPA did what the Boyden Gray lawyers  told them to--submitting these waivers as rules to Congress--they  actually still included language admitting that these were waivers and  not rules. And when they were called on it, when it was pointed out,  they had to go through the motions, do backups, and resubmit the  waivers to Congress--ridiculous, blatant.

Now, regardless of how ludicrous this effort has been, we continue to  hear all kinds of misinformation from detractors about why California's  ambitious goals just won't work. I have a series of them, but I will  just focus on the main talking point that I have heard from my  Republican colleagues and from industry: that California is somehow  coercing other States into adopting California's standards; or to let  California do this is the equivalent of setting a national standard; or  that these emissions standards become de facto national ones.

That is ridiculous. We have made it clear: Let California take care  of Californians. If California had the power, the authority to set  those national standards, trust me, we would be doing this and a lot  more. But we don't.

But I think the good work that California has done that has  benefitted Californians--both our health and our economy, along with  our environment--has inspired more than a dozen other States to follow  California's lead voluntarily. Nobody is forcing other States--blue  States or red States--to follow California's lead, but these other  States see the benefits of what California is doing, and they choose to  do so to protect their residents and to protect their environment.

Lastly, let me just conclude by stating something that has  conveniently been stifled in this whole debate--limited debate--and  conversation. So who benefits from all of this? It is not unleashing  job creation and innovation in States--the other 49 States--but  California. It is holding our Nation back in terms of improving air  quality and our transition to a clean energy economy.

The winner here is actually China because, like it or not, the clean  energy boom globally is happening. We have a big say in who leads it  and who benefits from it.

Is it the United States? Not by the leadership and the policies I  have seen of this administration in the near future. It can be  California, but it seems like you are more interested in taking our  tools away. And so now we risk China jumping ahead, both economically  and technologically, in this space.

So I will remind you, folks, despite--not despite but because of  California's leaning in on addressing the emissions, pollution, and  climate challenges, California has become the fourth largest economy in  the world.

We have proven that is what is good for clean air and is good for  business and the economy. And that is something that you all ought to  replicate and scale up, not fear and stifle. We have to be able to do  both--protect our planet, strengthen our economy.

California has shown us the way. We can have reliable cars. Our kids  can breathe clean air. We can invest in our economy and in our future.

California has been proud to fill the role of national leader in this  space. We will continue to try to do anything and everything we can to  do so, both for our interests and for the Nation's, but what has  happened in the last 24 hours makes the job that much harder.