Congratulating the Grand Ole Opry


Mr. ROSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a true American  treasure that I have the privilege to represent here in Congress. This  year marks 100 years since the Grand Ole Opry first introduced  audiences around the world to country music and to Nashville,  Tennessee.

My home State of Tennessee is known for many things. If I had to list  some of the most prominent, I might think of the Great Smoky Mountains  or Elvis Presley. I would most certainly include the Grand Ole Opry.

Nashville is known around the world as Music City, USA. That would  not be the case had it not been for the Opry. The longtime show isn't  exclusive to Tennessee's story. No, it is part of American culture.

The Opry was around before the Great Depression and World War II. It  has seen a lot, endured a lot, and served as a beacon of hope decade  after decade. The program's venue has moved within Nashville a few  times, but it is primarily known for two locations. They are the Ryman  Auditorium off Broadway, downtown, and its current location on Opry  Mills Drive. Both locations enjoy hundreds of thousands of visitors  every year.

Without the Grand Ole Opry, we would likely not know names like Hank  Williams, Patsy Cline, Loretta Lynn, or Willie Nelson. Heaven forbid,  we might not even know Dolly Parton, had it not been for the show.

WSM, those are its call letters, was one of the first radio stations  to connect urban and rural culture. The Opry was also a first to  transform a hobby into a marketable and lucrative industry. Crossover  artists are not uncommon today, but they were virtually  nonexistent before 1925. The Opry hosted honky-tonk, bluegrass, gospel,  rockabilly, and many other performers. This paved the way for what we  know today as country music.

From music legends to up-and-comers, musicians from around the world  rightfully revere the Grand Ole Opry as a place of prestige, history,  and continued relevance.

There are fewer than 100 members of the Grand Ole Opry. It is indeed  an elite crowd of men and women who made the world better, who embody  country music, and who are part of our shared heritage as Americans. In  fact, that membership sits at the top of dozens of obituaries among  some of our Nation's finest performers.

This year, Tripadvisor ranked Nashville sixth among the best American  travel destinations. More than 17 million people visited last year.  That is in large part because of the influence of the Grand Ole Opry  over the last 100 years.

Mr. Speaker, any seat in the house will do at the Grand Ole Opry to  bear witness to the iconic barn background behind the stage. The lights  that look like stars above you and the acoustics around you make for an  unforgettable evening. No matter how many chances I get to see a show  in person, I always sense the history, the importance, and the joy that  the Grand Ole Opry represents.

As the United States Representative of Tennessee's Sixth  Congressional District, I rise today to enthusiastically congratulate  the Grand Ole Opry on a century of entertainment and a century of  significance. I am confident that the man or woman who is in my shoes  100 years from now will feel compelled to do the same.                       Congratulating the Upperman Bees

Mr. ROSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Upperman High  School boys' basketball team on securing the first State championship  in program history last month. The historic matchup was a nail-biter as  the game was tied up for much of the night. Nonetheless, it ended with  the Upperman Bees defeating the Tullahoma Wildcats 65-55.

This TSSAA Division 1 Class 3A BlueCross basketball championship win  at Middle Tennessee State University puts their team at 32-3 on the  season.

Again, I congratulate the players and their families. I also want to  congratulate the coaches, including Head Coach Bobby McWilliams on the  many hours they also put into this great win. Coach McWilliams says  that focus was the key to their win. He says that his guys were locked  in before they arrived at MTSU and it showed. Congratulations to the  2025 Tennessee State champion Upperman High School Bees.