Congratulating the Grand Ole Opry on 100 Years


Mr. ROSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a true American  treasure that I have the privilege to represent in Congress. This year  marks 100 years since the Grand Ole Opry first introduced audiences  around the world to country music and to Nashville.

My home state of Tennessee is known for many things. If you had to  list some of the most prominent, you might think of the Great Smoky  Mountains of Elvis Presley, but you would most certainly include the  Grand Ole Opry.

Nashville is known around the world as Music City USA. That would not  he the case had it not been for the Opry. But the longtime show isn't  exclusive to Tennessee's story. No, it's part of American culture.

The Opry was around before the Great Depression and World War II. It  has seen a lot, endured a lot, and served as a beacon of hope decade  after decade.

The program's venue has moved within Nashville a few times, but it is  primarily known for two locations the Ryman Auditorium off Broadway and  its current location on Opry Mills Drive. Both locations enjoy hundreds  of thousands of visitors every year.

Without the Grand Ole Opry, we would likely not know the names Hank  Williams, Patsy Cline, Loretta Lynn, or Willie Nelson. Heaven-forbid,  we might not even know Dolly Parton had it not been for the show.

WSM, those are its call letters, was one of the fist radio stations  to connect urban and rural culture. The Opry was also a first to  transform a hobby into a marketable and lucrative industry.

Crossover artists are not uncommon today. But they were virtually  nonexistent before 1925. The Opry hosted honky-tonk, bluegrass, gospel,  and rockabilly performers. This paved the way for what we know today as  country music.

From music legends to up-and-comers, musicians around the world  rightfully revere the Grand Ole Opry as a place of prestige, history,  and continued relevance.

There are fewer than 100 members of the Grand Ole Opry. It is indeed  an elite crowd of men and women who made the world better, who embody  country music, and who are part of our shared heritage as Americans. In  fact, that membership sits at the top of dozens of obituaries among  some of our nation's finest performers.

This year, TripAdvisor ranked Nashville 6th among the best American  travel destinations. More than 17 million people visited last year.  That is in large part because of the influence of the Grand Ole Opry  over the last 100 years.

Mr. Speaker, any seat in the house will do at the Grand Ole Opry. To  beat witness to the iconic barn background behind the stage, the lights  that look like stars above you, and the acoustics around you makes for  an unforgettable evening. No matter how many chances I get to see a  show in person, I always sense the history, the importance, and the joy  that the Grand Ole Opry represents.

As the United States Representative of Tennessee's 6th Congressional  District, I rise today to enthusiastically congratulate the Grand Ole  Opry on a century of entertainment and a century of significance. I am  confident the man or woman in my shoes 100 years from now will feel  compelled to do the same.