Repeal of Senate Notification Requirements Relating to Legal Process on Disclosures of Senate Data


Mr. ROSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6019, a bill  that I am proud to be an original cosponsor of. It would repeal the  indefensible Senate payday provision that was snuck into the critical  funding legislation to reopen the government last week.

With the goal of ending the suffering caused by the Schumer shutdown  top of mind, I voted yes on the CR. It was the right thing to do. I  hope the American people are never again used as ``leverage.''

However, what the Senate sent us contained a poison pill, a provision  to give certain Senators the ability to sue the Federal Government for  $500,000, or perhaps millions of dollars, for alleged illegal  surveillance conducted by the Biden DOJ. I remain convinced the last  administration conducted a large number of politically motivated  investigations. However, the solution isn't for aggrieved lawmakers to  get a payday at taxpayer expense.

As Members of Congress, the people have entrusted us to be a check on  the executive branch. They didn't send us here to collect checks when  the executive oversteps.

All Members of the House should take issue with Senate leadership for  secretly slipping in this provision. In fact, whoever carefully crafted  this scheme failed to tell their Senate colleagues. I agree with  Senator John Kennedy, who said: ``Whoever put this in had an obligation  to tell us about it, and they didn't.''

The consensus of many legal experts is that this provision amounts to  a pay increase. To me, the provision reads like a Christmas bonus, and  that is blatantly unconstitutional. It defies the 27th Amendment, which  says no law can change a lawmaker's compensation until a new Congress  is sworn in.

If the House legislation we are debating today does not receive a  vote in the Senate, I want to make it clear that I am taking action.

Today, I have introduced H. Res. 892, a House resolution that  empowers Speaker Johnson to bring this issue before the courts and  challenge the so-called Senate payday provision as blatantly  unconstitutional.

Importantly, because my resolution is a House resolution, it does not  require the consent or cooperation of the Senate, which has shamefully  shown no willingness to undo this egregious policy. The House does not  have to wait for the Senate to act and watch idly while this payday  stands.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support Representative Scott's  legislation and to support my resolution so we can stand up for the  integrity of Congress, uphold the Constitution, and restore public  trust in this institution.