The First 100 Days


Mr. ROSE. Mr. Speaker, I thank Vice Chairman Moore for yielding and  for claiming this time to highlight the many accomplishments of the  Trump administration during the first 100 days.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of tens of thousands of  Tennesseans I represent to express appreciation to President Trump and  his administration on their bold action over the last 100 days.

After 4 years of unprecedented illegal immigration under President  Biden, our borders are finally under control. After 4 years of deficit  spending, we are grateful to have a Chief Executive who is willing to  cut waste, fraud, and abuse on behalf of the American taxpayer. Indeed,  what we have witnessed over the last 100 days is a real master class in  the art of following through.

If elected again, President Trump said he would put a stop to men  competing in women's sports. He did.

He said he would end divisive and anti-American DEI policies in  schools across the country. He did that, too.

The President told us that this country would once again be respected  on the world stage. Mr. Speaker, it is clear he has delivered on that  promise, as well.

There are many, many wins I could point to. Just last month, 228,000  new jobs were added to the U.S. economy. Prices fell for the first time  since May 2020. The Border Patrol reported a 94 percent drop in illegal  immigrant encounters at our southern border compared to the same month  last year under Joe Biden.

It is noteworthy, Mr. Speaker, that the only thing the President  needed to accomplish this was leadership. We heard the last  administration claim time and time again that Congress would need to  pass legislation to secure the border. We heard a blank check would end  the unprecedented illegal immigration happening at our southern border.  Yet, last month, President Trump's Border Patrol reported only 7,181  illegal crossings compared to 137,473 similar crossings during the same  month in 2024. All of that without Congress lifting a finger. It is  clear that the accomplishment was because of the clear leadership of  President Donald J. Trump.

In Tennessee specifically, President Trump's tariffs and economic  policies have brought about millions of dollars in new investment and  countless new jobs. Cra-Z-Art is moving manufacturing equipment from  Asia back to the United States to expand operations in Lewisburg,  Tennessee. Charms, the maker of Blow Pops and other candy, has planned  a nearly $100 million expansion of its Covington, Tennessee, plant.  Schneider Electric has announced plans to expand their footprint in  middle Tennessee in the coming months.

Thanks to President Trump, gas prices are down and optimism is up.  Candidly, this White House has been able to accomplish more positive  results in 14 weeks than the last administration did in 4 years, and  President Trump has just gotten started.

I look forward to working with my fellow House Republicans to codify  many of the President's executive actions into law. I am confident we  will  pass a reconciliation bill that gets large parts of the President's  vision for restoring the greatness of America across the finish line.