Capping Excessive Awarding of Sblc Entrants Act of 2025


Ms. CHU. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 2987, the  CEASE Act, because it has the potential to harm our Nation's most  underserved small businesses.

This bill would cap the number of Small Business Lending Company, or  SBLC, licenses that the SBA can issue at its current level of 16  licenses. These licenses enable lenders to make loans of up to $5  million to small businesses that we know often struggle to secure  financing from traditional banks.

If Republicans wanted to find a solution to bipartisan concerns about  SBA's capacity to oversee an increased number of licenses, Democrats  would have been happy to work together on this. Unfortunately, this  bill fails to address our serious concerns about how it could devastate  opportunities for capital access for the small businesses that need  SBA's help the most.

Specifically, this bill is completely silent about how this cap on  licenses would impact Community Advantage SBLCs. We know that one of  small businesses' greatest challenges is obtaining access to financial  capital. For over a decade now, the Community Advantage program has  been helping close this funding gap for underserved businesses who face  this challenge disproportionately like rural, veteran, and low-income  small business owners.

I will never forget visiting one of these businesses in Santa Monica,  California. It was a salad-based restaurant owned by two young Hispanic  men who had this dream of expanding their restaurant, but they were  turned away by every traditional bank due to a lack of assets and  credit history. Finally, they were able to get a $250,000 Community  Advantage loan, and now they have six of these restaurants.

It was a relatively modest sum, but $250,000 was what it took to make  these small business owners successful, and that is why I have long  believed in the Community Advantage program. However, it was operating  only as a pilot program, and that is why I sponsored a bill to make it  permanent. This bipartisan bill has passed out of the House, but the  Senate did not take it up.

Great relief, however, came in 2023 when the SBA established by rule  the Community Advantage SBLC program  to provide long-term assurance for the program and lenders. Since then,  there has been great progress: 143 lenders have registered as Community  Advantage SBLCs. In 2024 alone, these lenders have already issued 1,100  loans totaling $196 million to the most underserved small businesses  with an average loan size of $160,000.

Congress needs to build on these efforts by providing statutory  permanency for Community Advantage, but the bill before us today goes  in the opposite direction, potentially threatening the future of  Community Advantage SBLCs because it makes no mention of how these  licenses would be impacted by the statutory cap.

Congress must ensure that our most underserved small businesses have  the resources they need to not just survive but to grow. That is why I  will reintroduce the Community Advantage Loan Program Act, which will  give permanent authorization to this program.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support our Nation's veteran,  rural, and low-income entrepreneurs by voting ``no'' on this bill.