Filing Relief for Natural Disasters Act


I rise in strong support of H.R. 517, the Filing Relief for Natural  Disasters Act. I thank Representative   David Kustoff for his  partnership on this bipartisan bill, which was reported out of the Ways  and Means Committee unanimously last month.

Each year, States like California declare State-level emergencies for  disasters like wildfires, hurricanes, floods, or earthquakes. Under  current law, disaster victims can only receive Federal filing relief if  and when the President of the United States declares a Federal  disaster.

While President Biden immediately declared a Federal disaster for the  Los Angeles fires that devastated my district in January, that was  unusually fast. Often, those declarations can take days or even weeks,  which was the case in 2020 after wildfires, including the Bobcat fire  in the San Gabriel Mountains, ravaged my State. That means if disaster  strikes during filing season, taxpayers run the risk of missing Federal  filing deadlines through no fault of their own.

Additionally, there may be serious natural disasters that affect  taxpayers' ability to file but don't ever get declared as a Federal  disaster. That is because such a declaration is subject to a very  specific process under the Stafford Act. If a disaster does not exceed  a State's capacity to respond without the help of FEMA, the President  can't declare a Federal disaster, even if taxpayers impacted need  filing relief.

Our bill solves this problem by giving Treasury and the IRS authority  to postpone Federal filing deadlines in response to a request by a  Governor who has declared a State-level disaster, and it would double  the minimum duration of these filing extensions from 60 to 120 days.

I also urge my colleagues to work with me to support the victims of  January's Los Angeles fires, including the Eaton fire in my district,  by passing a supplemental disaster appropriations package with no  strings attached.

The Eaton fire took 17 of my constituents' lives, burned 9,500  structures, and left 20,000 people in my district homeless. While FEMA  has been there since the start, we will need more help from Congress.

Wildfires, like all natural disasters, know no political parties, and  never in our country's history has Congress placed policy conditions on  aid for disaster victims.

I look forward to passing this legislation and then continuing our  work to support survivors with a supplemental disaster aid package.

Mr. Speaker, this bipartisan bill is a commonsense proposal to ease  one of the many burdens that face survivors after a natural disaster so  that they can focus on recovering and rebuilding.