Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699349/department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. AMODEI of Nevada. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of  the Homeland Security bill under consideration.

As the chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee, I thank the  full committee chair, Mr. Cole, my colleague from Oklahoma, for his  leadership in helping to return us to regular order and producing a  series of bills that will fully fund the government by the January 30  deadline.

I also thank my colleague from Connecticut, the ranking member, Rosa  DeLauro, who was part of this combination. We have seen them work  before in years past, both as the chairman of the full committee and as  folks on other subcommittees that have worked well. It has been a help  to all of us, and I thank them all publicly for their professionalism  and respect for each other in our process.

I also thank my good friend, subcommittee Ranking Member Cuellar, a  real pro. We don't agree all the time, but it is like it has never been  a disagreeable experience. There are days around this outfit when,  quite frankly, that isn't the case. I thank my friend. I appreciate  that. He has been a great partner.

Finally, I will take the time to thank the committee staff on both  sides of the aisle who worked tirelessly over the past month to  negotiate the product before us. On the majority side are Paul Anstine,  Anna Lanier Fischer, Fern Gibbons, Alessandra Ramirez, Ashley Truluck,  and Nkosi Thomas. On the minority side are Shannon McCully, Jamie Wise,  and Jim Ellsworth.

It was not cool to be on Appropriations during the last 30 days, for  sure, and they were real troupers, professionals, and class acts. I  thank them all for their dedication and effort.

I also remind everybody, because we get tied up in a lot of stuff,  that, essentially, the Homeland Security bill is the Coast Guard, FEMA,  TSA, Secret Service, Border Patrol, and ICE. There are other parts in  there, but that is the majority of what we are talking about. Homeland,  what is that? That is the agencies that take up the lion's share of  this sort of stuff.

As the chairmen, we would like to basically think that by having  those meetings, talking across the aisle and with our staffs, that what  we have produced is a bedrock model for going forward and getting us  out of the continuing resolution rut. Continuing resolutions lock us  into spending levels that are both outdated and have not evolved like,  frankly, the positions on both sides.

The fiscal year 2026 Homeland Security bill under consideration today  furthers this administration's goals of undoing the damage caused by  the previous administration, starting with the border. This funds the  President's priorities, codifies reductions and efficiencies, and  operationalizes border security and immigration enforcement investments  in the reconciliation process.

Mr. Speaker, let's start with ICE. I know people have lamented that,  boy, we really didn't get everything we wanted and all that stuff. It  is like, guess what. There is something that we should both be  celebrating here today, and it is about ICE.

Since the last administration wasn't real big on ICE, kind of maybe  hoped they didn't exist or whatever, one of the things that didn't  happen with respect to ICE, like all other law enforcement agencies  around, was the use and implementation of body cameras so that we don't  have to rely on somebody who happened to have their cell phone and have  a good angle, whether they are accusing or defending themselves for  whatever they did. This bill funds  body cameras for ICE personnel so that we can have first-person, if you  will, access to what people really think was done.

Would you like a pay raise for the Coast Guard? This bill does that.

Would you like more infrastructure for the Coast Guard? This bill  does that.

Would you like grants for first responders and nonprofit religious  worship institutions? This bill does that.

The foundation is undeniable. As the tax on houses of worship has  increased over the last few years, we are providing more money for  that.

Finally, we ensure that CISA, the agency that is charged with  protecting our critical infrastructure, like power and water, has the  resources required to prevent attacks from nation-state adversaries  like China and Russia.

Simply put, this bill ensures that the men and women of the  Department of Homeland Security, who work tirelessly to keep America  safe, have the resources and tools that they need to protect this great  Nation.

I ask my colleagues to continue to support the bill.