Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700553/further-additional-continuing-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. AMODEI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman and my colleague, the  ranking member on the other side, for their work.

Mr. Speaker, as the chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland  Security, obviously, I rise today in strong support of the fiscal year  2026 Homeland Security appropriations bill.

Later today, we will vote on this bill for a second time in 2 months.  It shouldn't be necessary. The committee negotiated a full-year bill on  a bicameral, bipartisan basis.

Our bill includes reforms like funding for body-worn cameras,  negotiated amongst both sides in both Houses, and de-escalation  training, something else that we have heard about. Democrats continue  to insist on proposals which would prevent the enforcement of  immigration law.

It is disappointing that we must cajole our colleagues to support  this bipartisan bill once again, but here we are. The Department of  Homeland Security has now been shut down for more than 3 weeks, with no  apparent end in sight.

Let us just for a second really talk about why we are here. One of  the biggest successes of the present administration is what they have  done on the border and what they have done in terms of ending unlimited  immigration from the previous administration and how they are trying to  clean that up. That is a phenomenal sore spot amongst some of my  colleagues. You know what, why are we here with this? Why are we  ignoring TSA and all this stuff you are going to hear throughout this?  We have got Secret Service. We have got FEMA. We have got all of these  things going on. We have got the Coast Guard. Why are we ignoring all  of those? Because the thing that really upsets them is the success on  the number one issue that this administration ran on, which was  cleaning up the border.

Now, when you have got some operations in the Twin Cities that are  under investigation, it is like here we go. We can fixate on this, or  try and take the plumb so far of this administration's  accomplishments--and there are many. So here we are, until we get to a  point where we can move on to something else and forget, the wall is  still being built; there is plenty of money for operations with ICE,  and all of those things, but we are doing political stuff. I get it. I  understand it. I just don't understand how that gets to the top of the  rail when there have been reforms. It has been quiet up in the Twin  Cities for a while now. There have been pivots made.

While utility bills, mortgages, car payments, and grocery bills don't  stop coming because the Senate has decided to hold this bill hostage,  we sit here and struggle through and hope that people can struggle  through in all the other homeland areas that are on hold.

What I would tell you is this: Vote ``yes,'' end the shutdown.