Pay Our Homeland Defenders Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701353/pay-our-homeland-defenders-act


Mr. AMODEI of Nevada. Madam Speaker, Mr. Chairman, and Madam minority  leader, well, here we are again. It is going to come as a surprise to  nobody here that as the chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee,  I am rising in support of the 2026 Homeland Security appropriations  bill. Later today, we will vote on the bill for a third time, and  unfortunately it won't be the charm.

This shutdown should have never happened. The Committee negotiated a  full bill on a bicameral, bipartisan basis, and then the goalposts got  moved at the north end of the building.

Now our colleagues have taken the Department hostage over radical and  unachievable policy demands which never would have made it into the  original bill. This is a smokescreen for what we are really talking  about here: stopping immigration enforcement--stopping immigration  enforcement.

Most Americans support removing dangerous criminal aliens from our  communities, stopping immigration enforcement. Most Americans support  removing those who have final orders of removal instead of stopping  immigration enforcement, but apparently there is a new priority on the  other side of the aisle.

We are in day 40 of the shutdown with no apparent end in sight, and I  find it interesting that we keep hearing about this wonderful discharge  petition, which is H.R. 7481.

Well, I have read H.R. 7481, and if it was, as we like to say in the  appropriations business, a clean bill, just funded those other ones,  you know what, I think my distinguished colleague would have a good  point. You know what is not in there--don't ask me why. I didn't draft  it--no body-worn camera money. That was one of the things everybody  agreed to, but it is not in H.R. 7481. By the way, this is an act of  oversight whether you agree with it or not.

Madam Speaker, you know what is not in H.R. 7481, all sorts of the  preexisting, previously agreed to oversight provisions. This is about  stopping immigration enforcement.

How many of us would miss the paychecks that those folks at TSA have  missed and still continue to work? Good question. Who knows what the  answer to that is.

Over 400 TSA officers have quit since the beginning of the shutdown.  I can't really blame them.

The Democrats' solution is to pick and choose which agencies at DHS  get funded to ease the pain they created to alleviate their guilt for  the hardship they have caused to our hardworking national security  professionals.

No. The right call is to fund the entire Department. We can all vote  to do that again today. The time to fund the Department of Homeland  Security is now. That is not news to anybody. That is the position.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to do the right thing: Vote  ``yes'' and end this shutdown.