Bernie Bluestein Post Office Building


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701660/bernie-bluestein-post-office-building


Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 5773) to designate the facility of the United  States Postal Service at 1300 East Northwest Highway in Palatine,  Illinois, as the ``Bernie Bluestein Post Office Building''.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 5773

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. BERNIE BLUESTEIN POST OFFICE BUILDING.

(a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal       Service located at 1300 East Northwest Highway in Palatine,       Illinois, shall be known and designated as the ``Bernie       Bluestein Post Office Building''.

(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to the       facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be       a reference to the ``Bernie Bluestein Post Office Building''.

Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, which would rename a  post office in Palatine, Illinois, after Bernie Bluestein.

Mr. Bluestein was an American artist, innovator, and World War II  veteran. As part of the top-secret Ghost Army unit, Mr. Bluestein used  his artistic skills to create fake patches, signs, and vehicle stencils  to deceive Nazi forces about the strength and location of American  troops.

After serving in the Army, he worked as an industrial designer,  assisting leading electronics companies, such as Zenith and Sunbeam, by  designing products.

Mr. Bluestein passed away on March 25, 2026, at the age of 102.

Madam Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to  support this bill, naming a post office after war veteran Bernie  Bluestein, and I yield back the balance of my time.