Commander Delbert Austin Olson Post Office


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697598/commander-delbert-austin-olson-post-office


Mr. GILL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 1830) to designate the facility of the United States  Postal Service located at 840 Front Street in Casselton, North Dakota,  as the ``Commander Delbert Austin Olson Post Office''.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1830

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. COMMANDER DELBERT AUSTIN OLSON POST OFFICE.

(a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal       Service located at 840       Front Street in Casselton, North Dakota, shall be known and       designated as the ``Commander Delbert Austin Olson Post       Office''.

(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to the       facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be       a reference to the ``Commander Delbert Austin Olson Post       Office''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, which would rename a  post office in Casselton, North Dakota, for U.S. Navy Commander Delbert  Austin Olson.

Commander Olson entered the U.S. Navy from North Dakota and served in  World War II, Korea, and Vietnam.

On January 11, 1968, he piloted a mission that took off from Thailand  and, while descending into the target area, the aircraft crashed,  killing Commander Olson.

Commander Olson's remains were not recovered until 2001, and he has  been memorialized on the Courts of the Missing at the National Memorial  Cemetery of the Pacific.

Commander Olson was married to his wife, Patricia, and had two  children, Dana and Eric.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. GILL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I encourage my House colleagues to  support this bill naming a post office for Commander Olson, who made  the ultimate sacrifice in service to a grateful nation. I yield back  the balance of my time.