Designation of Haiti for Temporary Protected Status


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701854/designation-of-haiti-for-temporary-protected-status


Mr. GILL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I vehemently oppose this backdoor  amnesty bill that would allow hundreds of thousands of Haitians who  entered our country illegally to be given de facto amnesty.

Temporary protected status, as its name implies, was originally  designed to be just that, temporary. Yet, it has metastasized into what  is effectively a permanent amnesty program for unvetted foreigners all  over the globe. That is exactly what this bill extends.

Who are these people that this bill applies to? There are roughly  350,000 Haitians covered under temporary protected status in the United  States. Of those, an estimated 91 percent entered this country  illegally. An estimated 69 percent came in under the Biden  administration.

In other words, what this bill does is codify the open borders of the  previous administration that the American people overwhelmingly  rejected in the last election cycle.

Mr. Speaker, no serious country tolerates virtually unlimited numbers  of foreigners breaking and entering. Yet, that is what this bill does.

More fundamentally, Mr. Speaker, the purpose of our immigration  system is to benefit our people. It is for the benefit of Americans. We  have no obligation to allow anybody from any part of the globe to come  into America. When they do, they come in on our terms, for our benefit.

Let's ask ourselves: Does mass migration from Haiti benefit the  American people? The answer is obviously no. Sixty-five percent of  nonimmigrant Haitian-headed households are on welfare. Does that make  America stronger, more prosperous, or more wealthy in any way? Of  course, it doesn't.

Yet, we are being asked to give them amnesty and make these  absolutely horrendous years of open borders effectively permanent.

Mr. Speaker, the central thesis of the last election cycle was the  American people rejecting mass migration. That is why they gave the  President the popular vote. That is why Republicans have a trifecta,  and we ought to listen to them.

The American people want their country back. The American people are  tired of sending their kids to school where an unlimited number of  children are speaking foreign languages or schools that are flooded  with fentanyl because of open borders.

Mr. Speaker, we want to live in America. That is why I reject this  bill, and I hope my colleagues will, as well.