Edward L. Ramsey Olney Post Office Building


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701606/edward-l-ramsey-olney-post-office-building


Mr. GILL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 6310) to designate the facility of the United States  Postal Service located at 3570 Olney Laytonsville Road in Olney,  Maryland, as the ``Edward L. Ramsey Olney Post Office Building''.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 6310

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. EDWARD L. RAMSEY OLNEY POST OFFICE BUILDING.

(a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal       Service located at 3570 Olney Laytonsville Road in Olney,       Maryland, as the ``Edward L. Ramsey Olney Post Office       Building''.

(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to the       facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be       a reference to the ``Edward L. Ramsey Olney Post Office       Building''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill which would rename a post  office in Olney, Maryland, after Edward L. Ramsey.

Mr. Ramsey was a dedicated public servant, retired Army sergeant, and  valued member of the Olney community. Even into retirement, Mr.  Ramsey continued to serve his community by working at his local post  office in Olney.

This bill would rename that post office where Mr. Ramsey tirelessly  supported his neighbors.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. GILL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, renaming this post office after Mr.  Ramsey will ensure his service to our Nation and his community in  Maryland will survive for generations.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.