Firefighter Trevor Brown Post Office Building


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701657/firefighter-trevor-brown-post-office-building


Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 5058) to designate the facility of the United  States Postal Service located at 46164 Westlake Drive in Sterling,  Virginia, as the ``Firefighter Trevor Brown Post Office Building''.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 5058

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. FIREFIGHTER TREVOR BROWN POST OFFICE BUILDING.

(a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal       Service located at 46164 Westlake Drive in Sterling,       Virginia, shall be known and designated as the ``Firefighter       Trevor Brown Post Office Building''.

(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to the       facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be       a reference to the ``Firefighter Trevor Brown Post Office       Building''.

Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, which would rename a  post office in Sterling, Virginia, for Trevor Brown.

Trevor lost his life in the line of duty as a firefighter with the  Sterling Volunteer Fire Company on February 16, 2024.

Trevor was deeply committed to serving others. Trevor's deep sense of  responsibility to his community was reflected in everything he did from  volunteer firefighter to a dedicated youth soccer and baseball coach.

He is survived by his wife and their three young children. His  community will never forget his heroism.

Madam Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I encourage my House colleagues to  support this bill naming a post office for Trevor Brown, and I yield  back the balance of my time.