James J. Howard Post Office


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701671/james-j-howard-post-office


Mr. GILL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 1431) to designate the facility of the United States  Postal Service located at 2407 State Route 71, Suite 1, in Spring Lake,  New Jersey, as the ``James J. Howard Post Office''.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1431

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. JAMES J. HOWARD POST OFFICE.

(a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal       Service located at 2407 State Route 71, Suite 1, in Spring       Lake, New Jersey, shall be known and designated as the       ``James J. Howard Post Office''.

(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to the       facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be       a reference to the ``James J. Howard Post Office''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, which would rename a  post office in Spring Lake, New Jersey, for Congressman James J.  Howard.

Howard served our country in the U.S. Navy before beginning a career  in education, where he worked his way up from teacher to acting  principal in Wall Township, New Jersey.

In 1964, Howard was elected to represent New Jersey's Third  Congressional District. During his time in Congress, Congressman Howard  became known for his strong advocacy for his district and the  environment.

As chairman of the House Public Works and Transportation Committee,  Congressman Howard championed important legislation related to highway  safety and antidrunk driving.

He passed away in 1988 and is survived by his wife, Marlene, and his  three daughters.

I encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to  support this bill naming a post office for Congressman James J. Howard.  I yield back the balance of my time.