Officer Anthony Mazurkiewicz Memorial Post Office Building


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697616/officer-anthony-mazurkiewicz-memorial-post-office-building


Mr. GILL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 323) to designate the facility of the United States  Postal Service located at 80 Prospect Street in Avon, New York, as the  ``Officer Anthony Mazurkiewicz Memorial Post Office Building''.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 323

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. OFFICER ANTHONY MAZURKIEWICZ MEMORIAL POST OFFICE                     BUILDING.

(a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal       Service located at 80 Prospect Street in Avon, New York,       shall be known and designated as the ``Officer Anthony       Mazurkiewicz Memorial Post Office Building''.

(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to the       facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be       a reference to the ``Officer Anthony Mazurkiewicz Memorial       Post Office Building''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, which would rename a  post office in Avon, New York, for Officer Anthony Mazurkiewicz.

Officer Mazurkiewicz served with the Rochester Police Department for  29 years. Officer Mazurkiewicz was also an active member of the  Rochester Police Locust Club for his entire career.

Officer Mazurkiewicz was tragically shot and killed while on duty  while conducting surveillance duty. He is survived by his loving wife  of 28 years, Lynn, four children, and three grandchildren.

I encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. GILL of Texas.  Tenney).

Mr. GILL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I encourage my House colleagues to  support this bill naming a post office for Officer Anthony  Mazurkiewicz, who gave his life in the line of duty.