Reverend Harold Middlebrook Post Office Building


Mr. GILL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 1372) to designate the facility of the United States  Postal Service located at 300 Macedonia Lane in Knoxville, Tennessee,  as the ``Reverend Harold Middlebrook Post Office Building''.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1372

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. REVEREND HAROLD MIDDLEBROOK POST OFFICE BUILDING.

(a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal       Service located at 300 Macedonia Lane in Knoxville,       Tennessee, shall be known and designated as the ``Reverend       Harold Middlebrook Post Office Building''.

(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to the       facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be       a reference to the ``Reverend Harold Middlebrook Post Office       Building''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, which would rename a  post office in Knoxville, Tennessee, for Reverend Harold Middlebrook.

Reverend Middlebrook played a crucial role in the civil rights  movement during the sanitation workers strike in Memphis and later  founded the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Commemorative Commission in  Knoxville.

Reverend Middlebrook was president of the Bolivar Human Development  Corporation, an adviser to the Hardeman County Bi-Racial Commission,  coordinator of the Hardeman County Political Action Commission, and an  advisory board member of the Tennessee Public Service Commission.

Reverend Middlebrook was a loving father to his three children, two  of whom followed his footsteps to work in public service.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my House colleagues to support this bill  naming a post office for an honored community member, Reverend Harold  Middlebrook.