Staff Sergeant Jose Duenez Jr. Post Office Building


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701697/staff-sergeant-jose-duenez-jr-post-office-building


Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 6020) to designate the facility of the United  States Postal Service located at 14855 South Van Dyke Road in  Plainfield, Illinois, as the ``Staff Sergeant Jose Duenez Jr. Post  Office Building''.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 6020

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. STAFF SERGEANT JOSE DUENEZ JR. POST OFFICE                     BUILDING.

(a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal       Service located at 14855 South Van Dyke Road in Plainfield,       Illinois, shall be known and designated as the ``Staff       Sergeant Jose Duenez Jr. Post Office Building''.

(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to the       facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be       a reference to the ``Staff Sergeant Jose Duenez Jr. Post       Office Building''.

Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, which would rename a  post office in Plainfield, Illinois, for Staff Sergeant Jose Duenez,  Jr.

Sergeant Duenez tragically lost his life during a tactical training  exercise while serving his country. He was known by his peers as a  trustworthy and dedicated soldier and a natural leader, ultimately  reaching the rank of staff sergeant in November 2020.

Sergeant Duenez was also a decorated soldier, receiving two Army  Commendation Medals and many other achievements. Most importantly, he  was a loving brother, husband, and father.

Madam Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I encourage my House colleagues to  support this bill, naming a post office for an honored serviceman,  Staff Sergeant Duenez, and I yield back the balance of my time.