Technical Sergeant Alma Gladys Minter Post Office Building


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701630/technical-sergeant-alma-gladys-minter-post-office-building


Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 4635) designate the facility of the United States  Postal Service located at 890 East 152nd Street in Cleveland, Ohio, as  the ``Technical Sergeant Alma Gladys Minter Post Office Building''.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4635

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. TECHNICAL SERGEANT ALMA GLADYS MINTER POST OFFICE                     BUILDING.

(a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal       Service located at 890 East 152nd Street in Cleveland, Ohio,       shall be known and designated as the ``Technical Sergeant       Alma Gladys Minter Post Office Building''.

(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to the       facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be       a reference to the ``Technical Sergeant Alma Gladys Minter       Post Office Building''.

Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, which would rename a  post office in Cleveland, Ohio, for Technical Sergeant Alma Gladys  Minter.

Ms. Minter spent her formative years in Cleveland, and following her  high school graduation in 1939, she moved to Washington, D.C., where  she joined the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps.

During the Second World War, Alma was assigned to the 6888th Central  Postal Directory Battalion, the only all-Black women's unit to serve  overseas.

Despite being vulnerable to daily bombings and gunshots, the Six  Triple Eight battalion was able to sort through a backlog of 17 million  pieces of mail destined for Allied soldiers in Europe in half the  projected time.

Upon returning from the war, Technical Sergeant Minter lived a quiet  life in Cleveland, Ohio, where she would often tell her children  stories of her time in the Army and of the lifelong friendships made  while serving our country.

Madam Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I encourage my House colleagues to  support this bill naming a post office for Alma Gladys Minter, and I  yield back the balance of my time.