William J. Donovan Post Office Building


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701617/william-j-donovan-post-office-building


Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 1706) to designate the facility of the United  States Postal Service located at 1200 William Street, Room 200, in  Buffalo, New York, as the ``William J. Donovan Post Office Building''.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1706

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. WILLIAM J. DONOVAN POST OFFICE BUILDING.

(a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal       Service located at 1200 William Street, Room 200, in Buffalo,       New York, shall be known and designated as the ``William J.       Donovan Post Office Building''.

(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to the       facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be       a reference to the ``William J. Donovan Post Office       Building''.

Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, which would rename a  post office in Buffalo, New York, for William J. Donovan.

William Donovan dedicated his life to military service and global  leadership. After earning the Medal of Honor for his extraordinary  leadership under fire in World War I, Donovan was chosen to lead our  Nation's effort in a centralized intelligence program during World War  II. He became the founding Director of the Office of Strategic  Services, the precursor to the modern CIA.

Donovan worked closely with America's allies, orchestrating espionage  missions and assisting resistance movements in Nazi-occupied Germany.  His important work contributed to the success of the war effort and the  establishment of intelligence capabilities, which were instrumental to  the U.S. throughout the Cold War era.

I encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. GILL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my  time to close.

Madam Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support this bill naming  a post office for William J. Donovan, and I yield back the balance of  my time.