Healthcare Affordability Crisis


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698226/healthcare-affordability-crisis


Mr. CARTER of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her  leadership in these Special Order hours.

Mr. Speaker, as we talk about the human costs of expiring healthcare  tax credits, these human costs are not just on Democrats. These human  costs are on Americans across the board, Republicans and Democrats  alike. They are the small business owners who are the backbone, as we  often say, of our economy. Yet when given an opportunity to demonstrate  to our small business owners that they really matter and that their  employees really matter, we play politics.

Today, I want to share the story of Mike Friedman. I met Mike in  October, about 1 week before open enrollment began. He was working on a  Federal contract at the USDA National Finance Center in New Orleans but  lost his job in April because of Federal workforce cuts enacted by  Trump, Musk, and DOGE.

His family signed up for insurance through the Affordable Care Act  because his husband was also laid off in the spring. Mike had cancer 5  years ago and continues to have outstanding health concerns.

If MAGA Republicans don't join Democrats in extending the ACA tax  credit, Mike doesn't know how he or his family will afford healthcare.  He told me: I am not unusual in this case. So many others are in the  exact same position. He said: I am in the cusp between being retired  and not being eligible for Medicare yet. He just turned 61, and the ACA  is the only option for his family.

The cost of healthcare is out of control. Republicans have turned the  situation into a crisis with the largest Medicaid cut in the history,  outrageous threats to Medicare, and relentless targeting of the  Affordable Care Act.

This big, pretty some may say, most would say ugly law will hurt  Americans of every party, of every background, of every ZIP Code. For  43 days, the Congressional Black Caucus stood firm to protect America's  healthcare and lower healthcare costs for people like Mike and so many  others that will remain nameless and faceless because they don't always  have a voice or a platform from which to plead their case. That is why  we are here, for those who may not have a voice, may not have a  platform, may not have a lobby, may not have a group to fight for them.  We are fighting for them every single day regardless of their name,  background, even party because when we are elected to Congress, we are  not elected to only represent those who are in our party, but to  represent the American people.

This healthcare crisis is an affront to the American people, and I  implore my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to do the right  thing. Do the right thing. Step up, stand out, fight against injustice  and inequality wherever you find it. Demonstrate that to our small  business people, our people living with disabilities, our veterans, our  working people who go to work every single day who make just a little  bit too much money to access Medicaid, but not enough money to pay for  their healthcare.

Republicans' failure to extend the ACA tax credits will hurt  Louisianians and Americans across this country. It allows premiums to  skyrocket for tens of millions of Americans by an average of 114  percent and takes away coverage from around 4 million people.

That is unacceptable by every front. Any way you slice it, it is  unacceptable. We are the richest country in the world. This Nation has  more than anyone else in the entire world. No one should go to bed  hungry. No one should be without a home. No one should fear being sick  because they can't access healthcare, not in America.

This is not a partisan issue, my friends. There are a lot of things  that we can be partisan about. This isn't one. We only have a few days  left to get this right. Let's not let the American people be the  sacrificial lamb over some undisputed political battle among parties.  Let's not let a person in the White House who seems to care about  everything but the American people dictate or drive our actions. We are  bigger, we are better. I know you personally. Find the courage to do  the right thing. Stand up for the nearly 4 million people who will find  themselves without healthcare.

The Congressional Black Caucus is here, and we are not giving up this  fight. We will not give up the fight to address the healthcare crisis  in our country. We will not give up the fight to fight for those  businesspeople who every day create tax dollars and sales taxes for our  local governments, that hire people from the community, that provide  the resources that keep our economy going. Let's demonstrate to them  that they matter. Let's do the right thing. Let's extend the ACA tax  credits and show America that we can get our business done and that  everything we do is not subject to a red or a blue.