Recognizing the 40th Anniversary of Entergy's Nuclear Power Site, Waterford 3 Steam Electric Station in Killona, Louisiana


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696712/recognizing-the-40th-anniversary-of-entergys-nuclear-power-site-waterford-3-steam-electric-station-in-killona-louisiana


Mr. CARTER of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to humbly honor  and celebrate the 40th anniversary of Entergy's Waterford 3 Steam  Electric Station, proudly located in Louisiana's 2nd Congressional  District, which I represent in Louisiana.

Since 1985, Entergy's Waterford 3 Steam Electric Station has proudly  served the residents of St. Charles Parish, the State of Louisiana, and  the Gulf Coast region for 40 years, providing safe, reliable, and  carbon-free electricity.

Waterford 3's clean, reliable generation supports Entergy's  commitment to achieving net zero emissions by 2050, with interim goals  of a 50 percent emission rate reduction by 2030 and a 50 percent  carbon-free energy-generating capacity by 2030. This plant is a  cornerstone of energy resilience in Southeast Louisiana, playing a  vital role in meeting the power needs of nearly half a million  customers by providing a maximum dependable capacity of 1,152 megawatts  and contributing to grid stability during periods of peak demand and  extreme weather events.

Waterford 3 employs more than 800 employees and contractors who have  demonstrated a commitment to operational excellence, nuclear safety,  emergency preparedness, and professional standards, exemplifying the  spirit of public service and technical leadership. Additionally,  Waterford 3 has maintained a strong and ongoing partnership with the  St. Charles Parish community, providing local jobs, supporting  charitable organizations, investing in STEM education, and preparing  future generations through workforce development initiatives.

This year marks the 40th anniversary of the plant's operation and the  100th anniversary of Entergy serving the state of Louisiana. This  milestone honors the legacy and achievements of its employees and the  plant's significant role in Louisiana's energy future.

I congratulate Entergy's Waterford 3 Steam Electric Station, its  leadership, and employees, on their anniversary. I extend my best  wishes to Entergy for maintaining its commitment to powering Louisiana  and for being a strong community partner throughout the state.