Recognizing the Retirement of Lisa Perez Jackson


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702174/recognizing-the-retirement-of-lisa-perez-jackson


Mr. CARTER of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor an  incredible woman, Mrs. Lisa Perez Jackson, a distinguished native of my  hometown and the district I serve. Her career includes an incredible  path, spanning nearly four decades in state and federal government,  public policy, and the private sector. While Mrs. Jackson was born in  Philadelphia, she was raised in Pontchartrain Park by her adopted  parents, Benjamin and Marie Perez. In 1979, she graduated as  valedictorian from St. Mary's Dominican High School and would later  graduate summa cum laude from Tulane University in 1983 with a degree  in chemical engineering. As a National Merit Scholar, Ms. Jackson went  on to earn a Master of Science in Chemical Engineering from Princeton  University in 1986. Shortly thereafter, Jackson would begin her  distinguished career in government, first as an engineer with the  United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in Washington, D.C.  before subsequent promotions as deputy director and acting director of  enforcement of the Agency's regional office in New York City.

After 16 years with the EPA, Jackson joined the New Jersey Department  of Environmental Protection (DEP) in March 2002 as assistant  commissioner of compliance and enforcement and would later serve as  assistant commissioner for land use management. She was appointed to  lead DEP in 2006 by then Governor Jon Corzine and would later serve as  the Governor's Chief of Staff.

On January 23, 2009, Jackson was confirmed by the United States  Senate to serve as President Barack Obama's Administrator of the  Environmental Protection Agency. During her tenure as EPA  Administrator, Jackson oversaw the development of stricter fuel  efficiency standards and EPA's response to the Deepwater Horizon oil  spill and setting National Ambient Air Quality Standards. In 2013,  Jackson became Apple, Inc.'s Vice President of Environment, Policy and  Social Initiatives. During her tenure at Apple, Jackson led the  company's transformation into a global leader in corporate  environmental responsibility, achieving 100 percent renewable energy  for Apple's worldwide operations in 2018 and implementing an industry- leading supplier clean energy program that added over 5 gigawatts of  new clean energy globally. Jackson oversaw Apple's commitment to become  carbon neutral across its entire business and supply chain by 2030, a  commitment that Apple is still on track to meet to this day.

Beyond environmental leadership, Jackson launched Apple's Racial  Equity and Justice Initiative (REJI) in June 2020 following nationwide  protests against racial injustice. Under her leadership, the program  more than doubled its initial $100 million commitment to surpass $200  million in investments over three years, focusing on three core  pillars: education, economic empowerment, and criminal justice reform.  These investments include the creation of the Propel Center--a $25  million global innovation and learning hub serving the entire HBCU  community with curriculum in AI, machine learning, social justice, and  entrepreneurship. Jackson also expanded the HBCU C \2\ initiative to 45  community coding centers and regional hubs on HBCU campuses, reaching  more than 160,000 learners, and committed over $50 million to HBCUs and  Hispanic-Serving Institutions for STEM opportunities. These investments  also include but are not limited to the funding of venture capital  firms, Community Development Financial Institutions, and Minority  Depository Institutions supporting Black, Hispanic/Latinx, and  Indigenous entrepreneurs.

Jackson was also responsible for Apple's worldwide government affairs  function, product accessibility work, and education policy programs,  reporting directly to CEO Tim Cook. She was recognized by TIME Magazine  as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World. Throughout her  career, Jackson earned the respect of engineers, environmentalists and  peers alike for her deep understanding of the legislative process and  her commitment to accuracy and fairness, viewing politics not simply as  a beat, but as a public trust, connecting government actions to the  people they affect. As she retires, she leaves behind a legacy of  integrity, insight, and service to the country. Today, I salute her on  an incredible life of service.