Securing the Cities Improvement Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688698/securing-the-cities-improvement-act


Mr. CARTER of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Correa  for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, the Securing the  Cities Improvement Act, a critical piece of legislation designed to  help us build and maintain our Nation's security capabilities.

Specifically, this bill provides participating cities with more  reliable guidance and support from the Department of Homeland  Security's Securing the Cities program, which seeks to reduce the risk  of terrorist attacks in high-risk urban areas, like my hometown of New  Orleans.

I want to specifically thank Ranking Member Bennie Thompson and  Congressman Clay Higgins for their support and for cosponsoring this  bill. I also thank Lou Correa for managing the bill today and Chairman  Green for his leadership, as well as the Homeland Security Committee  staff, especially Lauren McClain, who tirelessly led us through this  effort.

The need for this legislation has been tragically underscored by the  recent terrorist attacks in the city of New Orleans on New Year's Day,  which claimed 15 lives and left dozens of others injured.

In the early hours of New Year's Day, a 42-year-old U.S. citizen from  Texas drove a rented Ford F-150 pickup truck into a crowd on Bourbon  Street in the French Quarter neighborhood during the city's New Year's  Eve celebration. After crashing, he exited the vehicle and engaged in a  shootout with law enforcement before being fatally shot by courageous  New Orleans police officers who rushed to the scene, putting themselves  in harm's way to protect our citizens, visitors, and guests.

Prior to the pickup truck's attack, the terrorist planted two  improvised explosive devices, or IEDs, concealed within coolers at  separate locations along crowded Bourbon Street. These rudimentary pipe  bombs were filled with shrapnel materials, such as nails, screws, and  tacks, and were designed for remote detonation using a wireless device  found in his vehicle. Luckily, he was not able to detonate these bombs  and cause any further carnage.

An ISIS flag was found in the truck, and the FBI confirmed that ISIS  had not coordinated with the attacker but, in fact, had inspired him.

This heinous and sick act of cowardice not only shattered the lives  of victims and their families but also exposed vulnerabilities in our  urban security infrastructure.

While the New Orleans attack did not involve radiological or nuclear  materials, it serves as a grim reminder of the evolving tactics of  terrorists and the potential for more catastrophic methods used. It  also underscores why continued security investments in New Orleans and  other highly targeted cities with programs like Securing the Cities are  so crucial.

The Department of Homeland Security launched the Securing the Cities  initiative in 2007 as a pilot program to assist the New York City metro  area in detecting and preventing nuclear or radiological threats. The  program has since expanded and currently provides 14 municipal  governments nationwide, including the city of New Orleans, with  detection equipment, training, exercise support, operational and  technological expertise, and programmatic assistance, which makes a  huge difference.

However, the program participation criteria has caused uncertainty  and inconsistencies for cities that rely on this support. Eligibility  for the program is currently restricted to high-risk urban areas as  determined by FEMA under the Urban Area Security Initiative program,  under which the composition of jurisdictions can vary from year to  year. This eligibility criteria led to some jurisdictions being funded  and supported by the Securing the Cities program in one year but not  the next. The inconsistency has caused great harm.

This bill clears up the eligibility criteria for the program so that  it can be a steady, reliable source of support for cities. It removes  the statutory requirement restricting participation in the program to  areas designated by FEMA. Instead, it requires Homeland Security's  Office of Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction to decide which cities  to partner with for the program based on the jurisdiction's capability  and capacity to prepare and respond to terrorist attacks and other  high-consequence events.

This legislation also sets performance metrics and goals for the  Department of Homeland Security to report back to Congress.

Through these changes, the Securing the Cities Improvement Act offers  a more targeted and effective approach to national security  preparedness and response. It ensures that our cities that need support  are reliably equipped with advanced detection technologies and will  have the infrastructure and training to utilize them ready at hand.

Last Congress, this bill passed the House and the Senate's Homeland  Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, and I hope it will be  signed into law this Congress.

Passing this legislation is a proactive step toward safeguarding our  citizens from the unimaginable. By enhancing our detection and response  capabilities, we deter adversaries from contemplating radiological or  nuclear attacks and reassure the public that our commitment to their  safety is sound, real, and committed.

In memory of the lives lost in New Orleans and in recognition of  ever-present and evolving threats, I urge my colleagues to support the  Securing the Cities Improvement Act.

Let's honor the victims by taking decisive action to protect our  Nation from future atrocities and future acts of cowardice. We are  America. We stand firm in our protection.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R.  1374.