Trump Immigration Policies


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690503/trump-immigration-policies


Mr. CARTER of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with great concern  regarding our First and Fifth Amendment rights. Our constitutionally  guaranteed freedom of speech and right to due process are under attack  by the Musk-Trump administration.

You don't have to like what someone says philosophically,  politically, or otherwise, but free speech is not based on what you  like or dislike or choose to hear or not hear; it is based on one's  ability to express themselves. It is not conditioned on what you like  to hear. Free speech is free speech.

We will not stand by while they violate the principles that form the  bedrock of our democracy. Right now, this administration is defying a  Supreme Court decision that ordered them to facilitate the return of an  individual who was deported without due process. Alongside others, he  was sent to an inhumane prison in a different country without a  hearing. This happened in the United States, violating his right to due  process. There are many individuals whose stories deserve to be told,  so today I am going to highlight just a few.

Last week, I led a bicameral codel to two ICE detention facilities in  Louisiana where Mahmoud Khalil, Rumeysa Ozturk, and Wendy Brito are  being held.

Mahmoud Khalil is a lawful permanent resident and Columbia graduate  student who was detained because of his participation in a peaceful  protest. I had an opportunity to sit and visit with him. He said,  without fear of contradiction: I am not anti-Semitic. I am not pro- Hamas. I am simply concerned about my homeland and the treatment of the  people that are there.

Rumeysa Ozturk is a Ph.D. student detained because she wrote an op-ed  in her school newspaper.

Wendy Brito, a mother of three U.S. citizens, who may one day be U.S.  Senators. A U.S. citizen right here on our homeland, was deported  without giving her due process. Her lawyer was in the waiting room.  They would not let her have access to the lawyer. Then they added  insult to injury by saying she signed a waiver.

Who and what mother would not say, when asked: Do you want your  children to go with you versus being with some strangers would not opt  for that first option?

Ms. Brito simply said: What are you going to do with my children?  They said: Well, they can go with you. As a father, I would have made  the same decision, but her lawyer was in the other room begging for an  opportunity to stand in, and they would not give him or her an  opportunity to do so.

Arresting people who are in this country legally--people whose only  crimes have been to exercise their right to free speech--is an assault  on our civil liberties and our Constitution.

An attack on these individuals is an attack on all of us. Who is to  say what this ruthless administration will do next or who they will do  it to? Will it be your family member, your friend, or a coworker who is  taken without cause?

I am reminded of a quote from Angela Davis: ``If they come for me in  the morning, they will come for you in the night.''

We must all stick together and fight for the rights of our great  country, this great Constitution, the First Amendment right of free  speech, and the Fifth Amendment right of due process. We must continue  speaking up and fighting back against these tyrants and preserve our  Constitution.

Mr. Speaker, I am not sure if you found this funny or if you are  laughing at a joke that is on your phone, but this is serious business,  sir.