Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698179/whole-milk-for-healthy-kids-act-of-2025


Mr. CARTER of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the  Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act, as amended by the Senate, which allows  for plant-based milk alternatives to be more easily and readily  available for children with lactose intolerance.

This is especially important because the rates of some degree of  lactose intolerance in minority communities are startlingly high, more  than most people would realize, with approximately 65 percent of Latino  students, 75 percent of Black students, 90 percent of Asian students  unable to digest dairy milk without detrimental effects.

This portion does, in fact, follow the science. These statistics are  real, and they are played out every single day in the classroom.

Not long ago, I had a young lady from Louisiana, a precious little  baby girl, who had a horrible accident because the teacher would not  allow her to go to the restroom again after complaining of a tummy  ache. Unfortunately, this did not end well for this student. She is a  beautiful child. She has rebounded wonderfully, and she will be happy  to know that going forward she will have an alternative. She doesn't  have to contend with her belly aching after consuming something her  body simply couldn't digest. Because the school offered no alternative,  it was this or nothing. As you know, in many cases, our young people  will get nothing if they don't enjoy some nutritional values at school.

Many children may not make the connection between consumption of milk  and their feelings of discomfort and even illness. Lactose intolerance  causes a range of health effects including stomach pain, severe  bloating, gas, diarrhea, and even exacerbated asthma symptoms. These  symptoms can hinder a child's ability to concentrate in the classroom,  to perform in the classroom, to be attentive in the classroom, and to  learn in the classroom.

We should do everything in our power to make sure our children have  the best opportunity to concentrate, to learn, to do well, and to be  healthy in the classroom.

Currently, children who suffer adverse reactions from traditional  milk must produce a doctor's note to receive an alternative beverage,  which places an unfair burden squarely on minority children, children  of working parents, children whose parents simply don't have the time  or the ability, because of the healthcare system crisis, to even see a  doctor, let alone get a note from a doctor.

This bill fixes that issue. It contains a provision from bipartisan  legislation I filed in each of the last three Congresses to remove the  doctor's note requirement for receiving milk alternatives. This bill  folds in those measures from my previously filed bill.

Mr. CARTER of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  this commonsense, bipartisan reform that will allow our children to  receive the nutrition they need to feel healthy and have successful  lives in and out of school.

While I understand that this bill may not capture every need that is  out there--I concede to our ranking member, who I respect greatly, that  we have much work to do. However, this bill goes a long way to fix an  issue that can simply not wait any longer to be addressed. I urge  support for this measure.