Support for Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695792/support-for-patients-and-communities-reauthorization-act-of-2025


Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I rise today to pass into law a lifesaving  bipartisan legislation that will enable us to keep fighting the opioid  and fentanyl epidemic, an epidemic that has destroyed families and  devastated communities all across our country.

Our country faces many challenges, and I am sure we will continue to  debate in the coming weeks how to address those, but today we will  advance, on a bipartisan basis, lifesaving legislation that we know is  working to combat fentanyl.

New data from earlier this summer found that drug overdose deaths  dropped 27 percent last year, compared to the prior year. Since the  advent of the opioid crisis, we now have a much better sense of what  works to prevent and treat addiction, the resources we need to do so,  and the light that exists on the other end of this terrible tunnel. But  we can only get there if we keep up the fight.

The SUPPORT Act of 2018, signed into law by President Trump during  his first term, established vital addiction treatment infrastructure.  Reauthorizing this bipartisan law is essential to our addiction  prevention, treatment, and recovery efforts. For example, the act  includes funding for addiction treatment for pregnant women and funds  for training and equipment to help first responders in this fight.

The original SUPPORT Act passed the Senate with 98 votes, and this  bipartisan reauthorization passed the House with 366 votes.

Now the Senate will send it to the President's desk.

While we have made progress in this fight, we cannot be complacent.  While there are still too many families and communities ravaged by  addiction, we cannot despair. Nothing less than people's lives depend  on us acting.

2483 and the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration.

Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, the Senate just passed a major bipartisan  package to reauthorize the SUPPORT Act, and it is headed to President  Trump's desk. Today is proof that despite our differences, bipartisan  progress is possible.

I am particularly pleased to be here with my colleague and chair of  the HELP Committee Senator Cassidy, who has been instrumental in this  fight and who will speak in just a moment.

To our first responders, know that training and equipment are coming  to help make your job easier.

To our healthcare providers, know that resources are coming to help  people get and stay in recovery.

To those battling addiction, know that support is on the way.

I am deeply grateful to a number of my colleagues on both sides of  the aisle, and I am looking forward to Senator Cassidy's comments just  now. I am also grateful to Senator Sanders for working with me on  getting this done as well as the advocates who knew we could not give  up in this fight.

This package will save lives, and I look forward to continuing to  make available every tool we have to stop fentanyl.