Congressional Award Program Reauthorization Act


Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (S. 284) to reauthorize the Congressional Award Act.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                   S. 284

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Congressional Award Program       Reauthorization Act''.       SEC. 2. TERMINATION.

(a) In General.--Section 108 of the Congressional Award Act       (2 U.S.C. 808) is amended by striking ``October 1, 2023'' and       inserting ``October 1, 2028''.

(b) Retroactive Effective Date.--The amendment made by       subsection (a) shall take effect as if enacted on October 1,       2023.       SEC. 3. OTHER AMENDMENTS.

Section 102 of the Congressional Award Act (2 U.S.C. 802)       is amended--

(1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Each medal shall       consist of gold-plate over bronze, rhodium over bronze, or       bronze and shall be struck in accordance with subsection       (f).''; and

(2) in subsection (f)(1), in the second sentence, by       striking ``Subject to subsection (a), the'' and inserting       ``The''.

Mr. WALBERG.  284.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 284, the Congressional  Award Program Reauthorization Act.

The Congressional Award Act encourages young people between the ages  of 14 and 23 to challenge themselves in ways that not only benefit  themselves but also the communities they live in. The award is not  given based on past achievement but, rather, an individual is honored  for setting goals, creating an action plan, and meeting those goals.

Earning an award means young Americans completed self-designed  programs focused on four key goals. They are volunteer service,  personal growth, exploration, and physical fitness.

Upon completion, participants are awarded a Congressional Award  certificate or medal in one of three levels: gold, silver, or bronze.  These are important recognitions of the hard work and dedication of  America's young leaders. The Congressional Award has empowered over  500,000 participants nationwide and is the highest honor Congress  bestows on American youth.

By reauthorizing this program, we honor the countless hours of hard  work and dedication of so many past and present participants.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, as I close, I thank my colleagues, including my ranking  member,  Bobby Scott, for this work in a bipartisan way. We have worked  to reauthorize the Congressional Award Act, including Representative  Richard Hudson of North Carolina and Senator Lummis of Wyoming.

For decades, the Congressional Award Act has inspired young people to  engage with their communities and improve the lives of their neighbors  and themselves. On the Education and Workforce Committee, we are  constantly working to promote more pathways for success for students  and young adults so that they can thrive. The Congressional Award  program is yet another step to encourage young people to set goals,  develop a plan, and be the best that they can be.

Mr. Speaker, I once again urge my colleagues to support this  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.