Defending Education Transparency and Ending Rogue Regimes Engaging in Nefarious Transactions Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689032/defending-education-transparency-and-ending-rogue-regimes-engaging-in-nefarious-transactions-act


Mr. WALBERG.  1048.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of H.R. 1048.

Foreign nations, including our biggest adversaries like the Chinese  Communist Party, contribute billions of dollars to American  universities. The lack of transparency around foreign relationships  should concern every American as we see stolen research, anti-Semitic  propaganda, and academic censorship. None of these things belong inside  our borders let alone on our college campuses.

By establishing footholds in American schools, bad actors gain access  to valuable research and intellectual property that can be used to  bolster their own military and undermine our Nation's best interests.

Under the Higher Education Act, schools are required to report  foreign gifts and funding. Unfortunately, loose legislative language,  the Biden-Harris administration's inaction, and colleges' refusal to  adhere to the law have resulted in billions of foreign funds  infiltrating our country undetected. Last year, a congressional  investigation of two research universities uncovered nearly $40 million  in unreported research contracts with the Chinese Communist Party. That  is $40 million in unreported funds at just two universities.

Of course, this is just the tip of the iceberg. Without transparency,  we have no idea the true amount or impact of foreign funds at our  institutions.

This is why we need the DETERRENT Act. It closes these loopholes and  has more strict reporting requirements for foreign funding and  contracts. It also will hold institutions accountable by imposing  fines, such as the loss of student aid funding for schools that  continually fail to comply.

This bipartisan bill is a commonsense solution to an irrefutable  problem, which is why it passed last Congress with bipartisan support.  We should be loud and clear: No American university should be helping  the hidden agendas of the Chinese Communist Party or other nations  continue to threaten U.S. national security.

I thank Mr. Baumgartner for introducing this vital piece of  legislation. I would also like to highlight that the DETERRENT Act  includes bills from my committee colleagues Representative Harris,  Representative Owens, and Representative Messmer.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support the DETERRENT Act. Doing  so will help defend against our adversaries while also holding our  institutions to a higher standard. Take foreign money first, ask  questions later is not the way to go.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  Washington (Mr. Baumgartner), who is the sponsor of this legislation.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I appreciate the concerns of my colleague,  but my committee has worked very closely with the Select Committee on  the Strategic Competition Between the United States and the Chinese  Communist Party to combat malign influence at our universities.

One type of malign influence is very different than what we are  talking about here. The influence is known as transnational repression,  which is efforts by the CCP to exert influence over dissidents,  dissidents that could be coming here to gain a great education at our  universities but are discouraged by the CCP. This legislation would  encourage students seeking an education here and be able to push back  against the malign influence of the CCP.

Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from North Carolina  (Mr. Harris), a cosponsor of this bill with portions of his bill in  this bill, as well.

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr. Chair, I thank Congressman  Baumgartner for his work on this bill.

Mr. Chair, each year adversarial nations like China, North Korea,  Iran, and Russia attempt to buy the ability to influence our next  generation through donations and contracts with American colleges and  universities.

The DETERRENT Act will shine light on these shady backroom deals  and get malign foreign influence out of our schools. The legislation  will strengthen the thresholds of reporting foreign gifts and  contracts.

According to The Wall Street Journal, in the last 12 years, U.S.  schools had nearly 3,000 contracts with China valued at no less than  $2.32 billion. That raises an important question: Why would a country  that certainly doesn't have the best interests of American students in  mind pay such enormous sums to American universities?

This bill will get to the bottom of it.

The DETERRENT Act includes language from my own legislation, the No  Contracts With Foreign Adversaries Act, which requires a college or  university to be transparent about the reason they might want to  contract with one of the four countries currently designated by our  government as a ``country of concern.''

It is true that there could be an academic purpose for a partnership  with a country like China, North Korea, Iran, or Russia, but these  partnerships cannot come at the expense of our national security,  research integrity, or our future generations.

Students, parents, and taxpayers have a right to know the financial  ties of these universities.

The DETERRENT Act strengthens current law by raising the reporting  standards and providing a real enforcement mechanism if schools try to  hide their dealings with foreign countries.

I urge all of my colleagues to stand and support the DETERRENT Act.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Indiana (Mr. Messmer), an upstanding, proud member of this committee.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from Utah  (Mr. Owens), the vice chairman of the House Education and the Workforce  Committee as well as the chairman of the Higher Education and Workforce  Development Subcommittee.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  California (Mr. Kiley), the subcommittee chair of the Early Childhood,  Elementary, and Secondary Education Subcommittee.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume. I  know my good friend and colleague's concern is sincere about faculty  involvement in reporting in institutions,  of course, that know how to keep records of sports donors, boosters,  and alumni who are contributing various things. I think this is even  more important.

My colleague argued that requiring researchers to disclose foreign  gifts and contracts would be invasive and unnecessary. I first remind  my colleague that this requirement applies to specific researchers  involved in government contracts who are at specific high research  institutions. These are faculty working in crucial and sensitive  research, areas our adversaries have targeted time and time again.

This is not just an abstract problem. Just in the last 2 years,  prominent research faculty at Harvard, Stanford, the University of  Maryland, and the University of Delaware were found to not have  disclosed foreign funding from Chinese sources, just to name a few  examples. Reporting in-kind support specifically for a researcher's  grant is critical, but deterrent provisions also cover other ways our  adversaries can influence faculty.

Democrats also continue to falsely claim that the DETERRENT Act would  require reporting for everyday activities like doughnuts or coffee. The  DETERRENT Act holds faculty to the same standard for monetary gifts as  Members of Congress. A gift of a $5,000 purse from a foreign source  rightfully needs to be scrutinized and publicized.

Regarding privacy concerns, I do want to point out that these  individuals are often happy to voluntarily publish their own names,  their email addresses, and their donors when it comes to their own  published works. Many universities have open directories on their  websites. However, the DETERRENT Act does have a commonsense privacy  protection included.

The American public deserves transparency, and I urge critics of the  bill to ask why relationships, including those with our worst enemies  and our adversaries, should continue to lie in the shadows.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Missouri (Mr. Onder), a member of the Committee on Education and  Workforce.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for his comments.

Mr. Chair, I thank my colleagues who have come to speak today on such  an important matter regarding not just higher education but national  security.

International collaboration is not inherently bad, but foreign  nations have been able to operate in the dark for far too long. When  foreign adversaries give to universities, it is not out of the goodness  of their hearts. It is because they want something in return. Sometimes  that is extremely negative.

Each dollar that is accepted comes with strings attached, and that  can influence student behavior or gain access to research. The  DETERRENT Act is a crucial step toward transparency and protecting  American education and students from malicious foreign influence. The  current system has allowed our Nation's students to become targets for  our adversaries, and that is unacceptable.

We must pass this bill.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chairman, this is essentially the same amendment  that my friend and colleague, Ranking Member Scott, offered last  Congress on the floor as well as this Congress during committee markup.

Sadly, the same serious problems remain, I believe. Instead of taking  the threats of foreign influence seriously, this amendment is  insufficient to protect our students and institutions from our worst  adversaries.

The amendment, first, makes it easier for foreign sources to be  undetected, doubling the threshold for contracts to $100,000 and  allowing gifts under $250,000 over a 3-year span to be unreported. Bad  actors will seek any possible way to avoid transparency about their  attempts to harm America through their influence over American  postsecondary education. A strict threshold is essential to stop that  from happening.

The annual thresholds in the DETERRENT Act are simple and align with  other requirements in existing law such as in the CHIPS Act and the  Presidential Memorandum on United States Government-Supported Research  and Development National Security Policy.

Shockingly, this amendment includes no differences for America's  biggest enemies, countries of concern and entities of concern. In my  Democratic colleagues' minds, it appears that gifts from Russia, China,  and Iran are the exact same gifts as those from England.

I remind everyone here that the DETERRENT Act uses a tailored list of  countries and individuals pulled from existing law that have a proven  track record of being security threats and actively working against the  United States.

The Democratic ANS also has terrible carve-outs that provide gaping  loopholes for cunning adversaries. The amendment allows gifts and  contracts to be rendered anonymous, with no foreign source  identification, and also exempts all clinical trials. These loopholes  will make it easier for foreign sources to conceal their relationships,  rendering disclosures all but useless. Simple transparency is the best  way to ensure partnerships are as good as institutions claim.

Finally, the Democratic proposal ensures schools have no financial  risk for failing to disclose foreign funds. Under this proposal, years  of flouting section 117 simply allow schools to go right back to their  same financial state before accepting the gift in the first place.

It is time to take foreign influence seriously. I stand against this  amendment. It is time we hold institutions accountable for accepting  foreign donations and keeping them from the public. The bipartisan  support we have for this bill shows the seriousness of this problem.  This amendment shows that some Democrats are still willing to turn a  blind eye to attempts by hostile regimes to influence students and  faculty on our college campuses.

I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment and support the  underlying bill.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.

The DETERRENT Act conforms section 117 with other existing  regulations, which is why the bill's definitions of countries of  concern come from existing law. The four countries on the countries of  concern list are rightfully in statute as unique threats to the United  States. China, Russia, North Korea, and Iran represent countries that  are actively hostile to the U.S. and are serious security threats. The  DETERRENT Act ensures that any relationship with these countries is  extremely cautious and proactively transparent.

In contrast, this amendment attempts to use the illegitimate  International Criminal Court to determine what countries are threats to  the United States. The people of the United States in majority do not  support that. As President Trump has stated, the ICC has baselessly  asserted jurisdiction over the United States--and our citizens agree-- and its allies like Israel and further abused its power by issuing  frivolous arrest warrants.

There is no reason to use the ICC to define what countries are  actively seeking to harm the United States. We can do that. I oppose  this amendment that targets Israel and hurts American interests, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, again, this amendment is designed, I believe,  to target Israel at a time when it is desperately seeking to defend its  citizens against terrorists.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment, and I yield  back the balance of my time.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, the DETERRENT Act ensures section 117 is  aligned with existing statute. The four countries on the countries of  concern list are rightfully in statute as unique threats to the United  States. That is our concern. China, Russia, North Korea, and Iran  represent countries that are actively hostile to the U.S. and are  serious security threats.

Endowment investments in companies controlled by our adversaries  could result in dangerous support for our enemies. This is why the  DETERRENT Act requires institutions to disclose any such investments of  concern. It is important for our wealthiest institutions to be  transparent with the public about this danger.

In contrast, this amendment attempts to use the illegitimate  International Criminal Court to determine what countries are threats to  the United States and targets endowment investments into those threats.

The ICC has baselessly asserted jurisdiction over the United States  and its allies like Israel and further abused its power by issuing  frivolous arrest warrants. There is no reason to use the ICC to define  what countries are actively seeking to harm the United States and what  endowment investments should be transparent.

Mr. Chair, I oppose this amendment that targets Israel and hurts  American interests.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I appreciate the concern and the passion of  my colleague from Michigan. I concur that I and sponsors and cosponsors  of this bill believe in First Amendment liberties and freedom of  expression.

This bill is about specific concerns, not all of the countries of the  world. I am not sure if my colleague was here during the debate to hear  the actual statistics of the dollars that have been invested by malign  actors, countries of concern, in this country that don't compare with  any other that was in the list that my colleague read.

Again, this amendment on this bill, outside of the specifics of the  bill, is designed to attack Israel for daring to defend itself from  terrorists, which they did. This amendment has no place in the bill.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment, and I yield  back the balance of my time.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Chair, I move that the Committee do now rise.

The motion was agreed to.

Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.  Thompson of Pennsylvania) having assumed the chair, Mr. Amodei, Acting  Chair of the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union,  reported that that Committee, having had under consideration the bill  (H.R. 1048) to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to strengthen  disclosure requirements relating to foreign gifts and contracts, to  prohibit contracts between institutions of higher education and certain  foreign entities and countries of concern, and for other purposes, had  come to no resolution thereon.