Enhancing Detection of Human Trafficking Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700364/enhancing-detection-of-human-trafficking-act


Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 4307) to direct the Secretary of Labor to train certain  employees of Department of Labor how to effectively detect and assist  law enforcement in preventing human trafficking during the course of  their official duties, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4307

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Enhancing Detection of Human       Trafficking Act''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITION OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

In this Act, the term ``human trafficking'' means any act       or practice described in paragraph (11) of section 103 of the       Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).       SEC. 3. TRAINING FOR DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL TO IDENTIFY HUMAN                     TRAFFICKING.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor shall implement       a program to provide the training and periodic continuing       education described in subsection (b) to employees of the       Department of Labor whom the Secretary determines should       receive such training or education based on their official       duties. In making such determination with respect to       employees of the Wage and Hour Division, the Secretary shall       consider the training and education needs of such employees       operating in a State with a significant increase in       oppressive child labor (as defined in section 3(l) of the       Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 203(l)).

(b) Training and Continuing Education Described.--The       training and continuing education provided under the program       referred to in subsection (a)--

(1) may be conducted through in-class or virtual learning       capabilities; and

(2) shall include--

(A) training or continuing education that--

(i) is most appropriate for the particular location or       professional environment in which the employees receiving       such training or continuing education perform their official       duties;

(ii) covers topics determined by the Secretary of Labor to       appropriately reflect current trends and best practices for       such location or environment; and

(iii) includes--

(I) the provision of current information on matters related       to the detection of human trafficking to the extent relevant       to the official duties of such employees, and consistent with       privacy laws;

(II) methods for identifying suspected victims of human       trafficking and parties who may be suspected of the       trafficking activity; and

(III) a clear course of action for referring potential       cases of human trafficking to the Department of Justice and       other appropriate authorities, in accordance with best       practices for protecting the rights of victims of human       trafficking, including appropriate collaboration with victim       advocacy organizations, Federal agencies, and State and local       officials; and

(B) an evaluation of the training or continuing education       by such employees after the completion of such training or       education.       SEC. 4. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.

Not later than 1 year after the Secretary of Labor first       implements the program under section 3(a), and each year       thereafter, the Secretary of Labor shall submit to the       Committee on Education and Workforce of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education,       Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, a report on--

(1) the training and continuing education provided under       the program for the preceding year, including--

(A) an evaluation (including the overall effectiveness) of       such training and continuing education; and

(B) the number of individuals who have completed such       training or continuing education; and

(2) the number of cases related to the detection of human       trafficking, which were referred to the Department of Justice       and other appropriate authorities during the preceding year       by the Department of Labor, and the processes used by the       Department of Labor to accurately measure and track the       response of the Department of Justice and other appropriate       authorities to such cases.

Mr. WALBERG.  4307.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4307, the  Enhancing Detection of Human Trafficking Act. I thank my friend and  colleague, Representative Lucy McBath, for her partnership on this  important legislation.

In my time on the Committee on Education and Workforce, I have come  to the realization that the Department of Labor employees have a  frontline view to detect patterns of human trafficking and labor  exploitation.

This is where my bill, H.R. 4307, comes into play. Specifically, this  legislation directs the Department of Labor to educate appropriate  staff in how to effectively detect instances of human trafficking,  ensure personnel regularly receive information on current trends and  best practices, and establish a clear course of action for referring  suspected instances of human trafficking to law enforcement. In other  words, it turns Department of Labor employees into an early warning  system against human trafficking.

One of the greatest obstacles in the fight against human trafficking  is a  lack of awareness. Too often, visible signs of human trafficking go  unnoticed or unreported simply because individuals lack proper  training.

By arming these employees with critical information on how to  identify potential trafficking situations, we can strengthen our  ability to intervene quickly and efficiently to hold traffickers  accountable and protect those who are most vulnerable.

I am proud to say that, last Congress, this legislation passed with  overwhelming bipartisan support, with a vote of 407-0. Protecting more  people from falling victim to the scourge of human trafficking is not  political.

I urge my colleagues to put an end to this modern-day slavery and to  vote ``yes'' on H.R. 4307.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation and the policies it supports have been  important to me for quite some time. That is because behind every  statistic is a name, a face, and a heartbroken family.

Human trafficking doesn't just rob these individuals of their  dignity. It robs them of their future.

Department of Labor personnel already interact with workplaces,  review labor conditions, and identify irregularities. H.R. 4307 ensures  that when red flags appear, they are recognized for what they are and  are acted upon swiftly and responsibly.

The earlier they can intervene, the greater the chance we have to  stop exploitation before it becomes prolonged abuse. That proactive  approach is both compassionate and common sense.

This approach also utilizes resources and tools already in place. It  supports law enforcement without expanding government unnecessarily. It  honors taxpayers by making better use of the workforce we already have.

H.R. 4307 better arms DOL employees to disrupt criminal enterprises  and uphold justice, but most importantly, it helps bring victims back  home to safety.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes,'' and I yield back  the balance of my time.