Home School Graduation Recognition Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700372/home-school-graduation-recognition-act


Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 6392) to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to recognize  students who have completed secondary school education in a home school  setting as high school graduates, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 6392

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Home School Graduation       Recognition Act''.       SEC. 2. RECOGNIZING HOME SCHOOL GRADUATES AS HIGH SCHOOL                     GRADUATES.

Section 484(d) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20       U.S.C. 1091(d)) is amended--

(1) in the heading of such subsection, by striking ``Who       Are Not High School Graduates'' and inserting ``From Non-      Traditional Settings''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

``(3) High school graduate.--For purposes of this Act, a       student who has completed a secondary school education in a       home school setting that is treated as a home school or       private school under State law shall be considered a high       school graduate.''.

Mr. WALBERG.  6392.

Mr. Speaker, every student deserves to have their hard work  recognized.

Unfortunately, many homeschooled students face unjust barriers when  applying to college simply because they didn't attend a traditional  school.

On average, homeschoolers do remarkably well, better than their  public school peers, on tests. Yet for some reason, colleges  arbitrarily and unfairly subject homeschooled students to additional  hoops, like taking a GED exam, to prove they are fit for admission.

The Home School Graduation Recognition Act sends a clear and simple  message to colleges and universities: Homeschooled students are just as  qualified to attend college as any other high school graduate.

The Home School Graduation Recognition Act also reaffirms House  Republicans' commitment to expand educational opportunity and school  choice for American families.

As chairman of the Education and Workforce Committee, I am grateful  to serve alongside Members like Congressman Harris who are eager to  sponsor legislation that empowers students of all ages on their  respective educational journeys.

I am glad to have the opportunity today to stand up for homeschoolers  and against the needless discrimination they face in the college  application process. Today, we have a chance to stand up for  homeschooled students and families who have transformed kitchen tables  into significant classrooms.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 6392, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Walberg  for his incredible leadership, and I am so grateful for this bill.

Mr. Speaker, would you believe that Federal law actually refers to  students who have completed their home school education as students who  are not high school graduates?

Mr. Speaker, strangely enough, it does.

While most colleges eagerly admit and help homeschooled students  secure financial aid, some compliance-minded schools point to this  language as a reason to make a homeschooled applicant jump through  extra hoops to prove that their diploma is worth the same as that of  their public- or private-school peers. This language makes it seem like  the homeschooled student is not eligible for student aid as they are  going through the application process.

This might seem like a small problem to fix, but it represents a real  burden for the students and families who are impacted by it.

Mr. Speaker, a diploma is a diploma, whether it was earned in a  classroom or at the kitchen table. My bill makes one simple but  critically important clarification to fix this problem once and for  all. It states plainly that a homeschooler who earns a diploma  recognized under State law is a high school graduate. If a student has  lawfully completed their education, the Federal Government must  recognize them as a high school graduate when determining eligibility  for Federal student aid.

Today's vote is about honoring the constitutional role of the States  and parents in education. Federal agencies or college admissions  offices can no longer use unclear statutory language to undermine  State-recognized diplomas.

For decades, millions of American families have chosen to educate  their children at home. In fact, nearly 3 million students today are  receiving a quality education in a home school setting, guided by  devoted parents who take their responsibility seriously to prepare the  next generation for success. In my home State of North Carolina alone,  more than 165,000 students are homeschooled under the authority and  recognition of State law.

I extend my sincere gratitude to the Home School Legal Defense  Association for their steadfast advocacy and for all they do to ensure  homeschooled students are protected under the law. Their work has been  instrumental in bringing clarity to this issue.

I thank our Senate co-leader, Senator Ashley Moody, for standing with  families and leading this effort in the Senate.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense  clarification: Homeschooled graduates are high school graduates. They  deserve to be treated as such under Federal law.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague and ranking member for his support  on this legislation as well.

Homeschooled graduates are graduates plain and simple. They should  not be penalized because their families chose a learning environment  that met their specific needs and actually goes back to the beginning  of time.

That is why we must pass H.R. 6392, the Home School Graduation  Recognition Act, and tell colleges that it is completely unnecessary to  subject homeschooled graduates to needless exams to prove they have, in  fact, graduated.

I am proud to do my part in removing these roadblocks and helping  more students pursue higher education.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 6392, the Home  School Graduation Recognition Act, and I yield back the balance of my  time.