Pregnant Students' Rights Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699316/pregnant-students-rights-act


Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1009, I call  up the bill (H.R. 6359) to require institutions of higher education to  disseminate information on the rights of, and accommodations and  resources for, pregnant students, and for other purposes, and ask for  its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. WALBERG.  6359.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Pregnant Students' Rights  Act, legislation that affirms a simple but powerful principle:  Expecting mothers should be encouraged to pursue their education like  any other student.

Pregnant students often receive incorrect guidance or no guidance at  all on how to navigate classes while pregnant. In many cases, women  feel pressured to end their pregnancies or risk academic failure  despite protections that exist now under Federal law.

The Pregnant Students' Rights Act requires schools to clearly  communicate what accommodations and protections pregnant and parenting  students are entitled to. That includes excused absences for medical  needs, the ability to make up missed work, and protection from  discrimination and retaliation.

More specifically, this bill requires information to be emailed to  students at least once each academic year and appear in student  handbooks at orientation, at student health or counseling centers, and  on the institution's website. When students know their rights, they are  empowered to stay enrolled, stay engaged, and succeed.

This legislation doesn't burden colleges. It simply increases  transparency by helping schools communicate consistently and avoid  confusion or unnecessary disputes.

This is a commonsense, compassionate measure that promotes  transparency and ensures pregnant students have the support they need  to create a better future for themselves and their child.

Mr. Speaker, let's cherish life for both the child and his or her  mother who dreams of academic success. I urge my colleagues to join me  in supporting the Pregnant Students' Rights Act and stand up for the  dignity, opportunity, and educational success of every student.

Mr. Speaker, I just have to go back to the same argument that we had  in committee.

We don't prohibit schools from giving a full panoply of information.  Our concern is that they haven't been.

Pregnant students have been left without full information, full  information that comes and is required by law under Title IX on all  aspects of medical care, of counseling, and of opportunity. But sadly,  that has been left out as far as saying if you are pregnant and you  want to continue as pregnant in this school, we are going to support  you in that.

Title IX gives all of the information. We are not going to be  redundant. We are just making sure that you also include, young lady,  if you are pregnant and you want to continue in school, we are going to  do our best to help you and provide all the resources. I just wish we  could catch hold of this.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, to my dear friend and colleague from  Georgia, as she has discussed that tragic story with me before, my  heart does break. Having experienced that in my own personal family, as  well, I understand what she is saying.

I am just not capable, I guess, of communicating that this bill is  affording all the questions to be answered and all of the issue to be  addressed. It also gives pregnant women, who are blessed to be able to  continue carrying to completion, the opportunity to also know that  their academic opportunity will continue, as well. That is all we are  attempting to do.

My heart breaks with that story, but my heart also says we want to  make sure--that is why I appreciate Representative Hinson's bill--it  expands the opportunity for the information that is given.

Mr. Speaker, I will make a few factual comments in response and also  provide some information relative to my colleague's previous comments.

Republicans just passed working families tax cuts, which gave  American families the largest tax cut in American history. Under the  bill, the typical family will get up to $10,900 in additional take-home  pay. Households earning less than $100,000 will get a 12 percent tax  cut compared to July 2025. Equally as important, if not more so, the  child tax credit will double to $2,200 for more than 40 million  American families.

That is taking into consideration the children that come from  pregnancy who are born. We are not leaving them without resources. The  working families tax cuts promotes life by putting hardworking families  first, ensuring that they keep their hard-earned money in their pockets  for their necessary uses.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a list of  significant pro-family, pro-life medical community members, family  research members, and students in support of the Pregnant Students'  Rights Act.  Organizations that Support H.R. 6359, the Pregnant Students' Rights Act

Susan B. Anthony Pro-Life America         Students for Life Action

National Right to Life Committee

Iowa Right to Life

Concerned Women for America

American Association of Pro-life Obstetricians and       Gynecologists (AAPLOG) Action

Heritage Action

Independent Women

Center for Urban Renewal (CURE)

Eagle Forum

Family Research Council

Mr. WALBERG. I am prepared to close, Mr. Speaker, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, I would like to reemphasize that this bill  is about ensuring pregnant students know the rights given to them under  Title IX, which cover all the concerns that my colleagues, with all due  respect, on the other side of the aisle say they want included. Title  IX includes all of that.

We want students to know the rights given to them under Title IX  without creating excessive regulations or requirements for colleges and  universities.

Despite what some of my colleagues have said today, the Pregnant  Students' Rights Act doesn't promote a certain viewpoint or ideology.  It simply affirms a basic principle, and that principle is that  pregnant students deserve to know their rights when pursuing an  education.

I don't believe that to be too radical, Mr. Speaker, and I don't  believe the American people do either. In fact, for years, many of my  Democratic colleagues acknowledged that abortion is a serious and  difficult decision and supported efforts to ensure women were not  forced into it by a lack of resources or support. They joined in  passing legislation to help women who choose to continue their  pregnancies. Yet, today, some of those efforts are being undermined  unless amendments that explicitly promote abortion are included.

It is deeply disappointing that some of my Democratic colleagues have  chosen to turn this straightforward transparency bill into an abortion  debate, implying that support for pregnant students is contingent on  including pro-abortion provisions. Why must an innocent baby ever be  seen as an enemy or obstacle to success?

This bill also does not provide medical advice or dictate what  specific resources colleges and universities may list. For that reason,  I would encourage those who oppose this legislation on those grounds to  carefully re-read the bill's plain language. We all know that when  individuals know their rights, they are able to make informed decisions  that are best for them, their families, and their futures.

Mr. Speaker, this is why I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``yes,''  and I yield back the balance of my time.