Territorial Student Access to Higher Education Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700343/territorial-student-access-to-higher-education-act


Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 6472) to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide  for in-state tuition rates for certain residents of Guam, the  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and the  United States Virgin Islands, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 6472

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Territorial Student Access       to Higher Education Act''.       SECTION 2. IN-STATE TUITION FOR CERTAIN RESIDENTS OF GUAM,                     THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA                     ISLANDS, AMERICAN SAMOA, AND THE UNITED STATES                     VIRGIN ISLANDS.

(a) In-State Tuition Rates.--Part C of title I of the       Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1015 et seq.) is       amended by inserting after section 135 the following:       ``SEC. 135A. IN-STATE TUITION RATES FOR CERTAIN RESIDENTS OF                     GUAM, THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA                     ISLANDS, AMERICAN SAMOA, AND THE UNITED STATES                     VIRGIN ISLANDS.

``(a) In General.--A public institution of higher education       that receives assistance under this Act shall not charge a       covered individual tuition or fees for attendance at such       institution at a rate that is greater than the rate charged       for residents of the State in which such institution is       located.

``(b) Covered Individual.--In this section, the term       `covered individual' means an individual who--

``(1) is a resident of Guam, the Commonwealth of the       Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, or the United       States Virgin Islands; and

``(2) is a national of the United States (as such term is       defined in section 101(a) of the Immigration and Nationality       Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a))).''.

(b) Program Participation Agreement.--Section 487(a) of the       Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1094(a)) is amended       by adding at the end the following:

``(30) The institution will comply with the requirements of       section 135A, as applicable.''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6472, sponsored by  Congressman  James Moylan of Guam, which allows residents of U.S.  territories to access in-State tuition rates at public universities  across the U.S.

I am proud to rise in support of H.R. 6472, which ensures students of  the U.S. territories of Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana  Islands, American Samoa, and the U.S. Virgin Islands receive in-State  tuition at public universities across the country.

I am pleased that all of the Delegates from each U.S. territory are  original cosponsors of the bill and that it received strong bipartisan  support in the committee markup.

Under H.R. 6472, public postsecondary institutions will be required  to offer in-State tuition rates to residents of U.S. territories.  Through this bill, a student from Guam would pay the same tuition at a  public university just as any in-State student.

This isn't a novel idea. Under current law, servicemembers and their  families already receive in-State tuition rates, creating new pathways  for more Americans to get high-quality educations at a competitive  cost.

However, H.R. 6472 doesn't just help students. It helps the  territories, too. After graduation, students can return home with  advanced degrees and credentials they can reinvest back into their  homes and local economies.

This isn't just an investment in our students. It is an investment in  the economic strength of American territories. Students can contribute  their newfound expertise to help develop new industries and drive  economic development.

That investment also strengthens American national security. As  competition with our adversaries, like China, intensify in the Pacific  and drug trafficking continues in South and Central America, we must  ensure our territories have the infrastructure and brainpower needed to  promote a strong national security posture in the region.

Last year, we passed the Working Families Tax Cut Act, which included  some of the most conservative reforms to higher education in decades,  massively lowering costs and helping create new pathways for students  to chase the American Dream.

We now have a chance to build off that success of the Working  Families Tax Cut Act and lower postsecondary education costs for U.S.  residents in U.S. territories so they can continue supporting our vital  military operations.

Mr. Speaker, as chairman of the House Committee on Education and the  Workforce, I look forward to passing H.R. 6472 and supporting our  territories.

Mr. Speaker, as President Trump said in his State of Union Address  last week, America's military is the strongest in the world, but we  continue to have enemies around every corner of the globe who would  like to undermine our power.

That is why H.R. 6472 is so important. This bill ensures residents of  U.S. territories receive vital workforce training and skills as our  U.S. military continues to operate out of these critical geographical  outposts.

The working families tax cuts were a strong step in lowering costs  for students and borrowers. Now, we are continuing these efforts and  supporting our military and our territories.

As chairman of the Education and Workforce Committee, I am steadfast  in my commitment to reducing college costs and opening up workforce  pipelines. I thank Congressman Moylan again for sponsoring this  legislation and helping expand educational opportunities for residents  of U.S. territories.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.