Tipped Employee Protection Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698965/tipped-employee-protection-act


Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 988, I call up  the bill (H.R. 2312) to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to  revise the definition of the term ``tipped employee'', and for other  purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. WALBERG.  2312.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2312, the Tipped Employee  Protection Act.

Mr. Speaker, America's labor law hasn't kept up with the times. The  Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs much of our modern workforce  policy and regulations, was written in 1938 and has never been updated  to meaningfully protect tipped workers.

As a result, tipped workers are not clearly defined or protected  under the law. This leaves their jobs vulnerable to the whims of  administrative regulations, court rulings, and too often unclear  guidance written by unelected bureaucrats that inconsistently interpret  the rights of tipped workers. That creates chaos for millions of  workers.

The Biden-Harris administration was perhaps the most striking example  of government overreach and the harm it can do to working families'  bottom lines. Its disastrous 80/20 rule required that no more than 20  percent of the work performed by tipped employees could be categorized  as untipped work, and those untipped tasks could only be performed for  30 minutes at a time.

Basically, this required minute-by-minute manager supervision to  ensure workers were complying with the rule. Anyone in the service  industry would tell you in a high-paced environment like a restaurant  or bar that is next to impossible, but because tipped workers had no  clear definition or proper protections under the FLSA, the Biden-Harris  administration was free to try and impose overly complex timekeeping  requirements that were impossible to enforce.

For several years, this created an enormous headache for small  businesses like restaurants that heavily relied on tipped workers. Even  worse, such convoluted timekeeping requirements directly impact how  much pay Americans take home.

Like many of my colleagues, I want to see Americans rewarded for  their hard work and ensure they are paid what they earn. That is why I  am proud to rise in support of H.R. 2312, the Tipped Employee  Protection Act, which creates stability for tipped workers and  preserves opportunities for them to earn a good wage.

The bill creates a clear, commonsense definition of a tipped worker  and prevents future attempts by misguided activist judges and  bureaucrats seeking to implement policies that hurt workers' bottom  lines.

The Tipped Employee Protection Act also ensures workers earn at least  the minimum wage, and the bill respects States' authority to set higher  wage levels. This creates even more opportunities for tipped workers to  earn more, often far above the minimum wage.

As we have discussed at length in the Education and Workforce  Committee, Federal policy far too often treats a State like California  the same as Michigan or Arkansas. One-size-fits-all rarely works.

The bill also preserves the current tip credit system, which workers  across the country overwhelmingly support--90 percent. This is just one  of the ways Republicans are helping tipped workers earn more.

As part of the working families tax cuts, Republicans enacted  landmark policies like no tax on tips and no tax on overtime, which put  more money back into the working family's pockets.

Republicans are working hard to deliver solutions that help Americans  thrive. H.R. 2312 puts more money back in workers' pockets and eases  the burden on employers by removing needless Federal regulations.

I am proud to support the Tipped Employee Protection Act. Congress  should make it clear that we are working to help put more money back in  tipped workers' pockets.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill and the  millions of workers who will benefit from it, and I reserve the balance  of my time.

Mr. Speaker, let's talk facts again. The Fair Labor Standards Act  sets the Federal minimum wage, as well as a separate minimum wage, for  tipped workers. This recognizes the reality that tipped workers have a  higher earning ceiling when tips are combined with base wages,  representing an employee's total compensation.

There is no limit to the amount one can earn as a tipped worker, so  long as the employer is not forced to cut jobs or close businesses.  That is the reality.

If small restaurants were all required to pay the full Federal  minimum wage to all tipped workers, as my Democrat colleagues suggest,  on top of a complete elimination of the overall tip credit system,  which has also been supported by my Democrat colleagues, there wouldn't  be very many small restaurants remaining at the end of it all.

Mr. Speaker, the Federal Government should not micromanage businesses  by setting requirements that cannot be enforced such as the Biden- Harris administration's 80/20 rule. This required employers to monitor  tasks of tipped workers minute by minute. It sure gives incentive to  have less employees.

I can think of many better ways to utilize a Wage and Hour  inspector's valuable time than harassing restaurants about their  bartenders helping out cooks, hosts, and other nontipped employees, all  who often work in a fast-paced environment.

Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. WALBERG.

Mr. Speaker, we can all agree that our Nation's workers deserve to be  compensated fairly. H.R. 2312, the Tipped Employee Protection Act,  meaningfully updates the Fair Labor Standards Act to ensure tipped  workers can take home what they earn, and small businesses are not  micromanaged by Federal regulators.

Too often, the political whims of Washington have hurt tipped  workers. Their earnings have been hurt instead of boosting them. H.R.  2312 puts an end to this and shields workers from the misguided actions  of unelected bureaucrats.

I am proud of the work my Republican colleagues and I have done this  Congress to implement policies like no tax on tips that let working  Americans and tipped workers keep more of what they make.

I urge my colleagues to support the Tipped Employee Protection Act  and help put more money back into American families' pockets.