As COVID-19 Death Toll Approaches 100,000 in U.S., Schatz, Blackburn, Coons, Murkowski, Senators Call for National Moment of Silence to Honor the Lives Lost


As more Americans tragically lose their fight to the COVID-19 pandemic, U.S. Senators Brian Schatz (D-Hawai"i), Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), and Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) introduced legislation to pay tribute to the victims of COVID-19 with a moment of silence at 12 noon on Monday, June 1, 2020.

"The nation must mark this dark moment with unity and clarity," said Senator Schatz. "At this time of almost unimaginable pain, it is essential that we pause to honor every life lost, and that we grieve together."

"Over the past few months, more than 300 Tennesseans have lost their lives to COVID-19. For the families and friends of the victims, nothing can replace their loved ones whose time was cut short by this virus. We are praying for them and for those that continue to battle COVID-19 during this difficult time for our country," said Senator Blackburn.

"Our country is experiencing a collective trauma of historic proportions, and we should come together as a nation for a moment of silence, prayer, and reflection to mourn the friends, neighbors, and loved ones we've lost to this pandemic," said Senator Coons. "Just as we're working together to provide health care and economic relief, we also need to provide each other emotional and spiritual support, and this moment of silence is one way for our nation to begin that important process."

"Sadly, the United States will soon have lost 100,000 American lives to COVID-19. We cannot forget that behind these numbers are families mourning the loss of a parent, a child, a spouse, a friend," said Senator Durbin. "On June 1, we should all take a moment to remember the lives lost to this global pandemic and stand with their families in honoring their memory."

The Schatz-Blackburn-Coons-Murkowski bill is also cosponsored by U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Michael Bennet (Colo.), Tina Smith (D-Minn.), Tammy Duckworth (Ill.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.) and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.).