Blackburn Supports Passage of CARES Act


Today, the Senate passed the Coronavirus, Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act with Senator Marsha Blackburn's support. She gave the following statement on its passage:

"This is a tough time for Tennesseans, and over the last few weeks, I have spoken with dozens of employees, small and large business owners, and gig economy workers. They have shared with me their stories of joblessness, dreams shattered through no fault of their own. They have asked for help to bridge the economic shutdown due to the pandemic.

"Our heath care workers have asked for supplies and financial support to meet the needs of our fellow citizens during the COVID-19 pandemic. This legislation provides the requested assistance. I thank President Trump and Leader McConnell for their focus and leadership in securing passage. This is timely, targeted, temporary relief that will assist Tennesseans as we defeat the corona virus.

"My efforts to include language aiding sole proprietors and independent contractors will ensure that individuals like Music City's songwriters and musicians receive help, as well. I also included provisions to protect health care providers from frivolous lawsuits when they volunteer during a public health emergency, and to expand broadband service and telehealth access.

"Tennessee has been tested over the past few weeks, beginning on March 3rd when tornadoes ripped through fifty miles of our state. Not three days later, Tennessee had its first confirmed case of COVID-19. Through these trials, we've seen the Volunteer Spirit in action. Our hospitals and care providers have been on the front line of this pandemic, working tirelessly to deliver care to those with COVID-19 on top of routine needs. From distillers who are making hand sanitizer to supplement resources, to musicians hosting virtual concerts to quiet our hearts, our state knows just how to chip in. Each and every day I am grateful to represent Tennessee, a feeling that is amplified in these trying times. It is my hope that the passage of the CARES Act helps Tennesseans to rest a little easier tonight."