China Trade Deal


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, over the past few months, we have  spent a great deal of time in this Chamber discussing our adversarial  relationships with other countries, but  today I want to draw attention to a truly great economic and foreign  policy victory negotiated with one of our adversaries. In fact, it was  signed just a few hours ago. 

  When it comes to trade, we have devoted most of our energy to  drafting and promoting the benefits of the USMCA, but we have also  gotten a great start on two other trade deals--those that were  negotiated with Japan that went into effect January 1 and also with  China, signed today. We are looking forward to this Chamber passing the  USMCA this week and sending it to the President's desk. 

  Back home in Tennessee, what I hear from our agriculture community  is, we want trade--consistent, dependable, respectful, and fair trade.  Entrepreneurs depend on consistent, productive trade relations to keep  their businesses up and running and to put food on their employees'  tables. 

  These Tennesseans play a special role in the U.S. relationship with  China. In 2017, we exported $2.7 billion worth of goods to China. That  is from the State of Tennessee. Imports from China accounted for 7.3  percent of Tennessee's GDP in 2018. They are our third largest trading  partner, after Canada and Mexico. 

  Let me tell you, when things go south with the Chinese, Tennesseans  feel the heat because of our ag trade. They are really paying attention  to the ins and outs of our dealings with China, the good and the bad.  They see the news stories about China's behavior in Hong Kong and  Taiwan, about spying, about intellectual property theft, and about  those shady apps that children have probably downloaded onto their  phones and their tablets. Yes, indeed, they are rightfully concerned.  They are concerned because they see all of this in the context of their  day-to-day lives, and they know that diplomatic tensions have just as  much potential to derail their operations as economic tensions. 

  Make no mistake--today's signed deal with China is critical because  it couples desperately needed relief with backstops that will help to  keep our friends in Beijing in line. What does that look like? China  agreed to increase purchases of American products and services by at  least $200 billion over the next 2 years, which will reduce our trade  deficit and take care of our farmers, our energy producers, and our  manufacturers. They committed to reducing nontariff barriers to  agriculture products and ease restrictions on the approval of new  biotechnology. 

  American producers are covered in terms of free-flowing goods and  when it comes to the nuts and bolts of the business of innovation. The  phase one deal includes stronger Chinese legal protections for patents,  trademarks, and copyrights. We wrote in improved criminal and civil  procedures to combat online infringement and the exchange of pirated  and counterfeit goods. These are good signs for our creative community  in Tennessee. It contains commitments by China to follow through on  pledges to eliminate pressure on foreign companies to transfer  technology to Chinese firms before they are given market access. 

  I will tell you, we are going to be keeping an eagle eye on this one  as we move to the phase two negotiations. It also includes new pledges  by China to refrain from competitive currency devaluations and exchange  rate manipulation. All of this is covered by enforcement measures U.S.  officials can trigger if we discover Beijing is acting in bad faith.  

  I will tell you, so many in our agriculture community have said of  these enforcement mechanisms that this is what is going to make a  difference in their ability to count on trade. Now, these protections  are more than just an ace up our sleeve; it is peace of mind for every  American who depends on trade to support their family. 

  So phase one is in the books. What is next? More of the nuts and  bolts that I just talked about. 

  If you have been following the past few years of our relations with  China, you know that businesses trying to deal with Beijing run the  constant risk of losing control over their own inventions. Intellectual  property theft and forced technology transfers have defined China's  relationship with foreign businesses. This is what they complain about.  They steal those inventions and sometimes actually beat them or match  them moving into the marketplace. 

  In phase two, we will be negotiating a deal that ensures  participation in the Chinese market is not dependent on these  unbalanced arrangements. Our efforts will be backed by previously  passed legislation that enhanced our controls on the export of new  technology--like advanced robotics and artificial intelligence--and  strengthened reviews of foreign investment in the United States. We  know it is an uphill battle. We certainly believe it can be done. 

  I want to make it clear that no trade deal is ever going to be  perfect. It is impossible. However, the first phase of this is a good,  solid first step. We are taking care of our producers, taking care of  our workers, and opening up the flow of goods and services. We are  protecting our innovators in a way that will allow them to prospect in  one of the globe's most competitive markets without risking the loss of  their intellectual property. We are giving business owners and families  peace of mind in the form of enforcement mechanisms that will kick in  the moment officials determine our relationship with China is about to  go off the rails. 

  Today, our President signed this deal on behalf of the American  people, and I encourage my colleagues to get involved now as we move  forward with discussions for phase two. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT