Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, with all of this upheaval in Minnesota  and certainly with some other States, Tennesseans are learning a whole  lot more about what is happening in this country with fraud and how  people are defrauding not only the Federal Government but many State  and local governments as well.

The calls that are coming into our office and the emails that we are  getting show that this is an issue that has really grabbed the  attention of Tennesseans. I think that one of the reasons is that  people have seen fraud play out in their local communities. They have  seen title theft, where forgers go in and steal properties. Then  someone finds out their property is going to be sold on the courthouse  steps. They all know of contractors who take deposits. They are fly-by- night, and they never show up to do the work. They know senior citizens  who are being defrauded out of life savings. They have seen kickback  schemes in their local counties and cities, where local officials go  hire a friend and make a contract there at these enormous rates.

I do think that what has happened in Minnesota has caused the  American people to look more closely at what is happening with their  hard-earned taxpayer dollars and how these are being stolen through  fraud.

We know that this issue goes far from Minnesota and into every corner  of the country. The Government Accountability Office--and this report,  I think, is significant--estimates that each year, each and every year,  our government is losing between $233 billion and $521 billion to  fraud--fraudulent programs, fraudulent claims.

So think about that. You have individuals and entities which  willfully misrepresent themselves so that they can get taxpayer  benefits--taxpayer dollars. They are stealing up to $521 billion a year  of your money, and that  $521 billion could be an underestimation. We have a former Assistant  Director for the Government Accountability Office who believes the  number is actually closer to $750 billion a year. For context, that  $750 billion is more than the entire amount of money we spent on  Medicaid in fiscal year 2024.

That is $750 billion--estimate--that is going to fraud that would  have more than funded everything we spend on Medicaid, and it is just  shy of the $850 billion that we spend on defense. Those are some of the  biggest components of our Nation's budget--Medicaid and defense--yet  the estimate is that money is being spent via fraud.

Now, these figures don't include the taxpayer dollars that are lost  through improper payments. These are payments that go to the wrong  person or that maybe exceed the correct amount. Since fiscal year 2003,  the GAO estimates that the Federal Government has lost $2.8 trillion to  improper payments.

So you have to say ``Where is the money going?'' when you look at  these numbers. According to the GAO, in fiscal year 2024, more than  half--$85 billion--were improper payments under Medicare and Medicaid.  That is called sloppy bookkeeping. And this should come as no surprise:  In Minnesota, this is where much of the fraud has been occurring,  including through the Medicaid housing program. This fraud could help  explain why Minnesota saw the second highest in per-enrollee Medicaid  spending under the ObamaCare expansion, where Federal dollars are  underwriting nonexistent services and treatments. So Minnesota, with  all of the fraud going on there, has the second highest cost per  enrollee, and it shot up during the ObamaCare expansion.

We learned even more about the fraud occurring in blue State Medicaid  Programs and in ObamaCare during the Schumer shutdown. Last month, the  GAO released findings that showed just how easy it was to commit fraud  with the Biden bonus credits under ObamaCare. It is the same program  that the Democrats fought to bankroll with another 450 billion taxpayer  dollars.

To test the program's safeguards against fraud, the GAO said: We are  going to conduct an experiment. So they decided to make up 24  fictitious applications, and they did these quite sloppily. They made  up names, addresses, information. They left out some required  information on these 24 applications. So they are all false, and they  are all missing information.

How many of those applications do you think were approved for  ObamaCare? There were 23 of the 24 that were approved. They were fake,  but they got approved anyway. So the Federal Government was paying more  than $10,000 a month each and every month to insurance companies to  provide coverage for enrollees who did not exist. That is a lot of  money being wasted.

It gets worse. A preliminary analysis by the GAO found that there  were at least 190,000 applications between 2023 and 2024--that is that  fiscal year--that had unauthorized changes by agents or brokers. That  means the individual--of course, we now know that many of these are  fake--they didn't approve this or submit it or ask for it; it was the  agent or the broker, without permission, who made that change.

Over the same period, there were close to 100,000 duplicate Social  Security numbers enrolled in the program. In 1 case, there was 1 Social  Security number that was used to apply for more than 125 policies. And  guess what. They got approved. And guess what. All fake.

It is the insurance companies making the money every month, and it is  your tax dollars at work for what is a fraud scheme.

Despite all of this fraud, the Democrats this week demanded a vote to  overturn the Trump administration's Marketplace integrity rule, which  protects consumers from the fraud that plagued the system under  President Biden and his administration. I can't believe they wanted to  overturn Marketplace integrity, but, oh, they did.

This is just one part of the puzzle. Every year, we spend more than  $4 trillion on more than 2,400 aid and subsidy programs. Get that? More  than 2,400 aid and subsidy programs. And almost all are vulnerable to  fraud--housing subsidies, student loans, childcare programs, food  stamps, unemployment insurance, and the list goes on.

We should be grateful that President Trump is working to root out  this widespread fraud. The American people expect the government to  work for law-abiding citizens, not criminals, and ensuring these  scammers face justice is crucial to restoring trust and accountability.

To support his efforts, I recently introduced the Fraud  Accountability Act. This legislation would amend the Immigration and  Nationality Act to explicitly make clear that fraud is a deportable  offense. This will provide another tool for the President to deport or  denaturalize scammers who have come to our country to steal from the  American people--to steal from the U.S. taxpayer; to steal from the  Federal Government--and pad their pockets.

Hard-working taxpayers deserve to know their money goes to those who  truly need it. It should not be going to criminals who are choosing to  game the system. I know the Fraud Accountability Act will help and  assist in holding these individuals to account.