Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I will have to tell you and all of my  colleagues, as they probably know, this has been a fairly tough month  for my fellow Tennesseans. 

  As you know, last week, a tornado tore through eight counties. This  started in West Tennessee and exited through Middle Tennessee up on the  plateau of our great State. This left multiple communities absolutely  devastated. We have mourned the loss of life and livelihoods and  property. 

  I want to, again, thank President Trump for coming to Tennessee to  offer his support and for listening to those who were so adversely  impacted by this storm and for being there to encourage the emergency  management officials, the volunteers, and all of the elected community  officials. 

  We have been encouraged that our Tennesseans have been joined from  volunteers all across the country who have shown up to help. They have  donated their time, their supplies, and their money to our restoration  and rebuilding and recovery and cleanup efforts. To all of those who  have volunteered and offered their support, you have made such a  difference in the lives of so many Tennessee families. We know this is  going to be a long and difficult recovery. 

  After all of this occurred, on Wednesday of last week, Tennessee  health officials confirmed our first case of coronavirus. It was in a  patient just south of Nashville in Williamson County. 

  With all that said, that is a lot to handle in any given week, but  Tennesseans and all Americans should be encouraged that there is a lot  of good work that is taking place. As I said, the rebuilding efforts  span all of those counties in our State. 

  And then, of course, right there in Nashville are efforts to combat  the spread of the 2019 novel coronavirus. The Vanderbilt University  Medical Center's Denison Lab is one of the top 20 labs in the world  that is studying this disease. For over 25 years, they received Federal  grants for their research into how these viruses make us sick, and they  are currently helping with the development of treatments, anti-virals,  and vaccines to deal with coronaviruses, and especially the COVID-19. I  am just so pleased with the progress they are making. 

  Today I want to draw attention to a threat that has, again, been  highlighted because of this coronavirus outbreak. Pharmaceuticals are  no different from other products in that they  are usually manufactured in pieces--the active ingredients in one place  and the inactive ingredients in another place and so on. Currently,  only 28 percent of the facilities producing active pharmaceutical  ingredients--and you will hear these referred to by the acronym APIs-- only 28 percent of the facilities producing these APIs are in the  United States. What this means is that American consumers rely heavily  on foreign-sourced drugs in order to stay healthy. 

  Meanwhile, the number of Chinese facilities producing these APIs has  more than doubled since 2010. Think about that. Only 28 percent of all  the facilities globally are in the United States. China has doubled the  number of facilities in China that are producing these APIs. 

  Why does this matter? Last year, experts at the FDA testified before  Congress that while the United States is a world leader in drug  development, we are falling behind in drug manufacturing. We do all the  R&D here. We have the great scientific minds here. They are creating  these products. They are manufactured primarily in China. Their  testimony identified the cessation of American manufacturing of APIs as  a key health and security concern because it created vulnerabilities in  the U.S. supply chain. 

  The FDA is not alone in their concerns. In its 2019 report to  Congress, the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission  revealed ``serious deficiencies in health and safety standards in  China's pharmaceutical sector.'' That is not something that somebody  just read on the internet. It is not an assumption. That is the 2019  report to Congress from the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review.  

  The coronavirus outbreak is drawing much needed attention to the  possibility of a global health crisis. Indeed, today the WHO classified  it as a pandemic. I have to tell you, I think awareness is not enough.  If the Congress does not act, our dependency on China for medications  will continue to put American lives at risk. 

  Yesterday, alongside my friend, the Senator from New Jersey, Mr.  Menendez, I introduced the Securing America's Medicine Cabinet, or the  SAM-C Act, to encourage an increase in American manufacturing of APIs.  The act would expand upon the Emerging Technology Program within the  FDA to prioritize issues related to national security and critical drug  shortages and bring pharmaceutical manufacturing jobs back to the  United States. In addition, the SAM-C Act authorizes $100 million to  develop centers of excellence for advanced pharmaceutical manufacturing  in order to develop these innovations. These centers will be  partnerships between institutes of learning and the private sector. 

  The number of API manufacturing facilities in China is still growing.  It grows every single day. Although we cannot yet quantify our  dependence on China's APIs, we do know the more Chinese products flow  into the United States, the more potential there is for trouble. 

  In 2007 and 2008, 246 people died as a result of adulterated Heparin,  a widely used blood thinner. An investigation by the Centers for  Disease Control determined that batches of Heparin manufactured in  China had been contaminated. The contaminant, which is very cheap, was  similar in chemical structure to Heparin and went undetected in routine  tests. 

  Since 2010, regulators have also found serious problems with batches  of thyroid medication, muscle relaxers, and antibiotics. In 2018, the  FDA recalled a number of blood pressure medications made in China that  were contaminated with cancer-causing toxins. 

  To be perfectly clear though, adulteration isn't the only concern. In  2016, an explosion at a Chinese factory resulted in a global shortage  of an important antibiotic because that factory was the drug's sole  source of production. Think about that. The factory exploded, and there  was a shortage of an important antibiotic because they were the only  people who were making it. Without intervention, the FDA expects the  pharmaceutical industry will continue to rely on Chinese companies to  make these active pharmaceutical ingredients, the APIs. 

  On February 27, 2020, the FDA announced the shortage of one drug that  was used to treat patients with the coronavirus. They attributed the  shortage to difficulties obtaining--guess what--the active  pharmaceutical ingredients from a site in China that has been affected  by the disease. 

  The status quo has made us vulnerable, but the fix is sitting right  in front of us. If we fail to act, we are placing our future in the  hands of unregulated foreign countries we know to be bad actors. We  have a lot of work to do before we will be able to call our supply  chain and our healthcare delivery systems secure. But if we are  learning anything, we are learning we need to bring this production  back into the United States where there is proper oversight, where we  know we are not going to have contamination in this supply chain for  these active pharmaceutical ingredients. We must embrace telehealth,  especially across State lines, and halt the breakdown of care in our  rural areas. 

  I have introduced bills that will help support those things, and I  welcome additional cosponsors. The door is always open. All of this  activity is here to secure our supply chain and our ability to access  the healthcare that Americans need. Today I specifically ask that our  colleagues support S. 3432, the SAM-C Act, Securing America's Medicine  Cabinet Act. That is a first step in securing this pharmaceutical  supply chain and securing the health and wellness of American  consumers. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT