Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I have so appreciated the comments of  my colleagues today as they have come to the floor and they have talked  about how they are approaching what is happening with this coronavirus  pandemic and what they are hearing from the citizens of their States. 

  I know each of us is spending our day listening to the people in our  States and listening to their concerns and hearing them say: As you  look at how you are going to address this, don't forget about us. Don't  forget about us--whether it is independent contractors who are working  in the music industry or television producers--I was talking to one  last night; they lost $9,000 worth of production work this week--or  theme park owners who are trying to figure out how they are going to  work through this or the CEO of one of our Nation's airlines earlier  today. People are looking to us to make certain that we address this  situation in a way that is going to stabilize it and that is going to  provide assistance. 

  As we have worked through this, one of the things I think sometimes  is just a really good thing to do is to stop and kind of take stock of  where we are and how it is going to be best to move forward. 

  I think it is important to realize that we have already directed  resources to the coronavirus pandemic. There is the coronavirus  supplemental, which was an $8.3 billion piece of legislation. That may  seem like a lifetime ago to some of those in our States. It was a  couple of weeks ago. That money is already making its way out.  Tennessee received $10 million this week in order to work on public  health needs around the coronavirus. 

  We also had our President move forward without hesitation to do the  national emergency declaration. That freed up $50 billion of resources.  That is money that is going to our States and our localities to help  with the response for this, to get those resources where they need to  go. 

  Of course, there was legislation that passed today, and in that, I  supported the Johnson amendment. I do fully believe that working  through this with our unemployment insurance and our employment  security system is the way to go. I have supported the payroll tax  holiday. I am one of those who have always said: Why should we have to  pay the government to hire somebody? So the payroll tax holiday made  sense to me. The Johnson amendment that I cosponsored makes sense to  me, that we could do it because we could more quickly get resources to  individuals, from the Federal Government to the taxpayer, to the  individual. That is what we need to do at this time. 

  Tennessee is very blessed. We have had a very low unemployment rate.  But what we have seen in the last 2 or 3 weeks is that unemployment  claims have quadrupled, and we expect this is going to continue as  workers, independent contractors, sole proprietors, and small  businesses see their income stream or their revenue stream go from  something healthy to zero. That has happened literally overnight, just  within a few days as the economy started to shut down. 

  What we hear from people is, look, this is not something we have  done, it is something that has been done to us, and we are being asked  to close our doors and to change the way we operate. So they repeatedly  say: Don't forget about us, and do not give us mandates we cannot  afford, because what we need is assistance to bridge that gap. 

  When we talk about mandates that you can't afford, Tennesseans are  very concerned about the paid family leave provisions that are in the  legislation today. What I have heard repeatedly--repeatedly--whether it  is someone who runs a nursing staffing company or a furniture store or  a small manufacturing company, is that the tax credit provision is not  going to work with cash flow. They mention that repeatedly. So my hope  is that we can come together on a bipartisan basis and we  can address the concerns that are there around that because we want our  small businesses to keep those doors open and to return to health and  vitality. We need to listen to what they are saying, which is, help to  stabilize, to assist us and to help us bridge this divide so that we  can come back. 

  We also need to be listening to our nonprofits that are saying the  same thing about the family leave provisions and their concerns there. 

  You know, we have to bear in mind that all of these employers really  care for and value their employees. They want to do right by them. They  want to do right by their communities. And certainly they want to do  right by the country. But they need our listening ears, and they need  our attention. 

  Another thing that has come up that is of concern that was in the  legislation that cleared the Chamber today is the Medicaid expansion  provisions and the way it affects the non-expansion States. It  adversely impacts States like Tennessee that were non-expansion States.  There are some definitional changes that need to be made in that  provision so that we are not adversely impacting these States. 

  For our Tennessee business owners and employers, this is a very  tedious and emotional time. I talked with an employer last night who  laid off 20 people at a small business. They had to do it in order to  keep the doors open. But what they all tell me is that they are really  very grateful that the President, the Vice President, and the task  force are focused on getting the virus under control, getting the  response from our country under control, and making certain that we  address the economic and financial impact of this. They know that it is  going to be a long way back on this one, that there isn't a quick fix.  They realize that the way this all happened had to do with China and  China knowing in December that they had a virus, that they had a  problem. Knowing that China has lied to us; they kept hidden  information; they have not been forthcoming; they did not make the  viral sample available to us in a timely manner; and that lack of  transparency is something that they point to and they say that we are  all in this fight together, we want to make certain that China does not  have the ability to take down our economy or take down our healthcare  system.  

  It is one of the reasons--two of the provisions that I have that will  come before us are provisions that are focused on, one, bringing our  production of pharmaceuticals back to the United States. Senator  Menendez has joined me in this provision, and it is the SAM-C bill-- Securing America's Medicine Cabinet, the SAM-C legislation. What this  would do is incentivize returning pharmaceutical production to the  United States, allowing our colleges and universities to access funds  from a $100 million grant pool to partner up with pharmaceutical  companies so that we never find ourselves in the position of not being  able to get the active pharmaceutical ingredients--they are called  APIs--those ingredients that are necessary to make vaccines and  antivirals for viruses like the COVID-19. 

  Right now, China is saying they may not let us have one of the  products that we need. We commend our scientists and our companies and  people like the Denison Lab at Vanderbilt University for the work they  are doing to find that vaccine and to test that vaccine. We commend  these labs for the work they are doing to find the right antivirals to  help people fight this so that we are able to slow the growth, and we  are able to cap the growth in this. 

  Now, we know also that as we go through this, telehealth is vitally  important. This is something that I have discussed. As you know, I have  discussed it with our conference, I have discussed it with the White  House, and with the President, and the Vice President, and I am  grateful to see the changes that we have in telehealth that is making  it more available. 

  I was talking with a physician from another State--not Tennessee. I  was talking with him yesterday, and he said: Well, our insurance  company, which kind of is the only big insurance provider in this  State, had decided they would allow telehealth through the end of the  month. It is vitally important that we move these medically complex  patients and the elderly--especially elderly who have comorbidities and  have complex medical situations--to telehealth. It is important that  CMS provide specificity and clarity on how this is going to be paid for  these Medicaid and Medicare enrollees. 

  We commend CMS for moving forward through the 1135 waiver system-- that section of the code with Medicaid--for making some adjustments,  but it is imperative that for these private insurance companies, that  we allow more specificity so we can utilize them. 

  We have a situation. We know that this virus came out of Wuhan,  China. We know they knew about it in December. We know that the rest of  the world found out about it about 6 weeks later. We know it has caused  a global pandemic. We know every life is precious, and we grieve the  loss of those lives, the inconvenience, and also the loss of the  ability of so many people to have their businesses and be able to run  their businesses, and families who are not able to experience what they  had planned for this year. 

  So we know that we are going to be working ahead. We are going to  stay here until we get much of this addressed and answer some of the  questions that our constituents have. We do know we have done some  work, but there is a lot more work to do, and we fully realize we can  rise to this occasion. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT