Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, it has been so interesting talking to  our Tennesseans as they have faced these issues we have with  coronavirus and what is happening, our response to it, and how we are  going to fight it. And yes, we are going to win this war, and we are  going to defeat this, but we have to look at it as our health, food,  and financial assistance. 

  Last night, a couple of my Tennesseans and I were discussing this-- what their thoughts and their questions to me were about the  relationship we have with China and how can we trust that we know what  China knew, that we know when they knew it, and their lack of  transparency around what happened with COVID-19. 

  As we have gotten a couple of months past the start of this, these  questions are unanswered. As I was telling our Tennesseans on the phone  last night, even as this virus that came out of Wuhan, China--they had  it in December. It has now touched six continents, and we know people  are dealing with containment. They are dealing with mitigation. They  are dealing with going through the process of getting the anti-virals,  getting the vaccines that are necessary to deal with COVID-19. 

  The questions that people have around this are compounded by the  growing realization of how China has chosen not to be honest and not to  be transparent in their dealings with the rest of the world. The way  Beijing handled its initial response to the coronavirus was nothing  new. In fact, deflection and lies meant to protect the Communist Party  is part of their standard operating procedure. They have defied norms  governing the protection of human rights. They embrace innovation by  incursion, defy property rights, and steal intellectual property as a  matter of course. 

  We have U.S. companies that have suffered for decades from what China  has done to steal their intellectual property, to infringe on their  intellectual property. They defy the sovereignty of other nations and  territories, and they defy what should be their role as a leader in the  global economy. Certainly, they want to be a market economy or so they  say, but look at their behavior. It is this act of defiance that makes  them incredibly dangerous. 

  I have to tell you, this has been something that has been going on  for quite a while, but we only need to go back a decade to place a flag  marking our awareness of what has become a very familiar story. Over  the decades, as China started to manufacture and started to pull U.S.  manufacturers there and then started to mistreat their intellectual  property rights, people became aware of what was going on. It was right  at 10 years ago, when I was a Member in the House, that we were doing  much of the same work that we are doing right now in the U.S. Senate;  we were preparing a defense authorization bill. Even then we realized  the threat that China and Chinese state-owned companies posed to our  national security. We drafted amendments to that year's NDAA, blocking  the purchase of Huawei-supplied equipment. Indeed, we are still hearing  about the need to block the purchase of Huawei equipment not only for  us but for our allies. 

  That action was 10 years ago, but China's influence has continued to  grow. What we have done is pretty much our part in the Senate to expose  those bad actions, even as the rest of the world has allowed Beijing to  co-opt the trappings of capitalism to perpetuate totalitarianism. 

  Last year, we saw the people of Hong Kong rise up on behalf of  democracy and self-determination. Indeed, to this day, that fight goes  on even though the threats and fears of COVID-19 have caused those  protesters to have to protest in a different way. 

  I cosponsored the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act and  sponsored legislation prohibiting the commercial export of covered  munition items to the Hong Kong police force. But the world moves on,  even as that standoff in Hong Kong continues. 

  The Senate was forced to pen a resolution asking the International  Olympic Committee to rebid the 2022 Winter Games to a country that  respects human rights. That was really quite a bold move. It leaves me  to wonder, why was China given this honor in the first place? I have to  tell you, nobody seems to really know the answer to that question. The  aggression they display toward Taiwan and Tibet and the outright  repression of the Uighurs--this is something that has gone unchecked  many times due to fear of economic retaliation.  

  I have addressed this body several times on the subject of Huawei and  China's leveraging of the impending 5G rollout to create national  security vulnerabilities in our network. Their efforts to undermine our  sovereignty are not limited to high-tech espionage. Indeed, their goal  is to place their equipment everywhere. That is why it is so incredibly  affordable to so many countries and so many of our allies. In placing  this equipment, they are seeking to establish their own high-tech cyber  spy network. We know what they are up to. 

  This month, I introduced a bill to temper the influence of China- backed Confucius Institutes on American college campuses. We all have  read the stories lately of how they have infiltrated some of our  institutions of higher learning and how they have co-opted some of the  staff or professors. 

  This is something that needs our attention. It is followed on the  heels of the Stop Higher Education Espionage and Theft Act--another  effort to prevent Beijing from increasing its hold on the minds of our  younger generations. Time and again, we have called Chinese tech  companies like Tik Tok onto the carpet for their censorship, their data  collection, and their privacy practices--or lack of privacy, we should  say. Yet content from their popular apps still dominates social media  headlines. China's hold on the global economy has never been more  apparent. 

  Now there are reports that Beijing used the media and keyword  censorship to suppress information about the coronavirus. Yet Beijing  remains defiant, attacking President Trump in tweets and accusing  everyday Americans of racism for daring to suggest that COVID-19  originated in Wuhan, China. They are, as many younger people like to  say, gaslighting us, and it is madness. 

  It brings us to ask, when will enough be enough? We must not let our  present concerns about the response to coronavirus deter us from  thinking long term. This pandemic will change  our relationship with China in every single way. It is inevitable.  Starting now, we must take advantage of this knowledge. As we think  about an exit strategy from the coronavirus crisis, we have to think  about this. As we think about a way forward to bring manufacturing back  to the United States, we need to remember this.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT