En Bloc Nominations


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695966/en-bloc-nominations


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, well, I am coming to the floor today  as we find ourselves in the middle of the Schumer shutdown, and this is  a time where, indeed, instead of being in the Schumer shutdown and  having these shenanigans taking place, we should be in the middle of  working hard for the American people. If we were not in this shutdown  and our attention focused on that, we could be working our way  through the NDAA, our National Defense Authorization Act, and we could  be passing our appropriations bills through regular order.

But what we know is this is something that the minority leader has  been working on for weeks. It is what he wanted. He thinks that it is  going to benefit the Democratic Members of this Chamber.

I just really think he is sorely mistaken on this because the  measure--the continuing resolution in front of us--is a clean CR, which  means it is funding that is going to continue at levels where they  were, for a period of about 7 weeks, while we finish exercising our due  diligence and passing the appropriations bills.

Now, this is something that--this shutdown didn't have to happen, but  as I said, it is something that appears to have been in the works and  something that was really desired by those on the left.

We have heard, of course, that the minority leader is not wanting to  face opposition from the left there in New York, and because of that,  of course, what we are seeing is that our Nation's business has come to  a halt.

Last night and then again today, all but three of the Members of the  Democratic conference voted against a stopgap funding measure, our  clean CR, that would have kept this government running through November  21. Keeping the spending at current levels, this measure would have  given us the time we need to be working on these appropriations bills.  It would have kept us moving forward and kept us from wasting time.

One of the things I think is so important is that shutdowns are  expensive, and this is something that ends up costing us money every  time we do it. And, of course, we have quite a bit of national debt.

Now, when we talk about completing our appropriations bills and  setting our spending limits for the year and fulfilling that budget  document, that portion--we have our budget document. Then we move to  our appropriations bills.

Well, Senator Collins of Maine, who has led the Appropriations  Committee, has done an outstanding job working with Republicans and  Democrats on that committee, building out this appropriations process,  making certain that bills moved out of the Appropriations Committee and  that they are making their way to the floor.

One of the things that is so interesting is that 8 of the 12 bills  that came out of the Appropriations Committee came out with broad  bipartisan support. So if you have got measures that are coming out  with broad bipartisan support, why would you not move them to the  floor? Why would you not want to finish out this appropriations  process?

And, of course, it should have been finished by September 30. It was  not finished by then. So we are hopeful that by November 21, this  process can be complete and that we will be moving from a Biden budget  to a Trump and Republican budget, which, by the way, is what the  American people voted for when they gave a mandate to President Donald  Trump on November 5.

Now, I mentioned the 12 bills, and 8 of the 12 have come out with  bipartisan support. Three of those bills--our Agriculture, our Leg  Branch, and our MILCON-VA--have already passed off the floor, and they  did so with wide bipartisan votes. This is something that, yes,  indeed--yes, indeed--we need to make certain that we continue to push  these bills. Now, by passing these approps bills, we are ensuring that  we get onto the budget the American people voted for.

Well, this is not what our colleagues across the aisle are saying  they wanted. They don't want the clean CR. They are not wanting to move  forward on these bills. Instead, their measure for keeping the  government open and running is holding government basically hostage, if  you will, for $1.5 trillion in additional spending--$1.5 trillion.

Our national debt is north of $37 trillion. It is climbing. And, of  course, adding another $1.5 trillion for a few weeks is really  irresponsible. In this, they are basically trying to undo what we did-- the steps and the progress that we made when we did the Big Beautiful  Bill, which is truly--truly--a bill for hard-working Americans.

So I would encourage my colleagues across the aisle: It is time to  come to the table. It is time to pass the stopgap measure, the clean  CR. And I would remind my friends that since last year, they have voted  for these funding levels five times.

So let's come together. Let's get this passed. Let's get back on  track to pass these appropriations bills. Let's keep the Federal  Government open and working.