Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, on Tuesday, my colleague Senator  Menendez and I introduced the Securing America's Medicine Cabinet--or  SAM-C Act--to encourage an increase in American manufacturing of active  pharmaceutical ingredients. These are termed APIs. 

  We did this because China dominates this portion of the  pharmaceutical manufacturing and given last night's news, I wanted to  come back for a moment and highlight the important work that is being  done in Tennessee and across the country to support our Nation's  response to this coronavirus pandemic. 

  Many Americans are very concerned, as they ought to be, about the  availability of testing. As you all know, this virus is novel, which  means we did not have test kits on the shelves before the outbreak  started. The tests that we do have are not instant. When people think  of an instant test, they think of a flu test or a pregnancy test. The  test that is required for this virus is not an instant test, but this  is in the works, and we do have top scientists at Vanderbilt University  and other institutions who are developing faster techniques, but, for  now, any test offered must be sent to a lab to be processed and  analyzed. Although these tests provide important information, we must  continue to focus on preventing transmission where we can. 

  Some of the other work that is being done will help lead us to a  faster path for antivirals and for vaccines. There is work in East  Tennessee, right outside of Knoxville, at the Oak Ridge National Lab.  Researchers have been using cutting-edge technology to identify drug  candidates for targeting the novel coronavirus. They are using Summit,  which is the world's fastest supercomputer. What they have done is feed  in information about the coronaviruses, MRSA, SARS, and H1N1--the  different viruses--and they crunched it down, and they have identified  77 drug candidates for targeting the novel coronavirus that we know is  COVID-19. Enabled by the screening of this database of more than 8,000  known drug compounds, the researchers accomplished in days what would  have taken years for scientists to do in the lab. 

  In my remarks on the floor yesterday, I went into detail about the  decades-long effort by scientists at Vanderbilt University's Denison  Lab to study coronaviruses. I want to reiterate one important point-- that all across the country, scientists just like our friends at  Vanderbilt are developing the antivirals and the vaccines that will  eventually be used to combat multiple strains of virus, not just this  particular outbreak but in addition to this outbreak. 

  The United States is a leader in research and development of  pharmaceuticals. Our labs, talent, and capacity for innovation are the  envy of the world, but right now we depend heavily on Chinese and  foreign companies to manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients.  When this happens, we lose control of our supply. 

  So while we have all of this great work done in Oak Ridge, TN, and we  have this wonderful work done in the Denison Lab at Vanderbilt, we need  something like the SAM-C Act to enable us to have access to these drugs  and these compounds that they are identifying that we need. The SAM-C  Act will not solve our immediate problem. Once passed, it will  incentivize companies that specialize in development, manufacturing,  and workforce training to bring those operations back to the safety of  U.S.-based labs and institutes of learning, and it will expedite having  the antivirals and the vaccines that are needed to prevent this. 

  I encourage all of my colleagues to think ahead, offer their support  to S. 3432, and let's commit to securing our pharmaceutical supply  chain. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT