Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam President, I have come to the floor today to  start this new year by really encouraging my friends on each side of  the aisle to approach this coming legislative session with some  optimism because there are some good things we can do. 

  We come to the floor and we hear about Iran and we hear about  Soleimani. There are differences of opinion there. I am one of those. I  represent a major military post, and I know that so many of our men and  women in uniform said: You know what, this should have been done long  ago. This is a known terrorist who has conducted terrorist attacks on  six continents, even tried it here in the United States. They felt like  the President was justified. 

  We hear about impeachment, and of course we know it has been widely  reported that our friends across the aisle and over in the House  started 3 years ago trying to find something they could impeach Donald  Trump on--just something. It was going to be emoluments, or it was  going to be collusion, or it was going to be coercion, or it was going  to be Russia, or it was going to be bribery. There had to be something  there because, you know what, they just don't like the guy. They don't  like him. So they have been at it nonstop. They let that get in the way  of some good things that people would like to get done. 

  For the next few minutes, I would like to encourage us to think  beyond subpoenas and trial and negativity and witness statements and  instead focus in on three things that are right in front of us: two  successfully negotiated trade deals that will benefit farmers,  manufacturers, and small business owners and producers not only in my  State of Tennessee but across the entire country. 

  In the Volunteer State alone, we have 967 foreign-based businesses,  and they have invested $37.3 billion in capital improvements, and  currently they employ more than 147,000 Tennesseans. That is good for  our State. Trade is important to us in Tennessee, insourcing these  jobs. 

  Of particular importance to us is maintaining great trade relations  with Japan. Do you know what is so amazing? We have so many people who  didn't even know that the Japan trade agreement went into effect on  January 1. The mainstream media was so busy focused on impeachment and  other things that they didn't even realize this was a deal that will do  a good job for us. 

  Our former U.S. Ambassador to Japan, who is a Tennessean, Ambassador  Hagerty, had negotiated this before he left. This recently agreed-to  Japan trade deal will support 40,000 jobs that are already provided by  Japanese companies. The new deal will also solidify Tennessee's  relationships with Japanese partners like Nissan North America, Toyota,  Bridgestone, Nidec, and Denso Manufacturing--all with a presence in  Tennessee and all employing Tennesseans. 

  It is going to create greater market access to Tennessee's  agriculture products, specifically pork, cheese, and wine. It will  eliminate or lower tariffs on 7.2 billion dollars' worth of U.S.  exports, including beef, which will put Tennessee and American farmers  on a level playing field with their competitors. That is a good thing  for our agricultural community. I cannot overstate how big a win this  is for Tennesseans and for Americans, and there is more on the horizon.                               China Trade Deal  

  Madam President, later this month, President Trump will solidify a  trade deal with China that will eliminate or roll back the section 301  tariffs and provide some much needed protection for our patents and  trademarks and copyrights that will allow innovators in our creative  community, like our Tennessee songwriters, screenwriters, TV producers,  and our actors, to enjoy the benefits of a free market. This has been a  long time coming. There is a lot more to do.                 United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement  

  Madam President, you may recall at the end of 2018--not 2019 but at  the end of 2018--President Trump notified Congress that he would soon  provide us with implementing legislation for the newly signed United  States-Mexico-Canada trade agreement. We call it the USMCA. 

  At that moment, at the end of 2018, our colleagues in the House were  put on notice that this highly anticipated and desperately needed  legislation was on its way. Get ready. It is coming to you. At that  moment, the House majority leadership was presented with the  opportunity to prioritize American workers over partisan politicking.  What was their choice? Their choice was to choose partisan politicking  and leave the American workers on the sideline, leave these auto  manufacturing workers on the sideline while they focused in on partisan  bickering. We all know what happened. 

  In 2019, petty revenge schemes took priority and trade relations with  our closest allies were shoved aside to accommodate a yearslong  campaign. As I said at the beginning of my remarks, for 3 years they  have wanted to undo the 2016 election. 

  In May, instead of prioritizing the creation of nearly 176,000 jobs,  House Democrats decided to spend their time drafting subpoenas. In  June, instead of focusing on the 12 million jobs already depending on  good trade relations with Canada and Mexico, House Democrats held four  votes on these subpoenas. 

  It was the same story in July, in August, and in September. House  Democrats pushed forward with their impeachment ambitions at all costs.  They had to do it. They had made a promise that they were going to go  get him. They neglected the owners of over 120,000 American small  businesses that export goods throughout North America. They put  themselves and their priorities before the needs of the American  people. 

  Even as late as October, the Speaker of the House continued to stall,  inventing excuse after excuse when it came to pushing the USMCA  negotiations to the sidelines in favor of partisan attacks. Even  Members of her own caucus sought to distance themselves from those  attacks. 

  By the end of the year, the House majority's resolve to ignore their  duty, finally began to splinter. 

  They struck a deal with the White House, but even then, the  compromises they pushed for were barely, hardly worth wasting an entire  year's worth of potential economic opportunity. There was a lot of  opportunity cost to businesses to make way for House Democrats'  partisan bickering. 

  We have brokered successful trade deals with Japan, with China--deals  that America's farmers, manufacturers, producers, and small businesses  have waited for, for a very long time. Now, after a year's worth of  delays, excuses, and outright obstruction on the part of House  Democrats, we are forced to ask those farmers and workers to wait just  a little bit longer. It isn't fair, and it certainly is not what is  best for our Nation's economy and certainly not what is best for  Tennessee. 

  In the coming weeks, I encourage my colleagues to stay focused on  policies that may not dominate the headlines but that are dominating  the thoughts of Tennesseans from one end of the State to the other and  certainly of Americans all across this country who are looking for  trade opportunities and opportunities to grow their businesses in this  robust and growing economy. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT