Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, for 3 years now, I have been hard at  work alongside an administration that prioritizes filling vacancies on  the Federal bench with smart, dedicated, constitutionalist judges. When  I am at home in Tennessee, that is what people tell me they want to  see--constitutionalist judges, not activist judges. 

  I know that I have sounded like a broken record in my reiterating  just how important it is to keep these judicial nominations moving  through the Committee on the Judiciary and moving to the floor, but I  will tell you this: I think it is a message that needs to be repeated  day in and day out because the American people and, as I said,  Tennesseans know that this should be a priority, for this is how we  continue to protect freedoms from generation to generation. 

  Since 2017, we have confirmed over 180 nominees, and even in the face  of partisan bickering, we have no plans at all to slow that pace. We  were in the Committee on the Judiciary today, hearing again from the  nominees whom we will move forward and bring to this floor for  confirmation. I want to shine light on a court that doesn't get a whole  lot of attention, but let me tell you that we would be in real trouble  if we did not have this one. 

  I have come to the floor to support President Trump's latest nominee  to the U.S. Court of Federal Claims--Eleni Maria Roumel. 

  I first met Eleni when she joined the nonpartisan Office of General  Counsel for the House of Representatives. During her 6-year tenure,  Eleni advised those of us who were members of the Energy and Commerce  Committee as we faced some challenging and high-profile legal matters  and as we looked at laws that were going to affect the American people  and how they lived their lives every single day. 

  The Energy and Commerce Committee in the House has wide jurisdiction.  Of course, energy policy, commerce and trade, healthcare,  manufacturing, pro sports, privacy, and the internet all come under  that jurisdiction. So Eleni served us well in providing advice. I  witnessed her commitment to bipartisanship as she served both sides of  the aisle with the same quality of representation. She did it all while  she was pregnant with her son, John, who is now 2 years old, and as  someone who has been a working mom, I know the challenges that this  presents. 

  From her time as a truly excellent student at Tulane Law, to her work  in the private sector and beyond, Eleni's professionalism has elevated  her above the rest of the pack. 

  She practiced intellectual property law and earned a promotion to  partner as she represented both pro bono clients and publicly traded  Fortune 500 companies. 

  She taught and mentored students as an adjunct professor at  Charleston Law School. 

  She solidified her reputation as a lawyer committed to the rule of  law in her work handling government oversight of Federal agencies.  These cases were vital to the safeguarding of the separation of powers  and emphasized the supremacy of the Constitution as what it is--the law  of the land. 

  In her 19-year career, she has appeared before 20 different Federal  courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court, and just last year, she was  elevated to the role of Deputy Counsel to Vice President Mike Pence. 

  I am truly honored to have supported Eleni Roumel's nomination to the  Court of Federal Claims. She will be an excellent role model on the  bench, especially to young women in the legal profession. I encourage  my colleagues to take a look at her resume, get to know her, and then  join me in wholeheartedly supporting her confirmation. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT