Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, to all of my colleagues and to our  staff here in the Chamber, those who are mothers, I hope they had a  wonderful Mother's Day weekend, and it is a joy to return to work  today. I will tell you, I am really blessed to have some of those moms.  They are policy experts, and they are a part of my staff. I listen a  lot to what they have to say. 

  Like with all of our staff, I admire their dedication and their  focus--especially now and especially when it comes to discussing how  this COVID crisis is affecting their children, how they are learning  and how they are utilizing technology to communicate and practicing  distance learning and hearing what schools are doing as they are all  going through a learning curve. We are all going through a learning  curve on how to utilize technology. 

  The thing that is so significant, as I talked to so many of these  working moms and dads, what we realize and they realize and what they  highlight with me is that embodied in this technology, we have a lot of  dangers that exist and vulnerabilities that are being created to the  privacy of our children. 

  Long before students were forced to attend classes via webcam,  Congress began taking a hard look at how the companies providing  digital classrooms were protecting what I term the ``virtual you''--you  and your presence online--how they were protecting that virtual you of  underage users.  

  As it turns out, what we found in the work that we were doing--some  of it I did while I was in the House, as chairman of the Subcommittee  on Communications and Technology of Energy and Commerce, and some of  that work I continued here. But back in 2015, as we started doing a  deeper dive on what was happening with protecting privacy and presence  online, the Electronic Frontier Foundation filed a complaint with the  FTC against Google, alleging that their Google for Education platform  was exploiting students' personal information and potentially exposing  it to third parties. 

  Think about this. The Google for Education program--kids were logging  on, and they were using this. Google--what were they doing? Data  mining. What were they doing with what they were data mining, which is  your information? They were then sharing that with third parties. And  guess what. You didn't know. The parents didn't know, and the children  didn't know. What we found out was that one wrong click, and any  program administrator could expose a student's virtual you to potential  outside websites. A 2017 report from the Electronic Frontier Foundation  confirmed and expanded on these concerns. Even free products can come  at the cost of student privacy. 

  Last month, Google donated 4,000 Chromebooks to students in rural  California--4,000 Chromebooks. That sounds like a very generous  donation, a way to help close that digital divide, a way to connect  students to the internet, to open up the world and bring the world in  to them. The problem is that this year, the State of New Mexico sued  Google over a similar program, alleging that Google was using  Chromebooks to track students. Well, how about that? Here you go. Here  is a free Chromebook. Use it. But what happens? All of that research  work you were doing via Google is being data-mined, tracked, and  shared. 

  We need to be wary of these free programs because what we now know is  that when it is free, you and your information and your child's  information is tracked, it is data-mined, and it is shared. That means  that you and your information are the product--the freebie, if you  will. The Chromebook is simply the way, the mechanism to take your  information from you and allow Google or Big Tech to have it, and then  they sell it to somebody over here who is going to do what with it?  Guess what. They are going to be marketing back to you. That data is a  valuable resource, and what do they do once they have data-mined it?  They are going to sell it to whoever is willing to pay the highest  price so they can use it and market back to you and your kids something  that they want you to buy. Now, that is what is happening. 

  I am sure everyone remembers the video platform Zoom. Many of us have  probably used it in meetings even today. Zoom was thrust into the  spotlight as we started this COVID crisis, and after watchdogs  uncovered not only a research and development presence in China but  protocols that allowed data, including--now, I want you to listen to  this. This is one of those buyer beware things--user beware. We are  talking about Zoom. What was discovered was that Zoom allowed data,  including screen captures and video--that means you on screen; you,  your face, and video; what you are saying; the presentation you are  making; the question you are asking--all of that to flow in and out of  China. 

  Schools, corporations, and even Senate offices have all been forced  to question this platform, to give up this platform and to find some  other way to communicate. We know that many of our children are going  to school in Zoom classrooms every day. In our churches, our choirs are  singing on Zoom, and sermons are being delivered on Zoom. 

  The rise in mandatory use of technology by students prompted me,  along with Senators Markey, Hawley, Blumenthal, Cassidy, and Durbin, to  ask the FTC to launch a major investigation into how these platforms  are protecting student privacy. What we are wanting to know is, what  are you doing to put that wall there so that the information of these  underage users, these children, is not going to be shared? What are you  doing to make certain that their faces, their images, their voices, and  their questions are not going to be captured? Can you imagine anything  more frightening than to think your child is sitting in a Zoom  classroom, and this data is flowing to China, and somebody is capturing  these images, and then that is going to be shared with somebody you  don't know. You don't know what they are going to do with it, and you  don't know why they want it, and you, as a parent, have chosen to  completely stay off social media because you don't want that kind of  intrusion into your child's life. 

  Don't you think that these corporations ought to figure this out,  that this is an area of concern for moms and dads and grandmoms and  granddads, to protect these children? Oh, but it doesn't matter to  China, does it? All China is interested in is making a buck off the  American consumer. They feel like, if you use our service, we have got  that right. I think we need to be sending a message to them. 

  Both the education technology and the digital advertising industries  are notoriously opaque about their privacy policies. I am joined by  other members of the Judiciary Committee Tech Task Force in having  conversations with many of these companies, and I will tell you, we  have made some progress. I have been pleased with many of the  companies' willingness to share with us some of these policies and to  look for ways that we can protect unsuspecting consumers and our  precious children 

  Since the FTC is preparing to consider revisions to the Children's  Online Privacy Protection Act, COPPA, now is the perfect time. It is  the necessary time for a deep dive into the data collection and  processing practices of these firms. 

  You know what, sometimes we hear the phrase ``Oh, let's do it for the  children.'' ``This is for the children.'' ``We have to do this or that  for the children.'' Let me tell you something right now: This is one of  those things that are absolutely for the children, to protect them  online so that Big Tech and some of these China-owned companies--and  bear in mind, colleagues, if you are doing business in China and if you  are a company in China, who are you owned by? Who do you answer to? You  answer to the Chinese Communist Party. I will tell you right now, I do  not want them to have images of our children, data on where they sit,  where they go to school, and what their interests are. 

  These privacy policies have to be reviewed. We want to make  absolutely sure that the FTC has all the facts they need to be certain  we keep children safe online. Section 6 of the FTC Act empowers them to  do this. I urge agency officials to make use of that authority. This is  an imperative. The pandemic has shown us that it only takes a little  disruption to prompt bad actors to take advantage of a situation. 

  Here in the U.S., even during a pandemic, we have the right to  challenge laws that we feel are unjust. But in many places around the  world, the pandemic has provided an opportunity for oppressive regimes  to enact so-called emergency laws that restrict human rights without  justification or oversight. China and Russia--two of the big  offenders--have used the crisis to ramp up their use of surveillance to  restrict privacy and freedom of movement. ``We have to do it. We have a  pandemic.'' That is what they say. 

  In Bolivia and the Philippines, government officials are using the  pandemic as an excuse to silence their legislative bodies and punish  critics. ``Oh, leave it to us. We are going to be able to solve this.  You don't need to weigh in.'' That is what they are saying. 

  In Cambodia, Venezuela, Belarus, Egypt, Turkey, South Africa, and  many other countries, officials are following China's playbook and  preventing the journalists from publishing news that contradicts  official propaganda. ``Don't bother with the truth. We are going to  make up a version of the truth and then that is what we are going to  tell people. Don't listen to anything else. Listen to us. We have truth  coming at you. We are making it up as we go.'' That is what they are  saying. 

  The way they are using surveillance to limit freedom and to craft a  message is something that should frighten everyone. It is all happening  under the guise of ``combating COVID-19.'' 

  So last week, Senator Markey and I filed a bill that will help  address these  abuses. I thank Senator Markey for the great work he does on human  rights and also the work he and I did on the House on online privacy. 

  The Protecting Human Rights During Pandemic Act would require the  State Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development--or  USAID--to take actions to prevent human rights abuses in the name of  coronavirus response. The bill authorizes funding through 2025 for  programs that support human rights defense during and in the aftermath  of harmful responses to the pandemic. Congress would receive strategic  plans from the State Department and USAID detailing how those funds are  being put to use, as well as regular reports on human rights violations  perpetrated in the name of pandemic response. 

  The spread of COVID-19 has forced businesses, families, and  governments to take extraordinary measures to protect human life. Some  have proven effective; unfortunately, others are missing the mark. We  still have much to do in terms of pandemic response, and we continue to  work on it every day. But I encourage my colleagues not to let the  severity of our situation distract from our responsibility to set an  example for the rest of the world. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT