Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I first thank my friend, Senator  Leahy, for allowing me to speak, for we are all dealing with the  Committee on the Judiciary. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I want to say just a couple of things  to Tennesseans and to Americans. 

  All are expressing their rage and grief over the murder of George  Floyd  in Minnesota. I will tell you that this event of May 25 cannot be  written off as a simple use of force or as being unfortunate or  regrettable. We all know that, on that day, George Floyd was killed by  a police officer while other officers looked on and heard his begging  for life and his cries for help. The officers responsible should be  prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. 

  I offer my prayers and condolences to the Floyd family, just as so  many other Members of this Chamber have done, and I support the  President's call for the Justice Department to investigate this death.                                  Censorship  

  Mr. President, our country was built on the premise of dissent, and  we have seen the power that peaceful protests have in their ability to  bring change to every level of government. Unfortunately, over the past  week, we have also seen what happens when criminals and shadowy  professionals exploit these public expressions of frustration and pain. 

  Every single day, Americans are waking up to find that their  neighborhoods have been destroyed, and they watch news reports that are  dominated by lawlessness. Many activists and members of the mainstream  media have attempted to force us into choosing between solidarity and  maintaining law and order. This is a false choice. It is one that we  ought to reject. Instead, we should fight for accountability,  compassion, and understanding. At the same time, we must condemn  racism, hatred, and the violence that has torn apart so many  neighborhoods this very week. 

  We should also celebrate and defend our right to peaceful  disagreement in the streets, in the classroom, and online just as well  as in this very Chamber. Unfortunately, too often, this right is not  celebrated. Over the years, we have documented Big Tech's history of  censorship, particularly the censorship of dissenting conservative  voices. During the 2018 election cycle, a series of pro-life ads that I  sponsored on social media were taken down for having content the  platform labeled as ``inflammatory.'' 

  For years, conservatives have been fighting a losing war against  content moderation policies that act as a dragnet for dissenting  opinions. Last week, Twitter rolled out a new ``fact-checking'' feature  and almost immediately botched a fact check on one of President Trump's  tweets. Unfortunately, for Twitter, the President was not afraid to  point out how easy it is for private companies to make mistakes that  turn moderation into speech policing. We know that social media  companies have subjectively manipulated their algorithms to capture  conservative opinions and conservative elected officials. They have  been doing this for too long for it to just be a mere mistake. These  are not unintended consequences. 

  Last week, President Trump signed an Executive order to bring some  much needed attention to the issue, and we thank him for that. As head  of the Judiciary Committee's Tech Task Force, I look forward to working  with the White House and the Justice Department to preserve free speech  online for all Americans. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I have to say that Tennesseans are  enjoying being out and about. They are so thrilled to see the restart  of our economy. Whether you are going to hair salons, restaurants,  shopping centers, office parks, or manufacturing facilities, what we  are hearing from Tennesseans is: Thank goodness we can get back to  work. They are grateful that they have had the PPP to help them bridge  from the shutdown to the restart. There has been $8.8 billion that has  made its way into our State through the PPP program, and our Governor,  our Tennessee General Assembly, and our mayors are really working  diligently to be certain that our economy opens up, that people are at  work safely, and that we continue to defeat this COVID-19. 

  Over the past few months, we have seen Congress push forward, putting  about $3 trillion into the economy for a restart, and State and local  governments have already put over $139 billion worth of aid to good use  by supporting local healthcare, helping to rescue businesses, and  keeping companies working and local payrolls going--keeping people on  the job. 

  Our Governor and general assembly in Tennessee have just announced a  new program that they are doing in conjunction with local businesses.  Now, imagine for a moment what it was like to watch the economy tumble  from the perspective of a community that was already struggling and  trying to make ends meet. The pandemic caused catastrophic damage to  the traditional economy and also to many of the service organizations  that were there to meet needs. In Tennessee, as in many States,  struggling communities depend on these nonprofit groups. This is why we  fought so hard to include eligibility for nonprofits in the rescue  funding packages. 

  I will tell you that this is making a difference in Tennessee for  some of our nonprofit organizations, like the East Tennessee-based  Appalachia Service Project. ASP teams travel throughout Central  Appalachia. They repair homes for low-income families. Mayors in the  communities that ASP visit are running on tight budgets, and they  depend on volunteers to fix up unsafe or uninhabitable homes. You can  only imagine how it felt to the people at ASP to watch their funding  evaporate, knowing that the leaky roof that needed attention over in  Sneedville would end up turning into a rotten floor and a moldy wall  and would be a safety hazard for the individuals who lived there.  Fortunately, ASP was able to get an SBA loan that gave it a little bit  of breathing room. Although it has had to cancel its volunteer program,  its essential staff and contractors will be able to continue working  all through the summer. 

  The various rescue programs that Congress agreed to implement were  not perfect by any means, but did they have a positive effect? From  what we are hearing in Tennessee, they did, and they have been put to  good use. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT