Fraud Accountability Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698560/fraud-accountability-act


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I think we are all pleased to be back  with a new year and hard at work.

One of the things that has really captured the attention of the  American people in this new year is the amount of fraud that has been  uncovered in Minnesota. What we have learned is that now the total has  climbed to $9 billion--still rising. It is important to note that is  all stolen taxpayer money. It is so interesting that this big theft was  uncovered by a young independent journalist who really blew the story  open when he started visiting childcare centers following a lead,  visiting these childcare centers in Minneapolis.

Despite these centers having pulled in tens of millions of taxpayer  dollars, the childcare centers were actually empty. There were no  children; there were no cars in the parking lot. Usually--not even any  staff to come answer the door. These were visits that were made during  the day when one would assume that children and their caretakers would  be present in the facility.

We know and what we are learning is that this childcare fraud scheme  is just one part of a widespread fraud operation taking place in  Minnesota. Under State Democrats, billions of taxpayer dollars were  stolen by front groups that pretended they were providing social  services. But they padded their pockets. They basically took this money  from vulnerable individuals--programs that were intended for children,  for the elderly, for individuals with autism. So basically, they were  robbing the taxpayer, padding their pockets, pocketing all of this  money that was intended for vulnerable citizens.

The Trump administration has targeted this fraud network, and they  have been working on this for several months. They are bringing dozen  of criminal indictments, and the list of these alleged crimes is  staggering. I think the list grows every day, and that is one thing  that is shocking to people.

But what you have is tens of millions of dollars that were stolen  through Minnesota's Medicaid Housing Stabilization Services Program.  The money was appropriated. The money was sent from the Federal  Government to the State of Minnesota, and poof, it has gone into  pockets, not into programs. The Housing Stabilization Services Program  was meant to help people with disabilities, yet what you had was these  scammers come in and take most of that money.

Millions more were stolen through the State's Feeding Our Future  Program. Here, the fraudsters claimed that they were providing  thousands of meals every day to needy children. Instead, what we are  learning is they weren't providing those thousands of meals; they were  spending your hard-earned tax dollars on luxury vehicles and on pricey  real estate.

And yet millions more were stolen by a single woman who paid parents  to enroll their children in her fraudulent autism therapy program even  though most of those children had never been diagnosed with autism.

I know that Tennesseans and, indeed, I am sure, many Americans across  the country are wondering, How in the world could this possibly happen?

One of the things I have heard from Tennesseans most on is this fraud  issue because they can't believe nobody ever noticed. We are talking $9  billion in fraud--and climbing--in one State. Well, we know the answer  to this, from what we are learning, is that most of this fraud was  committed by members of Minnesota's Somali community and that that  community is closely tied to the State's Democratic machine. It appears  that there were some Democrats who chose to look the other way, and  they allowed this to happen. Meanwhile, the Biden administration poured  gas on the fire by eliminating safeguards that were meant to stop the  waste, fraud, and abuse of your hard-earned taxpayer dollars.

In 2024, the Joe Biden administration scrapped a rule that required  childcare centers to verify that kids actually attended their  facilities in order to receive Federal funding. Think about this: They  removed the provision that says you have got to tell us you are  actually enrolling children in your childcare center. So what does that  do? That invites fraud. In total, his administration paid out more than  $19 billion to daycare centers without having any verification that  that childcare center had children--$19 billion to daycare centers.

Thankfully, President Trump and his administration are working to  ensure that these fraudsters face justice and that something like this  can never happen again.

Right now, you have Federal authorities on the ground in Minnesota  who are working to identify and arrest these criminals who have  defrauded the Federal Government and the U.S. taxpayer. President Trump  has also frozen more than $10 billion in Federal funding for social  services programs to Minnesota and to other States--California,  Colorado, Illinois, and New York--where there are fraud investigations.

The President's message is quite clear: If these States want to see a  dime of Federal taxpayer dollars, they must prove that they have put in  place  some safeguards to prevent fraud. It is common sense. If you are going  to take this Federal money for your State, for goodness' sake, put some  safeguards in place so you know whoever is receiving the money is going  to use the money as intended, that they will meet the deliverable, that  they will show their outcomes.

I think it is so interesting in Minnesota, with the spotlight on that  State, that Governor Tim Walz has announced he is not going to seek  reelection for that job, that he is dropping out of the race.  Minnesotans deserve an immediate resignation from him, and we are  hearing that he will not do that.

We know that this issue goes far beyond Minnesota. Just last month,  California's nonpartisan auditor found that eight State agencies have a  high risk of waste, fraud, and abuse. Yet they have taken  zero corrective action--no corrective action. Across the board, the  State is at risk of losing billions to fraud in food assistance,  unemployment benefits, and in the State's Medicaid Program.

In New York, Republican lawmakers are calling for an independent  audit of the State's spending following several fraud scandals. In one  case, scammers in Brooklyn used two adult daycare facilities to steal-- get this--$68 million in taxpayer money from the State's Medicaid home  care program. A State comptroller's office also revealed that the State  provided more than $500 million in Medicaid benefits to out-of-State  residents.

If you live in New York and you are getting benefits through the  Medicaid program and you find out that a half a billion dollars has  been used to provide benefits for people who are not even residents of  the State, you ought to be asking questions.

In Illinois, the State's auditor general found that the government  paid out more than $5 billion in fraudulent unemployment insurance.  Well, do you know what? They didn't do a thing about it.

Last month, the Trump administration indicted two men outside Chicago  who submitted nearly $300 million in fraudulent claims to Medicare and  Medicaid as well as to private insurers.

Then, this week, in Mississippi, a trial started for a man who faces  charges from the Justice Department for allegedly participating in a  scheme to steal $77 million in Federal aid intended for needy families.  Instead, the scammers spent the money on luxury vehicles, investments,  private schools, and more.

While President Trump works to end this abuse of taxpayer dollars,  Congress should do everything possible to support his efforts.

This week, I am introducing the Fraud Accountability Act, which would  amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to explicitly make clear that  fraud is a deportable offense. If you come to our country to steal from  the American people, you ought to be deported; and if you have somehow  gained American citizenship, you should be stripped of it. Every single  Member of this Chamber should support this legislation.

The era of rampant fraud is over. Under President Trump, we are going  to continue to put the American people first.