Freedom Protests


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam President, we are in the wake of another global  event or happening, if you will. No matter what it is, we always have  people who come in on the back side and, as I say, are a bunch of  armchair quarterbacks and Monday morning quarterbacks, and they are  trying to put their spin on what should have been done and what wasn't  done. I think that is probably a pretty good analogy when we think  about the football game that took place last night. 

  What ought to be a serious discussion about national security or  human rights inevitably devolves into a political argument about who  should be allowed to score the most points off the blood and bravery of  people who are fighting half a world away. Here is a suggestion for  each of us: In times of conflict or unrest, instead of looking to the  pundits and listening to a lot of pundits, why don't we look to the  people themselves who are involved in these conflicts? 

  After the U.S. strike that took out Qasem Soleimani, armchair  quarterbacks calling plays for the left picked up on what the  propaganda arm of the Iranian regime was selling. Bear in mind, I just  said the propaganda arm. After Tehran downed its own jet though,  shouldn't the conversation have pivoted to the outraged protests  not against Americans but against the Iranian Government? After all,  those protests were fueled not by the act of one man but by months of  domestic turmoil and decades of brutal repression by the Iranian regime  against the people of Iran. Of course, it didn't pivot. The false  narrative of the mad American President prevailed, even as the people  of Iran railed against the brutality of the ayatollahs and the  inexplicable recklessness of their own military. They were saying one  thing, and the media said something else. 

  In a stunning display of bravery, the people of Iran risked their  lives--yes, they are risking their lives. In November, 304 got shot  taking to the streets. The Revolutionary Guard brought about by  Soleimani were shooting this week at people who were protesting and  begging--begging for a little bit of freedom. It is amazing to me that  it doesn't get acknowledged. 

  The decisive elimination of Soleimani exposed the regime's extreme  vulnerability on the global stage, and I think the ayatollahs in Iran  know this. This is why we saw them respond with threats against America  at large. It is why they strong-armed the Iraqi Parliament into its  foolish stand against American troops, why they arrested the United  Kingdom's Ambassador for attending a peace vigil, and why they  violently retaliated against civilian speech. They know they are losing  this argument. Tehran failed at silencing dissent. Their goal is to  convince the rest of the world to ignore the protests of the Iranian  people. 

  Authoritarianism is not bound to one particular region or ideology.  As we saw last year, the repressive behavior of Communist China  backfired on officials in Beijing. In their case, there wasn't an  airstrike or an incursion. There was just a simple but disastrous piece  of legislation that would have jeopardized the already-strangled human  rights of every citizen in Hong Kong--not just a few but everybody,  blanket coverage. Don't be caught speaking out against China and  against Beijing. 

  The fallout from that violation is now legendary. Millions took to  the streets on behalf of democracy and self-determination and turned  Beijing's agenda on its head. Their protests captured the attention of  the entire world and inspired others struggling to survive under  Communist rule to speak up. 

  This past Saturday, the people of Taiwan poured some additional salt  on Beijing's wounds by delivering a stunning electoral rebuke against  the Communist Party. Taiwanese citizens cast a record number of  ballots, pulling the pro-democracy ruling party out of a 2-year skid  and validating President Tsai's embrace of anti-Beijing protesters in  East Asia. Let me tell you, China knows exactly who is to blame for  this, but in official statements they are writing off the results of  the election as a mere fluke, and they are blaming--get this--foreign  interference for their humiliation. They couldn't possibly be  responsible for this. 

  I have to tell you, the election may be over, but you can count on  China to find other ways to coerce Taipei into submission. They will  likely continue to pressure Taiwanese businessmen and workers living on  the mainland to toe the party line and engage in more military drills  around Taiwan, with the goal of muscling away diplomatic support. It is  all part of their playbook. 

  Threats gilded in official policy are standard operating procedure  for authoritarian regimes, but overt crackdowns on dissent still loom  large over the heads of their people. Last December, China threatened  to sanction the non-governmental organizations that backed pro- democracy legislation in Hong Kong. On Sunday, they suddenly refused  entry to activists from Human Rights Watch without even pretending to  provide a plausible explanation. Imagine that. They have moved so far  in repression, they wouldn't even let Human Rights Watch in the country  to see what it is that they are doing to their people. 

  Make no mistake, regimes like those in China or Iran are vicious and  powerful, but right now, they are running on nothing but fear of their  very own people, their own citizens. The fear is what drives them to  repression, abuse, and murder, but time and again they forget that  someone is always watching. The same technology that allows them to spy  on and manipulate their adversaries allows freedom fighters to tweet,  to live stream, and broadcast some of these crimes that are being  committed by these oppressive regimes. 

  The people of Iran and China have flung themselves onto the frontline  of a global fight for individual rights and individual freedom, but  don't neglect those risking life and limb in places like Lebanon, where  peaceful opposition to authorities is labeled as criminal defamation-- imagine that, criminal defamation if you peacefully oppose the  authorities--or in Morocco, where journalists have been jailed with  impunity for unveiling corruption. You find corruption, you report it  in the press, and they lock you up for telling the truth--or Burma or  India or Algeria. There are dozens more examples. 

  If you want to understand what is happening, look to the people.  Listen to them and pay attention to their history as they seek to write  their future. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT