Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700457/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, one of the things I noticed about  today is that it is March 4. That means it was exactly 8 months ago  that President Trump signed into law the Working Families Tax Cut Act.

Now, we knew that this was a massive win for the American people, and  what we are seeing now is that is beginning to play out. The American  people are realizing what a big win passing this Working Families Tax  Cut Act--the Big Beautiful Bill--was.

One of the things that have come up recently is the $150 billion  investment it made in our Nation's defense, and certainly we are seeing  that in action. It has been vital as our men and women of the military  are working day and night to defend our Nation from these attacks from  the largest state sponsor of terrorism on the face of the Earth, and  that is Iran.

It also provided $170 billion for border security, including funding  to complete building the wall on our southern border, building new  detention facilities for those that have illegally entered the country  and are awaiting deportation, and, to make all of this happen, of  course, hiring and training more agents.

I think it is important to note that since this bill was signed into  law, not a single illegal alien has been admitted into our country.  Think about that. For years, millions--millions--of people were coming  into the country, and Heaven knows how many known and unknown ``got- aways'' were getting into this country. But now, not one. And this has  been especially crucial to maintain our border enforcement as our  colleagues across the aisle, the Democrats, continue their push for a  partial shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security.

When I talk with Tennesseans, the part of the law that they are most  excited about is tax cuts, leaving more money in their pockets and  sending less money to the Federal Government.

Now, true to its name, the Working Families Tax Cut Act delivered the  largest tax relief for Americans in history, and it prevented a $4  trillion tax hike. Of course, that would have been the largest tax hike  ever.

So while these provisions went into effect last year, most people are  just now beginning to see how this is going to affect them because we  are at the point where everybody is trying to get their information  together and fill out their IRS filing for the year.

In this law, I was so pleased that my legislation to remove income  tax from Social Security for our Nation's seniors was included. Every  senior that is 65 years of age and older--every single one--gets a  $6,000 bonus deduction. If it is a couple, married filing jointly,  their bonus deduction is $12,000. What we know is that this eliminates  the income tax for 88 percent of our Social Security recipients.

I think this is a matter of fairness. American workers spend a  lifetime paying into Social Security. The Federal Government has that  first bite at your paycheck. They take that money out. So why should  seniors have to pay tax on that Social Security? It makes absolutely no  sense to be taxing taxes. And that is what this provision has done for  years. So by being able to remove this, we know that most seniors are  going to see an extra refund of somewhere between $670 and $1,300. So  for Americans on fixed incomes, these savings are going to help to pay  for medicine, food, gas, groceries, and other expenses they may have.

For millions of workers, we have also lowered the taxes on tips and  overtime. Americans who go the extra mile deserve to benefit from their  hard work, and this provision of no tax on tips or overtime ensures  that is going to happen. With the new tips deduction, single filers  will see an average savings of $1,370, and some are going to see  savings of as much as $5,500. With the new overtime deduction, the  average is estimated at $1,440.

So this is delivering historic tax relief and benefits for families.

Earlier this year, I had the honor of joining President Trump and  Treasury Secretary Bessent for the official summit for the Trump  accounts. These are new tax-advantaged accounts that were established  in our legislation, and they are going to jump-start the American dream  for millions of children across this country.

With the accounts, Americans that are born between 2025 and 2028 are  going to be eligible for a $1,000 contribution into their account from  the Treasury Department.

Parents and grandparents and uncles and aunts who are always  struggling with what to get for birthday, Christmas, or special events  can contribute up to $5,000 a year into this account until that child  turns 18.

We know these accounts are going to grow to tens of thousands,  hundreds of thousands of dollars by the time that child grows to be an  adult. So I think it is so important for those of us that have  grandchildren, for those of us that have children--think about what  this could mean for those children and grandchildren to be able to have  a debt-free college education or maybe a downpayment on a home or, for  a child that is truly an entrepreneur, the ability to start a business.

We have been so excited about these, and the American people are  excited about them too. Already 2 million families have applied for  these accounts. To any of the Tennessee families who are hearing these  remarks, I would encourage them to sign up for this. It is IRS form  4547.

Be sure you sign your child up for one of these accounts.

Now, it is impossible to list all the savings that are in the Working  Families Tax Cut Act, and there are a few more that are so specific for  families. The enhanced child tax credit was made permanent. That is  going to benefit 40 million families that are now getting ready to file  their Federal income tax.

We also have a new deduction for interest paid on made-in-America new  vehicles. You will be able to deduct the interest on that car payment.  That is going to yield thousands in potential savings for new car  owners.

It permanently extends the estate and lifetime gift tax exemption.  This is vitally important for people that own family farms, that have  generational small businesses. What we have done for these family farms  and small businesses is move that estate or death tax exemption up to  $15 million per individual.

So for a couple that owns a family farm and they want to pass that  on, that would be up to a $30 million exemption.

It also provides a significant increase to the basic standard  deduction and permanently extends the first Trump administration tax  cuts for businesses, bonus depreciation, interest expensing, and  research and development. These are so important because your mom-and- pop shops that are on Main Street, your small business factories that  are in every town across this country--certainly, we have many of them  in Tennessee.

Families want to consider these businesses, but so often they have  had to sell the business or sell the farm to pay taxes. So often, they  end up losing money because interest expensing or bonus depreciation  was not permanent or was not there at all.

We are looking, this year, at families seeing an average of $2,600 as  a savings on their taxes, and, after they reset their deductions,  seeing a take-home pay increase of about $10,000 for the year.

Our working families tax cuts are strengthening the buying power of  our families. It is strengthening the growth opportunities for our  businesses and our communities in Tennessee and across the country.

And I think it is important to note that I have laid out all of these  things that the American people benefit from. But I would remind the  Chamber: Not one single Democrat voted for any of this--not one.

So I think that is what our colleagues across the aisle will see. As  our senior citizens realize they have got a  $6,000 bonus deduction, they are going to ask them: Why did you vote  against this?

They are going to ask them: Why did you vote against no tax on tips?  Why have you voted for higher taxes? Why did you want a $4 trillion tax  hike?

Those are the questions that the citizens are beginning to ask, and I  know that, as they learn more about what was included in the working  families tax cuts--the Big Beautiful Bill--they are going to have more  questions for our colleagues who were against leaving more money in the  pocket of our citizens.