Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam President, before I begin, I really want to  take a moment to thank our friend and Majority Leader McConnell for the  manner in which he has worked to make this trial run so smoothly. I  also thank our colleagues for their perseverance and, of course, the  staff that has worked so diligently and has been so patient as we have  worked through this process. 

  The impeachment trial of President Donald J. Trump was a moment in  history that should have been shrouded in the gravity of its potential  consequences. Instead, day by day, we endured hyperbole in its most  unserious form. 

  It is easy to forget that America's appetite for scandal fades  quickly once you exit the beltway around Washington, DC, but I  encourage my colleagues to recognize that the enthusiasm with which the  House managers have sought President Trump's removal is completely and  inarguably divorced from reality in the heartland. 

  As it appeared to my fellow Tennesseans, the intentional mishandling  of the House of Representatives' constitutional duty was nothing more  than an attempt to prelitigate the 2020 election. That is correct--to  prelitigate the 2020 election and to remove President Trump from office  and thereby remove him from the ballot. 

  Our partisan friends had decided on the outcome that was necessary  for them. They just needed to find a path that was going to get them  there. So they had their outcome. They needed a path. 

  We saw House Democrats freeze out the President's counsel, refusing  them an opportunity to fairly participate in the House Intelligence  Committee's investigation. 

  House Manager Schiff created the supposed conversations he falsely  attributed to the President and waited to see if his assertions would  be questioned or if they were going to be accepted as fact. 

  Let me tell you something. I am a mom and I am a grandmother. I will  tell you this. I don't think there is any mother on Earth who would  stand for it if her child did such a thing to a coach or a teacher or a  Scout leader or a minister. They would not stand for it, and yet the  Senate was expected to indulge this unseemly behavior. This is  something that is appropriate that we question. 

  The House managers relied heavily on the assertions of a  whistleblower but refused to reveal anything about the circumstances  that led to the whistleblower's report. So here we are at the end of  the trial. Do we know if the whistleblower is a person or if it is a  group of people? Does the report represent a consensus of ideas or just  biased opinion? Was it prepared by an individual or prepared by a  committee? 

  No one can answer that question except House Manager Schiff and his  staff from the House Intel Committee, but that is not something they  wanted to come down and talk about. 

  When it became clear that the White House would push back on witness  subpoenas seeking testimony protected by executive privilege, House  Democrats chose to move on rather than fight as  hard as they could for their case. They looked at those subpoenas,  thought about the evidence that might come from them, and decided: not  worth the trouble. Instead, they tried to rely on the pandemonium  created by a historic moment to convince their colleagues and the  American people that justice demanded a do-over--a do-over for the  House impeachment. 

  When that strategy failed, they blamed the Members of the U.S. Senate  for our unwillingness to go in and clean up their mess. This wasn't a  pressure tactic; it was a manipulation tactic aimed right at the hearts  of the American people. 

  Unfortunately for the House managers, the people see with dazzling  clarity what has transpired within the four walls of this Chamber. The  House managers have asked us to go on the record and rubberstamp  history's first--history's first--impeachment inquiry to be filed  solely on the basis of partisan politics--first one. They have asked us  to ignore how quickly they moved to impeach President Trump and to not  compare their timeline to the timelines from the Nixon or the Clinton  impeachment. 

  Colleagues, I did my constitutional due diligence. I have read the  House managers' brief and those reports prepared by the House  Republicans and the President's counsel. I saw it all in black and  white, and it was my due diligence that has led me to support  acquittal. 

  Now, when I was serving in the House, there were times when I became  frustrated with President Bush or, then, with President Obama. And when  we, as Members of the House, at that point in time were faced with  President Obama's apology tour, his senseless pursuit of government-run  healthcare, and his involvement in the Fast and Furious scandal or the  DACA executive memo, my colleagues and I discussed the possibilities of  impeachment: What are we going to do about this? We looked at all the  facts, and ultimately we chose a different path, a different path that  respected the American people. We litigated our policy differences in  the courts, where those battles belong. 

  So, Madam President, I ask my colleagues that, when the time comes,  they exercise the same restraint. I implore every Member of this body  to recognize the supremacy of the Constitution over partisan spin. Vote  to acquit. Vote to reject the two Articles of Impeachment. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT