McSally & Blackburn to Introduce the Stop COVID Act to Hold China Accountable for the Spread of the Coronavirus


Senators Martha McSally (R-AZ) and Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) will introduce the Stop China-Originated Viral Infectious Diseases (COVID) Act to ensure the Chinese Communist Party faces consequences for its role in spreading the coronavirus. The Stop COVID Act will empower Americans to sue China in U.S. court and seek compensation for the devastating harm the deadly virus has caused to the economy and human life.  

"The Chinese government must be held accountable for the pain it's inflicted across the United States," Senator McSally said. "Our legislation to allow Americans to file lawsuits against the Chinese Communist Party for its role in perpetuating the global spread of the coronavirus will give the U.S. a piece of justice."

"China's Communist Party must face consequences for its role in the origin and spread of the coronavirus," said Senator Blackburn. "The costs are devastating: trillions of dollars in economic damage, more than 22 million American jobs lost, and over 150,000 deaths worldwide and counting. Business owners and families who have lost loved ones deserve justice. Under this legislation, Americans will have the opportunity to take China to court in the U.S. and demand accountability for their lies and deceit."

Rep. Lance Gooden (TX-05) is leading companion legislation in the House of Representatives.  

"Right now, the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act is a shield for the Chinese Communist Party to hide behind. We need to change that," said Rep. Gooden. "The leadership of Senators Blackburn and McSally will be invaluable in our effort to do just that."

The Stop COVID Act will make China legally and financially liable for unleashing the COVID-19 infection on our country. Americans will have the legal tools to sue China in the U.S. federal court system for creating and worsening this worldwide pandemic. The legislation builds on existing law in the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act and eliminates sovereign immunity for states that spread biological agents. As the coronavirus death toll and financial losses mount, China should be forced to pay the costs of these damages to the American people.