Memorial Day


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, last week, I received the very sad  news that the 5th Special Forces Group, which is stationed at Fort  Campbell, which is in Tennessee, was going to have to forgo and cancel  their annual Memorial Day Gold Star Ceremony. This is a tradition at  the post. It is something that is so special to those Gold Star  families, and we are disappointed with that but understand. 

  I have really been pleased that today Senator Ernst has organized a  time for us to come to the floor to really come together to honor not  only our fallen but also their loved ones, who have had to spend this  year's remembrance separated from other Gold Star families, and we know  that is a time they cherish, having that togetherness. 

  Although the formal ceremonies are canceled, please note that each of  these families is in our prayers, they are in our thoughts, and that we  grieve alongside them. 

  This Memorial Day, reflections are framed by a world that has really  been made much smaller by our shared experiences with COVID-19. Even  so, the state of our world makes the battlefields we send our soldiers  and sailors and airmen and marines to seem very far away because in  their world, authoritarian regimes rule with an iron fist, and they  violate human rights with impunity. Violence often replaces diplomacy  as the preferred method of dispute resolution and freedom, when it is  discussed at all. Many times, it feels like an impossibility. This is  what they deal with on a daily basis. 

  The danger this creates is no secret to anyone. Like the rest of us,  our soldiers read the news reports from the frontlines. They hear the  enemy propaganda. They hear those who repeat the enemy propaganda. Many  of them have experienced the ferocity of the enemy attacks against our  forces and against our allies. They know what they are up against. They  see it and they live it each and every day. Yet, in spite of the  danger, they answer the call because they have something inside them  that says that freedom is worth fighting for. It is their commitment to  that cause of liberty to allow us to live in a free and open society,  to allow us and our children to pursue those dreams, to dream those big  dreams and to make them come true. 

  Whether we lost loved ones and friends on the battlefield or, later,  lost them to the trauma of combat and loss, this weekend, we thank them  for their sacrifice, we honor their memory, and we express our  gratitude to their families, who this year will have to celebrate as a  family and not with others. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT