Nomination of Whitney D. Hermandorfer


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693465/nomination-of-whitney-d-hermandorfer


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam President, this is such a significant day. In  just a few minutes, this Chamber will vote to confirm Ms. Whitney  Hermandorfer to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth  Circuit.

She is the very first judicial nomination of President Trump's second  term, and there is a good reason that the President selected Ms.  Hermandorfer for the circuit court.

There is no one more qualified to take on this important role as an  appellate judge for our great Nation.

Now, a little bit about her background. She is a Tennessee native.  She attended Nashville's Harpeth Hall School, and she was an  outstanding athlete and an outstanding student at the Harpeth Hall  School, which, as an educational institution, has a really long history  of producing and graduating remarkable women. And Ms. Hermandorfer is  one of those.

She graduated magna cum laude from Princeton, and she was first in  her law school class at GWU.

And it will not surprise my colleagues to learn that Ms.  Hermandorfer's career has been a stellar career. After graduating from  law school, she was an associate at Williams & Connolly, where her  practice focused on appellate litigation and regulatory and  administrative law.

She also clerked for four Federal judges, including three Supreme  Court Justices: Justice Alito, Justice Barrett, and then Judge  Kavanaugh when he was on the DC Circuit. Since 2003, she has served as  director of the strategic litigation unit in the Office of Tennessee  Attorney General Jonathan Skrmetti.

In that role, she has not only been an aggressive attorney, she has  led a team of talented attorneys in the AG's office, fighting to  protect the constitutional rights of Tennesseans. There is no doubt  that she will serve our Nation admirably on the Sixth Circuit. She will  be a tireless advocate for our Constitution.

She will show respect for the rule of law. She will show respect for  the Constitution as it is written. She will not  be a judge who will try to rewrite it. She is eminently qualified to  serve, and I urge all my colleagues to vote to confirm her nomination.