Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Internal Revenue Service Relating to ``Gross Proceeds Reporting By Brokers That Regularly Provide Services Effectuating Digital Asset Sales''--


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688449/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-internal-revenue-service-relating-to-gross-proceeds-reporting-by-brokers-that-regularly-provide-services-effectuating-digital-asset-sales


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, last November, the American people  returned President Donald Trump to the Oval Office with a mandate to  restore common sense in government, and in many ways, this common sense  was most needed on the issue of protecting women and girls.

After 4 years where President Biden waged a war on women's sports,  the message from voters was clear: no more biological men competing in  women's athletics, no more stolen records and medals, and no more  invasions of privacy, humiliation, and harm for our Nation's incredible  female athletes.

To be certain, President Trump has delivered on the mandate. On  Inauguration Day, the President issued an Executive order that affirms  the Federal Government's position that there are only two sexes, male  and female.

This is a position grounded in biological reality, not gender  ideology. Last month, the President also signed an Executive order that  bans biological males from competing in women's sports.

It was an honor to join President Trump at the signing ceremony along  with the brave young women and girls who have spoken out for fairness,  safety, equal opportunity, including one of those female athletes,  Tennessee's Riley Gaines.

The terms of the order are simple: If you allow men to compete in  women's athletics, you will lose your Federal funding.

To no one's surprise, the order is getting results. Right after  President Trump signed it, the NCAA, which oversees more than 530,000  student athletes, announced that it would comply with the order.

For more than a decade, the Nation's largest athletic association  allowed men to compete in women's events. It will be a top priority of  mine to ensure that this injustice never happens again and that the  NCAA will fully adhere to the Executive order.

While the vast majority of States are complying, there are some  States, blue States like California and Maine, that are vowing to fight  President Trump over the order.

The message they are sending is clear: Democrats are willing to risk  millions in Federal funding for schools to uphold their radical, far- left ideology that claims there are no differences between men and  women.

The American people know better, and so do the more than 3 million  female high school and college athletes who deserve every single  opportunity to succeed. They work hard; they train hard; they set their  goals; they compete; and they work to succeed.

To celebrate all of these incredible accomplishments from these 3  million high school and college athletes, I am asking for unanimous  consent for my resolution to establish October 10--the 10th month, 10th  day--recognized by the Roman numerals XX, like the female sex  chromosome, as American Girls in Sports Day, setting aside a day to  recognize the accomplishments of 3 million high school and college  female athletes.

In addition to celebrating female athletes, this resolution calls on  sports governing bodies across the country to protect women and girls  in sports. There is absolutely zero reason for Senate Democrats to  oppose this resolution, and here is the reason why: We have a New York  Times Ipsos poll that tells the story on this. Seventy-nine percent of  the American people, including 67 percent of Democrats, want to make  certain that female sports are for girls and women. Those numbers--67  percent of Democrats, 79 percent of all Americans--say they are with  us.

They want to protect women and girls in sports. They want to make  certain that they have the right to compete, the right to train, the  right to do team building, and the right to succeed and be recognized  for it.

Res. 21; further, that  the resolution be agreed to; the preamble be agreed to; and that the  motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.

Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I find my colleague's comments so very  interesting, and I think it would have served him well to actually read  the resolution. So I am going to read part of it so that my colleagues  know what this does because it does talk about celebrating these  athletes.

Here you go:

Whereas athletic participation has an important, positive       impact on young girls, improving their physical health, self-      confidence, and discipline;

Whereas women have been responsible for some of the       greatest athletic feats in the sports history of the United       States, from the Olympic games to professional competition;

He wanted to make certain that some of these greats like Pat Summitt  and our Lady Vols are recognized. Absolutely. That is what we are  doing:

Whereas female athletes have served as inspirations for       generations of women and girls;

And then we talk about title IX. We talk about:

Whereas there are fundamental biological differences       between men and women that put women at a competitive       disadvantage in sports and jeopardize their safety during       competition;

And 79 percent of the American people agree with this.

Then we go through:

Whereas, since 2003, biological men have displaced women       and girls from 950 championship titles, medals, scholarships,       and records they should have rightly won, including at least       28 women's sports titles in volleyball, swimming, mountain       biking, track and field, weightlifting, and cycling.

We look at the policies that have been enacted to protect women and  the imperative to make certain they are athletically protected and then  setting up October 10 as the day that would be American Girls in Sports  Day and continuing to recognize that year after year.

Now, my colleague from Connecticut probably knows that this issue of  protecting women and girls in sports is very, very popular in  Connecticut. One of Connecticut's biggest track stars is a Conrad High  School senior there, a male-to-female athlete who holds the State's top  2023-2024 rankings in the girls outdoor high jump, long jump, and  triple jump according to athletic.net.

Then you look at--there are two individuals, two boys who identify as  female, they competed on a Connecticut high school track team from 2017  to 2020, and there were--and I want to be sure we look at what this  does to girls who are trying to compete. This is why this issue is so  popular.

Here are the stats. There were 93 times when a girl was denied an  individual or relay championship because of these two male athletes who  were competing as females--93 times. A girl who had trained, who had  worked out, who sought to win, to represent her team--they were denied  because two boys were competing as females. Ninety-three times.

There were 52 times when a girl was denied the advancement to a  championship meet. Now, think about that. We all have children. We know  the heartbreak when someone has trained and trained and trained, not  just for days or weeks or months but for years, and they are denied the  ability to move forward because there is a boy competing in a female  category.

There were 39 times when a girl was denied an opportunity to advance  to finals, 17 times when a girl was denied an All-New England honor, 11  times when a girl lost a meet record, and 23 girls--23--were denied a  Connecticut State Open team championship.

In other words, allowing these two boys to compete as females and  compete against girls denied girls opportunities and awards 235 times.  That is one State.

So I would remind my colleagues they are on the wrong side of this  issue. Seventy-nine percent of the American people say it is wrong for  men to compete in women's athletics. Sixty-seven percent of Democrats  say it is wrong to have men compete in women's athletics.

It is lost opportunity. It is lost recognition. It is lost success  for women.

What ever happened to people on the left that supported women's  rights, women's safety, supported title IX? Obviously, they have thrown  it to the wayside.