Scarper Ridge Golden Gate National Recreation Area Boundary Adjustment Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701294/scarper-ridge-golden-gate-national-recreation-area-boundary-adjustment-act


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam President, I so appreciate our colleague from  West Virginia and his commitment to our Nation's veterans and today, on  Medal of Honor Day, that he was taking the time to recognize them. We  are grateful for that and grateful for their service and their  sacrifice, and know that we are able to continue the work we do for our  great Nation because of the service that they have rendered to our  Nation.                       Department of Homeland Security

Madam President, on Monday, I had the honor of joining President  Trump in Memphis. This was his first visit to our great State after  launching the Memphis Safe Task Force, last year.

And we were so thrilled with this. The task force has been working in  Memphis for the last 6 months. And as we put that task force into  place, what we saw is a city that has really transformed for the  better.

Now, the reason the task force came to be is because Memphis, TN, in  2024 had the highest per capita crime rate of any city in this country.  There were over 100 gangs that were there, vehicle thefts, carjackings,  cargo theft. The list went on and on--aggravated assault, violent  crime, murder.

What we saw was a rising crime rate, and regardless of how much  energy local law enforcement put into this, apprehending criminals,  there was a Soros-backed DA. It was a revolving door, and nothing  seemed to get better.

Well, as Kash Patel and AG Bondi came before me before their  Judiciary Committee hearings, I presented each of them with a crime  stat sheet. These were the crime stats of Memphis.

I asked for their help. They committed for their help. At their  hearings, they publicly committed for that help. And last summer, we  started Operation Viper, and then, what we saw was a success. And  because of that Operation Viper success with the FBI working with local  police, then, last September, we started the Memphis Safe Task Force.

It is local, State, and Federal elected officials working with local,  State, and Federal agencies, all working together: the mayor of  Memphis; Chief Davis, the chief of police; our National Guard;  Tennessee Highway Patrol; Tennessee Bureau of Investigations; 30  Federal  Agencies; our U.S. marshal; our U.S. attorney. And, yes, a difference  is being made.

Residents had talked a lot about Memphis in 2024. They honestly could  not walk outside their houses. Kids could not play outside. They were  concerned about being robbed, assaulted, murdered, and seeing criminal  gangs turn their community into a war zone.

Now, the fact that we have had such success in Memphis in dropping  that crime rate by nearly 50 percent--50 percent--we are the example,  the model, of how you can get in behind this and change what is  happening with crime.

Some of the stats are that we have seen a 40-percent drop in sexual  assault in Memphis, a 56-percent drop in robbery, a 68-percent drop in  motor vehicle theft, a 36-percent drop in murder.

That is what happens when your mayor, your police chief, and your  agencies are working in partnership getting criminals off the streets.

Now, since September, these combined agencies have made over 9,000  arrests, and more than 3,300 of those were for violent criminals,  violent offenders.

Among them are hundreds of warrant arrests for domestic violence,  aggravated assault, weapons crimes, as well as dozens more for sexual  assault and homicide. These criminals are among the worst of the worst.

In late February, in 1 day, the authorities arrested a 26-year-old  woman wanted for killing a 2-year-old baby. You know, that is pretty  hard to hear. The Presiding Officer and I are grandmamas. We love these  little ones. Hard to fathom somebody would kill a 2-year-old. This is  the type criminal they have taken off the streets. They also arrested a  23-year-old man facing charges of first-degree murder, aggravated  robbery, aggravated assault, and reckless endangerment with a deadly  weapon and a 24-year-old man wanted for drug distribution and  possession of prohibited firearms.

Members of the task force are working every single day to apprehend  these individuals, and while they are apprehending them, they have  recovered more than 2,200 illegal firearms, 1,200 stolen vehicles,  and--get this--they have rescued more than 150 missing children.

You know, in the Biden administration, they lost track of about 500  children. Everyone said: Well, where are these children? What could  have happened?

Because of the good work of these Federal, State, and local agencies  and law enforcement, yes, indeed, 150 missing children.

This operation has been so successful in Memphis. It really ought not  to surprise anyone in this Chamber. Sixty-two percent of Memphis  citizens say the initiative has been effective at reducing crime, and  86 percent support hiring more police officers.

Imagine that. Everybody working together regardless of your political  party, regardless of whether you are State, local, Federal. You have 86  percent of the population of the city saying: Let's do more of this.

Seventy-seven percent say: Let's build a new jail so we can keep  these criminals off the street.

I am incredibly optimistic about the future of Memphis.

I am so grateful to President Trump, Director Patel, AG Bondi, and  Secretary Hegseth, along with all the other Federal Agencies, for their  commitment.                       Department of Homeland Security

Madam President, you know, as we have heard on the floor today, it is  the 40th day of the Democrats' shutdown of the Department of Homeland  Security.

This is already one of the longest shutdowns in our Nation's history,  and what we know is that our DHS employees have gone 46 percent of this  fiscal year without a paycheck. This is something that is immoral.

Our colleagues across the aisle have voted not once or twice but  seven times not to fund our DHS employees. So I think that it is  incredible that they are doing this because they have two goals, and we  know these are their goals because they have been on TV talking about  this. They have talked to their base about these goals.

Goal No. 1, abolish ICE. They are all about it. They want to abolish  ICE.

Goal No. 2, they want to defund law enforcement. Now, they have been  on this for years. They had told their base that they were going to  find a way to do this, so they think that not paying TSA workers is a  way to do this. They think that not paying DHS employees is a way to  get to their goal.

Well, they are sadly mistaken, and the American people are figuring  this out, that what they are doing in order to punish ICE for upholding  the rule of law and removing violent criminals from communities--that  it is OK to make people hurt, to make people suffer. I think that it is  so immoral, what they are doing.

Now, of course, they are fully aware that ICE is funded through 2029.  If they had read the Working Families Tax Cut, the Big Beautiful Bill,  they would be aware of this. But, no, they didn't take the time to read  the good things that were in that bill because they had made their  minds up. They were going to vote no. Regardless of what happened, they  were going to vote no.

So they think it is OK to punish Secret Service agents, TSA officers,  coastguardsmen, our cyber security professionals, and our homeland  security investigators so that they can try to abolish ICE.

Now, President Trump is doing everything he can to alleviate the pain  the Democrats are causing. You see Republicans have made concessions.

It was: We want a change of leadership at DHS.

Well, that change has taken place.

We want to end the Minnesota surge with ICE.

That has ended.

We want to end roving patrols.

That has been done.

We want to change policies around protesters. We want to change  policies at detention facilities.

All of that has been done.

Body cameras--that has been done.

What they continue to do is move the goalposts. Nothing is ever good  enough because the only thing they want--abolish ICE and defund law  enforcement.

So regardless of what we bring forward, regardless of what is  offered, they have decided they are a big, fat, whopping no.

They do not give a ripping flip what happens to TSA agents and their  families--people that are sleeping in cars, people that can't pay their  mortgage, people that can't pay for childcare, people that are not able  to go to work because of this. They are not concerned about the 450  agents that have already turned in their badges and said: We can't hack  this. We have to have a job where we are paid every time we go to work  for every hour we work rather than being paid 46 percent of the time.

I think it is so important that we realize they are standing up for  illegal aliens. You know, they are standing up for criminals like Jose  Medina-Medina, who was charged last week with shooting and killing  Sheridan Gorman, an 18-year-old college student at Loyola University in  Chicago who was out walking with her friends.

There was a Chicago alderman who said: This was a kid in the wrong  place at the wrong time.

How totally insensitive and disgusting can that be. I will tell you  who was in the wrong place--it was an illegal alien who had a rap  sheet, who came here under the Biden administration. He goes out and is  charged with theft within a couple of weeks of being here, and the  revolving door starts for him.

I think you have to look at this--somebody that is a repeat offender.  They have no right to be here. And that guy, that alleged killer from  Venezuela, should never have been anywhere near that young woman.

I think it is also important that we look at the fact that there is  new leadership at DHS.

Our colleagues should be willing to fund DHS and stop repeatedly  voting to shut the thing down and support the rule of law in this  country.