Securing America's Medicine Cabinet


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, we are continuing to roll out our  response to the coronavirus and to this pandemic, and I want to  encourage my colleagues to begin to think about how we move past this  immediate crisis that we are in and begin to look toward what is going  to happen in the future with our supply chains and our healthcare  delivery systems. 

  As we talk about the problems that are before us today, let us not  forget that 3 months from now, 6 months from now, a year from now, we  need to be looking at today and say: Here were the lessons learned, and  these are the steps that we have taken to make certain that it doesn't  happen again. 

  What we have learned and what many Americans know is something that  some of us started working on a couple of years back. It was looking at  the fact that Americans and American drug manufacturers rely heavily on  Chinese companies to produce active pharmaceutical ingredients, or  APIs, as they are called. We also know that bad actors in China are  poised to use that vulnerability as leverage and to use it as a way to  disrupt and interrupt the supply chain of those active pharmaceutical  ingredients coming into our country. 

  This is an issue that we cannot wait to address. This is something we  need to do right now. That is why my colleague from New Jersey, Senator  Menendez, and I introduced the Securing America's Medicine Cabinet Act,  or the SAM-C Act, as a way to encourage and increase American  manufacturing of these active pharmaceutical ingredients. 

  Here is what it would do. It would expand upon the Emerging  Technology Program, which is housed within the FDA, to prioritize  issues related to national security and critical drug shortages and  bring that pharmaceutical manufacturing out of China and back into the  United States, not in 5 years or 10 years but now. It is something that  we need to do right now. 

  In addition, the SAM-C Act authorizes $100 million to develop centers  of excellence for advanced pharmaceutical manufacturing in order to  develop these innovations. These centers will be partnerships between  institutes of learning and the private sector. Certainly, we have  talked a lot about public-private partnerships and the necessity of  them to move us through this crisis, and we have cheered as the  President has brought private sector companies into the White House to  work with him on addressing these issues. 

  One thing we have to realize--and why this is important that we do it  now--is that the number of API manufacturing facilities in China is  still growing. China has found a vulnerability in our system, and it is  continuing to exploit that vulnerability. Although we don't yet know  down to the precise percentage how dependent we are on these Chinese  APIs, we do know that the more Chinese products that flow into the  United States, the more potential there is for trouble and the more  vulnerable our supply chain is. 

  The bottom line is that, if we continue to rely on the Chinese to  stay healthy, we will be doing so at our own peril. So I am asking my  colleagues to join Senator Menendez and me and support this legislation  as a part of these coronavirus response efforts that we are making. 

  The spread of the Chinese coronavirus has put considerable strains on  our healthcare delivery system. Primary care physicians are overbooked,  and potential patients are afraid of going to clinics at all for fear  of putting an elderly or a vulnerable person at risk. I am in daily  contact with physicians' offices and nurses' practices. I am hearing  from those who care for the elderly and from caregivers for those who  have complex medical conditions, and this is a primary concern. For  that reason, conversations here on Capitol Hill have turned toward  boosting telehealth services in order to free up in-person appointments  for those who need them the most. 

  I am so grateful that the Vice President and the coronavirus task  force have made this a priority. We appreciate that. The coverage of  these efforts has made telemedicine feel, to many, like a new concept,  but thank goodness we started building the foundation to support  healthcare technology years before COVID-19 spread beyond China's  borders. 

  As just a little bit of history, back in 2015, when I was over in the  House, I introduced the SOFTWARE Act, which was to eliminate redtape  that was preventing innovation in healthcare delivery. The bill ended  up being rolled into a piece of legislation called the 21st Century  Cures Act, which we passed through the House in late 2015. In 2016, it  cleared the Senate. 

  The SOFTWARE Act directs the FDA to come up with a more efficient way  of approving healthcare software so it will not discourage innovation  because, at that point, that is what we were beginning to see. The  redtape would just pile up on the new concepts in delivery, and by the  time one would get approved, a new generation of technology would begin  to emerge. 

  SOFTWARE's provisions made it possible for regulators and the private  sector to bring us a lot of new innovations. We have Teladoc, Noom,  Fitbit, and hundreds of other healthcare applications that we carry on  our mobile devices. We have also seen many hospitals conduct post- operation care to patients once they go home. They are entering their  data on iPads that are specific to their surgeries, and those  physicians are monitoring their care and recoveries. This push for  responsible tech policy has gone hand in hand with efforts to bring  broadband to rural and unserved areas.  

  Last year, I introduced the Internet Exchange Act, which enables  these communities to support the high-speed internet connections that  the telehealth software requires. Now, we all know that you cannot have  access to 21st century healthcare or emergency response without having  access to high-speed internet. These concepts go hand in hand. At a  time when we are facing a global pandemic and the impact that this has  on our country and our citizens, we know everyone needs that access and  should be able to go in and access this care. 

  Last year, as part of a rural health agenda that my team and I  developed in working with our State and local electeds, I introduced  the Telehealth Across State Lines Act so that we could bring healthcare  to the patient rather than always taking the patient to the healthcare.  I am so appreciative that Administrator Verma, of CMS, is paying close  attention to this and is working carefully to relax some of the rules 

  Telehealth Across State Lines would lead to the creation of uniform  national best practices for the provision of telemedicine across State  lines. Second, it would set up a grant program to expand existing  telehealth programs and incentivize the adoption of telehealth by  Medicare and Medicaid--two things that are needed. 

  We have seen these gaps in access to care. This is one way we can  make certain that everyone, during these times of a pandemic, has  access to care. Anyone who has ever videoconferenced into a meeting-- and I will tell you that my staff has been doing that with employers  and with organizations and with citizens around our State--knows this  is a game-changer during a time when people are not able to go in for  meetings. 

  My support for telemedicine has been grounded in more than just  convenience. The forethought behind this push for telemedicine was to  ask: How do we make it more accessible? How do we make certain the care  you are able to receive does not depend on the ZIP Code in which you  live? Right now, as we are talking about testing and communicating with  doctors and being curious as to if we have symptoms and how to treat  symptoms, accessibility is so important. 

  What we have learned from the dangers posed by fears of the Wuhan,  China, coronavirus and the spreading of this virus is that it has made  us realize that, actually, telemedicine and access to telemedicine  makes accessing healthcare safer in so many instances--for the elderly,  for those who are homebound, for those with complex medical situations. 

  My colleagues will recall, during the first meeting that our  conference had with the administration regarding the coronavirus  response, I specifically asked officials with the Centers for Medicare  and Medicaid Services to push for the temporary relief of section No.  1135 regulations, which would prevent patients from taking advantage of  telehealth services. Aren't we grateful that this has been lifted? I  thank President Trump for green-lighting that. It is what you call a  win for consumers who have a difficult time in getting to physicians'  offices. 

  It is time for Medicaid and private health insurers to get on board  and cover these telehealth services. For our private insurers, it will  make it easier for those who are covered under their insurance plans to  get to the care they need in a timely manner. For our State Medicaid  officials, this will involve rethinking some of their licensures and  other procedures. For insurance companies, it will involve making  complex but responsible business decisions. 

  Let's remember we are all in this fight together against the  coronavirus. We are in this fight together. It is up to us to find  solutions as to how Americans are going to be able to access the care  they need when they need it. We need to address these things  immediately because this is no longer our just talking about  convenience or our being able to call in to a meeting. The coronavirus  has evolved into a global threat. Technology that can spare people from  the risk of exposure should not be seen as a luxury or only available  to a few. We have the tools we need to suppress the transmission of  COVID-19 in the United States, and we have a plan to secure our  pharmaceutical and our healthcare supply chains. 

  It is time to get it done. We are the United States of America. We  can come together and respond to this attack by this virus. We can  defeat it, and we can make certain there is a way to provide access to  healthcare for all Americans regardless of the ZIP Codes in which they  live. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT