Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, yesterday did indeed mark the 100th  day of President Trump's second term, and I think, if you were to pick  four words that really describe his first 100 days, it would be  promises were made, and promises are being kept. That is precisely what  he has done.

If you want to go through some of these, let's start at the southern  border.

Under President Biden, criminals, terrorists, and traffickers were  flowing across that border, but because President Trump on day one took  Executive action to secure that border, illegal crossings are at their  lowest level in decades. This is something the American people wanted  to see done.

In March, those crossings were down 95 percent from the last  administration. I understand that this past weekend, they had the  lowest number ever--a 99-percent reduction. They had three people who  were apprehended.

When you look at deportations, the Trump administration has already  removed more than 100,000 criminal illegal aliens. This number has  included suspected terrorists, members of violent gangs like MS-13 and  Tren de Aragua, and we know that more of those deportations are going  to take place.

President Trump is fulfilling the promise he made to make this Nation  safe again, to make our communities safe again, and to get these  violent gangs and criminals off our streets.

Now, even though these efforts have been very successful and are  widely supported by the American people, we have seen some powerful  institutions in our country try to block the will of the people and  what they wanted to see done. This includes some of our Nation's social  media companies. According to reports, Facebook is allowing a black  market to thrive on its platform where illegal aliens can buy ride  share and delivery driver accounts from credentialed users. In effect,  what this black market does is help illegals avoid background checks  and be able to work in our country illegally using someone else's name  and credentials.

This is not something that is a new problem. Last year, I led a probe  into the account security of food delivery services after we had  received reports that showed illegal aliens were buying access to the  accounts of legitimate users. Thankfully, companies like Uber Eats,  DoorDash, and Grubhub implemented stronger driver verification  processes after we began this investigation, but Facebook's black  market really helps illegals to bypass those protections.

There is one Facebook group that has been out there, and here is the  name of it: ``UBER ACCOUNT FOR RENT WORLDWIDE.'' This account tallied  22,000 members who bought and sold delivery credentials.

While the social media platform has taken that specific group down,  what we did find is there are now 80 similar groups that are active on  Facebook.

This black market not only runs afoul of the law, but it also poses a  serious public safety threat, especially for women, children, and the  elderly. Just in February--and this is a case in point--there was a  lady in Massachusetts. She was allegedly raped after ordering an Uber  Eats delivery to her home. The app indicated that a woman would be  delivering her order. Instead, an illegal alien with horrific  intentions is who showed up on her doorstep.

Last week, I sent a letter to Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg, demanding  answers about what his company is doing to eliminate this black market  from Facebook. He has until May 6 to respond to the questions.

I will continue to press this issue of accountability and public  safety with the big tech giants.

While President Trump has worked to secure our border and our  communities, he has also focused on making our economy stronger than  ever before. In the last 100 days, he has slashed Democrats' far-left  regulations, has unleashed American energy production, and has secured  trillions of dollars in investment to support American workers and  industry.

Now, in Tennessee, we have seen some of the benefits of that, and we  have seen millions of dollars in investments. The candy company Charms  is investing nearly $100 million to expand its production plant and  distribution center in Covington, TN. Mount Juliet was included in a  $700 million nationwide investment by Schneider Electric to boost  domestic manufacturing and energy infrastructure. Electronics company  ABB is investing $80 million in Selmer, TN, to expand manufacturing and  to create new jobs.

Later today, I am going to be joining President Trump at the White  House as he welcomes many CEOs of these companies that are making these  investments in our Nation.

As the President works to usher in a new golden age, we are already  seeing incredible results.

In March, our economy added 228,000 jobs, beating expectations by  almost 100,000 jobs.

That same month, falling energy costs pushed inflation down to 2.4  percent. That is tied with the lowest inflation rate since February  2021. That was 1 month after President Biden took office and ushered in  the worst inflation crisis since the 1970s.

President Trump and my Republican colleagues believe that Americans  should have more money in their pocketbooks, not less, which is why we  are working to extend the President's 2017 tax cuts. These tax cuts  delivered historic growth for the economy, and if we fail to extend  them, families and businesses will face the largest tax hike in  history. It would be a $4 trillion tax hike.

That is why, earlier this month, Republicans in Congress passed a  budget resolution that will enable us to extend these expiring cuts. At  the same time, we are advancing other tax priorities that are  championed by the President, including his proposal to cut taxes on  Social Security.

By taxing Social Security, the Federal Government is taxing a tax. It  makes no sense. Social Security recipients have paid into this program  for decades. They deserve the full sum of their Social Security income.  However, nearly 66 percent of retirees are paying taxes on their Social  Security benefits because Bidenflation pushed seniors' benefits into  higher income brackets.

To address this, I have introduced the RETIREES First Act. It would  lower the tax burden on Social Security benefits for seniors by raising  the provisional income threshold from $25,000 to $34,000 for single  filers and from $32,000 to $68,000 for married filers.

In effect, this legislation would eliminate income taxes for many of  our Nation's retirees, leaving them with more money in their paychecks.

As we work on these tax provisions and more, I am looking forward to  working with President Trump to deliver relief for hard-working  Tennesseans and, indeed, all Americans.

We are the greatest Nation on Earth, and with strong leadership back  in the White House, we can get this Nation back on track.