Torres Leads Bipartisan, Bicameral Legislation for Advanced Manufacturing Jobs


Congresswoman Norma J. Torres (D-CA) was joined today by Congressman Phil Roe (R-TN), as well as Senators Jacky Rosen (D-NV) and Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) to introduce legislation promoting advanced manufacturing across the country.

 

The Advanced Manufacturing Jobs in America Act authorizes the Secretary of Labor to initiate pilot projects between advanced manufacturers and local community colleges, state colleges, and workforce investment boards.

 

The legislation, which was inspired by a program at Chaffey College, will help bridge the gap between current workforce skillsets and the growing needs of advanced manufacturing employers.

 

The lawmakers released the following statements:

 

"Advanced manufacturing jobs are an economic lifeblood to our community in the Inland Empire, and this legislation will connect eager workers with the skills they need for good paying jobs," Rep. Torres said. "This legislation is more than an effort to support the industries of tomorrow -- it's an effort by lawmakers of every political persuasion to work together to support the workers we serve. It is my hope that lawmakers from both parties and both chambers of Congress recognize the vital impact that the Advanced Manufacturing Jobs in America Act will have. These are the middle-class jobs we should all work to create and expand, and this is a bill that every lawmaker should want signed into law."

 

"Our nation's economic outlook relies on the success of our manufacturers. The number one concern I hear from employers in East Tennessee is the difficulty they have finding qualified employees to fill their needs. I am proud to work with Senators Rosen and Blackburn and Representative Torres in introducing the Advanced Manufacturing Jobs in America Act to ensure greater collaboration in our workforce development programs," said Congressman Phil Roe.

 

"Jobs in the field of advanced manufacturing are on the rise across the country, and Nevada is leading the way," Senator Rosen said. "However, despite the increase in job openings, advanced manufacturers have difficulty in filling these positions with qualified employees. This legislation would help to develop pilot programs that help to close the advanced manufacturing jobs gap through education and job training. I will continue working on commonsense legislation that works to benefit Nevada workers."

 

"Tennessee is blessed to have a robust economy and to be a leader in both jobs and wage growth," Senator Blackburn said. "As we prepare for the future, we know it is essential to continue to educate our workforce and prepare for not only the next year, but the next decade. The Advanced Manufacturing Jobs in America Act will assist our employers in increasing the number of advanced manufacturing training programs and encourage collaboration to grow our workforce."

 

The pilot projects created by the Advanced Manufacturing Jobs in America Act are intended to:

Strengthen the relationship between community colleges, MEP centers, and advanced manufacturers;Target skills development in communities with expected growth in advanced manufacturing;Educate individuals about opportunities for career advancement within advanced manufacturing;Lead to an industry-recognized credential; andPrioritize training and hiring of displaced and unemployed individuals. 

This legislation has been endorsed by the American Small Manufacturers Coalition, Nevada Industry Excellence, and the University of Tennessee Center for Industrial Services.