Trial of President Donald J. Trump


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, the impeachment trial of President  Trump has devolved into a parade of last-minute red herrings meant to  distract this body from the issue at hand. The near-hysteria over  books, boredom, and beef jerky has provided a convenient vehicle for  the House managers, who are trying their best to peddle outrage as  evidence. 

  We learned nothing new from the House managers' presentations, but  outside the Senate Chamber, they have been doing their best to convince  us that we are one ``bombshell'' away from, at last, having all the  elements needed for a speedy conviction. These efforts to keep  unfounded allegations in the limelight have not gone unnoticed by those  who should be commanding our attention: the American people. 

  Outside the beltway, Americans have grown weary of trials and talking  points. They have heard enough, and they have had enough. 

  Taking that feedback into consideration, I thought it might be  helpful to offer an update on what we could be focusing on instead of  this farcical partisan grudge match. 

  Behind the scenes, we are limping along as best we can, but our focus  is necessarily distracted from regular business. Before our time was  monopolized by impeachment, the Senate was making wonderful progress on  filling the Federal bench with well-qualified, constitutionalist  judges. 

  When we weren't interviewing those nominees, members of the Judiciary  Committee spent time hearing testimony on privacy, competition, and the  crisis on our southern border. 

  Before impeachment, Senators serving on the Veterans' Affairs  Committee were hard at work considering a comprehensive mental health  bill that would strengthen veteran mental health and suicide prevention  programs. My own IMPROVE Act is part of this effort. We were also  working on the IT Reform Act, which would improve information  technology projects at the VA, and the Network of Support Act, which  would help VA officials guide veterans through the emotional upheaval  of transitioning between Active Duty and civilian life. We were doing  all of this in addition to our continued oversight of the VA MISSION  Act, and check-ins on struggling clinics such as the one in  Murfreesboro, TN, which just reduced bed space for veterans struggling  with opiate addiction and thoughts of suicide. 

  This Thursday, we have an Armed Services Committee hearing on the  U.S.' role in AFRICOM. When I visited with our troops in Djibouti and  Somalia at the end of last year, I saw firsthand the importance of our  advisory support on the African continent. Drawing down resources or  personnel in AFRICOM would harm our position as we compete with Russia  and China--but we won't have much time to discuss this potentially  disastrous change. Every day, work grinds to a halt at 1:00 p.m., so  that we can sit in our seats in the Senate Chamber and focus on the  impeachment trial. 

  We could be paying attention to the full-blown health crisis plaguing  our rural communities. Since 2010, 118 rural hospitals have shut their  doors. Fourteen of those facilities were in my home State of Tennessee.  Between these hospital closures, and high drug prices, there is enough  work to be done in the health care sector alone to keep us busy through  Christmas. 

  Mister President, if Tennessee is a good test group for the rest of  the Nation--and it usually is--I can tell you that when asked to choose  between discussing impeachment politics and real world problems, the  American people are much more worried about trade, transportation, and  manufacturing, and how evolving policy initiatives will affect prices  at the grocery store. 

  I would encourage my colleagues to remember the cost of indulging  these proceedings and to listen to their constituents back home and not  the breathless coverage that dominates the 24 hour news cycle.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT