Fire Improvement and Reforming Exceptional Events Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701959/fire-improvement-and-reforming-exceptional-events-act


Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the  FIRE Act.

This bill ensures that actions taken to prevent wildfires, such as  prescribed burns, are not used to penalize a State when determining  nonattainment. Under the FIRE Act, States will no longer miss  nonattainment status solely for trying to reduce the impact of  wildfires through wildfire mitigation activities.

Nonattainment status has significant consequences. New or expanding  businesses in the State would face more restrictions, tougher  permitting, and expensive pollution control measures that would cause  economic development to move to States without nonattainment status.

Since EPA allowed prescribed burns to qualify for exceptional events,  only one prescribed fire has been granted an exceptional events  exemption. These concerns aren't hypothetical. They are measurable and  prevent States from engaging in wildfire mitigation.

This is the epitome of commonsense legislation. Why should American  businesses and workers be penalized for efforts to reduce air  pollution? Again, I ask you: Why should American businesses and workers  be penalized for efforts to reduce air pollution?

A recent study found that wildfires are reversing the progress made  in air quality by this country over the last 40 years. Prescribed burns  produce only a tenth of the PM 2.5 produced by wildfires.

Prescribed or controlled burns are our greatest and most effective  tool for preventing wildfires. By discouraging wildfire mitigation,  this outdated provision in the Clean Air Act undermines efforts to  improve air quality.

Hopefully, improving air quality and reducing the devastating impact  of wildfires is more important to the Members of this Chamber than  thwarting Congress' efforts to make necessary updates to outdated  provisions of the Clean Air Act.

Legislation like the FIRE Act and my bill, the CLEAR Act, will  modernize the Clean Air Act to work in the 21st century, protecting us  from pollution without strangling business development and job  creation.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend Representative Evans for introducing  this bill, and I urge its immediate adoption.