Fletc Celebrates 55 Year Anniversary


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693004/fletc-celebrates-55-year-anniversary


Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the  55th anniversary of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, FLETC.

On July 1, FLETC will celebrate this monumental milestone at their  headquarters in Brunswick, Georgia. FLETC's mission is to facilitate  the training of Federal, State, local, and Tribal law enforcement  officers, as well as international partners that are entrusted to  enforce the laws, treaties, and regulations within the United States  and abroad.

In the 1960s, studies revealed an urgent need for Federal law  enforcement training by professional instructors using modern  facilities and standardized course content.

For 55 years, FLETC has molded Federal law enforcement through high- quality, cost-effective, and standardized training programs.

Their programs have trained over 95 agencies and over 1 million  graduates for our country. The academy's professional instruction and  emphasis on practical applications provides students with the knowledge  and skills they need to succeed as Federal law enforcement officers.

Today, we celebrate FLETC's continued excellence and the achievements  of its graduates.

Congratulating U.S. Marshal David Lyons on His Retirement

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor U.S.  Marshal David Lyons from the Southern District of Georgia, who is  retiring this June.

Marshal Lyons previously served as chief of police in Garden City,  Georgia, a position he held for 16 years. While serving as Garden City  police chief, Marshal Lyons was appointed to the Criminal Justice  Coordinating Council and was elected to the Executive Board of the  Georgia Association of Chiefs of Police.

Before his service as the Garden City police chief, Marshal Lyons  served a combined 22 years in the United States Navy and Army.

In 2016, Marshal Lyons was selected as Chief of the Year by the  Georgia Association of Chiefs of Police before retiring from Garden  City in December of 2017.

These are only a handful of positions Marshal Lyons has held in our  Nation's police force throughout his impressive career.

Today, we honor U.S. Marshal David Lyons for his lifelong service in  ensuring the safety of Americans.                         Recognizing Justin Thomas, Jr.

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Mr.  Justin Thomas, Jr., a remarkable young man and proud Savannah native  whose recent success and achievements have brought pride to the State  of Georgia. As a graduate of Benedictine Military School in Savannah,  Justin was a standout athlete who now plays center field for the  Arkansas Razorbacks.

Justin and the Razorbacks posted an impressive 50-win season, earning  a trip to the College World Series. Even though Arkansas came up short  of the program's first national title, Thomas' relentless hitting in  clutch moments stood out.

Justin was one of just two Razorbacks named to the all-tournament  team, finishing the tournament with an impressive .571 batting average.  His leadership, sportsmanship, and performance reflect the very best of  what the city of Savannah stands for.

Today, we celebrate Justin's achievement and look forward to his next  incredible successes both on and off the field.                           Recognizing Jamie Dupree

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a dear  friend and colleague, Jamie Dupree, as he celebrates his 45th  anniversary of the day he first began working here on Capitol Hill.  Time flies when you are having fun.

For Jamie, there has been no better place to work than right here in  the Halls of Congress. Over the past four and a half decades, Jamie has  built an exceptional career in broadcasting, delivering fair, clear,  and hard-hitting reporting on the work of this institution.

For 32 years, Jamie reported for Cox Radio, becoming a senior  Washington correspondent for Atlanta's WSB Radio and one of the most  trusted sources of news on Capitol Hill.

In 2017, Jamie was diagnosed with dystonia, a rare condition that  cost him his ability to speak. Even after that diagnosis, Jamie's  dedication never wavered. Through technology and perseverance, he  continued to provide bipartisan coverage that served as a window into  Washington for people across the country.

Jamie has been honored with the Career Achievement Award for  Distinguished Reporting on Congress from the Radio and Television  Correspondents' Association and has been referred to as the most  connected man in Washington, a reflection of his professionalism and  integrity.

Today, we congratulate Jamie Dupree on 45 years of outstanding  reporting and service to the American people.