How Republicans Have Delivered for Americans


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699063/how-republicans-have-delivered-for-americans


Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for  yielding and for hosting this Special Order Hour.

Mr. Speaker, America is back and, like the President says, hotter  than ever.

Throughout 2025, Republicans worked to undo the damage of the Biden- Harris administration, resulting in less red tape, bigger paychecks, a  blue-collar boom, and a stronger, more resilient workplace.

The United States will always be the land of opportunity, but the  previous administration shuttered small businesses, choked economic  growth, and enacted countless regulatory measures that hurt families  and businesses alike.

I believe in America First. That means a Federal Government that gets  out of the way and allows hardworking people to succeed.

Republicans put America first when we passed the largest tax cut in  American history. We delivered no tax on tips, no tax on overtime, and  tax relief for seniors by lowering taxes on Social Security benefits,  because the key to affordability is bigger paychecks, not bigger  government.

People are going to be feeling the effects of these tax savings in  their pocketbooks this tax season, where Georgia families can expect up  to $5,000 in savings. By unleashing American energy, we are bringing  relief to families right now.

The national average of gasoline is now under $3 a gallon. That  matters to everyone, from the large-scale shipping to the blue-collar  worker driving their daily commute.

Mr. Speaker, what we have done in 2025 is just the beginning. As we  move to 2026, Republicans are focused on expanding opportunity even  further, bringing jobs back home, growing domestic manufacturing, and  ensuring the American Dream is within reach for every person willing to  work hard, especially our young people.

The key to Republicans' success is that we govern by a simple  concept, common sense. It is common sense to use our vast natural  resources and unleash American energy dominance because affordable  energy means affordable living, just like it is common sense that  trillions spent on so-called Green New Deal projects caused runaway  inflation at over 9 percent.

President Trump and Republicans are reviving the American Dream by  advancing progrowth, proworker, America First policies that help young  people build a future, provide relief for our elderly, and strengthen  the middle class and everyone in between.

I thank the President for his work on our economy.