Jeremy and Angel Seay and Sergeant Brandon Mendoza Protect Our Communities From Duis Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693081/jeremy-and-angel-seay-and-sergeant-brandon-mendoza-protect-our-communities-from-duis-act-of-2025


Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for  yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 875, the Jeremy and  Angel Seay and Sergeant Brandon Mendoza Protect Our Communities from  DUIs Act of 2025. This piece of legislation is crucial to restoring  common sense to our Nation's judicial system.

Over the past 4 years, the Biden administration has allowed millions  of undocumented immigrants to pour into our country. Along with zero  oversight and accountability for the crisis, the Biden administration  allowed illegal immigrants to stay in the country even after committing  horrible crimes.

This piece of legislation would give the courts the ability to deport  illegal aliens from America and bar them from reentry if they are  convicted of a DUI or a DUI-related charge.

This issue hits home for me. In my district, a 15-year-old girl and  her grandmother were killed by an illegal alien who was driving drunk.  This was a terrible, avoidable tragedy. Sadly, true justice was not  served. The assailant received only 15 years per death and will be out  to roam free in America by the time he is 67 years old.

Madam Speaker, this was in Nahunta, Georgia, in Brantley County, in  my district. I met with the other grandmother of this child, who shared  with me the grief that this family has gone through since that time.

There is no reason at all that this should have happened. There is no  reason for the American taxpayer to have to fund the incarceration of  this person or any other programs to help him get back on the streets  of Georgia.

Though my example is the worst outcome possible, illegal aliens  should not be able to stay in America with a minor penalty for driving  under the influence in the first place. This legislation would close  this loophole.

I thank the gentleman from Alabama for bringing this forward. It  would close that loophole that allows illegal aliens to get off lightly  when committing fatal acts, such as vehicular manslaughter under the  influence.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote in support of this  legislation to help bring back common sense to our immigration and  legal systems after these 4 years of pure chaos.