Providing for Consideration of H.R. Department of Defense Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.R. Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act; Providing for Consideration of S. Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act; and Waiving A Requirement of Clause 6(A) of Rule Xiii with Respect to Consideration of Certain Resolutions Reported From the Committee on Rules


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693546/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-department-of-defense-appropriations-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-digital-asset-market-clarity-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-anti-cbdc-surveillance-state-act-providing-for-consideration-of-s-guiding-and-establishing-national-innovation-for-us-stablecoins-act-and-waiving-a-requirement-of-clause-6a-of-rule-xiii-with-respect-to-consideration-of-certain-resolutions-reported-from-the-committee-on-rules


Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of  three key pieces of legislation regarding cryptocurrency and our  financial markets.

The GENIUS Act, the CLARITY Act, and the Anti-CBDC Surveillance State  Act are all critical bills that will help make America the crypto  capital of the world. These bills provide simplified rules of the road  for the crypto industry, which so desperately needs these provisions to  flourish. Specifically, they create federal standards for stablecoins,  provide clear definitions for different digital assets, and prohibit  the Federal Reserve from issuing its central bank digital currency.

We are in another arms race with our adversaries over cryptocurrency  and blockchain dominance, like China and Russia. These are historic  pieces of legislation that will make America the crypto capital of the  world, which is a priority of President Trump and his administration.

The United States must remain the world's leader in innovation. Under  President Trump's leadership, we are finally on track for regulatory  clarity, market protection, and innovation without fear of government  overreach.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support these bills.

The material previously referred to by Ms. Scanlon is as follows:     An Amendment to H. Res. 580 Offered by Ms. Scanlon of Pennsylvania

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 10. Notwithstanding any other provision of this       resolution, the amendment specified in section 11 shall be in       order as though printed as the last amendment in part C of       the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this       resolution if offered by Representative Khanna of California       or a designee. That amendment shall be debatable for 10       minutes equally divided and controlled by the proponent and       an opponent.

Sec. 11. The amendment referred to in section 10 is as       follows:

Add at the end the following:       SEC. 513. PRESERVATION AND RELEASE OF RECORDS.

(a) The Attorney General shall retain, preserve, and       compile any records or evidence related to any investigation,       prosecution, or incarceration of Jeffrey Epstein.

(b) Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment       of this Act, the Attorney General shall release and publish       any records or evidence related to any investigation,       prosecution, or incarceration of Jeffrey Epstein on a       publicly accessible website.