Recognition of Richard ``dick'' Wallace


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691783/recognition-of-richard-dick-wallace


Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to mourn the loss of  Richard ``Dick'' Wallace.

Dick was a man who led a captivating life growing up in Alexandria,  Virginia. From a young age, he exhibited an exceptional musical talent,  often playing intricate pieces by ear on multiple instruments.

Dick was an Eagle Scout, God and Country, and Order of the Arrow in  Boy Scouts.

He was passionate about educating students about the Federal  Government, playing an instrumental role in implementing the  Presidential Classroom, a program teaching high school students about  the U.S. Constitution and the workings of Washington, D.C.

In 1975, after the birth of his child, Richard Austen, the family  fell in love with and then moved to Savannah, Georgia.

As a people person and proud citizen of Savannah, Dick served the  community in many ways, including as a YMCA soccer coach, head of the  Military Civilian Affairs for the Savannah Chamber of Commerce, and  president of Ardsley Park Neighborhood Association, among countless  other accomplishments.

Dick will be missed. May his memory live on in the smiles of those he  profoundly impacted.                 Recognition of Arrowhead Pointe Golf Course

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  Arrowhead Pointe Golf Course, a well-kept, picturesque green nestled  within Richard B. Russell State Park in the Georgia mountains.

Offering breathtaking views of Lake Richard B. Russell, this course  has become a destination for golf lovers seeking both challenges and  tranquility. Ranked number eight on the 2025 USA Today 10 Best List,  Arrowhead Pointe is described as the epitome of serenity and offers an  excellent recreational experience to locals and visitors alike.

Beyond its natural beauty and top-tier design, Arrowhead Pointe is  praised for its affordability, making it accessible for golfers of all  ages and budgets. This course is more than just a place to play. It is  a retreat where families and friends can connect with nature, enjoy  healthy competition, and create lasting memories.

Arrowhead Pointe exemplifies the best of public golf, offering a  world-class experience, welcoming players with warm southern  hospitality, and fair prices.

Today, we celebrate Arrowhead Pointe Golf Course and its contribution  to Georgia's tourism, recreation, and community well-being.                         Congratulating Berry College

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Berry  College, a well respected and prestigious university located in Mount  Berry, Georgia.

Leisure and Travel ranked Berry College as the second-most beautiful  campus in America. The institution is breathtakingly picturesque,  offering stunning views of lakes, fields, forests, and mountains. Not  only is it one of the most beautiful, but it is reportedly the world's  largest as well, encompassing nearly 27,000 acres and offering 88 miles  of trails.

Beyond its attractive exterior, Berry College offers state-of-the-art  education to over 2,000 undergraduates and nearly 200 graduate  students. As a private, nonprofit college, Berry consistently gives  back to Georgia and the United States through generous contributions to  student scholarships, academic resources, classroom technology, the  arts, athletics, and high-quality facilities.

Berry College exhibits the best of private education, providing  students with limitless opportunities to pursue their academic and  professional aspirations.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Berry College for elevating the standard  of higher education in Georgia.            Recognition of NFA Burger, the Best Burger in Georgia

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  unexpected but powerful example of American entrepreneurial spirit.

Recently, Southern Living Magazine named NFA Burger the best  hamburger in the entire State of Georgia.

Sometimes, the American Dream looks different from what you would  expect, and in this case it looks like a cheeseburger served from a  Chevron gas station.

Founded by Billy Kramer, NFA Burger has served roughly 200,000  perfectly seasoned patties to long lines of locals and travelers since  2019.

NFA Burger's recognition was earned without flashy branding and large  investors. This emphasized the quality, consistency, and community  support of a small business operating in a humble setting.

This commendation serves as a reminder that entrepreneurship thrives  in small towns and family-owned storefronts across America.

Today, I congratulate NFA Burger for this tremendous achievement.