Recognizing Wayne Barth


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699261/recognizing-wayne-barth


Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Wayne  Barth, a physical trainer at Union General Hospital, who has been named  one of the 2025 Hospital Hero Award recipients by the Georgia Hospital  Association. This prestigious award recognizes the amazing hospital  workers in our State for their longtime service in healthcare.

Mr. Barth serves as director of rehabilitation services, where his  team is committed to delivering quality care  to their patients and clients in Blairsville and Union County, Georgia.

Mr. Barth has provided extensive care for disorders that affect  speech, function, movement, and swallowing. His specialization lies in  restoring mobility in patients, reducing pain, rehabilitating injuries,  and increasing movement and overall health. Mr. Barth's allegiance to  his patients highlights the importance of leaders stepping up and  caring for patients across Georgia.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Barth for all his hard work and for being a  trusted and compassionate professional in his field.                         Honoring Nurse Barbara Harn

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Barbara  Harn, a breast health nurse at Northside Hospital Cherokee, who has won  the 2025 James Shepherd Lifetime Achievement Award.

This award honors a hospital employee who has dedicated a lifetime of  service to the healthcare field and has made a significant impact in  enhancing operations in patient care at their hospital.

Ms. Harn is a longtime Northside Hospital faculty member,  compassionately caring for patients for more than three decades. She  personifies this commitment through her outstanding and unwavering  dedication to her patients, colleagues, and hospital.

Additionally, Ms. Harn is a loving mother, grandmother, and friend to  all those around her.

This achievement speaks not only for Ms. Harn's fantastic skills as a  professional, but also for her grateful and compassionate attitude.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Ms. Harn for her professionalism, dedication,  and commitment to her field.                        Honoring Nurse Heather Daniels

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Nurse  Heather Daniels, a perinatal services nurse at Liberty Regional Medical  Center in Hinesville, Georgia, who has been named a 2025 Hospital Hero  Recipient by the Georgia Hospital Association.

This award recognizes the time, talent, and expertise of hospital  employees in their respective fields. Ms. Daniel exemplifies this by  being dependable, unfailing, and caring in all she does.

In addition to faithfully serving patients, Ms. Daniel has served as  director of perinatal services and secretary for the Georgia Perinatal  Association, and she worked diligently in reducing morbidity and  mortality in pregnant mothers and infants.

Ms. Daniels' passion and dedication for her profession are truly  inspirational. This recognition speaks not only to her skill, but also  to her compassion and commitment to healing and serving others.             Recognizing Seven Distinguished Georgia Golf Courses

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize seven  Georgia golf courses as being named Golfweek's top 200 resort golf  courses in America.

Among these, three were ranked in the top 100: Seaside Golf Course on  Sea Island Resort ranked No. 24, The Keep at McLemore Resort came in at  No. 25, and Great Waters at Reynolds Lake Oconee tied for No. 73.  Additional courses at Reynolds Lake Oconee, McLemore, and St. Simons  Island also earned national recognition.

Georgia is home to hundreds of golf courses, but our resort golf  courses stand among the very best in the Nation.

These rankings are based on expert evaluations of course design,  conditioning, and overall quality, highlighting Georgia as a premier  golf destination. This distinction showcases both Georgia's natural  beauty and wonder in our State's renowned golf courses.