Sharia-Free America


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701400/sharia-free-america


Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak against the  invasion of sharia law in America and across Western civilization.

America was founded on Christian values by seeking freedom from a  tyrannical government. Our Nation is now the beacon of freedom around  the world and the benchmark of Western civilization.

Sharia law represents everything that America is against. It destroys  society. It strips citizens of their dignity and God-given rights.  Women are forced to be subordinates and second-class citizens. Speaking  out against the government will get you killed, like the 30,000 Iranian  protesters murdered in January of this year.

Sharia law teaches believers to hate and to kill those who do not  share their values, including Christians and Jewish people. For 47  years, Iranians have been risking their lives to protest the Ayatollah  for their human rights abuses, government corruption, and crippling  their economy to the point of implosion.

The Iranian leaders are radical Shia clerics. They spread hatred  across the region and the world as the world's largest state sponsor of  terrorism.

Iranian Americans from my home State of Georgia and all over the  country are telling me how proud they are that President Trump is  taking action. America heard their calls for help. Our brave men and  women of the United States Armed Forces have annihilated most parts of  the Iranian military and have eliminated many of the top leaders. This  includes Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, who was responsible for the  deaths of thousands of Americans.

Iran helped sponsor and orchestrate the October 7 attacks that killed  innocent Israelis at a music festival, including 46 Americans.  President Trump is absolutely correct, Iran can never have a nuclear  weapon, and his action has saved millions of lives.

Unfortunately, the story is not the same in Europe. Every day, we see  examples of how far many of our allies across the pond have fallen to  mass immigration of those who refuse to embrace Western values. These  same people instead bring their radical Islamic beliefs with them, the  same values that ran them out of their own countries. European culture  is disappearing due to open-border policies.

They have allocated more resources, benefits, and handouts to illegal  immigrants than they ever had for their own citizens. All the while,  crime across the board has skyrocketed. Thankfully, patriotic Europeans  are beginning to stand up to their self-sabotaging governments and vote  for policies and policymakers who will save their countries from  destruction. This is an existential threat that is spreading across the  world at a rapid rate.

It has never been clearer to me than it is now that the United States  must not make the same mistake as Europe. In the 4 years under the  Biden-Harris regime, they did their best to destroy our Nation with  open-border policies.

Americans responded by overwhelmingly reelecting President Trump to  the White House. With Republicans in control, there is no better time  than now to stand up and stop the infection of sharia law into our  communities.

In Dearborn, Michigan, the influence of sharia law instituted a daily  call to prayer and the election of Islamic extremist leaders, who have  publicly attacked local citizens who have criticized their policies.

New York City elected an Islamic, communist mayor, who openly  supports Islamic extremism and has attacked the State of Israel and its  citizens.

America, if we do nothing and stand idly by like Europe did, this is  only the beginning.

Mr. Speaker, America was founded on the principles of life, liberty,  and the pursuit of happiness. Under sharia law, none of this is  achievable. Freedom of religion is a core principle of this country and  enshrined in our Constitution. However, it does not protect religious  groups that shout threats of death to entire religious groups as we  have seen with the tyrannical Shia theocracy in Iran.

History will look back on America 100 years from now and analyze the  decisions that were made here in Congress.

Mr. Speaker, my question is: Will we roll over and make the same  mistake as Europe or will we stand up for what we believe in and fight  for what America has always stood for?

I can tell you one thing for sure: When they want to run our country  down, they are walking on the fighting side of me, and I will always be  on the fighting side of America and its freedom.