Congratulating Chancellor Joe Garcia on His Retirement


Mr. CROW. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Joe Garcia,  Chancellor of the Colorado Community College System, on his retirement  after more than 35 years of public service. I know I speak for so many  in our community when I thank him for the lasting impact he made on  higher education in Colorado throughout his career.

Chancellor Garcia oversees a higher education system encompassing 13  colleges, over 35 campus locations, and more than 124,000 students.  During his tenure, he launched Bridge to Bachelor's, a statewide  transfer program guaranteeing a direct pathway for community college  students to four-year universities. He also pioneered Colorado Online,  an initiative that expanded online education access for students across  Colorado.

Appointed President of Pikes Peak State College in 2001 and later  President of Colorado State University-Pueblo, Chancellor Garcia has  long advocated for expanding higher education access and student- centered programs. Through these roles, he also successfully grew  enrollment and strengthened public-private partnerships.

In addition to his dedication to improving higher education, he took  on several leadership roles throughout his time in public service.  Following an appointment by Governor Roy Romer as the Executive  Director of the Department of Regulatory Agencies, Chancellor Garcia  was appointed by former President Bill Clinton as Regional Director for  the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. He later served  as Lieutenant Governor and the Executive Director of the Colorado  Department of Higher Education. Prior to returning to the Colorado  Community College System, he also served as President of the Western  Interstate Commission for Higher Education.

Throughout his career, he remained committed to advocating for  education access, equity, and community development. In 2024, he  received the Higher Education Equity Champion Legacy Award from the  Colorado Department of Higher Education, recognizing his lifelong  impact on equitable access to higher education.

I congratulate Chancellor Joe Garcia on his well-deserved retirement  and thank him for his service to the state of Colorado.