Providing for Consideration of H.R. Improving Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Leosa Reform Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Federal Law Enforcement Officer Service Weapon Purchase Act of 2025


Mr. CROW. Mr. Speaker, as we commemorate Police Week, I join my  colleagues in honoring law enforcement around the country and back home  in Colorado.

On Capitol Hill, the men and women of the U.S. Capitol Police protect  us and the seat of our democracy. I personally owe a great debt of  gratitude to these officers who responded to the attack on the U.S.  Capitol on January 6, 2021.

Many of my colleagues and I were trapped right up there in the House  gallery that day as an insurrectionist mob converged on the Capitol.  Officers from the Capitol Police, Metropolitan Police Department, and  numerous other departments risked their lives to protect us and our  democracy.

As seen here, these officers were brutally assaulted with flag poles,  bear spray, stun guns, knives, and bats. Over 140 officers were wounded  and sustained injuries from the attack. Many still deal with the mental  and physical trauma from that day.

There were numerous officers who died from their injuries after the  attack: Officer Brian Sicknick, Officer Howard Liebengood, Officer  Jeffrey Smith, Officer Gunther Hashida, and Officer Kyle DeFreytag.

Congress, on a bipartisan basis, took a step to honor their  extraordinary bravery when we passed a law in 2022 directing the  placement of a plaque at the Capitol.

The plaque is complete. It is done. It has been sitting somewhere in  storage in the Capitol, and it is way past time that we display this  for America to see.

This Police Week let's honor the men and women who bravely risked  everything to do their duty to protect this House and to protect this  Capitol and our democracy.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in doing the right thing.  It is time to display this plaque so Americans around the country who  visit the seat of this democracy will see and be able to join us in  honoring the bravery of those men and women from January 6, 2021.