Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of 2025


Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr. Speaker, let's stop pretending the  SAVE America Act is about election security because it is not. This  bill is about power and silencing Americans. Republicans don't want  voting. Thousands of Americans are protesting, demonstrating against  the policies of this administration.

Republicans know that they will lose the midterms.

The President asked them to cancel the election, and guess what, Mr.  Speaker, this bill is the next best thing to that. This is a show-your- papers mandate to disqualify Americans who oppose their evil agenda.  Americans would have to appear in person and present a passport or  birth certificate just to register, and again, every single time they  update their registration, every time they move, if they get married,  if they get divorced, blah, blah, blah.

Here is whom it will hurt: the more than 140 million Americans who  don't have a passport, including Republicans, by the way.

As many as 69 million women who follow the traditional practice of  changing their name after marriage do not have a birth certificate that  matches their legal name. Republicans know this and want to use that  misinformation to block them from voting.

This bill would eliminate the voter registration methods that over 90  percent of Americans rely on, including online, mail-in, and DMV  registration.

In rural areas, Americans would be forced to drive 7 or 8 hours round  trip just to show documents, and they would have to do it every single  time they move.

When Kansas tried a similar law, 32,000 eligible citizens were  blocked from registering. Zero noncitizens were found because election  officials had already verified their eligibility.

Republicans call this voter ID. This is voter suppression. When they  can't win on ideas, they try to win by blocking the ballot and taxing  our right to vote.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this attack on  our democracy.