Terminating the National Emergency Declared with Respect to Energy


Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. President, I rise today to bring before the Senate a  resolution concerning one of our most serious constitutional  responsibilities: whether the United States should engage in armed  conflict against a particular adversary.

The Constitution clearly and intentionally places the power to  declare war in the hands of this body, the Congress, not with the  President or the executive branch. Our Constitution's Framers, having  just endured a war and having paid the toll that war always takes,  wanted to ensure that our newly independent Nation would see the  representatives of the people make the decision of whether and when to  put American lives on the line.

In 1798, James Madison wrote to Thomas Jefferson about the danger of  leaving that power in the hands of an executive.

He said:

The Constitution supposes, what the History of all       Governments demonstrates, that the Executive is the branch of       power most interested in war, and most prone to it. It has       accordingly with studied care, vested the question of war in       the Legislature.

For the past month, Congress's power to authorize or refuse to  authorize the use of power has been usurped by the Executive. This  administration has carried out at least four military strikes against  vessels that it asserts have ties to drug trafficking organizations.  These strikes were not authorized by Congress. Congress has not been  shown the evidence of who exactly was on board these ships, whether  they were all headed to the United States or some other destination, or  whether they posed an imminent danger of attack on the United States.  Such strikes are not legal, and they are not made legal or  constitutional by the claim--correctly or incorrectly, with or without  evidence--that some or all of the occupants of these boats belong to a  list of organizations kept secret by the administration.

Being put on a list by the executive branch does not deprive Congress  of its vital role in approving the use of force, but such a list kept  hidden from the American people, if used as a justification, may drag  our Nation into an unintended war.

If it were as simple for a President--any President--to claim that  war power for himself by placing an individual or a group of  individuals on a list, let alone one held in secret, there would be no  limiting principle to the executive's use of force--no limits  whatsoever--and that is deeply inconsistent with the intent of our  Framers' and the desire of the American people to be kept out of  unnecessary military conflicts.

Indeed, the President has confirmed that he does not see a limit. He  saw targets at sea, and now he sees potential targets on land.

Now, I know that the word ``unprecedented'' gets used so much these  days that perhaps it has lost some of its value, but we need to put in  context just how far from normal these strikes are.

For perhaps the first time in our history, a President of the United  States ordered the U.S. military to use lethal force against  individuals who posed no imminent threat of attack and who could have  been stopped thousands of miles from our shore had we interdicted and  arrested those on board just as they routinely are by our Coast Guard.  Instead, the U.S. military used lethal force on four separate  occasions, killing everyone on board.

Despite this breathtaking departure from more than two centuries of  law and practice, we still know almost nothing about these strikes,  some taking place as far as 2,700 miles away. It may be that there were  narcotics traffickers on board some or all of these vessels. It may  also be that some of these boats were being used for human trafficking  and that the victims of that offense were killed along with the  perpetrators, or, if not on one of the first four ships destroyed, then  perhaps on the next one.

The lack of detail concerning these strikes is telling. We have  learned of these strikes through social media posts from the President,  the Secretary of Defense, and from the press. In fact, administration  officials have offered differing accounts of where these vessels were  heading. Media reports have suggested--without rebuttal from the  administration--that the first vessel to be struck had turned around  prior to being hit. The Secretary of State originally claimed that one  of the boats wasn't even heading to the United States.

Given our Coast Guard presence in the region and with a sizable Navy  deployment and expansive intelligence resources, U.S. personnel could  have boarded all of these vessels, detained those aboard, seized any  drugs or cash, and gathered additional information about ties to drug  trafficking organizations, just as they normally do. Secretary of State  Rubio even acknowledged publicly that this could have been done but  said that the President wanted to send a message by killing all of  those on board.

We all agree that the scourge of drugs is real and that scores of  Americans die from such poison every year. We are all committed on both  sides of the aisle to battling the importation of illegal drugs, even  as we work to beat back addiction here at home. But we are also  committed to our Constitution, to a system of checks and balances that  wisely places the power to make war in our hands, not with an Executive  who may grow too fond of using it.

That is why Senator Kaine and I have introduced a resolution to  direct the President to stop engaging in armed strikes against these  vessels or the country from which they emanate without the explicit  authorization of Congress. We are here today to ask our colleagues to  join us in this nonpartisan vote, in this affirmation of Congress's  authority to declare war or to refuse to declare it; to authorize force  or to refuse to authorize it.

We have been precise and deliberate in crafting it. This resolution  does not affect the United States' ability to target terrorist groups  covered by Congress's existing authorizations to use military force,  including al-Qaida, ISIS or its affiliates and offshoots, or to address  real threats posed by other groups, like the Houthis. It also in no way  limits the United States' ability to defend our own citizens and  interests or to come to the collective self-defense of our allies and  our partners.

It comes down to this: The President has used our military to strike  unknown targets on at least four occasions, and he is promising more.  With at least 21 people dead and more killing on the way and with the  President telling us that strikes on land-based targets may be next, we  ask you to join us in reasserting Congress's vital control over the war  power.

Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. President, let me just take this opportunity to  address some of the remarks of my colleague who has, I think, rightly  pointed out the horrors of drug trafficking and those that are engaged  in that poisonous, deadly trade. I agree with that, and we should do  everything we can to fight back against those who are trying to traffic  that poison into this country. And I agree with him about the murderous  dictator that is Maduro.

But here is the thing. If my colleagues in this Congress want to go  to war with Venezuela, if they want to use military force to bring  about regime change in Venezuela, or if they want to wage a literal war  using the military and armed force to blow up traffickers, then they  need to come to Congress and seek an authorization to use military  force for that purpose because our Constitution is clear.

There are, essentially, three circumstances in which we can  constitutionally use force. One is if Congress declares war. We have  not declared war on Venezuela. We have not declared a literal fighting  war using military troops either.

Or we authorize the use of military force. We have not done so.

Now, the third circumstance in which a President is authorized to use  force is in the event of imminent threat of attack from our  adversaries. And that is simply not the circumstance here.

Instead, what the administration seems to be relying on is a claim  that it has the power, somehow, to put organizations on a list and go  after them wherever they may be, without the approval of Congress. That  is what this resolution is about.

Now, my colleague also made an argument about the Houthis. Nothing in  this resolution affects the ability to defend ourselves from the  Houthis as necessary. The President and the former Presidents who have  taken action against the Houthis have not done so on the basis of the  Houthis being added to some list. Being added to a list, even the  foreign terrorist organization list, empowers an administration to put  sanctions on that organization. But being placed on a list by the  Executive does not give any greater authority to use armed force  against an organization.

The basis in which this President and previous Presidents have used  force against the Houthis is the Houthis have attacked us, and if the  Houthis attack us again, the President will have the article II power  to defend ourselves. And nothing in this resolution touches that in any  way, shape, or form.

But let me just underscore the perils of what we are discussing  today. Now, this is an article that just came out. I haven't had the  chance to vet it: ``Colombia president claims U.S. bombed Colombian  boat in strike off Venezuela.''

So I don't know whether we have now struck a Colombian ship or what  the circumstances were or who was on board, and that is exactly the  problem. That is exactly the problem. Now, maybe this is real and maybe  it isn't, but the fact that we don't know, the fact that the Executive  asserts the authority to blow up ships without coming to Congress for  the authorization of that kind of force could invariably lead to  mistakes, could also lead, inadvertently, to war with another country.

This resolution says: If you want to use force against  narcoterrorists by blowing up ships, come to Congress for an  authorization because at this point you don't have it. If there is an  imminent threat of attack, you have all of the authority you need under  article II. But if you want to engage in a war with Venezuela or a  regime change with Maduro and you want to use military force to do it,  you need to come to Congress for an authorization. There being none,  these strikes are unconstitutional and unlawful.

I would urge my colleagues to join Senator Kaine and myself in  supporting this resolution.