-9999


I come here, like my colleague, to defend the Constitution of the  United States of America.

Since George Washington was President and he had to deal with a  Congress, every President has had to deal with a Congress or Members of  Congress who really wanted to be the Commander in Chief of the Armed  Forces of the United States. The Founding Fathers wisely said that that  power should lie in the hands of the Commander in Chief, the President  of the United States.

Over many, many years, Presidents have used military force to protect  the United States of America. Indeed, they take an oath that they will  do so. Not only do they have the right to do so, they have the duty to  do so.

So what are we talking about here? Donald Trump has made the  observation, as has every American, that we are losing tens of  thousands of Americans, both young and old alike, to illegal drugs that  are brought to this country by terrorist organizations mainly. As a  result of that, we have done, as has been suggested, law enforcement  activities within the United States, outside the United States. And we  have picked away at it and picked away at it, and it simply has not  been effective.

What Donald Trump decided to do was to take appropriate military  action against an invasion. That invasion comes from those terrorists.  They invade the United States of America with boats loaded with this  poison. It is distributed around the United States, and it kills tens  of thousands of people every year.

Now, let's assume that these terrorists, instead of using the drugs,  were using explosives. If they loaded up one of these boats with  explosives and it was headed for the United States of America and they  had a distribution system in place, as they do for drugs, right now,  and they were distributing these explosives around the United States  and killed tens of thousands of people every year, there wouldn't be a  peep from anyone about the use of force by the President of the United  States to stop this. That is exactly what is going on here. There is no  difference whatsoever.

The President of the United States has ordered the troops, when they  determine that there is a boatload of these drugs headed for the United  States, to sink the boat and put it on the bottom of the ocean.

Now, I am the senior Republican on the Intelligence Committee and,  obviously in this setting, I can't tell you the method or the means,  but I can tell you that we have absolute, total, 100 percent proof that  every single one of those boats that went down was loaded with drugs.

So, as a result of that, the President of the United States has done  good work so far in stemming the flow of these drugs to the United  States.

I have told the President face to face: Thank you, Mr. President, for  what you are doing, and I want to thank you on behalf of the parents  who will not have to early bury one of their children because of the  drugs that were coming into this country. Instead those drugs are lying  at the bottom of the ocean.

Thank you, Mr. President, for what you did. Keep up the good work.  Continue to stem the flow of these drugs coming into the United States.  The President has the absolute right and, not only that, the absolute  duty to do this.

If you don't think so, take him to court and sue him. That is what  you need to do if you think that is what is right. There is no court in  the world that is going to stop him from using the military might of  the United States to protect the United States, which is exactly what  he is doing here.

Mr. RISCH. I will.

Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I agreed to respond to questions relating  to this. There is nothing in this that has anything to do with  pardoning or has anything to do with the other country that you are  talking about. So I am not going to engage in debate on that issue.

Mr. RISCH. Well, the last one wasn't very direct, but if the good  Senator cares to have a direct question, I will be happy to do that.

Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, Senator, first of all, that has been done  over a number of years, and it has proven to be incredibly ineffectual.

I have had lengthy discussions with the Secretary of State, who  obviously is a person who has been focused on this area of the globe  for a long time. And he says that they consider this, the terrorist  groups consider this a cost of doing business, that kind of a boarding  or what have you.

But what has happened is, with those boats being sunk the way they  are with the people who are in the process of launching this attack on  the United States being killed, that has drastically--drastically-- lowered the number of boats that are coming to the United States loaded  with drugs.

This is the most effective way to do it. Bless you, Mr. President,  for doing it. Keep it up. Continue to put these drugs on the bottom of  the ocean.