-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701187/9999


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I am not going to speak for a long time. I  have given this speech over and over again. Some people say the  definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and  expecting to get the same results.

The Democrats here have been doing the same things over and over and  over again, and they are going to get the same result again tonight.

Look, the conflict that we are in with Iran right now was not started  by the United States. It was started by Iran when the Iranian regime  took prisoner our staff at the Embassy in Tehran, 47 years ago, and  held them for 444 days.

And then, over the next 47 years, they have continued to kill  Americans by the thousands--not by the hundreds, but by the thousands-- and they do it in the most insidious ways, with roadside bombs and that  sort of thing, simply because they are Americans and they are present  in the Middle East.

The President of the United States said we have had enough. He had  very good reason to pull the trigger at the time that he did, and, of  course, those, as time goes on, will come out more and more.

The fact of the matter is, we are in conflict. We have our brave  young men and women on the ground. We have our brave young men and  women fighting for the United States of America. So we need to back  those people. We need to back the President of the United States.

We all know this isn't going to go on very long, but it needs to be  done. And our friends around us say: You need to get this done. Now  that you are there, complete the job.

The President is going to complete the job.

I am going to end this with a couple of messages--the same message I  have been giving for a long time.

The first one is to the Iranians: This is over. You people have lost.  You have no navy. You have no air force. You are running out of  missiles and other materiel to fight this. This is going to be over  very soon.

And the other message I would have to the Iranians is: No one has  come to help you. And--breaking news--no one is coming to help you-- with one exception, and I will talk about that in a minute.

First of all, let me tell you who is not coming to help. The Chinese  are not coming to help. The Russians are not coming to help. The North  Koreans are not coming to help. The Cubans are not coming to help. The  Venezuelans are not coming to help. The worst actors on the planet, who  are friends of the Iranians, are not coming to help. This is all on  you, Iran.

No one is coming to help you--except there are 47 people over here  who want to help you. They cannot help you.  They have tried and tried and tried. They cannot help you.

What is going to happen here on the floor today is, on our side of  the aisle, we are going to stand behind the Commander in Chief. Most  importantly, we are going to stand behind our fighting men and women on  the ground because they are involved in a kinetic battle.

When this happens--whatever happens--we, every American, should be  standing behind our fighting men and women. They need to continue on.  They need to complete the job. The President of the United States is  going to do this.

So to my friends on the other side of the aisle, stop this. Don't try  to help the Iranians. You are the only entity on this planet trying to  help the Iranians. Stop it. Vote with us.

This is going to fail tonight. It would be nice if you joined us in  standing behind our fighting men and women as we try to end the regime  of the last bad actor in the region.