-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690343/9999


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I come to the floor today in support of our  friend David Perdue's nomination to be Ambassador to China. This is  certainly one of the most important nominations and appointments that  will come across this floor, and the President is to be commended for  picking David Perdue for this position.

China, as we all know, is the largest, the most significant, probably  the longest lasting foreign policy challenge that the United States of  America has, and it is going to continue to be for some time.

Today, we have seen, over the last recent decades, China move from a  third-world country to a near peer to the United States. Their economy  is growing rapidly, and they have done it the old fashion way: They  have stolen every good idea that we have and used it to their own  devices, which has brought them to the challenging position they are in  for the United States. And they are a very different country than the  United States is.

The world, I think, is very quickly developing into a bipolar  position, where, on the one hand, you have democracies and semi- democracies like the United States, made of up of free people, of  capitalism, of free markets, of entrepreneurs, and of people who very  much value human rights and value the individual way, ahead of the  state. On the other hand, you have countries like China that are  communist. They are socialists. They are not free market or capitalist  motivated. And they have no regards for human rights. The best example  of that is the genocide that they commit against the Uighur Muslims in  China, and the world pretty much looks the other way while they do  human rights abuses that are way over the top.

So, Senator Perdue--David--you have your work cut out for you. This  is going to be a challenge as we go forward, particularly over the next  4 years.

In addition to that, China has done everything it can to infiltrate  the United States. Most people in America have no understanding about  the tremendous amount and the millions of dollars that the Chinese  Government pumps into our colleges and universities here in the United  States. I myself and others have long been trying to put a stop to  this. No foreign government can come into our political system and use  money to influence our political system, and yet a foreign government  like China can go into our colleges and universities and pump in  millions of dollars and use the influence of that money to influence  the colleges and universities. We don't allow this in our political  system because we don't want foreign influence in our political system,  nor should we allow this kind of influence in the institutions that  make up the education system for future Americans.

We need to put a stop to this, and all of us, I hope, will be glad to  partner with our friend David Perdue as he confronts these issues from  Beijing.

In this administration and in his first term, President Trump  demonstrated that he will be tough on China. He has to be.

We need a strong leader like David Perdue at the front of our fight  with the Chinese Government to execute on President Trump's vision, and  I hope my colleagues will join me today in supporting Mr. Perdue to be  Ambassador to China.

Mr. President, I would ask unanimous consent that we commence the  vote on the nomination.