Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692321/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(5)(C) of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA),       as amended, we are forwarding Transmittal No. 25-0T. This       notification relates to enhancements or upgrades from the       level of sensitivity of technology or capability described in       the Section 36(b)(1) AECA certification 15-62 of November 19,       2015.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosure.                            Transmittal No. 25-0T       Report of Enhancement or Upgrade of Sensitivity of Technology           or Capability (Sec. 36(b)(5)(C), AECA)

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Japan.

(ii) Sec. 36(b)(1), AECA Transmittal No.: 15-62. Date:       November 19, 2015, Military Department: Air Force.

(iii) Description: On November 19, 2015, Congress was       notified by congressional certification transmittal number       15-62 of the possible sale, under Section 36(b)(1) of the       Arms Export Control Act, of three (3) RQ-4 Block 30 (I)       Global Hawk Remotely Piloted Aircraft with Integrated Sensor       Suite (EISS); eight (8) Kearfott Inertial Navigation System/      Global Positioning System (INS/GPS) units (2 per aircraft       with 2 spares); and eight (8) LN-251 INS/GPS units (2 per       aircraft with 2 spares). Also included were operational-level       sensor and aircraft test equipment, ground support equipment,       operational flight test support, communications equipment,       spare and repair parts, personnel training, publications and       technical data, U.S. Government and contractor technical and       logistics support services, and other related elements of       logistics support. The total estimated case value was $1.2       billion. Major Defense Equipment (MDE) constituted $689       million of this total.

On April 4, 2016, Congress was notified by congressional       certification transmittal number 0J-16 of the inclusion of       two Ground Control Elements (GCE). The GCEs were not       enumerated as MDE in the original notification of the Global       Hawk RPA system. The total cost of the new MDE items was $31       million, increasing the total estimated MDE value to $720       million. The total estimated case value remained $1.2       billion.

On April 4, 2022, Congress was notified by congressional       certification transmittal number 0C-22 of the inclusion of       the following additional MDE items: five (5) Kearfott INS/      GPS; and two (2) LN-251 INS/GPS. Also included was hardware       and software integration support. The total estimated MDE       value remained $720 million. The total estimated case value       remained $1.2 billion.

This transmittal notifies the inclusion of the following       non-MDE items: Contractor Logistics Support (CLS) services;       the Joint Mission Planning System (JMPS); classified and       unclassified software delivery and support; maps,       publications, and technical documentation; transportation       support; and other related elements of logistics and program       support. The estimated total value of the new items is $1.61       billion. The estimated non-MDE value will increase by $1.61       billion to $2.09 billion. The estimated MDE value will remain       at $720 million. The total case value will increase by $1.61       billion, resulting in a revised estimated total case value of       $2.81 billion.

(iv) Significance: This proposed sale will significantly       enhance Japan's intelligence, surveillance, and       reconnaissance (ISR) capabilities and help ensure Japan is       able to continue to monitor and deter regional threats.

(v) Justification: This proposed sale will support the       foreign policy goals and national security objectives of the       United States by improving the security of a major ally that       is a force for political stability and economic progress in       the Indo-Pacific region.

(vi) Sensitivity of Technology:

The Sensitivity of Technology Statement contained in the       original notification applies to other items reported here.

The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

(vii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: June 6, 2025.