Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688394/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: On February 28, 2025, the Secretary of       State, pursuant to section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control       Act, as amended, determined that an emergency exists which       requires the immediate sale of the defense articles and       defense services identified in the attached transmittals to       the Government of Israel through the Foreign Military Sales       process, including any further amendment specific to costs,       quantity, or requirements occurring within the duration of       circumstances giving rise to this emergency sale.

Please find attached (Tab 1) the Secretary of State       Determination and Justification waiving the congressional       review requirements under Section 36(b)(1) and 36(b)(5)(C) of       the Arms Export Control Act (AECA), as amended for the       attached lists of transmittals of proposed Letters of Offer       and Acceptance to the Government of Israel. The determination       and detailed justification are a part of each transmittal. We       will issue a news release to notify the public of this       proposed sale upon delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.

DETERMINATION UNDER SECTION 36(b)(1) OF THE ARMS EXPORT CONTROL ACT

Pursuant to section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control       Act, 22 U.S.C. 2776, I hereby determine that an emergency       exists which requires the immediate sale through the       following foreign military sales cases, including any further       amendments specific to the cost, quantity, or requirements of       these cases, in the national security interest of the United       States:

For Israel:

Bulldozers

Administrative Price Change to Munitions

1,000-lb Warheads and JDAM Kits

2,000-lb Warheads

This determination shall be published in the Federal       Register and, along with the accompanying Memorandum of       Justification, shall be transmitted to Congress with the       applicable notifications.   (U) MEMORANDUM OF JUSTIFICATION FOR EMERGENCY ARMS TRANSFERS TO ISRAEL           UNDER SECTION 36(b)(1) OF THE ARMS EXPORT CONTROL ACT

(U) On October 7, Hamas launched the worst attack on Israel       since the 1973 Yom Kippur War, firing thousands of rockets,       striking civilians and locations as far as Tel Aviv and       Jerusalem. Hamas gunmen crossed into Israel, entering towns       and communities as far as 15 miles from Gaza, slaughtering       men, women, and children. More than 230 hostages were taken       and dragged back into Gaza, including U.S. citizens. Hamas'       act of terrorism has claimed the lives of nearly 1,200 in       Israel, including at least 31 U.S. citizens, and wounded       thousands more. The attack was the single deadliest day for       the Jewish people since the Holocaust, and it was reminiscent       of the worst rampages of ISIS. The following day, the       Government of Israel formally declared war on Hamas in       accordance with its Basic Law.

(U) Israel has the right to defend itself, and the United       States strongly supports Israel taking necessary action to       defend its country and protect its people from Hamas       terrorists, consistent with international law,       including the law of war. The Department of State and the       Department of Defense are coordinating with Israeli partners       to meet their military requirements and ensure Israel has       what it needs to continue to defend itself, its people, and       U.S. citizens living, working, and traveling in Israel.

(U) The United States' commitment to Israel's security is       ironclad, which is reflected in decades of close political-      military dialogues and highlevel defense policy exchanges.       The historic ten-year U.S.-Israel Memorandum of Understanding       to provide Israel with $38 billion in security assistance is       a bulwark against regional threats. Should hostilities       resume, Israel will need urgent and substantial support to       respond to the immediate threat raised by Hamas' failure to       uphold the terms of the ceasefire. Forced to respond to a       resurgent Hamas, Israel must replenish stocks of key defense       articles to fight and destroy Hamas, maintain its Qualitative       Military Edge in the region, and continue to deter broader-      scale regional conflict.

(U) it is essential to the United States' national security       interest to swiftly provide Israel with the military       equipment and arms required to defend itself and reinforce       deterrence against other significant regional threats. These       threats are very likely to increase should hostilities       resume. Israel has communicated an urgent requirement for       air-to-ground munitions and D9 bulldozers. The urgency of       Israel's requirement has been validated by the Department of       Defense in consultation with the Department of State. Should       hostilities resume, we anticipate Israel will recommence its       military operations in Gaza in the near-term. In order to       effectively do so and ensure it is prepared for any other       attacks, it has an urgent and ongoing need for these defense       articles. The immediacy of the challenge at hand requires       overcoming the statutory 15-day Congressional Notification       timeline to expedite transfers to Israel.

(U) Further, over the 15 months between Hamas' October 7       attack and implementation of the ceasefire, Israel has faced       attacks from Hizballah in Lebanon, the Houthis in Yemen,       Iranian Aligned Militia Groups in Iraq and Syria, and two       direct ballistic attacks from Iran. With the resumption of       hostilities, such threats will likely increase and Israel       remains at urgent risk of extremists in Lebanon, Iraq, Syria,       and Yemen exploiting the resumption of hostilities.

(U) For the reasons cited above, an emergency exists       requiring immediate provision of these defense articles to       Israel in the national security interest of the United       States. These transfers, through Foreign Military Sales, will       provide Israel as soon as possible with defense articles that       are necessary to allow it to defend itself in its war with       Hamas as well as sending a strong, unwavering message that       the United States will stand by and support Israel as it       continues its fight against Hamas and other regional threats.       The Secretary of State, therefore, has certified an emergency       exists under sections 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control       Act, 22 U.S.C. 2776, thereby waiving the congressional review       requirement of that provision.                            Transmittal No. 24-38       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Israel.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment * $0.

Other $295 million.

Total $295 million.

Funding Source: Foreign Military Financing.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.

Non-MDE: D9R and D9T Caterpillar bulldozers; spare and       repair parts; corrosion protection; publications and       technical documentation; pre-delivery inspections; U.S.       Government and contractor support; technical and logistics       support services; storage; and other related elements of       logistics and program support.

(iv) Military Department: Army (IS-B-ZZX).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: IS-B-ZEU; IS-B-ZLT; IS-B-      ZYS.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: February 28,       2025.

*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export       Control Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION                     Israel--Caterpillar D9 Bulldozers

The Government of Israel has requested to buy D9R and D9T       Caterpillar bulldozers; spare and repair parts; corrosion       protection; publications and technical documentation; pre-      delivery inspections; U.S. Government and contractor support;       technical and logistics support services; storage; and other       related elements of logistics and program support. The       estimated total cost is $295 million.

The Secretary of State has determined and provided detailed       justification that an emergency exists that requires the       immediate sale to the Government of Israel of the above       defense articles (and defense services) in the national       security interests of the United States, thereby waiving the       Congressional review requirements under Section 36(b) of the       Arms Export Control Act, as amended.

The United States is committed to the security of Israel,       and it is vital to U.S. national interests to assist Israel       to develop and maintain a strong and ready self-defense       capability. This proposed sale is consistent with those       objectives.

The proposed sale will improve Israel's capability to meet       current and future threats by improving the ability of the       Israeli Ground Forces to defend Israel's borders, vital       infrastructure, and population centers. Israel will have no       difficulty absorbing this equipment into its Armed Forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractor will be Caterpillar Inc., located       in Irving, TX. At this time, the U.S. Government is not aware       of any offset agreement proposed in connection with this       potential sale. Any offset agreement will be defined in       negotiations between the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to Israel.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 25-0C       Report of Enhancement or Upgrade of Sensitivity of Technology           or Capability (Sec. 36(b)(5)(C), AECA)

(i) Purchaser: Government of Israel.

(ii) Sec. 36(b)(1), AECA Transmittal No.: 12-69; Date:       December 14, 2012; Implementing Agency: Air Force.

Funding Source: Foreign Military Financing.

(iii) Description: On December 14, 2012, Congress was       notified by congressional certification transmittal number       12-69 of the possible sale, under Section 36(b)(1) of the       Arms Export Control Act, of 6,900 Joint Direct Attack       Munitions (JDAM) tail kits (which include 3,450 JDAM Anti-Jam       KMU-556 (GBU-31) for MK-84 warheads; 1,725 KMU-557 (GBU-31)       for BLU-109 warheads and 1,725 KMU-572 (GBU-38) for MK-82       warheads); 3,450 MK-84 2000 lb General Purpose Bombs; 1,725       MK-82 500 lb General Purpose Bombs; 1,725 BLU-109 Bombs;       3,450 GBU-39 Small Diameter Bombs; 11,500 FMU-139 Fuses;       11,500 FMU-143 Fuses; and 11,500 FMU-152 Fuses. Also included       were spare and repair parts, support equipment, personnel       training and training equipment, publications and technical       documentation, U.S. Government and contractor engineering and       technical support, and other related elements of program       support. The estimated total cost was $647 million. Major       Defense Equipment (MDE) constituted $466 million of this       total.

On November 29, 2017, Congress was notified by       congressional certification transmittal number 0S-17 of the       supplemented description of JDAM tail kit component KMU-556       (GBU-31) for MK-84 warheads, KMU-557 (GBU-31) for BLU-109       warheads and KMU-572 (GBU-38) for MK-82 warheads as either C/      B or E/B variants (MDE items). The supplementation of this       information did not result in a change to the estimated MDE       cost of $466 million. The estimated total case value remained       at $647 million.

This transmittal notifies an increase in MDE value by $624       million and non-MDE value by $269 million, due to recent cost       increases. There are no additional MDE or non-MDE items being       reported with this notification. The estimated total case       value will increase by $893 million to $1.54 billion. MDE       will constitute $1.09 billion of this total.

(iv) Significance: Recent cost increases have brought about       the need to add value to the original notification. The       proposed value increase will improve Israel's capability to       meet current and future threats.

(v) Justification: The Secretary of State has determined       and certified that an emergency exists that requires the       immediate sale to Israel of the above defense articles and       defense services in the national security interests of the       United States, thereby waving the Congressional review       requirements under Section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control       Act, as amended. This proposed sale will support the foreign       policy goals and national security of the United States by       improving the security of a strategic regional partner that       is a force for political and economic stability in the Middle       East.

(vi) Sensitivity of Technology:

The Sensitivity of Technology Statement contained in the       original notification applies to items reported here.

The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

(vii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: February 28, 2025.                            Transmittal No. 25-26       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Israel.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment * $557.5 million.

Other $118.2 million.

Total $675.7 million.

Funding Source: Foreign Military Financing.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

Two hundred one (201) MK 83 MOD 4/MOD 5 General Purpose       1,000-pound bomb bodies.

Four thousand seven hundred ninety-nine (4,799) BLU-110A/B       General Purpose 1,000-pound bomb bodies.

One thousand five hundred (1,500) KMU-559C/B Joint Direct       Attack Munition (JDAM) guidance kits for the MK 83 bomb body.

Three thousand five hundred (3,500) KMU-559J/B JDAM       guidance kits for the MK 83 bomb body.

Non-Major Defense Equipment: The following non-MDE items       will also be included: U.S. Government and contractor       engineering, logistics, and technical support services; and       other related elements of logistics and program support.

(iv) Military Department: Navy (IS-P-AVH), Air Force (IS-D-      AFK).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: February 28,       2025.

*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION          Israel--Munitions, Guidance Kits, and Munitions Support

The Government of Israel has requested to buy two hundred       one (201) MK 83 MOD 4/MOD 5 General Purpose 1,000-pound bomb       bodies; four thousand seven hundred ninety-nine (4,799) BLU-      110A/B General Purpose 1,000-pound bomb bodies; one thousand       five hundred (1,500) KMU-559C/B Joint Direct Attack Munition       (JDAM) guidance kits for the MK 83 bomb body; three thousand       five hundred (3,500) KMU-559J/B JDAM guidance kits for the MK       83 bomb body. The following non-MDE items will also be       included: U.S. Government and contractor engineering,       logistics, and technical support services; and other related       elements of logistics and program support. The estimated       total cost is $675.7 million.

The Secretary of State has determined and provided detailed       justification that an emergency exists that requires the       immediate sale to the Government of Israel of the above       defense articles (and defense services) in the national       security interests of the United States, thereby waiving the       Congressional review requirements under Section 36(b) of the       Arms Export Control Act, as amended.

The United States is committed to the security of Israel,       and it is vital to U.S. national interests to assist Israel       to develop and maintain a strong and ready self-defense       capability. This proposed sale is consistent with those       objectives.

The proposed sale improves Israel's capability to meet       current and future threats, strengthen its homeland defense,       and serves as a deterrent to regional threats. Israel already       has these weapons in its inventory and will have no       difficulty absorbing this equipment into its Armed Forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractors will be Repkon USA, located in       Tampa, FL; and The Boeing Company, located in St. Charles,       MO. At this time, the U.S. Government is not aware of any       offset agreement proposed in connection with this potential       sale. Any offset agreement will be defined in negotiations       between the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to Israel.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 25-26       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The MK 83 MOD 4 and MK 83 MOD 5 are general purpose       1,000-pound bombs used by the United States Navy, Marine       Corps, and Air Force, as well as foreign partners. The MK 83       series is used for unguided delivery in either low or high       drag mode, or guided delivery when a guidance kit is       attached. It is designed for soft, fragment-sensitive targets       and is not intended for hard targets or penetrations.

2. The BLU-110 A/B is a general purpose 1,000-pound bomb       used by the United States Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force,       as well as foreign partners. The BLU-110 series is a 1,000-      pound warhead used for unguided delivery in either low or       high drag mode, or guided delivery when a guidance kit is       attached. It is designed for soft, fragment-sensitive targets       and is not intended for hard targets or penetrations.

3. KMU-559 Joint Direct-Attack Munitions (JDAM) tail kits       contain an Inertial Navigation System (INS)/Global       Positioning System (GPS) (using either Selective Availability       AntiSpoofing Module (SAASM) or M-code) guidance capability       that converts unguided free-fall bombs into accurate, adverse       weather ``smart'' munitions. The KMU-559 tail kit is paired       with a MK 83 class warhead to build a GBU-32 JDAM. The JDAM       weapon can be delivered from modest standoff ranges at high       or low altitudes against a variety of land and surface       targets during the day or night. The JDAM can receive target       coordinates via preplanned mission data from the delivery       aircraft, by onboard aircraft sensors (e.g., forward-looking       infrared, radar, etc.) during captive carry, or from a third-      party source via manual or automated aircrew cockpit entry.

4. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       UNCLASSIFIED.

5 . If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

6. A determination has been made that Israel can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This sale       is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and       national security objectives outlined in the Policy       Justification.

7. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Israel.                                   ____                             Transmittal No. 25-34       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Israel.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment * $1.90 billion.

Other $.14 billion.

Total $2.04 billion.

Funding Source: Foreign Military Financing and National       Funds.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

Thirty-five thousand five hundred twenty-nine (35,529) MK       84 or BLU-117 General Purpose (GP) bomb bodies, or a       combination of both.

Four thousand (4,000) I-2000 Penetrator warheads.

Non-MDE: The following non-MDE items will also be included:       spare parts, consumables, accessories, and repair and return       support; transportation support; U.S. Government and       contractor engineering, technical, and logistics support       services; and other related elements of logistics and program       support.

(iv) Military Department: Air Force (IS-D-ADC, IS-D-AHA).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: IS-D-ABX, IS-D-ACA, IS-D-      QFZ.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: February 28,       2025.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION                  Israel--Munitions and Munitions Support

The Government of Israel has requested to buy thirty-five       thousand five hundred twenty-nine (35,529) MK 84 or BLU-117       General Purpose (GP) bomb bodies, or a combination of both;       and four thousand (4,000) I-2000 Penetrator warheads. The       following non-MDE items will also be included: spare parts,       consumables, accessories, and repair and return support;       transportation support; U.S. Government and contractor       engineering, technical, and logistics support services; and       other related elements of logistics and program support. The       estimated total cost is $2.04 billion.

The Secretary of State has determined and provided detailed       justification that an emergency exists that requires the       immediate sale to the Government of Israel of the above       defense articles (and defense services) in the national       security interests of the United States, thereby waiving the       Congressional review requirements under Section 36(b) of the       Arms Export Control Act, as amended.

The United States is committed to the security of Israel,       and it is vital to U.S. national interests to assist Israel       to develop and maintain a strong and ready self-defense       capability. This proposed sale is consistent with those       objectives.

The proposed sale will improve Israel's capability to meet       current and future threats, strengthen its homeland defense,       and serve as a deterrent to regional threats. Israel will       have no difficulty absorbing this equipment into its Armed       Forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The prime contractors will be General Dynamics, located in       Garland, TX; Ellwood National Forge Company, located in       Irvine, PA; and McAlester Army Ammunition Plant, located in       McAlester, OK. There is a possibility that a portion of this       procurement will come from U.S. stock. At this time, the U.S.       Government is not aware of any offset agreement proposed in       connection with this potential sale. Any offset agreement       will be defined in negotiations between the purchaser and the       contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to Israel.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                                 Transmittal No. 25-34       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The MK 84 General Purpose (GP) bomb is a 2,000-pound,       free-fall, unguided, low-drag weapon. The MK-84 is designed       for soft, fragment sensitive targets and is not intended for       hard targets or penetrations. The explosive filling is       usually tritonal, though other compositions have sometimes       been used.

2. The BLU-109 bomb is a 2,000-pound, free-fall, unguided,       low-drag, hard target penetration warhead designed to       penetrate hardened structures before detonating.

3. The BLU-117 GP bomb is a 2,000-pound, free-fall,       unguided, high and low-drag weapon equivalent to the MK-84       but slightly differs in explosive filler or manufacturer       details.

4. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

5. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

6. A determination has been made that Israel can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This sale       is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and       national security objectives outlined in the Policy       Justification.

7. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Israel.