Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692629/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-44,       concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Italy for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $211 million. We will issue a       news release to notify the public of this proposed sale upon       delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                            TRANSMITTAL NO. 25-44       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Italy

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment * $188 million.

Other $23 million.

Total $211 million.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

Thirty (30) AIM-120D-3 Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air       Missiles (AMRAAM).

Forty (40) AIM-120C-8 AMRAAMs.

Two (2) AIM-120C-7 AMRAAM guidance sections.

Non-Major Defense Equipment: The following non-MDE items       will also be included: AMRAAM control section spares and       containers; spare and repair parts, consumables, accessories,       and repair and return support; weapon system support and       software; classified software delivery and support;       classified publications and technical documentation;       personnel training and training equipment; U.S. government       and contractor engineering, technical, and logistical support       services; and other related elements of logistics and program       support.

(iv) Military Department: Air Force (IT-D-YAE).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: IT-D-YAD.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: June 16, 2025.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export       Control Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION              Italy--Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missiles

The Government of Italy has requested to buy thirty (30)       AIM-120D-3 Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missiles       (AMRAAM), forty (40) AIM-120C-8 AMRAAMs, and two (2) AIM-      120C-7 AMRAAM guidance sections. The following non-MDE items       will also be included: AMRAAM control section spares and       containers; spare and repair parts, consumables, accessories,       and repair and return support; weapon system support and       software; classified and unclassified software delivery and       support; classified and unclassified publications and       technical documentation; personnel training and training       equipment; U.S. government and contractor engineering,       technical, and logistical support services; and other related       elements of logistics and program support. The estimated       total cost is $211 million.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy goals       and national security objectives of the United States by       improving the security of a NATO Ally that is a force for       political stability and economic progress in Europe.

The proposed sale will improve Italy's capability to meet       current and future threats by ensuring Italy has modern,       capable air-to-air munitions. It will also advance United       States interoperability with NATO and the Italian Armed       Forces. Italy already has AMRAAMs in its inventory and will       have no difficulty absorbing this equipment into its armed       forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractor will be RTX Corporation, located       in Tucson, AZ. At this time, the U.S. government is not aware       of any offset agreement proposed in connection with this       potential sale. Any offset agreement will be defined in       negotiations between the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. government or contractor       representatives to Italy.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            TRANSMITTAL NO. 25-44       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The AIM-120D-3 series Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air       Missile (AMRAAM) is a supersonic, air-launched, aerial       intercept guided missile featuring digital technology and       micro-miniature solid-state electronics. AMRAAM capabilities       include look-down/shoot-down, multiple launches against       multiple targets, resistance to electronic countermeasures,       and interception of high and low-flying and maneuvering       targets. The AIM-120D-3 features a quadrangle target       detection device and an electronics unit within the guidance       section that performs all radar signal processing, mid-course       and terminal guidance, flight control, target detection, and       warhead detonation.

2. AIM-120C-8 AMRAAM is a supersonic, air launched, aerial       intercept, guided missile featuring digital technology and       micro-miniature solid-state electronics. AMRAAM capabilities       include look-down/shoot-down. multiple launches against       multiple targets, resistance to electronic countermeasures,       and interception of high and low-flying and maneuvering       targets.

3. This potential sale will include AMRAAM guidance and       control section spares.

4. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

5. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

6. A determination has been made that Italy can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. government. This sale       is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and       national security objectives outlined in the Policy       Justification.

7. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Italy.