Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689947/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(5)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA),       as amended, we are forwarding Transmittal No. 0A-25. This       notification relates to enhancements or upgrades from the       level of sensitivity of technology or capability described in       the Section 36(b)(1) AECA certification 20-83 of November 3,       2020.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosure.                            Transmittal No. 0A-25       Report of Enhancement or Upgrade of Sensitivity of Technology           or Capability (Sec. 36(b)(5)(A), AECA)

(i) Purchaser: Government of Romania

(ii) Sec. 36(B)(5)(A), AECA Transmittal No: 20-83; Date:       November 3, 2020; Implementing Agency: Air Force.

(iii) Description: On November 3, 2020, Congress was       notified by congressional certification transmittal number       20-83 of the possible sale, under Section 36(b)(1) of the       Arms Export Control Act, of upgrades to the avionics,       software, communication equipment, navigational aids, and       cockpit of its Mid-Life Update (MLU) Block 15 F-16 aircraft       fleet along with additional logistics support. Included in       the aircraft modernization were eight (8) LN-260 Global       Positioning System (GPS) and nineteen (19) Multifunctional       Information Distribution System Joint Tactical Radio Systems       (MIDS JTRS). Also included were AN/APX-126 Advanced       Identification Friend or Foe (IFF); ARC-210 Radios; KIV-78       Cryptographic Appliques; other secure communications,       navigation, and encryption devices; Joint Mission Planning       System (JMPS) software; aircraft minor modification,       integration and test support, support equipment, software and       software support; personnel training; spare and repair parts;       publications and technical documentation; U.S. Government and       contractor engineering, technical and logistical support       services; and other related elements of logistical and       program support. The estimated total cost was $175.4 million.       Major Defense Equipment (MDE) constituted $12.1 million of       this total.

This transmittal reports the inclusion of the following       additional MDE items: thirty-five (35) Multifunctional       Information Distribution System Joint Tactical Radio Systems       Variant 5 (MIDS JTRS V5). Also included is additional non-MDE       aircraft minor modification; integration and test support;       support equipment; software and software support; personnel       training; spare and repair parts; publications and technical       documentation; U.S. Government and contractor engineering,       technical, and logistics support services; and other related       elements of logistics and program support. The estimated       total value of the new items is $13.4 million. The estimated       MDE value increases by 89.8 million to a revised $21.9       million. The estimated non-MDE value increases by $3.6       million to a revised $166.9 million. The estimated total case       value increases by $13.4 million, resulting in a total case       value of $188.8 million.

(iv) Significance: This notification is being provided       because the additional MDE items were not enumerated in the       original notification. The inclusion of this MDE represents       an increase in capability over what was previously notified.       The proposed sale will improve Romania's capability to meet       current and future threats by upgrading its avionics to meet       interoperability requirements for encrypted communications       systems used by NATO forces.

(v) Justification: This proposed sale will support the       foreign policy goals and national security objectives of the       United States by improving the security of a NATO Ally that       is a force for political stability and economic progress in       Europe.

(vi) Sensitivity of Technology:

The Sensitivity of Technology Statement contained in the       original notification applies to items reported here.

The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

(vii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: April 9, 2025.