Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701394/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Congressional Notification Transmittal Letter

Please find enclosed the following notification from the       Department of State.

Department Notification Number: RSAT 26-21

Pursuant to the reporting requirements of Section 36(b)(1)       of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA), as amended, we are       forwarding Transmittal No. 26-21 concerning the Army's       proposed Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Government       of Belgium for defense articles and services estimated to       cost $156.1 million. We will issue a news release to notify       the public of this proposed sale upon delivery of this letter       to your office.

Recipients:

Speaker of the House of Representatives

House Committee on Foreign Affairs

Senate Committee on Foreign Relations            Sincerely,                                            Paul D. Guaglianone,                                             Senior Bureau Official,                                     Bureau of Legislative Affairs.                            Transmittal No. 26-21       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) (U) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Belgium

(ii) (U) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment * $0 million.

Other $156.1 million.

Total $156.1 million.

(iii) (U) Description and Quantity or Quantities of       Articles or Services under Consideration for Purchase:       Foreign Military Sales case BE-B-WDQ was below congressional       notification threshold at $86.95 million ($0 in major defense       equipment (MDE)) and included AN/PRC-117G radios; AN/PRC-152A       radios; AN-PRC-160 radios; AN/PRC-158 radios; and AN/PRC-163       radios. The Government of Belgium has requested that the case       be amended to include additional non-MDE items. This       amendment will cause the case to exceed the notification       threshold, and thus notification of the entire program is       required. The above notification requirements are combined as       follows:

MDE: None

Non-MDE: The following non-MDE items will be included: AN/      PRC-117G radios; AN/PRC-152A radios: AN-PRC-160 radios; AN/      PRC-158 radios; AN/PRC-163 radios, AN/PRC-167 radios; KIK-11       tactical key loader, AN/PRC-117G accessories, dismount kit,       vehicular integration, and batteries; AN/PRC-152A       accessories, dismount kit, and vehicular integration; AN/PRC-      158 accessories, dismount kit, vehicular integration, and       training; AN/PRC-160 accessories, dismount kit, vehicular       integration, batteries, and training; AN/PRC-163 ancillaries,       batteries, and dismount accessories; AN/PRC-167 ancillaries,       batteries, and dismount accessories; RF-9820S radio and       dismount accessories; radio specific audio, power, and       configuration accessories; U.S. government and contractor       technical engineering, logistics, and personnel services; and       other related elements of logistics and program support.

(iv) (U) Military Department: Army (BE-B-WDQ).

(v) (U) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) (U) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or       Agreed to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) (U) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the       Defense Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See       Attached Annex.

(viii) (U) Date Report Delivered to Congress: March 24,       2026.

*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION

(U) Belgium--Communications Equipment

(U) The Government of Belgium has requested to buy       additional AN/PRC-163 radios; AN/PRC-167 radios; AN/PRC-160       radios; KIK-11 tactical key loader, AN/PRC-117G accessories,       dismount kit, vehicular integration, and batteries; AN/PRC       152A accessories, dismount kit, and vehicular integration;       AN/PRC-158 accessories, dismount kit, vehicular integration,       and training; AN/PRC-160 accessories, dismount kit, vehicular       integration, batteries, and training; AN/PRC-163 ancillaries,       batteries, and dismount accessories; AN/PRC-167 ancillaries,       batteries, and dismount accessories; RF-9820S radio and       dismount accessories; radio specific audio, power, and       configuration accessories; U.S. government and contractor       technical engineering, logistics, and personnel services; and       other related elements of logistics and program support that       will be added to a previously implemented case whose value       was under the congressional notification threshold. The       original Foreign Military Sales case, valued at $86.95       million, included the following non-major defense equipment       items: AN/PRC 117G radios; AN/PRC-152A radios; AN-PRC-160       radios; AN/PRC-158 radios; and AN/PRC-163 radios. The       estimated total cost is $156.1 million.

(U) This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security objectives of the United States by       improving the security of a NATO Ally which is an important       force for political stability and economic progress in       Europe.

(U) The proposed sale will enable the Belgium Army to       communicate across moderate to extended distances using       encryption that       prevents interception. The proposed sale will support its       goal of improving national and territorial defense, as well       as interoperability with U.S. and NATO forces. Belgium will       have no difficulty absorbing this equipment into its armed       forces.

(U) The proposed sale of this equipment and support will       not alter the basic military balance in the region.

(U) The principal contractor will be L3 Harris, located in       Melbourne, FL. At this time, the U.S. Government is not aware       of any offset agreement proposed in connection with this       potential sale. Any offset agreement will be defined in       negotiations between the purchaser and the contractor.

(U) Implementation of this proposed sale will not require       the assignment of any additional U.S. Government or       contractor representatives to Belgium.

(U) There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense       readiness as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 26-21       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. (U) The AN/PRC-163 multi-channel handheld radio is a       versatile, secure solution that leverages crossbanding to       provide simultaneous data and voice across satellite       communications (SATCOM), line-of-sight, and mobile ad-hoc       networking modes. As mission needs evolve, this software-      defined handheld supports fast, infield updates to new       capabilities. An external mission module hardware interface       allows warfighters to quickly add options including       intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance video and       SATCOM. The radio supports U.S. Type-1 security and includes       an embedded selective availability anti-spoofing module       (SAASM) global positioning system (GPS) receiver for accurate       timing and location information.

2. (U) The AN/PRC-167 is a multi-domain, multi-channel       tactical narrow, and wide-band dual transceiver radio system       providing Type-1 encryption and SAASM GPS location and timing       capabilities. The system can provide wide-band high-assurance       self-healing networking capabilities and mobile user       objective system over-the-horizon capabilities. Each       transceiver is software-programmable and operates in the 30-5       12 megahertz and 764-2600 megahertz frequency ranges. The       system can operate using the following waveforms: narrow-band       analog/PCM AM/FM, CVSD ASK/FSK cipher text, wideband 2400 bps       and LPC/2400 MELP--SATCOM.

3. (U) The AN/PRC-158 is a very high frequency (VHF)/ultra-      high frequency multiband multi-channel (dual channel) radio.       It is a portable, compact, tactical software-defined combat-      net radio manufactured by L3/Harris Corporation. The AN/PRC-      158 includes Type-1 encryption and a SAASM GPS receiver. The       AN/PRC-158 has been fielded since 2005 by the U.S. Army, the       U.S. Marine Corps, and various select countries.

4. (U) The AN/PRC-160 radio is a tactical wideband high       frequency (HF)/VHF transceiver providing Type-1 encryption       and SAASM GPS location and timing capabilities. The system       provides continuous frequency coverage from 1.5 to 60       megahertz. The manpack version provides 20 watts HF and 10       watts VHF and transmits power from a single battery. The       system transmits in bandwidths from 3 kilohertz to 24       kilohertz with data rates up to 120 kilobytes per second. The       software programmable system can operate using NATO standard       2G, 3G, and 4(J automatic link establishment waveforms and is       compatible with AM single sideband and CW modes.

5. (U) The AN/PRC-117G is an advanced, software-defined       multiband radio designed to provide secure voice, data, and       video communication for U.S. military and allied forces. It       supports a wide range of waveforms, including SATCOM, single       channel ground and airborne radio system (SINCGARS), and       wideband networking waveforms like ANW2C, enabling reliable       communication in both line-of-sight and beyond-line-of-sight       scenarios. With National Security Agency-certified Type-1       encryption, the AN/PRC-117G ensures secure communication in       contested environments and seamless interoperability across       tactical networks. The system includes an embedded SAASM GPS       receiver for accurate timing and location information.

6. (U) The AN/PRC-152A is a lightweight, handheld,       software-defined radio that provides secure, multiband       communication for tactical operations. It supports a variety       of waveforms, including SATCOM, SINCGARS, and TrellisWare       Secure Mobile, enabling simultaneous voice, data, and       networking capabilities. With NSA-certified Type-1       encryption, the AN/PRC-152A ensures secure and reliable       communication in dynamic and contested environments. Its       interoperability with other tactical systems makes it a vital       tool for modern military operations.

7. (U) The KIK-11 tactical key loader is a lightweight       software-programmable crypto key loader capable of storing 40       keys in 12 slots. It supports current U.S. Type-1 keys and       SINCGARS load sets. As a Type-1 Cryptographic Controlled       Item, the KIK-11 requires strict export controls and access       restrictions to prevent unauthorized disclosure of sensitive       classified crypto keys.

8. (U) The highest level of classification of defense       articles, components, and services included in this potential       sale is UNCLASSIFIED.

9. (U) if a technologically advanced adversary were to       obtain knowledge of the specific hardware and software       elements, the information could be used to develop       countermeasures that might reduce system effectiveness or be       used in the development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

10. (U) A determination has been made that Belgium can       provide substantially the same degree of protection for the       sensitive technology being released as the U.S. Government.       This proposed sale is necessary in furtherance of the U.S.       foreign policy and national security objectives outlined in       the Policy Justification.

11. (U) All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Belgium.