Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695866/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-81,       concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Germany for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $1.23 billion. We will issue a       news release to notify the public of this proposed sale upon       delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 25-81       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Germany.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment * $1.10 billion.

Other $0.13 billion.

Total $1.23 billion.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

Up to four hundred (400) AIM-120D-3 Advanced Medium Range       Air-to-Air Missiles (AMRAAM).

Up to 12 twelve (12) AIM-120D-3 AMRAAM guidance sections,       including precise positioning provided by either Selective       Availability Anti-Spoofing Module or M-Code.

One (1) AIM-120 AMRAAM Integrated Test Vehicle.

Non-Major Defense Equipment: The following non-MDE items       will also be included: AMRAAM telemetry kits, control       sections, containers, and support equipment; ADU-891 Adaptor       Group Test Sets; KGV-135 A encryption devices; spare parts,       consumables and accessories, and repair and return support;       weapons system support and software; classified and       unclassified software delivery and support; classified and       unclassified publications and technical documentation;       personnel training and training equipment; U.S. Government       and contractor engineering, technical, and logistics support       services; and other related elements of logistics and program       support.

(iv) Military Department: Air Force (GY-D-YAM).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: September 25,       2025.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             Policy Justification

Germany-AIM-120D-3 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles

The Govemment of Germany has requested to buy up to four       hundred (400) AIM-120D-3 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air       Missiles (AMRAAM); up to twelve (12) AIM-120D-3 AMRAAM       guidance sections, including precise positioning provided by       either Selective Availability Anti-Spoofing Module or M-       Code; and one (1) AIM-120 AMRAAM Integrated Test Vehicle. The       following non-Major Defense Equipment items will also be       included: AMRAAM telemetry kits, control sections,       containers, and support equipment; ADU-891 Adaptor Group Test       sets; KGV- 135 A encryption devices; spare parts, consumables       and accessories, and repair and return support; weapons       system support and software; classified and unclassified       software delivery and support; classified and unclassified       publications and technical documentation; personnel training       and training equipment; U.S. Government and contractor       engineering, technical, and logistics support services; and       other related elements of logistics and program support. The       estimated total cost is $1.23 billion.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy goals       and national security objectives of the United States by       improving the security of a NATO Ally that is a force for       political stability and economic progress in Europe.

The proposed sale will improve Germany's capability to meet       current and future threats by providing increased air-to-air       capability for the German F-35 program and supporting German       and shared NATO planning, training, and operational       requirements. Germany will have no difficulty absorbing these       articles into its armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractor will be RTX Corporation, located       in Arlington, VA. At this time, the U.S. Government is not       aware of any offset agreement proposed in connection with       this potential sale. Any offset agreement will be defined by       in negotiations between the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to Germany.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 25-81       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The AIM-120D-series Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air       Missile (AMRAAM) is a supersonic, air-launched, aerial       intercept guided missile featuring digital technology and       microminiature, solid-state electronics. AMRAAM capabilities       include look-down/shoot-down, multiple launches against       multiple targets, resistance to electronic countermeasures,       and interception of high- and low-flying and maneuvering       targets. The AIM-120D features a quadrangle target detection       device and an electronics unit within the guidance section       that performs all radar signal processing, mid-course and       terminal guidance, flight control, target detection, and       warhead detonation. Precise positioning will be provided by       either Selective Availability Anti-Spoofing Module or M-Code.       This potential sale will include an AMRAAM Integrated Test       Vehicle and guidance and control sections.

2. The ADU-891 Adapter Group Test Set provides the physical       and electrical interface between the Common Munitions Built-      in-Test Reprogramming Equipment (CMBRE) and the missile.

3. The KGV-135 A is a high-speed, general purpose       encryptor/decryptor module used for wideband data encryption.

4. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

5. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

6. A determination has been made that Germany can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This sale       is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and       national security objectives outlined in the Policy       Justification.

7. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Germany.