Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693349/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-59,       concerning the Navy's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Israel for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $510 million. We will issue a       news release to notify the public of this proposed sale upon       delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures                            transmittal no. 25-59       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Israel.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment* $500 million.

Other $ 10 million.

Total $510 million.

Funding Source: Foreign Military Financing

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

Three thousand eight hundred forty-five (3,845) KMU-558B/B       Joint Direct Attack Munition (JDAM) guidance kits for the       BLU-109 bomb body.

Three thousand two hundred eighty (3,280) KMU-572 F/B JDAM       guidance kits for the MK 82 bomb body.

Non-Major Defense Equipment: The following non-MDE items       will also be included: U.S. government and contractor       engineering, logistics, and technical support services; and       other related elements of logistics and program support.

(iv) Military Department: Navy (IS-P-AVR).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: June 30, 2025.

*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             policy justification           Israel--Munitions Guidance Kits and Munitions Support

The Government of Israel has requested to buy three       thousand eight hundred forty-five (3,845) KMU-558B/B Joint       Direct Attack Munition (JDAM) guidance kits for the BLU-109       bomb body and three thousand two hundred eighty (3,280) KMU-      572 F/B JDAM guidance kits for the MK 82 bomb body. The       following non-MDE items will also be included: U.S.       government and contractor engineering, logistics, and       technical support services; and other related elements of       logistics and program support. The estimated total cost is       $510 million.

The United States is committed to the security of Israel,       and it is vital to U.S. national interests to assist Israel       to develop and maintain a strong and ready self-defense       capability. This proposed sale is consistent with those       objectives.

The proposed sale will enhance Israel's capability to meet       current and future threats by improving its ability to defend       Israel's borders, vital infrastructure, and population       centers. This proposed sale will increase the       interoperability with U.S. forces and conveys U.S. commitment       to Israel's security and armed forces modernization. Israel       will have no difficulty absorbing this equipment into its       armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractor will be The Boeing Company,       located in St. Charles, MO. Part of the JDAM guidance kit       requirement may be transferred from U.S. government stock. At       this time, the U.S. government is not aware of any offset       agreement proposed in connection with this potential sale.       Any offset agreement will be defined in negotiations between       the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. government or contractor       representatives to Israel.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            transmittal no. 25-59       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. Joint Direct-Attack Munitions (JDAM) consist of a bomb       body paired with a warhead-specific guidance kit containing       an Inertial Navigation System (INS)/Global Positioning System       (GPS) guidance capability with Selective Availability Anti-      Spoofing Module (SAASM) or M-Code that converts unguided       free-fall bombs into accurate, adverse weather ``smart''       munitions. The JDAM weapon can be delivered from modest       standoff ranges at high or low altitudes against a variety of       land and surface targets during the day or night. The JDAM       can receive target coordinates via preplanned mission data       from the delivery aircraft, by onboard aircraft sensors       (e.g., forward-looking infrared, radar) during captive carry,       or from a third-party source via manual or automated aircrew       cockpit entry.

a. The KMU-558 guidance kit is paired with a BLU-109 class       warhead to assemble a GBU-31 JDAM.

b. The KMU-572 guidance kit is paired with a MK 82 class       warhead to assemble a GBU-38 JDAM.

2. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       UNCLASSIFIED.

3. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

4. A determination has been made that Israel can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This sale       is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and       national security objectives outlined in the Policy       Justification.

5. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Israel.