Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692048/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-43.       concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Estonia for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $296 million. We will issue a       news release to notify the public of this proposed sale upon       delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                            transmittal no. 25-43       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Estonia.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment* $256 million.

Other $40 million.

Total $296 million.

Funding Source: National Funds.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase: Foreign Military       Sales (FMS) case EN-B-UFJ was below the congressional       notification threshold at $10.18 million ($3.1 million in       MDE) and included twelve (12) Javelin Lightweight Command       Launch Units (LwCLUs); LwCLU Basic Skills Trainers; Javelin       missile simulation rounds; Battery Coolant Units; spare       parts; tool kits and support equipment; equipment training;       U.S. Government and contractor technical assistance and       services; engineering services; and related elements of       logistics and program support. The Government of Estonia has       requested the case be amended to include eight hundred (800)       FGM-148F Javelin missiles (including 8 fly-to-buy missiles)       and an additional seventy-two (72) LwCLUs. This amendment       will push the current case above the MDE notification       threshold and thus notification of the entire case is       required. The above notification requirements are combined as       follows:

Major Defense Equipment:

Eight hundred (800) FGM-148F Javelin missiles (including 8       fly-to-buy missiles).

Eighty-four (84) Javelin Lightweight Command Launch Units       (LwCLU).

Non-Major Defense Equipment: The following non-MDE items       will also be included: LwCLU Basic Skills Trainers; Javelin       missile simulation rounds; Battery Coolant Units; spare       parts; tool kits and support equipment; equipment training;       U.S. Government and contractor technical assistance and       services; engineering services; and related elements of       logistics and program support.

(iv) Military Department: Army (EN-B-UFJ).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: May 22, 2025.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export       Control Act.                             policy justification                         Estonia--Javelin Missiles

The Government of Estonia has requested to buy eight       hundred (800) FGM-148F Javelin missiles (including 8 fly-to-      buy missiles) and an additional seventy-two (72) Javelin       Lightweight Command Launch Units (LwCLUs) that will be added       to a previously implemented case whose value was under the       congressional notification threshold. The original Foreign       Military Sales (FMS) case, valued at $10.18 million ($3.1       million in MDE), included twelve (12) LwCLUs; LwCLU Basic       Skills Trainers; Javelin missile simulation rounds; Battery       Coolant Units; spare parts; tool kits and support equipment;       equipment training; U.S. Government and contractor technical       assistance and services; engineering services; and related       elements of logistics and program support. This notification       is for a combined eight hundred (800) FGM-148F Javelin       missiles (including 8 fly-to-buy missiles) and eighty-four       (84) LwCLUs. The following nonMDE items will also be       included: LwCLU Basic Skills Trainers; Javelin missile       simulation rounds; Battery Coolant Units; spare parts; tool       kits and support equipment; equipment training; U.S.       Government and contractor technical assistance and services;       engineering services; and related elements of logistics and       program support. The estimated total program cost is $296       million.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security of the United States by improving the       security of a NATO Ally that continues to be an important       force for political stability and economic progress in       Europe. This sale is consistent with U.S. initiatives to       provide key allies in the region with modern systems that       will enhance interoperability with U.S. forces and increase       security.

The proposed sale will enhance Estonia's capability to meet       current and future threats by providing a credible force that       is capable of deterring adversaries and participating in NATO       operations. The proposed sale will support its goal of       improving national and territorial defense as well as       interoperability with U.S. and NATO forces. Estonia will have       no difficulty absorbing this equipment into its armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractors will be the Javelin Joint Venture       between RTX Corporation, located in Tucson, AZ, and Lockheed       Martin, located in Orlando, FL. At this time, the U.S.       Government is not aware of any offset agreement proposed in       connection with this potential sale. Any offset agreement       will be defined in negotiations between the purchaser and the       contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to Estonia.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            transmittal no. 25-43       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The Javelin Weapon System is a medium-range, man       portable, shoulder-launched, fire and forget, anti-tank       system for infantry, scouts, and combat engineers. It may       also be mounted on a variety of platforms including vehicles,       aircraft, and watercraft. The system weighs 49.5 pounds and       has a maximum range in excess of 2,500 meters. The system is       highly lethal against tanks and other systems with       conventional and reactive armors. The system possesses a       secondary capability against bunkers.

2. Javelin's key technical feature is the use of fire-and-      forget technology which allows the gunner to fire and       immediately relocate or take cover. Additional special       features are the top attack and direct fire modes, an       advanced tandem warhead and imaging infrared seeker, target       lock-on before launch, and soft launch from enclosures or       covered fighting positions. The Javelin missile also has a       minimum smoke motor thus decreasing the likelihood of its       detection on the battlefield.

3. The Javelin Weapon System is comprised of two major       tactical components, which are a reusable Lightweight Command       Launch Unit (LwCLU) and a round contained in a disposable       launch tube assembly. The LwCLU incorporates an integrated       day-night sight that provides a target engagement capability       in adverse weather and countermeasure environments. The LwCLU       may also be used in a stand-alone mode for battlefield       surveillance and target detection. The LwCLU's thermal sight       is a 3rd generation Forward Looking Infrared sensor. To       facilitate initial loading and subsequent updating of       software, all on-board missile software is uploaded via the       LwCLU after mating and prior to launch.

4. The missile is autonomously guided to the target using       an imaging infrared seeker and adaptive correlation tracking       algorithms. This allows the gunner to take cover or reload       and engage another target after firing a missile. The missile       has an advanced tandem warhead and can be used in either the       top attack or direct fire modes. An onboard flight computer       guides the missile to the selected target.

5. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

6. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

7. A determination has been made that Estonia can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This sale       is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and       national security objectives outlined in the Policy       Justification.

8. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Estonia.