Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695757/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-72,       concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of the Netherlands for defense       articles and services estimated to cost $570 million. We will       issue a news release to notify the public of this proposed       sale upon delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely.                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                            transmittal no. 25-72       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of the Netherlands.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment* $535 million.

Other $35 million.

Total $570 million.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

Up to two hundred thirty-two (232) AIM-120C-8 Advanced       Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles (AMRAAM).

Up to eight (8) AIM-120C-8 AMRAAM guidance sections.

Non-Major Defense Equipment: The following non-MDE items       will also be included: AMRAAM control section spares, Captive       Air Training Missiles and missile containers; spare parts,       consumables and accessories, and repair and return support;       weapon system support and software; classified software       delivery and support; classified and unclassified       publications and technical documentation; personnel training       and training equipment; transportation support; U.S.       Government and contractor engineering, technical, and       logistics support services; and other related elements of       logistics and program support.

(iv) Military Department: Air Force (NE-D-YAL).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: NE-D-YAE; NE-D-YAG.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: September 16,       2025.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export       Control Act.                             policy justification   The Netherlands--AIM-120C-8 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles

The Government of the Netherlands has requested to buy up       to two hundred thirty-two (232) AIM-120C-8 Advanced Medium       Range Air-to-Air Missiles (AMRAAM) and up to eight (8) AIM-      120C-8 AMRAAM guidance sections. The following non-Major       Defense Equipment items will be included: AMRAAM control       section spares, Captive Air Training Missiles, and missile       containers; spare parts, consumables and accessories, and       repair and return support; weapon system support and       software; classified software delivery and support;       classified and unclassified publications and technical       documentation; personnel training and training equipment;       transportation support; U.S. Government and contractor       engineering, technical, and logistics support services; and       other related elements of logistics and program support. The       estimated total cost is $570 million.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy goals       and national security objectives of the United States by       improving the security of a NATO Ally that is a force for       political stability and economic progress in Europe.

The proposed sale will improve the Netherlands capability       to meet current and future threats by ensuring it has modern,       capable air-to-air munitions. The Netherlands already has       AMRAAMs in its inventory and will have no difficulty       absorbing these articles into its armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractor will be RTX Corporation, located       in Arlington, VA. At this time, the U.S. Government is not       aware of any offset agreement proposed in connection with       this potential sale. Any offset agreement will be defined in       negotiations between the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to the Netherlands.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            transmittal no. 25-72       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The AIM-120C-8 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile       (AMRAAM) is a supersonic, air- or surface-launched, aerial       intercept guided missile featuring digital technology and       micro-miniature, solid-state electronics. AMRAAM capabilities       include look-down/shoot-down, multiple launches against       multiple targets, resistance to electronic countermeasures,       and interception of high- and low-flying and maneuvering       targets. This potential sale will include Captive Air       Training Missiles, and AMRAAM guidance sections, control       sections, and containers.

2. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

3. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

4. A determination has been made that the Netherlands can       provide substantially the same degree of protection for the       sensitive technology being released as the U.S. Government.       This sale is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign       policy and national security objectives outlined in the       Policy Justification.

5. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of the Netherlands.