Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700586/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Department of State,                                                     Washington, DC.                CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION TRANSMITTAL LETTER

Please find enclosed the following notification from the       Department of State.

Department Notification Number: RSAT 26-23.

Pursuant to the reporting requirements of Section 36(b)(1)       of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA), as amended, we are       forwarding Transmittal No. 26-23 concerning the Army's       proposed Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Government       of Jordan for defense articles and services estimated to cost       $280 million. We will issue a news release to notify the       public of this proposed sale upon delivery of this letter to       your office.

Recipients:

Speaker of the House of Representatives

House Committee on Foreign Affairs

Senate Committee on Foreign Relations            Sincerely,                                            Paul D. Guaglianone,                                             Senior Bureau Official,                                     Bureau of Legislative Affairs.                DEPARTMENT OF STATE TRANSMITTAL NO. RSAT 26-23       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

(i) (U) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Jordan.

(ii) (U) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment * $0.

Other $280 million.

Total $280 million.

Funding Source: Foreign Military Financing (FMF).

(iii) (U) Description and Quantity or Quantities of       Articles or Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

None.

Non-MDE:

The following non-MDE items will be included: Ku band       multi-function radio frequency system radar and command and       control system; generators; global positioning system       receivers; spare and repair parts; special tools and test       equipment; technical manuals and publications; training       devices; new equipment training; U.S. Government and       contractor technical, engineering, and logistics personnel       services; concurrent spare parts, systems integration, and       checkout support; field service representative support;       contractor logistics support; program management reviews; and       other related elements of logistics and program support.

(iv) (U) Military Department: Army (JO-B-YFX).

(v) (U) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) (U) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or       Agreed to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) (U) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the       Defense Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See       Attached Annex.

(viii) (U) Date Report Delivered to Congress: February 26,       2026.

*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export       Control Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION

(U) Jordan--Ku band multi-function radio frequency system       (KuMRFS) radars

(U) The Government of Jordan has requested to buy KuMRFS       radars and command and control system; generators; global       positioning system receivers; spare and repair parts; special       tools and test equipment; technical manuals and publications;       training devices; new equipment training; U.S. Government and       contractor technical, engineering, and logistics personnel       services; concurrent spare parts, systems integration, and       checkout support; field service representative support;       contractor logistics support; program management reviews; and       other related elements of logistics and program support. The       estimated total cost is $280 million.

(U) This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security objectives of the United States by helping       to improve the security of a Major Non-NATO Ally that is an       important force for political stability and economic progress       in the Middle East.

(U) The proposed sale will improve Jordan's capability to       meet current and future threats by sustaining a credible       force that can deter adversaries and participate in CENTCOM       operations. Jordan will have no difficulty absorbing these       articles into its armed forces.

(U) The proposed sale of this equipment and support will       not alter the basic military balance in the region.

(U) The principal contractor will be RTX Missile Defense       Technologies, located in Tucson, AZ. At this time, the U.S.       Government is not aware of any offset agreement proposed in       connection with this potential sale. Any offset agreement       will be defined in negotiations between the purchaser and the       contractor.

(U) Implementation of this proposed sale will require the       temporary assignment of thirteen U.S. Government and twenty-      four contractor representatives to Jordan for a duration of       up to five years to support fielding, training, and       sustainment activities.

(U) There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense       readiness as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 26-23       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. (U) The Ku band multi-function radio frequency system       (KuMRFS) is a multi-function radar. The radar is capable of       providing simultaneous counter-unmanned aircraft systems and       counter-rocket, artillery, and mortar air surveillance, and       effector support missions. The system leverages M-code global       positioning system technology ensuring secure and precise       navigation and timing. KuMRFS radar provides three-      dimensional target location data enhancing situational       awareness for command-and-control systems.

2. (U) The highest level of classification of defense       articles, components, and services included in this potential       sale is SECRET.

3. (U) If a technologically advanced adversary were to       obtain knowledge of the specific hardware and software       elements, the information could be used to develop       countermeasures that might reduce system effectiveness or be       used in the development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

4. (U) A determination has been made that Jordan can       provide substantially the same degree of protection for the       sensitive technology being released as the U.S. Government.       This proposed sale is necessary in furtherance of the U.S.       foreign policy and national security objectives outlined in       the Policy Justification.

5. (U) All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Jordan.