Arms Sales Notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-76,       concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Canada for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $1.75 billion. We will issue a       news release to notify the public of this proposed sale upon       delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                   Mary Beth Morgan                                 (For Michael F. Miller, Director).

Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 25-76

Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to Section            36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as Amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Canada.

(ii) Total Case Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment* $1.58 billion.

Other $170 million.

Total $1.75 billion.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

Twenty-six (26) M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems       (HIMARS).

One hundred thirty-two (132) M31A2 Guided Multiple Launch       Rocket System (GMLRS) Unitary pods with Insensitive Munitions       Propulsion System (IMPS).

One hundred thirty-two (132) M30A2 GMLRS Alternative       Warhead (AW) pods with IMPS.

Thirty-two (32) M403 Extended Range (ER) GMLRS AW pods with       IMPS.

Thirty-two (32) M404 ER GMLRS Unitary pods with IMPS.

Sixty-four (64) M57 Army Tactical Missile System (ATACMS)       pods.

Non-Major Defense Equipment: The following non-MDE items       will also be included: Low Cost Reduced Range Practice Rocket       pods; interactive electronic technical manuals; integration       support services; spare parts; tool kits; test equipment;       contractor logistics support; training; training equipment;       technical assistance; technical publications; transportation;       Type 1 radios (AN/PRC-160 and AN/PRC-167); 7800I intercom       equipment; Simple Key Loaders (SKL); U.S. Government and       contractor technical, engineering, and logistics personnel       services; and other related elements of logistics and program       support.

(iv) Military Department: Army (CN-B-VBV).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: October 1, 2025.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION            Canada--M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems

The Government of Canada has requested to buy twenty-six       (26) M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems (HIMARS);       one hundred thirty-two (132) M31A2 Guided Multiple Launch       Rocket System (GMLRS) Unitary pads with Insensitive Munitions       Propulsion System (IMPS); one hundred thirty-two (132) M30A2       GMLRS Alternative Warhead (AW) pods with IMPS; thirty-two       (32) M403 Extended Range (ER) GMLRS AW pods with IMPS;       thirty-two (32) M404 ER GMLRS Unitary pods with IMPS; and       sixty-four (64) M57 Army Tactical Missile System (ATACMS)       pods. The following non-MDE items will be included: Low Cost       Reduced Range Practice Rocket pods; interactive electronic       technical manuals; integration support services; spare parts;       tool kits; test equipment; contractor logistics support;       training; training equipment; technical assistance; technical       publications; transportation; Type 1 radios (AN/PRC-160 and       AN/PRC-167); 7800I intercom equipment; Simple Key Loaders       (SKL); U.S. Government and contractor technical, engineering,       and logistics personnel services; and other related elements       of logistics and program support. The estimated total cost is       $1.75 billion.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security objectives of the United States by helping       to improve the military capability of Canada, a North       Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Ally that is an important       force for ensuring political stability and economic progress       and is a contributor to military, peacekeeping, and       humanitarian operations around the world.

The proposed sale will improve Canada's ability to meet       current and future threats by providing the M142 HIMARS long       range precision strike system and munitions. This capability       will protect Canada by improving Canada's contribution to       collective hemispheric defense and to defense and deterrence       in Europe, as directed by NATO's defense plans. Canada will       have no difficulty absorbing these articles and services into       its armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractor will be Lockheed Martin, located       in Grand Prairie, TX. The purchaser typically requests       offsets. Any offset agreement will be defined in negotiations       between the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will require multiple       trips to Canada involving up to twenty U.S. Government and up       to fifteen contractor representatives for program management       reviews to support the program. Travel is expected to occur       approximately twice per year as needed to support equipment       fielding and training.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 25-76       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS)       is a C-130 transportable wheeled launcher mounted on a 5-ton       Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles truck chassis. HIMARS is       the modern Army-fielded version of the Multiple Launch Rocket       System (MLRS) M270 launcher and can are all of the MLRS       Family of Munitions (FOM), including the Guided Multiple       Launch Rocket System (GMLRS) and Army Tactical Missile System       (ATACMS). Utilizing the MLRS FOM, the HIMARS can engage       targets between 15 and 300 kilometers with GPS-aided       precision accuracy.

2. The GMLRS M31A2 Unitary (GMLRS-U) is the Army's primary       munition for units fielding the M142 HIMARS and M270A1 MLRS       launchers. The M31 Unitary is a solid propellant artillery       rocket that uses Global Positioning System/Precise       Positioning Service (GPS/PPS) aided inertial guidance       provided by Selective Availability Anti-Spoofing Module       (SAASM) or M-Code. It accurately and quickly delivers a       single high-explosive blast fragmentation warhead to targets       at ranges from 15-70 kilometers. The rockets are fired from a       launch pod container that also serves as the storage and       transportation container for the rockets. Each rocket pod       holds six rockets.

3. The M30A2 GMLRS Alternative Warhead (GMLRS-AW) shares a       greater than 90% commonality with the M31A1 Unitary. The       GMLRS-AW replaces the GMLRS-U's high explosive warhead with a       200 pound fragmentation warhead of pre-formed tungsten       penetrators to optimize for effectiveness against large area       and imprecisely located targets. The munitions otherwise       share a common motor, GPS/PPS-aided inertial guidance       provided by SAASM or M-Code, control system, fusing       mechanism, multi-option height of burst capability, and       effective range between 15 and 70 kilometers.

4. The Extended Range Guided Multiple Launch Rocket System       (ER GMLRS) provides a persistent, responsive, all-weather,       rapidly deployed, long-range, surface-to-surface, area- and       point-precision strike capability. The M403 Alternative       Warhead variant carries a 200 pound fragmentation assembly       filled with high explosives which are optimized for       effectiveness against large area and imprecisely located       targets. The M404 Unitary variant is a 200 pound class       Unitary with a steel blast fragmentation case designed for       low collateral damage against point targets. The ER GMLRS       maintains the accuracy and effectiveness demonstrated by the       baseline GMLRS out to a maximum range of 150 km (double that       of the baseline GMLRS) while also including a new height of       burst capability.

5. The M57 Army Tactical Missile System (ATACMS) is a       conventional, semi-ballistic missile that utilizes a 500-      pound high explosive warhead. It has an effective range of       between 70 and 300 kilometers and has increased accuracy over       previous versions of the ATACMS due to a GPS/PPS aided       navigation system provided by SAASM or M-Code.

6. The AN/PRC-160 is a high frequency tactical radio       communications for vehicular and dismounted command and       control operations. The final end-items are L3Harris AN/PRC-      160 multi-channel manpack radios with a Micro Global       Positioning System (GPS) receiver application module       (MicroGRAM) receiver card and SAASM.

7. The AN/PRC-167 is a multi-domain, multi-channel,       tactical, narrow and wide-band dual transceiver radio system       with Type 1 encryption and SAASM GPS location and timing       capabilities. The system can provide wide-band high-assurance       self-healing networking capabilities and Mobile User       Objective System over-the-horizon capabilities. Each       transceiver is software programmable and operates in the 30-      512 MHz and 764-2600 MHz frequency ranges.

8. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

9. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce weapon system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

10. A deterrnination has been made that Canada can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This       proposed sale is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign       policy and national security objectives outlined in the       Policy Justification.

11. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Canada.