Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698533/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Speaker: Pursuant to the reporting requirements of       Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,       we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-102, concerning       the Navy's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the       Government of Denmark for defense articles and services       estimated to cost $1.8 billion. We will issue a news release       to notify the public of this proposed sale upon delivery of       this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                                   ____                                                    Defense Security                                              Cooperation Agency,                                                     Washington, DC.      Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-102,       concerning the Navy's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Denmark for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $1.8 billion. We will issue a       news release to notify the public of this proposed sale upon       delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                                   ____                                                    Defense Security                                              Cooperation Agency,                                                     Washington, DC.      Hon. Brian Mast,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-102,       concerning the Navy's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Denmark for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $1.8 billion. We will issue a       news release to notify the public of this proposed sale upon       delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 25-102       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Denmark.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment* $1.25 billion.

Other $.55 billion.

Total $1.80 billion.

Funding Source: National Funds.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

Three (3) P-8A Patrol Aircraft.

Four (4) Multifunctional Distribution System Joint Tactical       Radio Systems.

Four (4) Guardian Laser Transmitter Assemblies for the AN/      AAQ-24(V)N.

Four (4) System processor replacements for AN/AAQ-24(V)N       with Selective Availability Anti-spoofing Modules (SAASMs).

Eight (8) LN-251 with Embedded Global Positioning Systems/      Inertial Navigations Systems with SAASMs.

Non-Major Defense Equipment: The following non-MDE items       will be included: Tactical Open Mission Software; electro-      optical and infrared MX-20HD systems; NexGEN Missile Warning       Sensors for the AN/AAQ-24(V)N; AN/AAQ-2(V) acoustic systems;       AN/APY-10 radar systems; ALQ-213 early warning management       systems; A/N UPX-43 interrogators; KIV-78A cryptographic       appliques; A/N APX-123A Identification Friend or Foe       transmitters; AN/ARC-210 ultra high frequency/very high       frequency radios; AN/ALE-47 Countermeasures Dispenser System       (CMDS) programmers; KY-100M communications security (COMSEC)       devices; U.S. Government and contractor engineering,       technical, and logistics support services; and other related       elements of logistics and program support.

(iv) Military Department: Navy (DE-P-LCE).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: December 29,       2025.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export       Control Act.                             policy justification  Denmark--Multi-Mission Maritime Patrol and Reconnaissance Aircraft P-8A

The Government of Denmark has requested to buy up to three       (3) P-8A Patrol Aircraft; four (4) Multifunctional       Distribution System Joint Tactical Radio Systems; four (4)       Guardian Laser Transmitter Assemblies for the AN/AAQ-24(V)N;       four (4) system processor replacements for AN/AAQ-24(V)N with       Selective Availability Anti-spoofing Modules (SAASMs); and       eight (8) LN-251 with Embedded Global Positioning Systems/      Inertial Navigations Systems with SAASMs. The following non-      MDE items will be included: Tactical Open Mission Software;       electro-optical and infrared MX-20HD systems; NexGEN Missile       Warning Sensors for the AN/AAQ-24(V)N; AN/AAQ-2(V) acoustic       systems; AN/APY-10 radar systems; ALQ-213 early warning       management systems; A/N UPX-43 interrogators; KIV-78A       cryptographic appliques; A/N APX-123A Identification Friend       or Foe transmitters; AN/ARC-210 ultra high frequency/very       high frequency radios; AN/ALE-47 Countermeasures Dispenser       System (CMDS) programmers; KY-100M communications security       (COMSEC) devices; U.S. Government and contractor engineering,       technical, and logistics support services; and other related       elements of logistics and program support. The total       estimated cost is $1.8 billion.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy goals       and national security objectives of the United States by       improving the security of a NATO Ally that is a force for       political stability and economic progress in Europe.

The proposed sale will enhance Denmark's capability to meet       current and future threats by providing a credible force that       is capable of deterring adversaries and participating in NATO       operations. The proposed sale will support its goal of       improving national and territorial defense as well as       interoperability with U.S. and NATO forces. Denmark will have       no difficulty absorbing this equipment into its armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the military balance in the region.

The principal contractor will be The Boeing Company,       located in Arlington, VA. At this time, the U.S. Government       is unaware of any offset agreement proposed in connection       with this potential sale. Any offset agreement will be       defined in negotiations.

Implementation of this proposed sale will require 11 to 14       U.S. Government and contractor representatives to travel to       Denmark for a duration of up to two years to support:       aircraft fielding and maintenance, mission systems, training,       and logistics and engineering technical assistance.

There will be no adverse impact on defense readiness as a       result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 25-102       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The P-8A aircraft is a militarized version of the Boeing       737-800 Next Generation (NG) commercial aircraft. The P-8A is       a long-range antisubmarine and anti-surface warfare       intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft       capable of broad-area, maritime, and littoral operations.

2. The Multifunctional Information Distribution System--      Joint Tactical Radio System (MIDS JTRS) is an advanced Link-      16 command, control, communications, and intelligence (C31)       system. The MIDS-JTRS provides high-capacity, jam-resistant,       digital communication links for exchange of near real-time       tactical information, including both data and voice, among       air, ground, and sea elements.

3. The Guardian Laser Transmitter Assembly (GLTA) is part       of the AN/AAQ-24(V)N Direct Infrared Countermeasures (DIRCM)       system. The GLTA accepts threat handoff from the mission       workstation subsystem, tracks threats using an infrared (IR)       camera, and provides high intensity laser jamming to defend       against IR missile threats.

4. The Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures System       (LAIRCM) System Processor Replacement (LSPR) analyzes the       data from each Missile Warning Sensor and automatically       deploys the appropriate countermeasure via the GLTA. The LSPR       contains built-in-test circuitry.

5. The Embedded Global Positioning System (GPS) Inertial       Navigation System (INS) (EGI) LN-251 is a sensor that       combines GPS and inertial sensor inputs. The EGI/INS provides       accurate location information for navigation and targeting.

6. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

7. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

8. A determination has been made that the Government of       Denmark can provide substantially the same degree of       protection for the technology being released as the U.S.       Government. This sale is necessary in furtherance of the U.S.       foreign policy and national security objectives as outlined       in the Policy Justification.

9. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Denmark.