Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690571/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-15,       concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Poland for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $1.33 billion. We will issue a       news release to notify the public of this proposed sale upon       delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 25-15       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Poland.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment * $1.20 billion.

Other $.13 billion.

Total $1.33 billion.

Funding Source: Foreign Military Financing and National       Funds.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

Four hundred (400) AIM-120D3 Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-      Air Missiles

Sixteen (16) AIM-120D3 AMRAAM guidance sections, including       either Selective Availability Anti-Spoofing Modules or M-Code

One (1) AIM-120 AMRAAM Instrumented Test Vehicle

Non-Major Defense Equipment:

The following non-MDE items will also be included: AMRAAM       control sections, missile containers, and support equipment;       Common Munitions Built-in-Test Reprogramming Equipment       (CMBRE); ADU-891 adapter group test sets; KGV-135A encryption       devices; Computer Program Identification Numbers (CPINs);       spares and repair parts, consumables and accessories, and       repair and return support; weapons system support and       software; classified software delivery and support;       classified publications and technical documentation;       transportation support; studies and surveys; U.S. Government       and contractor engineering, technical, and logistics support       services; and other related elements of logistics and program       support.

(iv) Military Department: Air Force (PL-D-YAC).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: April 29, 2025.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION

Poland--AIM-120D Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles

The Government of Poland has requested to buy four hundred       (400) AIM-120D3 Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missiles       (AMRAAM); sixteen (16) AIM-120D3 AMRAAM guidance sections,       including either Selective Availability Anti-Spoofing Modules       or M-Code; and one (1) AIM-120 AMRAAM Instrumented Test       Vehicle. The following non-MDE items will also be included:       AMRAAM control sections, missile containers, and support       equipment; Common Munitions Built-in-Test Reprogramming       Equipment (CMBRE); ADU-891 adapter group test sets; KGV-135A       encryption devices; Computer Program Identification Numbers       (CPINs); spares and repair parts, consumables and       accessories, and repair and return support; weapons system       support and software; classified software delivery and       support; classified publications and technical documentation;       transportation support; studies and surveys; U.S. Government       and contractor engineering, technical, and logistics support       services; and other related elements of logistics and program       support. The estimated total cost is $1.33 billion.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy goals       and national security of the United States by improving the       security of a       NATO Ally that is a force for political and economic       stability in Europe.

The proposed sale will improve Poland's capability to meet       current and future threats by providing air-to-air defense to       protect Polish and allied forces in transition or combat and       significantly improve the Polish contribution to NATO       requirements. Poland already has AMRAAM in its inventory and       will have no difficulty absorbing these articles into its       armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractor will be RTX Corporation, located       in Tucson, AZ. At this time, the U.S. Government is not aware       of any offset agreement proposed in connection with this       potential sale. Any offset agreement will be defined in       negotiations between the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to Poland.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 25-15       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The AIM-120D-series Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air       Missile (AMRAAM) is a supersonic, air-launched, aerial       intercept guided missile featuring digital technology and       micro-miniature, solid-state electronics. AMRAAM capabilities       include look-down/shoot-down, multiple launches against       multiple targets, resistance to electronic countermeasures,       and interception of high and low-flying and maneuvering       targets. The AIM-120D features a quadrangle target detection       device and an electronics unit within the guidance section       that performs all radar signal processing, mid-course and       terminal guidance, flight control, target detection, and       warhead detonation.

2. The Common Munitions Built-In-Test Reprogramming       Equipment (CMBRE) is support equipment used to interface with       weapon systems to initiate and report BIT results and upload       and download flight software. CMBRE supports multiple       munitions platforms with a range of applications that perform       preflight checks, periodic maintenance checks, loading of       Operational Flight Program data, loading of munitions mission       planning data, loading of Global Positioning System (GPS)       cryptographic keys, and declassification of munitions memory.

3. The ADU-891 adapter group test set provides the physical       and electrical interface between the CMBRE and the missile.

4. The KGV-135A is a high-speed, general purpose encryptor       and decryptor module used for wideband data encryption.

5. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

6. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

7. A determination has been made that Poland can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This sale       is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and       national security objectives outlined in the Policy       Justification.

8. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Poland.