Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695912/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-88,       concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Australia for defense       articles and services estimated to cost $705 million. We will       issue a news release to notify the public of this proposed       sale upon delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                   Mary Beth Morgan                                 (For Michael F. Miller, Director).

Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 25-88       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Australia.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment * $605 million.

Other $100 million.

Total $705 million.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

Forty-eight (48) M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket       Systems (HIMARS)

Non-Major Defense Equipment:

The following non-MDE items will also be included: M1084A2       HIMARS resupply vehicles; M1095 trailers; Low Cost Reduced       Range Practice Rocket (LCRRPR) pods; intercom systems; radio       and communication mounts; spares parts and services; U.S.       Government and contractor engineering, technical, and       logistics support services; studies and surveys; and other       related elements of logistics and program support.

(iv) Military Department: Army (AT-B-UOU).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: AT-B-UNP, AT-B-UMJ, AT-B-      UMK.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: September 30,       2025.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION           Australia--M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems

The Government of Australia has requested to buy forty-      eight (48) M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems       (HIMARS). The following non-MDE items will also be included:       MI084A2 HIMARS resupply vehicles; M1095 trailers; Low Cost       Reduced Range Practice Rocket (LCRRPR) pods; intercom       systems; radio and communication mounts; spare parts and       services; U.S. Government and contractor engineering,       technical, and logistics support services; studies and       surveys; and other related elements of logistics and program       support. The estimated total cost is $705 million.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security objectives of the United States. Australia       is one of the United States' most important allies in the       Western Pacific. The strategic location of this political and       economic power contributes significantly to ensuring peace       and economic stability in the Western Pacific. It is vital to       the U.S. national interest to assist this ally in developing       and maintaining a strong and ready self-defense capability.

The proposed sale will improve Australia's capability to       meet current and future threats, and will enhance       interoperability with U.S. forces and other allied forces.       Australia will use the capability to strengthen its homeland       defense and provide greater security for its critical       infrastructure. Australia will have no difficulty absorbing       this equipment into its armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractors will be Lockheed Martin, located       in Grand Prairie, TX; L3Harris Corporation, located in       Melbourne, FL; Leonardo DRS, located in Arlington, VA; and       Oshkosh Corporation, located in Stafford, VA. At this time,       the U.S. Government is not aware of any offset agreement       proposed in connection with this potential sale. Any offset       agreement will be defined in negotiations between the       purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to Australia.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 25-88       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS)       is a C-130 transportable wheeled launcher with Global       Positioning System (GPS) Precise Positioning Service       capability mounted on a 5-ton Family of Medium Tactical       Vehicles (FMTV) truck chassis. HIMARS is the modern Army-      fielded version of the Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS)       M270 launcher and can fire all the MLRS Family of Munitions       (FOM), including Guided Multiple Launch Rocket System (GMLRS)       variants and the Army Tactical Missile System. Utilizing the       MLRS FOM, the HIMARS can engage targets between 15 and 300       kilometers with GPS-aided precision accuracy.

2. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

3. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

4. A determination has been made that Australia can provide       the same degree of protection for the sensitive technology       being released as the U.S. Government. This proposed sale is       necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and       national security objectives outlined in the Policy       Justification.

5. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Australia.