Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694097/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-53,       concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Ukraine for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $150 million. We will issue a       news release to notify the public of this proposed sale upon       delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                            transmittal no. 25-53       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Ukraine.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment* $0.

Other $150 million.

Total $150 million.

Funding Source: Foreign Military Financing.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.

Non-Major Defense Equipment: Equipment and services for the       refurbishment of Bradley Infantry Fighting Vehicles;       technical assistance; training; publications; and other       related elements of logistics and program support.

(iv) Military Department: Air Force (UP-B-UCV).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: July 23, 2025.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             policy justification   Ukraine--Bradley Infantry Fighting Vehicles and Maintenance, Repair,                          and Overhaul Capability

The Government of Ukraine has requested to buy equipment       and services for the refurbishment of Bradley Infantry       Fighting Vehicles, technical assistance, training,       publications, and other related elements of logistics and       program support. The estimated total cost is $150 million.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy goals       and national security objectives of the United States by       improving the ability of Ukraine to provide for its own       defense.

The proposed sale will improve Ukraine's ability to meet       current and future threats by further equipping it to conduct       self-defense and regional security missions. Ukraine has an       urgent need to strengthen local sustainment capabilities to       maintain high operational rates for United States provided       vehicles and weapon systems. Improved maintenance, repair,       and overhaul capability will directly contribute to       battlefield effectiveness through a more resilient and rapid       repair cycle that will increase overall operational rates       with reduced logistics and financial burdens. Ukraine will       have no difficulty absorbing these articles and services into       its armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractors will be BAE Systems, Cummins       Inc., Leonardo DRS Inc., and Renk Group AG, with all work       occurring in Europe. At this time, the U.S. Government is not       aware of any offset agreement proposed in connection with       this potential sale. Any offset agreement will be defined in       negotiations between the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to Ukraine.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.