Arms Sales Notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Speaker: Pursuant to the reporting requirements of       Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,       we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-85, concerning       the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to       the Government of Japan for defense articles and services       estimated to cost $82 million. We will issue a news release       to notify the public of this proposed sale upon delivery of       this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                                   ____                                                    Defense Security                                              Cooperation Agency,                                                     Washington, DC.      Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-85,       concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Japan for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $82 million. We will issue a       news release to notify the public of this proposed sale upon       delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely.                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                                   ____                                                    Defense Security                                              Cooperation Agency,                                                     Washington, DC.      Hon. Brian Mast,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-85,       concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Japan for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $82 million. We will issue a       news release to notify the public of this proposed sale upon       delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 25-85       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Japan.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment * $30 million.

Other $52 million.

Total $82 million.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase: Foreign Military       Sales (FMS) case JA-D-AAQ was below congressional       notification threshold at $81.04 million ($14.81 million in       major defense equipment (MDE)). The Government of Japan has       requested that the case be amended to include twenty-eight       (28) GBU-53 Small Diameter Bombs-Increment II (SDB-II) all-      up-rounds (AURs). This amendment will cause the case to       exceed the notification threshold, and thus notification of       the entire program is required. The above notification       requirements are combined as follows:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

One-hundred-twenty (120) GBU-39 Small Diameter Bomb-      Increment I (SDB-I) all-up-rounds (AURs).

Twenty-eight (28) GBU-53 SDB-IIs (AURs).

Thirty (30) KMU-556 Joint Direct Attack Munition (JDAM)       tail kits for GBU-31.

Twenty (20) KMU-559 JDAM tail kits for GBU-32.

Twenty-four (24) KMU-572 JDAM tail kits for GBU-38.

Twenty-four (24) MK-82 500 lb general purpose bombs.

Thirty (30) MK-84 2,000 lb general purpose bombs.

Twenty-one (21) BLU-110 1,000 lb general purpose bombs.

Non-Major Defense Equipment: The following non-MDE will       also be included: FMU-139 joint programmable fuzes; DSU-38       laser sensors; practice bombs and bomb components; weapons       and weapon support equipment; major modifications and       maintenance support; training aids, devices, and spare parts;       spare and repair parts, consumables, accessories, and repair       and return support; classified software delivery and support;       classified publications and technical documentation;       transportation support; studies and surveys; U.S. Government       and contractor engineering, technical, and logistics support       services; and other related elements of logistics and program       support.

(iv) Military Department: Air Force (JA-D-AAQ).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: November 19,       2025.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION                              Japan--Munitions

The Government of Japan has requested to buy twenty-eight       (28) GBU-53 Small Diameter Bombs-Increment II (SDB-II) all-      up-rounds (AURs) that will be added to a previously       implemented case whose value was under the congressional       notification threshold. The original Foreign Military Sales       case was valued at $81.04 million ($14.81 million in major       defense equipment (MDE)). This notification is for a combined       total of one-hundred-twenty (120) GBU-39 Small Diameter       Bombs-Increment I (SDB-D; twenty-eight (28) GBU-53 SDB-IIs       (AURs); thirty (30) KMU-556 Joint Direct Attack Munition       (JDAM) tail kits for GBU-31; twenty (20) KMU-559 JDAM tail       kits for GBU-32; twenty-four (24) KMU-572 JDAM tail kits for       GBU-38; twenty-four (24) MK-82 500 lb general purpose (GP)       bombs; thirty (30) MK-84 2,000 lb GP bombs; and twenty-one       (21) BLU-110 1,000-lb GP bombs. The following non-MDE will       also be included: FMU-139 joint programmable fuzes; DSU-38       laser sensors; practice bombs and bomb components; weapons       and weapon support equipment; major modifications and       maintenance support; training aids, devices, and spare parts;       spare and repair parts, consumables, accessories, and repair       and return support; classified software delivery and support;       classified publications and technical documentation;       transportation support; studies and surveys; U.S. Government       and contractor engineering, technical, and logistics support       services; and other related elements of logistics and program       support. The estimated total cost is $82 million.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy goals       and national security objectives of the United States by       improving the security of a major ally that is a force for       political stability and economic progress in the Indo-Pacific       region.

The proposed sale will improve Japan's capability to meet       current and future threats by providing stand-off capability       via advanced, long-range strike systems for employment on       Japan Air Self-Defense Force fighter aircraft. Japan will       have no difficulty absorbing these articles and services into       its armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractors will be The Boeing Company,       located in Arlington, VA; and RTX Corporation, located in       Arlington, VA. At this time, the U.S. Government is not aware       of any offset agreement proposed in connection with this       potential sale. Any offset agreement will be defined in       negotiations between the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to Japan.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 25-85       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The GBU-39 Small Diameter Bomb-Increment I (SDB-I) all-      up-round (AUR) is a 250 lb bomb with a GPS-aided inertial       navigation system. It is a small, autonomous, day or night       and adverse weather, conventional, air-to-ground precision       glide weapon able to strike fixed and stationary re-locatable       non-hardened targets from standoff ranges. It is intended to       provide aircraft with an ability to carry a high number of       bombs because aircraft are able to carry four SDBs in place       of one 2,000-lb bomb.

2. The GBU-53 Small Diameter Bomb-Increment II (SDB-II) AUR       is a 250 lb air-to-ground munition with precision-guided and       semiautonomous capabilities used to defeat targets in adverse       weather. The SDB-II has deployable wings and fins and uses       Global Positioning System/Inertial Navigation System (GPS/      INS) guidance, network-enabled datalink (Link-16 and ultra       high frequency datalink), and a multi-mode seeker to       autonomously search, acquire, track, and defeat a variety of       moving or stationary targets at standoff range in a variety       of attack modes. The SDB-II employs a multi-effects warhead       (blast, fragmentation, and shaped-charge) for maximum       lethality against armored and soft targets. The SDB-II weapon       system consists of the tactical AUR weapon, a 4-place common       carriage system, and a mission planning system munitions       application program.

3. Joint Direct-Attack Munitions (JDAMs) consist of a bomb       body paired with a warhead-specific tail kit containing a       GPS/INS       guidance capability that converts unguided free-fall bombs       into accurate, adverse weather smart munitions. The JDAM       weapon can be delivered from modest standoff ranges at high       or low altitudes against a variety of land and surface       targets during the day or night. JDAMs can receive target       coordinates via preplanned mission data from the delivery       aircraft, by onboard aircraft sensors during captive carry,       or from a third-party source via manual or automated aircrew       cockpit entry.

a. The GBU-31 is a 2,000 lb JDAM, consisting of a KMU-556       tail kit and BLU-117 or MK-84 bomb body;

b. The GBU-32 is a 1,000 lb JDAM consisting of a KMU-559       tail kit and BLU-110 or MK-83 bomb body;

c. The GBU-38 is a 500 lb JDAM, consisting of a KMU-572       tail kit and BLU-111 or MK-82 bomb body.

4. The MK-82 general purpose (GP) bomb is a 500 lb, free-      fall, unguided, low-drag weapon. The MK-82 is designed for       soft, fragment-sensitive targets and is not intended for hard       targets or penetrations. The explosive filling is usually       tritonal, though other compositions have sometimes been used.

5. The MK-84 general purpose (GP) bomb is a 2,000 lb, free-      fall, unguided, low-drag weapon. The MK-84 is designed for       soft, fragment-sensitive targets and is not intended for hard       targets or penetrations. The explosive filling is usually       tritonal, though other compositions have sometimes been used.

6. The FMU-139 joint programmable fuze (JPF) is a multi-      delay, multi-arm, and proximity sensor compatible with       general purpose blast, frag, and hardened-target penetrator       weapons. The JPF settings are cockpit-selectable in flight.

7. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

8. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

9. A determination has been made that Japan can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This sale       is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and       national security objectives outlined in the Policy       Justification.

10. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Japan.