Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700659/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Department of State,                                                     Washington, DC.                CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION TRANSMITTAL LETTER

Please find enclosed the following notification from the       Department of State.

Department Notification Number: RSAT 26-0F

Pursuant to the reporting requirements of Section       36(b)(5)(C) of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA), as       amended, we are forwarding Transmittal No. 26-0F. This       notification relates to enhancements or upgrades from the       level of sensitivity of technology or capability described in       the Section 36(b)(1) AECA certification 24-78 of September 6,       2024.

Recipients:

Speaker of the House of Representatives

House Committee on Foreign Affairs

Senate Committee on Foreign Relations            Sincerely,                                            Paul D. Guaglianone,                                             Senior Bureau Official,                                     Bureau of Legislative Affairs.                  DEPARTMENT OF STATE TRANSMITTAL NO. 26-0F       Report of Enhancement or Upgrade of Sensitivity of Technology           or Capability Pursuant to Section 36(b)(5)(C) of the Arms           Export Control Act

(i) (U) Prospective Purchaser: Government of the       Netherlands.

(ii) (U) Sec. 36(b)(1), AECA Transmittal No.: 24-78; Date:       September 6, 2024; Implementing Agency: Navy.

(iii) (U) Description: On September 6, 2024, Congress was       notified by congressional certification transmittal number       24-78 of the       possible sale, under Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export       Control Act, of the Government of the Netherlands' request to       buy two hundred forty-six (246) AIM 9X Sidewinder Block II       tactical missiles; six (6) AIM 9X Block II Sidewinder captive       air training missiles (CATM); two (2) AIM 9X Block II       Sidewinder special air training missiles; fourteen (14) AIM       9X Block II Sidewinder tactical guidance units; and two (2)       AIM 9X Block II Sidewinder CATM guidance units. Also included       were missile containers; spares; personal training and       training equipment; classified and unclassified publications       and technical documents; warranties; U.S. Government and       contractor engineering, technical, and logistics support       services; and other related elements of program and logistics       support. The total estimated value was $691 million. Major       defense equipment (MDE) constituted $591.7 million of this       total.

This transmittal notifies the addition of up to eighty-      seven (87) AIM 9X Sidewinder Block II tactical missiles; and       up to ten (10) AIM 9X Block II Sidewinder CATM. The following       non-MDE items will also be included: additional support       equipment; missiles support; and technical assistance. The       estimated total value of the new items is $65 million. The       estimated MDE value will increase by $60 million to a revised       $651.7 million. The estimated non-MDE value will increase by       $5 million to a revised $104.3 million. The estimated total       case value will increase by $65 million to a revised $756       million. MDE constitutes $651.7 million of this total.

(iv) (U) Significance: This notification is being provided       because the additional MDE and non-MDE items were not       enumerated in the original notification. The inclusion of       this MDE and non-MDE represents an increase in capability       over what was previously notified.

(v) (U) Justification: This proposed sale will support the       foreign policy and national security objectives of the United       States by improving the security of a NATO Ally which is an       important force for political stability and economic progress       in Europe.

(vi) (U) Sensitivity of Technology:

The Sensitivity of Technology Statement contained in the       original notification applies to items reported here.

The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

(vii) (U) Date Report Delivered to Congress: March 6, 2026.