Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695329/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 25-60,       concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Finland for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $1.07 billion. We will issue a       news release to notify the public of this proposed sale upon       delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 25-60       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Finland.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment * $0.95 billion.

Other $0.12 billion.

Total $1.07 billion.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE):

Up to four hundred five (405) AIM-120D-3 Advanced Medium       Range Air-to-Air Missiles (AMRAAM).

Eight (8) AIM-120D-3 guidance sections, with precise       positioning provided by either the Selective Availability       Anti-Spoofing Module or M-Code.

Non-Major or Defense Equipment:

The following non-MDE items will be included: AMRAAM       control sections, containers, and support equipment; Common       Munitions Built-in Test (BIT)/Reprogramming Equipment       (CMBRE); ADU-891 adaptor group test sets; munitions support       and support equipment; spare parts, consumables and       accessories, and repair and return support; weapons software       and support equipment; classified software delivery and       support; classified publications and technical documentation;       personnel training and training equipment; transportation       support; site surveys; U.S. Government and contractor       engineering, technical, and logistics support services; and       other related elements of logistics and program support.

(iv) Military Department: Air Force (FI-D-YAR).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: FI-D-YAK.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: September 10,       2025.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION       Finland--AIM-120D-3 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles

The Government of Finland has requested to buy up to four       hundred five (405) AIM-120D-3 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-      Air Missiles (AMRAAM); and eight (8) AIM-120D-3 guidance       sections, with precise positioning provided by either the       Selective Availability AntiSpoofing Module or M-Code. The       following non-MDE items will be included: AMRAAM control       sections, containers, and support equipment; Common Munitions       Built-in Test (BIT)/Reprogramming Equipment (CMBRE); ADU-891       adaptor group test sets; munitions support and support       equipment; spare parts, consumables and accessories, and       repair and return support; weapons software and support       equipment; classified software delivery and support;       classified publications and technical documentation;       personnel training and training equipment; transportation       support; site surveys; U.S. Government and contractor       engineering, technical, and logistics support services; and       other related elements of logistics and program support. The       estimated total cost is $1.07 billion.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security objectives of the United States by       improving the security of a NATO Ally that is a force for       political stability and economic progress in Europe.

The proposed sale will improve Finland's capability to meet       current and future threats and enhance its interoperability       with U.S. and other allied forces. Finland already has       AMRAAMs in its inventory and will have no difficulty       absorbing these articles into its armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractor will be RTX Corporation, located       in Arlington, VA. At this time, the U.S. Government is not       aware of any offset agreement proposed in connection with       this potential sale. Any offset agreement will be defined in       negotiations between the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to Finland.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 25-60       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The AIM-120D-3 series Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air       Missile (AMRAAM) is a supersonic, air-launched, aerial       intercept, guided missile featuring digital technology and       microminiature solid-state electronics. AMRAAM capabilities       include look-down/shoot-down, multiple launches against       multiple targets, resistance to electronic countermeasures,       and interception of high- and low-flying and maneuvering       targets. The AIM-120D-3 features a quadrangle target       detection device and an electronics unit within the guidance       section that performs all radar signal processing, mid-course       and terminal guidance, flight control, target detection, and       warhead detonation.

2. The Common Munitions Built-In-Test (BIT)/Reprogramming       Equipment (CMBRE) is support equipment used to interface with       weapon systems to initiate and report BIT results, and upload       and download flight software. CMBRE supports multiple       munitions platforms with a range of applications that perform       preflight checks, periodic maintenance checks, loading of       Operational Flight Program data, loading of munitions mission       planning data, loading of Global Positioning System (GPS)       cryptographic keys, and declassification of munitions memory.

3. The ADU-891 adapter group test set provides the physical       and electrical interface between the CMBRE and the missile.

4. This potential sale will include AMRAAM guidance and       control section spares.

5. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

6. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

7. A determination has been made that Finland can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This       proposed sale is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign       policy and national security objectives outlined in the       Policy Justification.

8. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Finland.