Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688927/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 24-124,       concerning the Navy's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for defense       articles and services estimated to cost $100 million. We will       issue a news release to notify the public of this proposed       sale upon delivery of this letter to your office.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael F. Miller,                                                          Director.

Enclosures.                            transmittal no. 24-124       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

(ii) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment* $70 million.

Other $30 million.

Total $100 million.

Funding Source: National Funds.

(iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE): Two thousand (2,000)       Advanced Precision Kill Weapon Systems (APKWS).

Non-Major Defense Equipment: The following non-MDE items       will be included: APKWS spare parts; support equipment;       missile software; training; U.S. Government and contractor       engineering, technical, and logistics support services; and       other related elements of logistics and program support.

(iv) Military Department: Navy (SI-P-AAA).

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.

(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex.

(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: March 20, 2025.

*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export       Control Act.                             policy justification      Kingdom of Saudi Arabia--Advanced Precision Kill Weapon Systems

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has requested to buy two       thousand (2,000) Advanced Precision Kill Weapon Systems       (APKWS). The following non-MDE items will be included: APKWS       spare parts; support equipment; missile software; training;       U.S. Government and contractor engineering, technical, and       logistics support services; and other related elements of       logistics and program support. The estimated total cost is       $100 million.

This proposed sale will support the foreign policy goals       and national security objectives of the United States by       improving the security of a partner country that is a force       for political stability and economic progress in the Gulf       Region.

The proposed sale will improve the Kingdom of Saudi       Arabia's capability to meet current and future threats and       give it the ability to precisely engage targets with much       less risk of collateral damage than other guided missile       systems. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia will have no difficulty       absorbing this equipment into its armed forces.

The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region.

The principal contractor will be BAE Systems, Inc., located       in Falls Church, VA. At this time, the U.S. Government is not       aware of any offset agreement proposed in connection with       this potential sale. Any offset agreement will be defined in       negotiations between the purchaser and the contractor.

Implementation of this proposed sale will require the       assignment of up to two additional U.S. Government and up to       two contractor representatives annually to Saudi Arabia for a       duration of one week for program technical support and       management oversight.

There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            transmittal no. 24-124       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. The WGU-59/B Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System-II       (APKWS-II) All-Up-Round (AUR) (Rotary Wing) and WGU-59A/B       APKWS-II AUR (Single Variant) are a design conversion of an       unguided Hydra 2.75-inch rocket with a laser guidance kit to       provide precision capability. As a low-cost weapon, it is       intended as an inexpensive means to destroy targets while       limiting collateral damage. The APKWS consists of an APKWS-II       Guidance Section (GS) (Single Variant Block Upgrade (SVBU))       developed by BAE Systems, Inc., a legacy 2.75-inch MK66 Mod 4       Rocket Motor, and the MK-151 or MK-152 High Explosive       Warhead.

2. The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

3. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware or software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

4. A determination has been made that the Kingdom of Saudi       Arabia can provide substantially the same degree of       protection for the sensitive technology being released as the       U.S. Government. This sale is necessary in furtherance of the       U.S. foreign policy and national security objectives outlined       in the Policy Justification.

5. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.