Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702100/arms-sales-notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Department of State,                                                     Washington, DC.                congressional notification transmittal letter

Please find enclosed the following notification from the       Department of State.

Department Notification Number: RSAT 0A-26.

Pursuant to the reporting requirements of Section       36(b)(5)(a) of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA), as       amended, we are forwarding Transmittal No. 0A-26. This       notification relates to enhancements or upgrades from the       level of sensitivity of technology or capability described in       the Section 36(b)(1) AECA certification 18-33 of August 3,       2018.

Recipients:

Speaker of the House of Representatives

House Committee on Foreign Affairs

Senate Committee on Foreign Relations            Sincerely,                                               Paul D. Guaglianone,                                            Senior Bureau Official,                                     Bureau of Legislative Affairs.                            transmittal no. 0a-26       Report of Enhancement or Upgrade of Sensitivity of Technology           or Capability (Sec. 36(b)(5)(A), AECA)

(i) (U) Prospective Purchaser: Republic of Latvia.

(ii) (U) Sec. 36(b)(1), AECA Transmittal No.: 18-33; Date:       August 3, 2018; Implementing Agency: Army.

Funding Source: National Funds and Foreign Military       Financing.

(iii) (U) Description: On August 3, 2018, Congress was       notified by congressional certification transmittal number       18-33 of the possible sale, under Section 36(b)(1) of the       Arms Export Control Act, of four (4) UH-60M Black Hawk       helicopters in standard USG configuration with designated       unique equipment and government furnished equipment; ten (10)       T700-GE-701D engines (8 installed and 2 spares); and ten (10)       embedded global positioning systems/inertial navigation       systems (8 installed and 2 spares). Also included were one       (1) aviation mission planning system; five (5) Talon forward       looking infrared radar (4 production and 1 spare); ten (10)       AN/ARC-201D/E (8 production and 2 spares); ten (10) AN/ARC-      231 radios (8 production and 2 spares); five (5) AN/APX-123A       Identification Friend or Foe transponders (4 production and 1       spare); five (5) AN/ARC-220 radios (4 production and 1       spare); twenty (20) AN/AVS-6 helmet mounted night vision       devices; aircraft warranty; air worthiness support; spare and       repair parts; support equipment; communication equipment;       publications and technical documentation; personnel training       and training equipment; ground support equipment; site       surveys; tool and test equipment; U.S. government and       contractor technical and logistics support services; and       other related elements of logistics and program support. The       estimated total case value was $200 million. Major defense       equipment (MDE) constituted $85 million of this total.

This transmittal reports the inclusion of the following       additional MDE items: ten (10) M240H machine guns; and a       support package including pintle mounts, egress kits,       ammunition cans, training, and special tools and equipment.       The estimated total value of the new items is $350 thousand.       The estimated MDE value will increase by $200 thousand and       will remain at $85 million. The estimated total non-MDE value       will increase by $150 thousand and will remain at $115       million. The estimated total case value will not increase and       will remain at $200 million. MDE constitutes $85 million of       this total.

(iv) (U) Significance: This notification is being provided       as the MDE items were not enumerated in the original       notification. The inclusion of this MDE represents an       increase in capability over what was previously notified. The       proposed sale will contribute to Latvia's military goals of       updating its capability while further enhancing       interoperability with the United States and other allies.       Latvia intends to use these defense articles and services to       modernize its armed forces and expand its capability to       strengthen its homeland defense and deter regional threats.

(v) (U) Justification: This proposed sale will support the       foreign policy goals and national security objectives of the       United States by improving the security of a NATO ally that       is an important force for political stability and economic       progress in Europe.

(vi) (U) Sensitivity of Technology:

The Sensitivity of Technology statement contained in the       original notification applies to items reported here.

The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

(vii) (U) Date Report Delivered to Congress: April 22,       2026.