Arms Sales Notification


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant  information is still available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous  consent to have printed in the Record the notifications that have been  received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such  an annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign  Relations Committee, room SD-423.

Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(5)(C) of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA),       as amended, we are forwarding Transmittal No. 25-1E. This       notification relates to enhancements or upgrades from the       level of sensitivity of technology or capability described in       the Section 36(b)(1) AECA certification 21-31 of March 19,       2021.            Sincerely,                                                   Mary Beth Morgan                                 (for Michael E. Miller, Director).

Enclosure.                            Transmittal No. 25-1E       Report of Enhancement or Upgrade of Sensitivity of Technology           or Capability (Sec. 36(b)(5)(C), AECA)

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Republic of Korea.

(ii) Sec. 36(B)(1), AECA Transmittal No.: 21-31; Date:       March 19, 2021; Implementing Agency: Army.

(iii) Description: On March 19, 2021, Congress was notified       by congressional certification transmittal number 21-31 of       the possible sale, under Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export       Control Act, of two hundred eighty-eight (288) AGM-114R       Hellfire missiles. Also included were AGM-114R spare parts;       U.S. Government and contractor engineering, technical, and       logistics support services; repair and return; storage; and       other related elements of logistics and program support. The       estimated total value was $36 million. Major Defense       Equipment (MDE) constituted $33 million of this total.

On October 1, 2021, Congress was notified by congressional       certification transmittal number 0P-21, under Section       36(b)(5)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act, of an increase in       value of the AGM-114R Hellfire missiles. The estimated total       increase in MDE value was $9 million. This resulted in a       total cost of MDE value of $42 million. The total case value       increased to $47 million.

This transmittal notifies the inclusion of the following       additional MDE items: up to one thousand and twenty-two       (1,022) AGM-114R Hellfire missiles. The following non-MDE is       also included: spare parts; U.S. Government and contractor       technical, engineering, and logistics support services; and       other related elements of logistics and program support. The       estimated total value of the new items is $400 million. The       estimated non-MDE value will increase by $50 million to a       revised $55 million. The revised estimated total case value       will be $447 million. MDE will constitute $392 million of       this total.

(iv) Significance: This notification is being provided as       the additional MDE items were not enumerated in the original       notification. The inclusion of this MDE represents an       increase in capability over what was previously notified. The       proposed sale will improve the Republic of Korea's air and       missile defense capability and ensure greater       interoperability with other Hellfire missile users in the       region.

(v) Justification: This proposed sale will support the       foreign policy and national security objectives of the United       States by improving the security of a major non-NATO ally       that is a force for political stability and economic progress       in the Pacific region.

(vi) Sensitivity of Technology:

The Sensitivity of Technology Statement contained in the       original notification applies to items reported here.

The highest level of classification of defense articles,       components, and services included in this potential sale is       SECRET.

(vii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: September 9, 2025.