Cloture Motion


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695665/cloture-motion


As chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, I oppose this  measure.

Like everyone on this floor, we want--we all want the conflict in  Gaza to end as quickly as possible. The reality is, Hamas has the  ability to do so right now by releasing all the hostages and  immediately laying down their weapons.

Let me say that again. We can have a cease-fire immediately, but it  takes Hamas to do it. Hamas refuses to do so.

Hamas has the duty to do this. They started this. The entity that  started this needs to end it, and they can end it by simply stopping  the fighting and releasing the hostages. They refuse to do that and  continue constant attacks. They have the duty to start this cease-fire.

Every starvation, every injury, every death, every  single thing that happens in this conflict is the fault of Hamas.

On October 7, when this invasion by Hamas started, Israel was doing  nothing to deserve this. Instead, Hamas invaded the country. They  killed 1,200 people. They took 251 hostages.

If that wasn't enough, the torture that they committed on that day  was horrific. For those of you who haven't seen the film of what they  did, I  strongly recommend you don't look at it because you won't sleep. It is  inhuman, what Hamas did to the Israeli people.

The Israeli people believe they have to defend themselves and they  have to eliminate Hamas.

Worse, Hamas has used previous pauses in humanitarian aid convoys to  resupply their attacks at the expense of the Palestinian people, to  include looting at gunpoint the majority of the trucks that crossed  into Gaza.

This is pure evil. They show pictures of women and children starving.  Those women and children are starving. They are not being starved by  Israel; they are being starved by Hamas. The Hamas fighters you will  see in the photography are well fed, well taken care of. They steal the  food that is supposed to go in there and go to the women and children,  who are not fighting.

This resolution fails to even mention this threat from Hamas, much  less recognize the terrorism as the root cause of this conflict.

Additionally, we should be very cautious against getting ahead of the  negotiations of both our President and our democratic ally Israel, who  are working diligently to resolve this conflict. In fact, the  administration has worked with Israel to establish a new system of aid  distribution that prevents diversions by terrorists.

More aid was delivered into Gaza last month than in almost any other  month of the past year. There is no blockade. Food is getting in. Hamas  is stealing it, and what they steal, they either eat or they sell.

This resolution is incomplete, it is misleading, and unfortunately it  is partisan.