Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699089/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I rise today to raise a point of order on  the War Powers Resolution before the Senate, which I reserve the right  to do at the close of my remarks and after Senator Kaine moves the  matter forward.

I understand many of the sentiments people have about war powers and  the balance between Congress and the President. There is truly clear  tension between the branches and the Constitution on this matter, and,  of course, that has reared its head many, many times during the  existence of our country.

Putting U.S. troops in hostility is an incredibly serious matter.  These are American lives on the line, and we should not expose them to  danger unless there are vital national interests, and, of course, we  should not ask them to engage in endless wars.

We are not debating those issues here today. What we are debating is  trying to stop something that is not happening. Let me say that again.  The objective of this resolution is to stop something that is not  happening.

The resolution is relatively short--three pages long. It is full of  the usual whereases, wherefores, et cetera, et cetera. But this is the  operative language. It is very clear:

Congress hereby directs the President to terminate----

terminate--

the use of the U.S. Armed Forces for hostilities within or       against Venezuela.

That is what we are voting on today. We are attempting to direct the  President to terminate the use of the U.S. Armed Forces for hostilities  within or against Venezuela. Only Congress can dream this up.

Now, I know there are a lot of people who think this is a very  powerful institution, and it is, indeed, but even this institution  cannot stop something that isn't happening, and that is exactly what  the resolution directs the President to do.

Currently, there are no U.S. forces engaged in hostilities in  Venezuela. The President did authorize actions that were limited in  scope, short in duration, and done to protect U.S. interests and  citizens. The operation only saw 200 troops, and they were inside  Venezuela, on Venezuela's soil, for less than 2 hours. Those troops  engaged with some unfortunate Cuban guards, who are no longer with us,  for 27 minutes. That is what this was made up of. It was incredibly  brief, targeted, and very successful.

The War Powers Act requires a President to submit a report to  Congress within 48 hours of ``introducing U.S. forces into  hostilities.'' The President did that. If U.S. troops stay in  hostilities, the President is required to submit reports to Congress  ``periodically,'' is the word used. Sadly, the War Powers Act never  required the President to submit a report to Congress when hostilities  ended. It should have been in the bill; it wasn't.

For this reason, I sent a letter to the President asking him to  confirm that there are no U.S. forces engaged in hostilities in  Venezuela. Now, I knew that. You all knew that. You were all in the  briefing when we got it. However, since this was raised and people were  trying to stop something that isn't happening, I asked the President of  the United States to confirm that it is not happening. Obviously, they  responded--the administration responded and said clearly that there are  no hostilities and no troops in Venezuela.

I sent a letter to the President, and the response confirmed that the  operation has ended, that it is over, that there are no troops there,  that there is nothing to terminate.

There are no U.S. forces in hostilities.

Now, I know some of my colleagues will argue that a vote for this  resolution is a prospective statement about limiting future action in  Venezuela. That is not what it says. They argue we still have ships in  the Caribbean. Clearly, the President is ready to invade again, they  say. But, again, that is not what the resolution says. It says cease  the hostilities that are going on. No language in this resolution  addresses future action, and, indeed, the War Powers Act doesn't allow  that unless there are ongoing hostilities.

As we have seen in the days since the operation, the administration  is enforcing U.S. sanctions and seizing vessels that are violating  them. Many of those sanctions were created by the laws passed by  Senators voting here today, and the War Powers Act has no binding  authority to constrain the President's Commander in Chief powers before  U.S. forces are put into hostilities. Nothing in the act does that, nor  does the Constitution allow it.

If the President was to deploy U.S. forces again, the administration  has committed they would require, as is required by law, to send a new  report under the law, and Congress could then act. That is the law.

Let me be clear. No President, Republican or Democrat, will ever  consider a prospective War Powers Resolution vote as binding on the  President's constitutional article II powers as Commander in Chief, and  they shouldn't. Having 535 ``Commanders in Chief'' is a really, really  bad idea, and our Founders knew that.

President Trump is laser-focused on protecting American interests  while  also avoiding costly and life-threatening conflicts. The recent actions  in Venezuela were limited in scope, short in duration, and done to  protect U.S. interests and citizens. What President Trump has done in  Venezuela is the definition of the President's article II  constitutional authorities as Commander in Chief.

Similarly, President George H.W. Bush authorized limited military  operations to arrest and bring Panama's Manuel Noriega to the United  States to stand trial for drug-related charges. Interestingly, that  lasted 2 weeks, and there were thousands of troops involved--not done  in a very short period of time with only a handful of troops--and the  Democrats applauded President Bush for his action.

For years, my Democratic colleagues have called for Maduro's removal.  You heard me the other day read statements that my Democratic  colleagues have made. But when President Trump actually made that  happen, now they say: How dare he do this. This is TDS, Trump  derangement syndrome, at its obvious worst.

I firmly believe the operation in Venezuela was a good thing. I  understand that some of my colleagues disagree with me, but that does  not give this body the right to block the Commander in Chief's article  II authority and defy every law of gravity and try to stop something  that isn't happening.