Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696565/directing-the-removal-of-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-within-or-against-venezuela-that-have-not-been-authorized-by-congress


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I rise today to respond to Senator Kaine's  S.J. Res. 90, and I would like to state clearly that the administration  is very much opposed to this resolution, and they have put out a policy  statement as of today stating that they strongly oppose S.J. Res. 90.

Without going into all the details, they say that S.J. Res. 90 fails  to account for the extraordinary national security threat posed by  transnational violent drug-trafficking cartels and narcoterrorists  operating in and around the Caribbean Sea. That really says it all, and  not much more needs to be said, but I do have a few comments on this.

President Trump has taken decisive action to protect thousands of  Americans from lethal narcotics. He has kept drugs off the streets,  kept children alive, and eliminated narcoterrorists who have been  profiting off of the deaths of members of our communities.

These people have been transmitting drugs into the United States via  a lot of different ways. One of them was by vessels, shipping vessels,  in the Caribbean and the eastern Pacific Ocean.

But some Democrat Members and members of the media have claimed that  President Trump does not have the authority to conduct these strikes. I  will tell you right now, that is plain wrong. I myself and many of my  colleagues have sat recently through hours of briefings and analysis by  government legal departments and attorneys who have studied this issue.  Unanimously, they have concluded that the action taken by President  Trump is absolutely lawful.

As Commander in Chief, if the President sees a group of terrorists  planning to harm America or our allies, he has the right--not only the  right but the duty--to do something about it. He has taken an oath to  protect this country, and I and the majority of my colleagues are glad  the President took this action.

Now, for some reason which I don't understand, the people who oppose  the President's actions somehow make a differentiation between drugs  and explosives. If these were explosives that were on ships being  brought to the United States by terrorist organizations to be  distributed through the United States and kill and maim Americans,  people would say nothing about it. These drugs are no different than  that. They do the exact same thing: They kill people by the thousands  in the United States.

President Trump is doing what needs to be done to protect the  American people, just as he has done before. Take for example the  recent defensive strikes against the Houthis in the Red Sea. This went  on for some time. When the Houthis threatened the U.S. ships in the Red  Sea, citing article II of the Constitution, the President took action  to eliminate the terrorists threatening our troops and U.S. commercial  shipping in the Red Sea.

These strikes are fully compliant with the War Powers Resolution and  fully compliant with the President's article II constitutional  authority as Commander in Chief of our Armed Forces.

Prior Presidents did not need nor did they seek congressional  authorization to defend America in this Western Hemisphere. Panama and  Grenada are two examples where Republican Presidents also took action  in our own backyard to go after threats to the American people.

These strikes have been discrete; they have been intermittent, with  little risk, if any, to U.S. servicemen. No 60-day clock has been  triggered, as many Democrats have tried to argue today.

I wish my colleagues would join me here today in congratulating the  President for what he has done and thanking the President for what he  has done on behalf of the many parents who will not have to bury their  children early and will never know that they were saved from this.

But there is no doubt--none whatsoever--that every time we take a  strike and we send tons of these poisonous drugs to the bottom of the  ocean, thousands of American lives have been saved.

Mr. President, thank you for what you are doing on behalf of all  those Americans who will be saved from these poisonous drugs. Thank  you, and continue to do what you are doing.