Motion to Discharge--S.J. Res. 59


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693132/motion-to-discharge-sj-res-59


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I rise today to oppose this unhelpful  resolution. It is a clear attempt to take a slap at President Trump and  nothing more.

President Trump's foreign policy successes have been several and  should be celebrated not denigrated. For instance, recently his work  when India and Pakistan started fighting, he got involved, and he had  that shut down pretty quickly.

This morning, I had the good fortune to attend, with Secretary Rubio,  an event at the State Department where a peace agreement was signed  between Rwanda and the Congo. Both Rwanda and the Congo were effusive  in their compliments of President Trump for negotiating the peace that  happened.

So the President has been hard at work trying to be the President of  peace that he really wants to be. First, I think that we ought to have  a good statement from the administration as to why this resolution is  not well-taken, and I am going to quote from the Executive Office of  the President their statement on the policy.

S.J. Res. 59 fails to account for the dynamic security       threat posed by Iran and its proxies and our commitments to       force protection in the region.

On June 12, the International Atomic Agency Board of       Governors found that Iran had failed to comply with its       nuclear safeguards obligations. Iran immediately responded       stating that it would establish a new uranium enrichment       facility in a secure location and that other measures were       being planned.

Israel took action against Iran, an action it believed was       necessary for its self-defense. The United States' top       priority is protecting American forces in the region.       President Trump will take all necessary steps to protect our       forces, deescalate conflict, and remain in close contact with       our regional partners.

S.J. Res. 59 should be rejected also because it purports to       limit the President's article II authority under the       Constitution and could hinder the President's ability in his       constitutional role as Commander in Chief to protect the       United States from the continued threat posed by Iran and its       proxies.

S.J. Res. 59 also could hinder the President's ability to       protect the United States' forces in the region through       actions to deescalate the threat posed by Iran and its       proxies.

The operative part of this resolution that is before us       states:

Congress hereby directs the President to terminate the use       of United States Armed Forces from hostilities against the       Islamic Republic of Iran.

This might be appropriate if we were at war against Iran or, indeed,  if there were hostilities against Iran, but we are not, and we do not  intend to. You can't terminate something that is not going on. Every  American is opposed to the long, drawn-out conflicts that we have, in  our history, from time to time, experienced. I assure you that  President Trump feels exactly the same way. He hates those long, drawn- out conflicts. He hates any kind of kinetic action but realizes that as  Commander in Chief he has to take them at times.

The President did take a single strike against Iran at carefully  calculated targets and in an even more carefully calculated time, much  like what he did with General Soleimani in his first term that was so  successful.

The strike on Iran was a single, brief strike at three nuclear bomb  facilities that ended the conflict between Israel and Iran. It was on  behalf of a close ally, Israel, and on behalf of the world, which is  unanimously against Iran obtaining a nuclear weapon.

Most importantly, it ended a war; it did not start a war. If the  United States or Donald Trump or any other President sought to declare  war on Iran, this would be well-taken. The Constitution is clear that  only this body, the Congress of the United States, can declare war, but  the Constitution and statutes are equally clear that the President not  only may but must act to defend America and Americans at a time or  place that a threat presents itself.

Congress has also spoken on the power of the President in the War  Powers Act. Now, we have heard a lot on the floor today about how  important the Founding Fathers thought declaration of war was. They  were absolutely right. It is just as right today as it was then. There  is a lot of difference between then and now. Then we had oceans  protecting us on each side, and for a war to take place, it took months  to unfold and to start.

In today's world, it is the press of a button, and it happens  instantaneously. That is why Congress went in and passed the War Powers  Act that gave the President the opportunity to defend America, and in  that act, it provided things that the President had to do. He complied  with that act exactly as it was put in place by Congress when he took  the single-strike act against Iran.

Also, the Justice Department has opined to Republican and Democrat  Presidents and created the precedent as to when the President could use  power. This strike is in full compliance with that guidance. The  guidance is very simple. No. 1, if the President is going to take  action, it must, No. 1, be in the national interest and, No. 2, be  limited in nature, scope, and duration. And, of course, that is further  modified by the action that Congress has taken in the War Powers Act.

What this President did with this single strike was in full  compliance with the constitutional statutes. Both open-source reporting  and the classified briefing we received demonstrated this was a  brilliant tactical move, which was brilliantly planned and executed  after in-depth conversations with the intelligence community and the  talented array of Presidential advisers that President Trump has.

My colleague on the other side of the aisle should do what we on our  side of the aisle have been doing, and that is congratulate the  President and the brave men and women who conceived and executed this  spectacularly successful event and thank them and recognize that this  ended the conflict between Israel and Iran.

Instead what we have seen is an attempt in every way to denigrate the  action, downplay it, and berate this great and glorious victory. This  resolution we have before us today is another sad attempt in that  regard.

I understand that the hate and vitriol against our President  precipitates this kind of thinking. It is wrong. This is ill-conceived  and will telegraph that we Americans do not stand with our President or  with Israel. That is also wrong.

Make no mistake, Iran is all alone in this. No one is coming to help  them. This body, above all, should not be the entity that provides aid  and comfort to Iran.

I urge a ``no'' vote.