Motions to Discharge--S.J. Res. 33 and S.J. Res. 26


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689526/motions-to-discharge-sj-res-33-and-sj-res-26


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I rise today and come here to strongly  oppose the two resolutions before the Senate at this moment.

These misguided resolutions, if adopted, would reinstate the failed  policies of the Biden administration. Worse, they would abandon Israel,  our closest ally in the Middle East, during a pivotal moment for global  security.

For years, President Biden wrung his hands and withheld American  support for Israel in its time of need. This inaction only prolonged  suffering for all sides and put America's commitment in doubt. Despite  this, Israel had the courage to confront Iran and its proxies, and it  decimated them.

Through President Trump's tough negotiations and Israel's courage,  Iran is at its weakest point in decades, and hostages are returning  home.

At the same time, Israel is contending with its operations against  Hamas, efforts to maintain a fragile cease-fire in Lebanon, and the  ongoing threats to Iran.

Now is not the time to deprive our ally of the tools it needs to  protect American interests.

I yield to Senator Sanders.

Mr. RISCH. Has all time expired except for the time I have left?

Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, first of all, I agree with one and only one  thing that my friend from Vermont said, and that is that we do live--at  least think--in an alternate, parallel universe.

I am on the Intelligence Committee. I am the most senior Republican  on the Intelligence Committee. I have seen the film from what Hamas did  on October 7. These were animals. They killed hundreds and hundreds of  people. They took hostages. They cut babies out of their mothers. They  killed children in  front of their parents. They killed parents in front of their children.  They tortured people.

They knew exactly what they were doing, and that was that they were  going to get a response from Israel that would be what it is today.

All of this talk that my friends have laid out in front of us--no one  in the world is coming to the support of Hamas--no one--with the  exception of some misguided people in this organization.

The Middle East has an opportunity to free itself from Iran's grip,  and America will be safer for it. To promote stability in the region  and protect our national security, we need to continue to support  Israel's successful efforts.

President Trump, Secretary Rubio, and soon-to-be Ambassador Huckabee  will work day in and day out to make sure that American interests are  protected in Israel, and Congress must do its part. We really must  provide Israel with the force they need to resist and eliminate Hamas.

Just before I walked in here, I was handed an official written  position of the President of the United States, who urges us to defeat  these two resolutions.

In December, this body overwhelmingly opposed similar resolutions in  a bipartisan fashion. I hope we can do that again today. As such, I ask  my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote no on these two  resolutions.