Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Proposed Export of


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694433/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-proposed-export-of


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I rise today to oppose the two resolutions  that are in front of the body right now.

These two resolutions are an attempt to stop munition sales to Israel  that have been approved by the administration and are designed to  provide Israel with defensive weapons that they need.

These are misguided resolutions and, if adopted, would reinstate the  failed policies of the Biden administration and would abandon America's  closest ally in the Middle East.

Let's remember, the conflict between Israel and Hamas and the need  for the military assistance for Israel is the fault of Hamas. It is not  Israel's fault. It is not America's fault. It is the fault of Hamas. It  is the result of Hamas's grotesque action on October 7, the threat  Hamas poses to American national security, and, of course, Hamas's  treatment of the people of Gaza. They set up their military facilities  in hospitals and schools and in mosques, they use the people of Gaza as  human shields, and they steal the food the  people of Gaza need. It is despicable behavior. These are not good  people, and it is in the interest of America and the world to see this  terrorist group destroyed.

I couldn't agree more with my colleagues who want an end to this war.  We all want to see an end to this war and an immediate cease-fire and  for the hunger crisis in Gaza to end. The solution to all of this isn't  to deprive Israel of the weapons it needs; the solution is in the hands  of Hamas. This could end in a moment. Hamas could release the hostages,  lay down their arms and surrender, and not one more bullet would be  fired. But until this happens, we can't let up on these terrorists who  have committed the atrocities against Israel, have caused this chaos in  the Middle East, and have endangered American national security again  and again.

I hope my colleagues will join me in opposing this resolution.