Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Proposed Foreign Military Sale to the Government of Israel of Certain Defense Articles


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701808/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-proposed-foreign-military-sale-to-the-government-of-israel-of-certain-defense-articles


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, as everyone in this Chamber knows, Israel  is one of the closest allies in the Middle East. No one can discount  the fact that without Israel and President Trump's maximum pressure  campaign, Iran would have nuclear weapons, would still be exporting  terror throughout the region, and would still pose a significant  military threat to its neighbors and, indeed, to a good share of the  rest of the world.

Unlike some of our other allies, Israel has stood side by side with  the United States, working hand in glove to advance our shared  objectives and to keep American citizens safe. Passing these two  resolutions would embolden our adversary Iran and call into question  American reliability in the region. Refusing to send help to allies and  to sell weapons to allies would be incredibly debilitating to our  ability to work together. It would send the message that the United  States is prepared to leave our ally Israel vulnerable to further  Iranian attacks and put the tens of thousands of Americans who are  living there at risk. This is not acceptable.

Again, I come to the floor and tell Iran: No one is coming to help  you, not China, not Russia, not North Korea, not Venezuela, not Cuba-- except for the 47 people that sit over here. They are trying to help  you, Iran.

We are not going to let that happen. We are not going to abandon our  ally Israel. We are not going to abandon the fight that is taking  place. We are going to win this fight and have already won it, to a  very large extent.

Let us not forget the Iranian regime has been exporting terrorism and  chanting ``Death to America'' and ``Death to Israel'' consistently  since the founding of this regime 47 years ago. Enough is enough.

It is time to continue this until we get to the end. This is not  going to be a forever war. The country of Iran is very badly  debilitated right now. I would hope that common sense prevails and they  reach an agreement with the administration and get to a permanent  cease-fire.

I would urge all of my colleagues: Oppose these resolutions. They  will not help the United States of America.                         Vote on Motion to Discharge