Terminating the National Emergency Declared with Respect to Energy


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696121/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-with-respect-to-energy


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, we are here today to talk about a  resolution put forth by the Democrats that is very, very not well- taken.

We are all aware in this body that on September 4, President Trump  notified Congress of his initial strike against narcoterrorists who  were bringing deadly and illegal drugs into this country--the first of  four such strikes.

Now, my colleague just referred to the fact that the President can-- if there is an imminent attack on our country, that they can strike.  This wasn't an imminent attack; this was an actual attack. It was in  progress. It was going on. People were attacking our country by  bringing in poisonous substances to deposit into our country that would  have killed Americans all over America, including your constituents.

Fortunately, most of those drugs are now at the bottom of the ocean.  Had that not happened, I guarantee there would have been hundreds-- maybe thousands--of people in this country that would have been killed  with the tremendous amount of drugs that were being brought in. The  facts of that are obviously well-known, well-reported, and if you want  to see more, it is certainly available in the Intelligence Committee.

The people carrying those drugs were terrorists, plain and simple.  They were trafficking drugs that financed a designated foreign  terrorist organization. These strikes were fully compliant and fully  justified under the President's article II constitutional authority-- and not only authority but duty as Commander in Chief of our Armed  Forces to defend this country. And he took an oath to do so.

So why are we here today? We are looking at a resolution saying that  he can't do this anymore. This is nonsense. It is unreasonable. It is  why the American people look at Congress and say: Are you people crazy?  You have the President of the United States trying to do something  about this terrible scourge that is going on in America, and you in  Congress are saying: Don't be doing that anymore unless you come here  and ask us for permission to do it.

So these actions are political, pure and simple. These actions here  are political. This was a good decision on the part of the President,  and the President acted legally. So what are my Democratic friends  doing here? They are putting forth this joint resolution No. 83 to stop  the President from acting in the way he has just acted to stop these  drugs from coming into the country. So let's look at what it says.  Let's look at the actual language:

Congress hereby directs the President to terminate the use       of United States Armed Forces for hostilities against any       organization designated on or after February 20, 2025--

His date of inauguration--       as a foreign terrorist organization or specially designated       global terrorist, any states in which those entities operate,       or any non-state organization engaged in the promotion,       trafficking, and distribution of illegal drugs.

You are telling the President to stop using this against  organizations and people who are trafficking drugs for distribution and  on the way to the United States.

And it goes on to say that he can't do this unless explicitly  authorized by a declaration of war or a specific authorization for use  of military force by this organization.

How long do you think it would take him to get that? Those drugs not  only would have been delivered to the United States, they would have  not only been distributed in the United States; there would be dead  Americans, and we would still be here yapping about it.

So even if this passed--and it is not going to, but if it did pass,  he is not going to obey this order. He can't obey this order. He took  an oath to defend this country. When he sees an attack like this  coming--an attack of drugs or explosives or anything else that is going  to kill Americans--he not only has the authority to do something about  it; he has the duty to do something about it.

We should have a resolution out here not condemning what he did and  telling him ``don't do this anymore''; we should have a resolution out  here thanking him for the hundreds--probably thousands--of lives that  he saved with these four attacks, including constituents in your  districts.

Thank you, Mr. President, for what you did. Thank you. And continue  the good work of taking these drugs out of the traffic and putting them  on the bottom of the ocean.

My friends, this is Trump derangement syndrome. These people hate  President Trump; I get that. But simply because you hate him, you  should not wallow in that hate like you have and produce this kind of a  product that stops the President from doing what he is supposed to do.  This is shameful and it should be defeated and it is going to be  defeated.