Recognizing Nola Jane Saldana with A Congressional Veteran Commendation


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696264/recognizing-nola-jane-saldana-with-a-congressional-veteran-commendation


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to present Nola Jane Saldana  of Waco, Texas, with a Congressional Veteran Commendation. Nola Saldana  is a proud United States Navy veteran, who served nearly 10 years and  continues to dedicate her life to supporting veterans and her  community. A full-blooded Maidu Indian raised in poverty on a  reservation in Susanville, California, she grew up with strong values  of respect and kindness, taught by her mother.

Not long after graduating from Sherman Indian High School, a boarding  school in Riverside, California, Nola joined the Navy in January 1988.  She trained as a welder and served aboard the USS Acadia, and later the  USS Dixon as a radiation worker, often as the only woman in her  division. Her service took her across the world, including to the  Persian Gulf and multiple international ports. She departed the Navy in  1997. During her service she earned the National Defense Service Medal,  Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, Sea Service Medal Deployment Ribbon  three times, and the Good Conduct Medal two times.

Following her military career, she earned a bachelor's degree in  social work with honors from Texas Tech University. She went on to  serve in several public service roles in Waco, Texas, including at the  Texas Youth Commission, Texas Behavioral Health Network, and Child  Protective Services. Since 2007, she has worked at the Waco VA Medical  Center as a Mental Health Caseworker for seriously mentally ill women  Veterans.

Beyond her professional work, Nola leads numerous Veteran-focused  programs as Commander of VFW Post 2148 and volunteers in the community.  She supports troop care packages, family assistance, welcome-home  events, Veteran services, youth scholarships, and JROTC programs. She  is also a member of the Honor Guard and an adult volunteer with the  Waco Young Marines.

Recently, she made history as the first Native American female  Commander of VFW District 29, overseeing seven posts in Texas. Nola is  also a proud mother of four successful children, all of whom have  pursued higher education or military service. Nola Saldana exemplifies  lifelong service, leadership, and dedication to others. It is with  great honor and respect that I present Nola Jane Saldana with a  Congressional Veteran Commendation from the 17th Congressional District  of Texas.