Recognizing Lieutenant Colonel Charles H. Wagamon, Usaf, Retired, with A Congressional Veteran Commendation


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to present a Congressional  Veteran Commendation to a member of our greatest generation, retired  USAF Lieutenant Colonel Charles H. Wagamon, of Huntsville, Texas. Lt.  Colonel Wagamon served as a Captain, Bombadier and Navigator flying in  B-25 Mitchell Bombers with the U.S. Army Air Corps during World War II.  His servant's life reflects the hard work and dedication that  exemplifies the best of our Nation's values.

Lt. Col. Wagamon entered active duty in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in  September of 1944 at twenty years of age and served an important role  during period of World War II, flying reconnaissance missions over  Italy detailing German activities along the railway system until the  end of the war. He served in the North Apennines, Central Europe and Po  Valley campaigns.

Lt. Col. Wagamon served in the 6th Bomb Group, 313th Bombardment  Wing, 340th Bombardment Group, 486th Bombardment Squadron earning; the  Air Medal, European-Africa-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with 4 Bronze  Battle Stars, American Campaign Medal, Distinguished Unit Badge and the  WWII Victory Medal.

After the Allied Victory, Lt. Col. Wagamon returned home and served  in the reserves and ultimately retired with the rank of Lieutenant  Colonel. During his service in the reserves and after, he continued his  service to country and community, through his faith and devotion to  God, he lead his family of five in service to the Catholic Church and  received many recognitions including the very special Vatican Award,  which required many levels of nomination to be considered and the  Benemerenti Medal from Pope Francis given to him in 2014, recognizing  65 years of service to the Roman Catholic Church.

With his wife Marion right beside him, he has served the Huntsville  community in various capacities for over 30 years that included  Huntsville school teacher from 1978 to 1982, Deputy Director of  Education Service Center Region 6 from 1968 to 1982, owner of Wagamon  Printing that was opened in 1981, and Walker County Judge from 1994 to  2002.

As a longtime volunteer, Lt. Col. Wagamon has poured numerous hours  into the HEARTS Veterans Museum of Texas. Setting up displays and doing  tours educating visitors and students was a weekly occurrence. In  addition to his work at the museum, he spent many hours and full days  at many schools within the Huntsville Independent School District  providing exceptional experiences for its students. It is with this  level of love for God, country and community that I proudly commend  retired USAF Lieutenant Colonel Charles H. Wagamon of Huntsville, Texas  to his friends, family, and community and salute his service by  awarding him the 2025 Congressional Veteran Commendation.