Recognizing Colonel John Battista Airola, Usmc, Retired, with A Congressional Veteran Commendation


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696280/recognizing-colonel-john-battista-airola-usmc-retired-with-a-congressional-veteran-commendation


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to present retired USMC  Colonel John Battista Airola, of Huntsville, Texas, with a  Congressional Veteran Commendation. His servant's life reflects the  hard work and dedication that exemplifies the best of our Nation's  values.

Colonel Airola entered active duty at Quantico, Virginia in August of  1955 at twenty-one years of age and served with honor and heroism  during the Vietnam War with the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Divisions of the  Marine Corps. His service instilled not only a sense of pride in his  four children but led them all to the call of duty serving as officers  in multiple branches of our Nation's military.

Colonel Airola served 9 years in foreign service to our Nation with  significant combat earning the following; Vietnam Service Medal with 2  Stars, Bronze Star Medal with combat V, National Defense Service Medal,  Navy Unit Commendation, Combat Action Ribbon, Presidential Unit  Citation, Vietnam Cross of Gallantry with palm, Vietnam Campaign Medal  with device, Navy Commendation Medal, Meritorious Unit Commendation,  Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, Pistol Expert (15th Award), Rifle  Sharpshooter and Legion of Merit dated May 4, 1987.

Throughout his distinguished military career, he completed Recruit  Training in 1955, then moved on into Infantry Combat Training later  that year. In 1956, he completed the ANGLICO Basic Course (ABC)  followed by Officer Candidate School and subsequent Basic School in  1957. Carrying on with additional training, he completed Duties of a  Motor Transport (MT) Officer and Embarkation Duties in 1958. By 1965,  he completed additional training that included Jr. Landing Force Plan  Staff II and Nuclear Weapons Orientation. As the war in Vietnam heated  up, he completed Amphibious Warfare training in 1968 and the Senior  Officer Preventative Maintenance Course by 1972 and later the  Instructors Orientation Course in 1975.

After his 32-year career in the Marine Corps, Colonel Airola  transitioned his service over to the HEARTS Veterans Museum from its  inception. His countless hours of volunteering, setting up museum  displays, participating in parades, and educating the visitors and  children is nothing short of amazing. Up until the summer of 2025, at  the age of 91, John came in to volunteer every Saturday and even when  he couldn't attend regularly, he still financially supported the  mission of HEARTS.

Colonel Airola is an exceptional candidate for this Commendation. His  leadership is paramount and has furthered the mission of HEARTS Museum  over the years by starting the local Marine Corps Birthday Celebration  each year, helped foster the early days of HEARTS and served on its  board of directors for many years advocating for his fellow veterans in  addition to his support for the local Marine Corps League, Toys for  Tots and Semper Fi Fund. It is this advocacy and impact which lead him  to be tapped to serve on the inaugural Congressional Veterans  Commendation committee for East Texas.

Colonel Airola has made it his mission to continue to educate our  visitors and the children about the pride in service to our country and  our Nation's military history. The Colonel is history; the Colonel is  an exceptional American Soldier. It is with this level of love of  country and his beloved United States Marine Corps and all of its glory  and strength that I proudly commend retired USMC Colonel John Battista  Airola of Huntsville, Texas to his friends, family, and colleagues, and  salute his service to the Marines, his country and Walker County by  awarding him the 2025 Congressional Veteran Commendation.