Recognizing William ``bill'' Forest Harris with A Congressional Veteran Commendation


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor William ``Bill''  Forest Harris of Cameron, Texas, by presenting him with a Congressional  Veteran Commendation. His persistent efforts in fostering beliefs of  sacrifice and respect reflect his value as a leader during service and  retirement.

Bill was drafted into the United States Army in 1969 and served a  combat tour in Vietnam with the 809th Engineer Battalion. The  battalion's mission was diverse, including construction, aviation  support, and multi-role bridging capabilities, all while maintaining a  combat-ready posture to fight at a moment's notice. Bill's heroic  efforts earned him the National Defense Service Medal, the Vietnam  Service Medal, and the Vietnam Campaign Medal. After being honorably  discharged in 1970, Bill served in the Army Reserves until 1975.

Although his military service had ended, Bill stayed committed to the  honorable life of a public servant, becoming a firefighter with the  Temple Fire Department before turning to serve in their Police  department from 1974 to 1981. During his time in the police department  Bill rose to the position of investigator and served as part of the  Central Texas Narcotics and Organized Crime Task Force. Bill joined the  Milam County Sheriff's office in 1982, where he served the remainder of  his distinguished law enforcement career. Upon his retirement from that  position, he continued to serve as a reserve deputy and as the  Sheriff's office Chaplain until 2023.

Bill's commitment to Milam County is evident in every aspect of his  life. His business, Cameron Tire Store, has been a staple of the  community since he purchased the property in 1992. Bill has served on  committees and boards repeatedly since moving to Milam County, as his  leadership cannot go unnoticed. In the early 2000's, he was selected to  serve on the committee tasked with developing the new jail for Milam  County. His work with this committee led to the conversion of an old  hospital into the new offices for the Sheriff's Department, the Texas  Department of Public Safety, Precinct One and Two Justices of the  Peace, and attached to all of this was a new modern jail.

Bill has served on the Cameron Housing Board, as member and director,  and currently serves on the Board of Directors for the North Milam  Water Supply District and served as a city councilman for years. From  2000 to 2024, he served as the Mayor of Cameron, stepping in to serve  as Interim City Manager while the city was held without one. Bill does  not simply lend a helping hand, but he truly commits himself to  enforcing change and improvement where it is needed.

At nearly 77 years old, while raising three children and being a  grandfather to two, many would have retired, but not Bill. He continues  to work hard every day as the owner of multiple businesses, which he  runs with his wife Gwyn. His service has been recognized by the Cameron  Chamber of Commerce, which named him Citizen of the Year in 2007 and  presented him with its Lifetime Achievement Award in 2023. As a man of  great faith, Bill continues to serve as pastor of Davilla Baptist  Church.

Through community, both broadly as an American and much more  personally in any number of ways, through family, and of course through  a strong commitment to faith, Bill has made himself more than worthy of  this achievement.

It is with great honor and respect that I present William ``Bill''  Forest Harris with a Congressional Veteran Commendation from the 17th  Congressional District of Texas. His exemplary service to our Nation  and continued contribution to his community stand as an inspiration to  us all.