Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Air Plan Approval; South Dakota;


Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the War Powers  Resolution. As a Senator from Michigan, as a former CIA officer who  served three tours alongside the military in Iraq, I saw conflict up  close.

But I think it is important that we put this decision to go into  Venezuela in context. It is confusing. President Trump campaigned for  nearly 2 years on staying out of foreign wars. That was a huge  signature part of his campaign. So why do we find ourselves now ``in  charge,'' in his words, of Venezuela?

Let's put it in context. All fall, the White House has been attacking  boats in the Caribbean Sea, in the Pacific, saying that we were at war  against drugs and the flow of drugs, even though no fentanyl is  produced in Venezuela. These drugs were cocaine headed towards places  like Europe.

Fine, drugs were the reason we were talking about these strikes.

January 3 comes along. U.S. forces entered Venezuela, from what I can  tell, in a truly amazing and heroic military operation, captured  President Maduro and his wife, and brought them to New York City. Why?  Why do we find ourselves doing this?

I think there are really two reasons, one unspoken, one spoken. First  and foremost, President Trump is clearly deciding that he wants to  distract the public from talking about his domestic failures. Donald  Trump, as I said, campaigned on getting out of foreign entanglements.  But let's just review. He has launched military action in nine  different localities across the world: seven countries, two seas.

We went back and looked. That is the single greatest number of  countries with military action that any President has taken in the  history of the United States in their first year. So the man who said  that he wasn't going to get us involved has done more strikes in more  countries than any President and has taken more strikes in this first  year than Joe Biden took in the entirety of his Presidency. So the idea  that he is trying to keep us out of things is--I think--should be put  to bed. He has made himself a foreign policy President.

Why? He doesn't want to talk about his domestic agenda. He doesn't  want to talk about his lack of action on the things that actually  matter to Americans. Most people did not wake up wondering when we  could invade Venezuela, when we could take over Venezuela. Most  Americans want him to be attacking--not other countries, but the things  that are holding them back from living their best and most free life.

Think about what he promised. On healthcare, our premiums have gone  up, for many Americans, doubling and tripling as of January 1; housing  prices, up; energy costs, up; jobs, down with cuts, particularly in  places like Michigan, in manufacturing. All the things he said he was  going to attack, he has ignored. And all the things he has done abroad  are for you to think he is a big tough guy, he is Presidential, he is  in command of something.

I have three brothers. I grew up in a very active household. If you  remember--those of you who got the crap beat out of you the way I did-- when your brothers say, ``Look over here,'' ``look over here'' and  sucker punch you, that is purposeful to distract you. That is what  Donald Trump is doing with military action in his first year: ``Look  over here.'' We are talking about Venezuela today and talking about  places like Greenland instead of talking about the housing emergency or  healthcare emergency. So the unstated goal by the President is  to distract you. And please, please, please don't let him do that.

Secondly, the stated goal. The President has been very open. This is  not about drugs. It was never about drugs. This is about taking over  Venezuela and particularly their oil fields. We used to make fun of the  conspiracy theories of George Bush taking over Iraq because of the oil.  Donald Trump just admitted it outright. He is happy to brag about the  fact that he is taking over the oil fields of another country. The only  problem is, if you talk to some of the oil executives, as of this past  Saturday, they had zero plan, zero idea.

The administration had no plan for the day after this removal of  Maduro. And I have to tell you, as someone who served in places like  Iraq, haven't we learned the lesson over and over and over again? This  country always tries to get into ``limited'' military engagements. That  is what Kennedy said about Vietnam. That is what Bush said about Iraq  and Afghanistan. We may go in with intentions of things being very  limited, but the world has a vote on how things go in these other  countries, and we do not know where Venezuela is going to go.

Oil companies, despite how they are portrayed in Hollywood, are very  conservative. They have to think in 20-year time horizons. They can't  make willy-nilly moves. They have to make a profit and think about that  over 20 years. It is not a surprise that some of the early plans  earlier this week about what the Trump administration was going to have  the oil companies do have now fallen by the wayside.

The President has said we are going to throw money at this problem.  Now, the President is saying and Marco Rubio is saying we are going to  control the oil. ``Don't worry. The U.S. Government is going to move  that oil into the United States, and we are going to help sell it, and  we are going to hopefully make some profit off of that.''

The only problem is the oil companies are still extremely, extremely  cautious and sort of suspicious of this plan. These plans to invest in  Venezuela would involve them investing a ton of money upfront and just  hoping that long after Donald Trump leaves, they are going to make a  profit. So it is not a surprise that he had no plan and he has no idea  where this is going to go.

You don't have to imagine instability in Venezuela. In 2017, we had  protests on the ground. Back in the early 2000s, the then-government  had to fire or ended up firing 18,000 people in the oil industry  because there was a general strike. We have no idea and, certainly,  this President has no idea where this is going to go. He had no plan  going in, but we are all along for the ride.

I think it is just as important to understand the context as we talk  about the legal authority to go into a place like Venezuela. I would  say what we all need to be cautious of is this idea that whether you go  in trying to do a limited military operation or not, at the end of the  day, it is Americans' sons and daughters from places like Michigan that  are called up to create calm, to create stability. You break it; you  buy it.

This administration has been very open about the fact that they now  believe they own Venezuela. I stand here as a Senator, yes, but also as  someone who has seen this movie in other places. I call upon the  administration to just be transparent. Just play it straight. Don't try  to distract us. Don't try to sucker punch us. Tell us what you are  doing in foreign countries, then get back to the work you said you were  going to do. Attack healthcare, not Venezuela. Get to the domestic  things you promised, and stop leading us around by our noses.