Successful Entrepreneurship for Reservists and Veterans Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1687889/successful-entrepreneurship-for-reservists-and-veterans-act


Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in full support of the  Successful Entrepreneurship for Reservists and Veterans Act, otherwise  known as the SERV Act. This bill would study the barriers that veterans  face when starting or owning a small business.

Starting a small business is not a one-size-fits-all process. Each  individual encounters unique challenges when striving to open their  dream business. That is why it is essential that, as Members of  Congress, we support legislative initiatives aimed at identifying and  addressing the obstacles that small business owners and entrepreneurs  face.

The SERV Act is one such initiative. It would enhance outreach and  promotion of existing veteran-focused small business programs, ensuring  that veterans can access all available services, resources, capital,  and credit.

This bill would provide a report on the availability of veteran and  reservist small business owners' access to credit. It would require the  Small Business Administration's Interagency Task Force on Veterans  Small Business Development to develop an action plan for outreach and  promotion of the many programs available to veterans transitioning into  the small business world. It will ensure that the task force reports  annually to Congress on its outreach efforts for programs available to  veterans, service-disabled veterans, reservists, and their spouses.

For many of our Nation's veterans, transitioning back to civilian  life can be daunting, especially for those seeking to start their own  small business.

As an Air Force veteran and vice ranking member on the Committee on  Veterans' Affairs, I believe it is not only crucial but imperative that  our government support our Nation's veterans in every possible way.

The SERV Act is a bill that will provide robust support for veterans'  small business development and help veterans achieve their  entrepreneurial goals.

I thank Chairman Williams and Ranking Member Velazquez for their  support of this legislation and moving it forward. Certainly, I thank  the lead sponsors, Representatives Alford and Davids, for their  gracious support of me and for helping to sponsor this bill and move it  forward.