Welcoming His All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695506/welcoming-his-all-holiness-ecumenical-patriarch-bartholomew


Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to welcome His All-Holiness  Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew to Washington, D.C.

Known as the ``Patriarch of Peace'' by the Eastern Orthodox Church,  he guides millions of faithful around the world in their spiritual  journey and relationship with God. He has long championed interfaith  dialogue, global peace, and religious tolerance. His presence reflects  the deep ties between the Orthodox Christian community and the United  States. His work has uplifted Eastern Orthodox Christians around the  world, including many in New Jersey's 3rd Congressional District.

During this visit, Patriarch Bartholomew is being honored as the  recipient of the Templeton Prize. This prestigious international a yard  recognizes his scholarly contributions in exploring the intersection of  faith and the natural world. Past recipients include Mother Teresa and  the Dalai Lama.

In 1997, he was awarded the Congressional Gold Medal in recognition  of his contributions to the United States. His efforts have fostered  dialogue among Christians, Muslims, Jews, and people of all faiths. His  visit reminds us that our Nation is strongest when we work together in  mutual respect, despite our differences.

Throughout his ministry, His All-Holiness has exemplified how faith  can contribute to a just and peaceful planet. He has unapologetically  spoken out against violence, international terrorism, and the  degradation of the environment. He once stated, ``Human conflict may be  inevitable in our world; but war and violence are not. If our age will  be remembered, it may be for those who dedicated themselves to the  cause of peace.'' In a time of global Turbulence, his visit marks a  moment of deep significance for Orthodox Christians in New Jersey and  across the United States.

Mr. Speaker, I join my colleagues in welcoming His All-Holiness  Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew to the United States.