-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700057/9999


The minute that we passed a 2-week continuing resolution for the  Department of Homeland Security, we knew we were going to have to enter  into some hard discussions about how we can rein in ICE's lawlessness,  which is what the American people demand. And yet during the first week  of that 2-week continuing resolution, there was no clarity over whom we  were supposed to be negotiating with. Was it Senate Republicans? Was it  the White House?

And, in fact, it wasn't until last night, literally on the verge of  the shutdown, that we got our first offer of text from the White  House--far too late to be able to engage in any compromise before the  deadline.

So I wish we weren't here. I wish our Republican colleagues and the  White House had shown more seriousness from the start.

But Senate Democrats have been clear that we have all taken an oath-- an oath to uphold the law of the country--and this Department of  Homeland Security, this ICE, is out of control. They are tear-gassing  our children's schools. They are killing American citizens. They are  disappearing legal migrants.

I went down to Texas, a couple of weeks ago, and sat across a table  from two elementary school students who had been detained illegally for  6 weeks over Christmas, while their mother wasn't home. It was a choice  ICE made to traumatize and terrorize these children. Those children  were alive on the outside but dead on the inside.

So, yes, we believe we have a constitutional obligation to only fund  a Department of Homeland Security that is obeying the law, and this  Department of Homeland Security is not obeying the law.

So I am hopeful that these discussions will continue. But, frankly,  we  had plenty of time to get a deal in the last 2 weeks, and the lack of  seriousness from the White House and from Republicans, not getting  language until last night, has put us in the position we are in today.

We want to fund the Department of Homeland Security, but only a  Department that is obeying the law, and for that reason, I would  object.

Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I just want to reiterate that we got the  language last night. We have been in a 2-week continuing resolution,  and last night, we got the first offer of legislation from the White  House.

We are not in charge. The Senate Democrats aren't in charge. We don't  run the House. We don't run the White House.

We waited for a week for there to be some process to be convened. We  got no signal as to what that negotiation would look like. So we  finally put our proposals--our text--on the table and didn't get an  offer back until last night.

My wish is for my Republican colleagues to be just as upset as they  are about what is going to happen next week at TSA or at FEMA as for  the children that are being traumatized right now in this country, who  are being thrown into what is called the ``Baby Jail,'' outside of San  Antonio; for the lives that are fundamentally changed by an immigration  policy that is out of control; to have concern for the American  citizens who have been killed simply exercising their First Amendment  rights; to care about the 4 million Americans who are losing their  insurance, as we speak, because this administration has chosen to put  money into a lawless immigration enforcement operation instead of  protecting people's healthcare.

That is what is happening in America today. Four million people are  losing their healthcare insurance. Twenty million people are having  their rates go through the roof because the priority is flooding  Minneapolis with ICE agents; chasing down kids at schoolbus stops, as  they were doing just 2 days ago in Minneapolis, instead of protecting  people's healthcare.

People are losing healthcare in this country so as to fund this  runaway Department of Homeland Security.

And so we all have outrage about what is happening in this country  today, and I don't know why it took the White House until last night to  send any semblance of specifics on what they were willing to work for.

We have an obligation, as Members of Congress, to fund a government  that obeys the law. This Department of Homeland Security is not obeying  the law. They are not. And I would argue that every Member of this  body, whether you were a Republican or a Democrat, in order to uphold  your oath of office, should not be funding an Agency that isn't  complying with the Constitution and the statutes of the United States.

So I do regret that we are at a moment in which we are not going to  be able to fund the Department of Homeland Security, but there is a  simple solution. If the Agency starts behaving lawfully, if they start  obeying the Constitution, then we can get back on the same page.

This is an exceptional moment in this country's history, and my hope  is that these negotiations move fast, expeditiously, and that perhaps,  as soon as we return--or if the majority leader would like to call us  back into session next week--we can get the Department back up and  operating. But that is only going to happen with reforms.

That is only going to happen with more serious engagement from the  White House than has happened thus far.