Alex Padilla


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692557/alex-padilla


Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, this feels like a defining moment for the  country but also for this body. I understand that it may take a few  moments for our Republican colleagues to watch the full video, to  gather some additional facts, to come to a conclusion. But we need our  Republican colleagues to be on the floor right now with us because this  is not simply an assault on Senator Padilla. This is not an assault on  Democratic Senators. This is an assault on the rule of law. This is an  assault on our democracy. And ultimately, we are robbing the ability of  every single Senator to do our job if we are now going to be threatened  with violence when we simply try to stand up for our constituents.

Now, we all have townhalls, and we are all often met with  constituents who oppose us, sometimes very vocally. But, speaking for  myself, I don't ask law enforcement to throw my constituents to the  ground and violently handcuff them because they have a different  opinion from me. You know why I don't do that? Because we don't do that  in a democracy. We don't do that against ordinary citizens, and we  certainly don't allow the administration and the law enforcement that  works for the administration to do that to a U.S. Senator.

We will enter a banana republic if we don't find a way--Republicans  and Democrats--to come together around this essential question of  protecting our ability and our right as Senators to speak up for our  constituents.

Now, I understand that my Republican colleagues are going to need  some time to gather the facts, but we already have a statement from the  Department of Homeland Security that has accused Senator Padilla of  being ``disrespectful,'' as if that is a rationalization for violence.

Watch the video. Even if you believe that he was ``disrespectful''-- and, given the times, that is certainly in the eye of the beholder-- that never justifies what we saw on that video: throwing anyone--never  mind an elected representative of the people--to the ground to be  handcuffed.

They say that he didn't identify who he was, and yet--watch the  video--he clearly states:

I am Senator Alex Padilla.

They are going to spin this. But I am begging my Republican  colleagues: Don't let them do it. Protect our ability as servants of  the people to speak up for the people that we represent. Make sure that  we do not normalize this kind of violence simply because the White  House doesn't agree with people who dissent.

If this is how a U.S. Senator can be treated, then none of us  ultimately are immune. If this is how a U.S. Senator can be treated,  none of our constituents are safe.

This is a test for the country, but this is a test for the U.S.  Senate as well.