Authorizing Representation By the Senate Legal Counsel in the Case of Desmond Bellard V. Ronald Wyden, U.S. Senator


Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I was sitting with the CEO of one of  America's biggest and most influential companies last month, and I  asked him a simple question: What could President Trump do that would  be a bridge too far for you? What attack on democracy or the rule of  law could Trump make that would cause you to speak up?

His answer was pretty simple, and it was pretty confident. He said:  If Trump were to ignore a Supreme Court ruling, that would cross the  line.

He was reflecting a familiar theme: that until President Trump thumbs  his nose definitively at a Court ruling, then his attacks on democracy  are troubling but not lethal. It is normal politics up until that  dramatic confrontation between the executive branch and the judicial  branch, for which the Constitution, as we know, really has no  prescribed remedy.

For many Americans, they may breathe a sigh of relief that America's  most influential private sector leaders would rise up to defend  democracy; that if this confrontation that we worry about would come to  pass, combined with a massive public mobilization, we could be saved.

But I didn't breathe a sigh of relief. It was the opposite.

I am deeply worried that we have really spent little time studying  the paths that democracies take when they collapse. Most of the time,  there is not a singular moment when the Executive dramatically seizes  power. There is not normally a brazen attempt to burn down the  Parliament building. No, instead, democracies die when gradually, often  quietly and methodically, over time, the structures that hold the  Executive accountable for corruption, for thievery, for wrongdoing are  dismantled--dismantled so that citizens can no longer hold the  Executive accountable; dismantled so that the political opposition  never has enough room to maneuver meaningfully.

There are still elections. The Executive doesn't try to stuff the  ballot box. Occasionally, at lower levels, the opposition still wins.  But what happens is that those structures of accountability are either  so degraded or so completely co-opted by the regime that the truth is  just buried, and the political opposition loses the basic tools that it  needs to win.

In every democracy that stops being a democracy, then, there is a  familiar story. There are four institutions that the regime attacks and  that it attacks relentlessly until those structures of accountability  are so disintegrated that, even though elections continue to happen,  the same party or the same person wins power election after election.  Those four institutions are the press, the legal profession,  universities, and the business community. If you degrade or co-opt  these four institutions, you never need to have a high-stakes fight  with the top court in your country. You don't need to burn the  Reichstag down. You can still have elections, but only one party will  win.

So that is why this CEO's assurance, frankly, sent a chill down my  spine--because our democracy isn't at risk of dying; it is dying. As we  speak, we are watching it die. It is not too late to save it.

Let me say that again. It is not too late to save our democracy. But  we can't continue to close our eyes and think that our democracy can  survive a coordinated assault on those four key institutions of  accountability. Democrats and Republicans need to see what is happening  before our eyes, rise up, and defend the independence of journalists,  of lawyers, of universities, and of the private sector.

So I want to spend a minute or two to walk you through what President  Trump is doing and how it, frankly, chillingly, mirrors the tactics  that other leaders have used to transition real democracy into pretend,  fake democracy.

It always starts with journalists, from Hungary to Belarus, to  Venezuela--countries that have elections but elections where one party  just keeps on winning. These are places where journalists are subject  to a nonstop harassment campaign from the regime, such that people just  stop doing journalism or journalists stop telling the full truth.

Last month, for instance, Turkish President Erdogan locked up 11  journalists simply because they were covering protests against  Erdogan's jailing of the top opposition leaders.

Now, Trump has not started jailing journalists, but the pace of  harassment in the first 60 days of his second term is alarming.

He has denied access to government buildings, including the White  House, to journalists who don't use preapproved language from the White  House. He is preferencing credentials to partisan journalists who  simply parrot his party line. His FCC has begun to deliberately harass  media companies that are owned by political opponents of the President.

But Trump's campaign to destroy independent journalism has a darker  and more menacing side because Trump isn't just trying to intimidate  journalists so that they will be afraid to tell the truth; he is also  trying to destroy the concept of truth itself. Again, this is a key  facet of leaders who are elected who are trying to transition  democracies away and into something very different.

How do you destroy truth? Well, that is why the Secretary of Defense  looks into the camera and tells the American public that the text  messages that everybody read, filled with classified information and  war plans, did not include classified information and war plans.

The White House wants you to believe that one plus one does not equal  two any longer; that you should doubt even the clear things that you  see with your eyes; that nothing is real; that nothing is true; that if  you are a supporter of the regime and I tell you once plus one equals  three, then one plus one equals three. Those weren't war plans. Those  weren't classified items.

That is also why the official position of the White House on key  issues like tariffs changes every hour, because if the ground truth  just changes constantly, then there is no truth at all.

Journalists are made to look foolish by reporting a true thing at 9  a.m. that becomes untrue at 10 a.m. Journalism loses its credibility  when the facts being distributed by the White House change all the  time.

Trump says the tariffs are permanent.

Journalists report that the President says the tariffs are permanent.

An hour later, Trump says: I never said they are permanent. They are  not permanent. I am cutting deals.

They write that he is cutting deals.

An hour later, they are suspended--no more tariffs.

When the truth changes constantly, it is hard to believe that there  is anything true any longer.

Second, universities are always--always--a target of would-be  autocrats. Again, in Turkiye, the government has terminated thousands  of professors just because they criticized the government. In Hungary,  one of the nation's most prestigious universities was forced to move  out of the country because President Orban attacked it so ceaselessly  for fomenting protests against his government.

Universities, over the long history of democracy, have been the place  where protests--especially youth protests--begin. They are a thorn in  the side of leadership. The famous Tiananmen Square protests in China  were, of course, started by university students.

So it is no surprise that if you want to crush democracy, you need to  crush the independence of universities. That is why Trump's decision to  target universities that permit criticism of President Trump is so  bone-chilling. He pretends like he is standing up to anti-Semitism on  campuses, but what he is really trying to do is make clear that  protests against his policies on campuses will result in Federal  funding being cut off.

Columbia University was forced to agree to a stunning list of free  speech concessions in order to gain assurances from President Trump  that their Federal funding would continue. They had to agree to allow  campus police to arrest protesters. They had to essentially agree to  receivership, Federal receivership, over an academic department  that houses professors who are critical of Trump and his policies.  Effectively, the President of the United States got to pick the person  who will oversee the Columbia Department of Middle East, South Asian  and African Studies as well as the Center for Palestine Studies. That  is extraordinary. That is not what happens in a healthy democracy--the  leader of the country micromanaging academic departments at major  universities to ensure that academic work aligns with the regime.

Now, having successfully forced Columbia to bend the knee and quell  dissent on their campus, Trump is targeting other universities. Some of  them will sign similar agreements giving President Trump power over  those campuses. But, frankly, all Trump has to do is make an example of  a handful of universities, and others will simply comply and obey in  advance.

Why? As an academic president, when you have Federal dollars that  employ people at your university, would you permit a major protest  against a Trump policy if you know that is going to jeopardize Federal  funds? Maybe you allow it because you don't want to brazenly stand in  the way of free speech, but you just make sure that it is not too big a  protest or it is not too critical. You police speech to be on the right  side of the regime. That is what happens in all of these fake  democracies, and that is what is happening here.

But controlling speech on campuses is not enough. Controlling and  intimidating journalists is not enough. You have to go after the  lawyers too.

Now, maybe there is not a lot of love for lawyers in this country,  but lawyers are the ones who bring the lawsuits to stop the thievery  and the illegality. Lawyers are compelled by their oath to stand up for  the Constitution.

Putin arrested Navalny's lawyers right on the eve of Navalny's trial.

In Venezuela, Maduro routinely harasses and detains lawyers--human  rights lawyers--because he knows those are the ones who will hold him  accountable.

In Tunisia, the regime stormed the offices of the bar administration  to intimidate the legal profession into silence.

Here in America, Trump is engaged in a shameless campaign of  extortion against any major law firm that has taken a position against  Trump or Trump's interests. What he is doing is extraordinary, and it  is mind-blowing to me that it is just being ignored by my Republican  colleagues. He is going firm by firm--and not to every firm, just to  the firms that have represented Democrats or brought cases against  him--and he is telling them that if they don't fall in line and stop  doing work to oppose him, their clients will lose access to Federal  work.

That is extortion. This body, Republicans and Democrats, should stand  up against it. But it is working. Several law firms have signed deals  with Trump that obligate them to support--guess what--causes aligned  with Donald Trump.

Paul Weiss was targeted by an Executive order and struck a deal. But  so did Skadden. They struck a deal with Trump before they had even been  targeted. Already, collectively, these firms have pledged--think about  this--about a quarter of a billion dollars of pro bono work to file  cases in coordination with the President of the United States'  political interests.

Just like what happened with the universities, there is a lot of  extra compliance that is happening. I know for a fact that firms that  have already signed these agreements with Trump have gone above and  beyond the terms of the agreements to quiet their criticism of the  government. No doubt, every single major law firm will think twice  before bringing an action against an illegal or corrupt action of the  President in fear of Trump retaliating against their business.

That is the point. The point is to try to crush dissent. The point is  to try to stand in the way of anybody who is going to hold Trump  accountable by using the power--the official power granted to him by  the people of the United States--to try to signal retaliation against  anyone who dares oppose him.

But collective action can be a powerful tool. Together, the  collective might of our universities and our law firms is significant.  So they could choose to band together and decide to sign no agreements  with Trump, to refuse to let the President of the United States dictate  the terms of their speech, their business, their defense of the rule of  law.

I don't want to make the victim the perpetrator. This is all Trump's  fault, what he is doing to extort political loyalty from universities  and law firms. But instead of there being collective action on behalf  of these industries, the opposite is happening.

In the legal profession, when Paul Weiss was being targeted, the  other big firms didn't rise to their defense; they started making calls  to Paul Weiss clients and lawyers, using Trump's assault as a means to  poach business or partners. That is shameful, acting like ravenous  vultures, putting your profits first instead of your country's  interests or the interests of the legal profession, which pledges  before a court to stand up for the rule of law. Instead, these big  firms are aiding and abetting the destruction of the rule of law by  doing Trump's work for him, making targeted firms even more vulnerable  by working behind the scenes to strip them bare for parts.

There are good, patriotic lawyers at many of these high-priced firms  who know that this is wrong and they should speak up. Some of them  already have.

Now, finally, Trump is coming for the rest of the private sector.  Listen, I have no idea what the Trump tariff policy is. The constantly  shifting positions of the last week are an embarrassment. It is  complete incompetent malpractice. It has jeopardized jobs and  retirement savings and college funds all across this country.

But the tariffs are complicated and convoluted and hard to  understand, likely because they aren't actually economic or trade  policy; they are a political tool--this one designed to force every  major company to come before Trump to plead for tariff relief in  exchange for giving Trump the company's political loyalty--no different  than what is happening in the legal profession or in America's  universities.

A tariff can be written very easily to favor one industry over  another or one company over another, and the confusing nature of the  tariff regime is a means for Trump to require every major company in  the country to come on bended knee to him to get the relief they need.  And that loyalty pledge could be anything--the purchase of some Trump  crypto coin, public support for Trump's economic policies, donations to  his political campaign. But having watched what Trump has done one by  one to universities and law firms, why would we assume the tariffs  aren't just simply a tool to do the same thing to big companies?

What I am trying to say here is that you don't need a battle royal  between the President and the Supreme Court for democracy to die. If  journalists are constantly looking over their shoulders and unable to  report on the truth; if protest is suppressed, even moderately, at  universities; if lawyers start giving cover instead of uncovering  corruption and illegality in the regime; if companies start being  mouthpieces for the regime as a price of doing business--if all that  happens, then we are not a real democracy anymore; we are a fake  democracy. Elections still happen, like in Turkiye, like in Hungary,  like in Venezuela, but the rules are going to be tilted, and dissent  will be suppressed so much that the same side--Trump's side--wins over  and over and over.

This should matter not just to Democrats, not just to members of the  minority party; this should matter to Republicans as well. We swear an  oath to uphold the Constitution, and it is time for us to see the game  that is being played.

The good news is that the rules have not been fully rigged yet. There  is still time--not loads of it, but there is still time for this body  to set a tone that causes the kind of massive public outrage necessary  to stop this campaign of destruction in its tracks. But that requires  those of us who believe that the threat to democracy is urgent to act  like it. That means saying to our Republican colleagues that we are not  going to act like business as usual, that we are not going to proceed  to legislation unless we have agreement, Republicans and Democrats, to  stop this assault on free speech and dissent. It requires the minority  party to say that right now.

Only if we come together are we going to have a chance to save  ourselves from the fate that has befallen so many other countries that  have slowly, too quietly, seen their countries transition from real  democracy to fake democracy.