Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699117/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I thank Senator Kelly for bringing us down  to the floor today.

It is hard to believe it has been 16 years since our politics were  upended, since the floodgates were opened to corporate money in an  unlimited way, in an anonymous way, coming into our elections.

Senator Durbin, of course, has been a hero, as he mentioned spending  much of his career trying to introduce legislation and pass legislation  that would put citizens in charge of our elections rather than Big  Money.

So let's just for a few minutes here, because I know there are others  who want to speak--I just want to make maybe three points.

The first is to just give you the scope, if we haven't put this  information on the record already, as to how things have changed.  Senator Durbin was doing some of this already in referencing how little  elections used to cost compared to how much they cost today, but let's  just talk about the full amount of money that is in politics today as  compared to let's say 1976--a few years before Senator Durbin was first  running for Congress.

In 1976, total Federal election spending by candidates and committees  was $160 million. In the last election, in 2024, candidates and  committees together spent $15.9 billion. OK. Now, it is a long time  between 1976 and 2024, so let's adjust that for inflation. Adjusted for  inflation, it is still 100 times more money. That is stunning. That is  stunning in and of itself, but here is what makes it corrupt. What  makes it corrupt is that prior to the Citizens United decision, outside  groups, noncandidate groups, were spending about $144 million in  elections annually. In 2024, outside groups spent $4.2 billion.

When Senator Durbin was first running, he was raising money from  individuals, folks who were spending $25, $100, maybe a couple hundred  dollars on campaign contributions. Individuals today make up just 16  percent of total spending in elections--16 percent. Eighty-four percent  of all the spending in elections today is not done by citizens; 84  percent of spending is by corporations and organizations. Most of that  money--maybe not most. Much of that money is anonymous; you have no  idea where it comes from.

So let me tell you what the impact of that is. The impact of that is  corruption. Let's just call it what it is. When a handful of  billionaires and corporations have that much influence on our  elections, an unaccountable influence--you have no idea who is spending  all of that money, who is throwing these ads on TV that are being  produced by PACs with innocuous sounding names like Save Our Future,  Build Our Future, This Is Our Future--the impact of that is just--it is  corrupt. It is corrupt.

There is a group that is being formed right now called Leading the  Future--another one of these innocuous sounding PACs. It is promising  to spend $100 million in the election this fall, and it is being funded  by a group of AI companies--companies that are trying to get the  Congress to pass legislation to essentially give these AI companies a  free ride--no protection from deepfakes, no protection from the poison  they are feeding our children. They want free rein, so they are putting  up $100 million in this next election.

I just did the math, sitting at my desk, quickly. The average  individual contribution today is about $25. That is a lot of money for  some people, to give $25 to an election. If every single resident of my  State--every single resident--gave $25, that wouldn't equal the $100  million commitment that one super PAC has made to this next election.  That is stunning. That shows you how much power a handful of these  companies have.

The only way that this group Leading Our Future can put $100 million  into this next election to try to stop Congress from regulating  artificial intelligence is because of the Citizens United decision,  because that decision allows those companies that are swimming in money  right now to be able to write an unlimited check into this next  election.

So you can understand why people feel powerless today, why people  feel like this whole system is rigged because even if they give $25, it  just doesn't make a difference when a handful of companies can, with  the snap of their fingers, muster $100 million to try to change the  impact of an election on public policy.

The last point I want to make is this: This fight that we are having  now in which only Democrats care about changing our campaign finance  laws, in which Republicans almost to a person have no interest in  trying to decrease the influence of corporations and billionaires in  our elections, it is ahistorical. In fact, this has not historically  been a particularly partisan issue except for the last 25 years.

There is a giant, cult-like poster of Donald Trump on the Department  of Labor that I drive by every day in and out of the Capitol. It is  super creepy, the idea that we have Mao- and Stalin-like banners of the  President of the United States surrounding the U.S. Capitol. But next  to the banner of Donald Trump on the Department of Labor building is a  banner depicting the image of Teddy Roosevelt. I guess it is an attempt  by the President to draw an equivalency between himself and Teddy  Roosevelt. That is a pretty--that is a stretch.

But Teddy Roosevelt was a Republican, a Republican who in the wake of  a pretty minor scandal, in 1904, when a couple of companies sent secret  checks to his campaign and to other Republican campaigns, came to  Congress and said: We have got to ban corporate money from elections.

He had trouble getting Republicans to do it at first. So he reached  out across the aisle and worked with a particularly vile Democrat, a  guy by the name of Benjamin ``Pitchfork'' Tillman--just a bad, bad guy.  Actually, our rule XIX, which we use against each other occasionally to  try to settle the tone of debate, it is in our rules because of  Benjamin ``Pitchfork'' Tillman.

Anyway, Roosevelt--a Republican--and Tillman--a Democrat--got  together and said: Let's ban corporations from being able to influence  our elections. That is the Tillman Act that was the law of the land in  practice until the Citizens United decision. For 100 years until that  decision, Republicans and Democrats actually worked together pretty  well to say: You know what, the people should be in charge, not  corporations. That wasn't a partisan idea. It is now, unfortunately.

I am grateful to Senator Kelly for bringing us down to the floor to  talk about the way our citizens feel like they don't have power, the  way that the Citizens United decision has left our voters feeling like  the game is rigged. But it is kind of sad that it is only Democrats  down here talking about the impact that that decision has had on the  influence of corporations and billionaires in our politics. For a long  time, Republicans cared about trying to make sure that our democracy  was fair. That is not the case any longer.

I thank Senator Kelly for allowing us to come down and have this  discussion.