Privileges of the Floor


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689306/privileges-of-the-floor


Mr. MURPHY. Will the Senator yield?

Mr. MURPHY. Senator Booker, first of all, I want to express my  gratitude to you for recognizing the gravity of this moment. Your  ability to see that we are facing a series of threats that are not  normal--a series of threats to families, to children, to individuals,  threats to our democracy, threats to our rule of law--I think it is  really important.

And you have endeavored to do something extraordinary here, to stand  on your feet for as long as you can to convey both to our colleagues  and to the public that because these are not normal times, what is  required of us is something different than a normal response.

And I know maybe we have extended the amount of time that you had  planned to talk on this particular topic of the threat to Americans'  healthcare, but I don't know that there is anything more important that  we are talking about today in the U.S. Senate because the scope of what  Republicans are talking about here is absolutely extraordinary.

And I want to lay out for you, you know, a few additional facts and  numbers and ask you to respond to them as you wrap up your time talking  about this particular topic.

But let me just underscore what you have laid out very well. We are  talking about nearly $900 billion worth of cuts to Medicaid in order to  pay for about a trillion dollars' worth of tax cuts for the wealthiest  1 percent of Americans.

There will be table scraps in the Republican bill for middle-class  consumers and families, but the bulk of the tax cuts are going to the  very, very wealthy--millionaires and billionaires; frankly, people who  have done tremendously well in this country over the past several  decades, who are not in need of more.

And so you were very right to point out the immorality of the 2017  attempt to cut the Affordable Care Act, which insured 20 million  Americans. But Medicaid covers 70 to 80 million Americans, and the new  wrinkle is that this proposal doesn't just cut healthcare for tens of  millions of Americans; estimates are that it could be 30 million  Americans that lose healthcare under the Republican proposal.

No, this is even more difficult to swallow for the American public  than the 2017 attempt to cut and eliminate the Affordable Care Act  because this measure is a direct transfer of money from the poor, the  middle class, the  people who are on Medicaid to the very, very wealthy.

Frankly, it could turn out to be the biggest transfer of wealth in  the history of the country from the poor and the middle class to the  wealthy, which is why, I think, you are taking this extraordinary step  to make sure that our colleagues and the American people know the  gravity of this moment.

A lot of Republicans all across the country are not doing townhalls  any longer; they are not meeting in person with their constituents. And  so there are a lot of Americans that are going to be in the dark that  have a lot of questions, have a lot of questions about what is  happening here, about why it is necessary to cut a program like  Medicaid--that insures 24 percent of Americans--to the bone in order to  finance a tax cut for the very, very wealthy.

One of the things I just wanted to set up for you here is, you know,  just to note that Americans may be surprised to know that 24 percent of  Americans are actually on Medicaid today, because some Americans may  say: Well, my insurance isn't Medicaid. My insurance is through  MississippiCAN. My insurance is through ACCESSNebraska. My insurance is  through Centennial Care. Or in Connecticut, my insurance is through  HUSKY Health. In New Jersey, it is New Jersey Family Care, right? So  Medicaid normally isn't called Medicaid; it is called something  different in every State.

So it is important for you to understand that so many of your  neighbors are on Medicaid even though it may not be called Medicaid in  your State. That is how we get to 24 percent of American families on  this particular program.

The Joint Economic Committee, which is a committee of Congress, did a  study, issued a report, talking about how many people would lose their  healthcare insurance on a State-by-State basis if this $880 billion cut  to Medicaid went through. I won't go through the whole list, Senator  Booker, but I just pulled out some States that are represented by our  Republican colleagues.

In Alabama, 20 percent of Alabamans are on their Medicaid Program. In  total, 330,000 people in one State--Alabama--would lose their  healthcare if this cut went through.

In Arkansas, 25 percent of families are on the Arkansas Medicaid  Program. A quarter of a million people would lose their health  insurance.

In Florida, 17 percent of the State is on Medicaid, and 1.3 million  Floridians could lose their healthcare because of these Medicaid cuts.

We can just go on and on. Twenty percent of Iowans are on the  Medicaid Program, 20 percent of Indiana residents, and 25 percent of  Kentucky residents. Thirty percent of Louisianans are on their State's  Medicaid Program, and 500,000 residents of Louisiana could lose their  healthcare.

Some of that would happen in a sort of slow-moving catastrophe, but,  as you pointed out, Senator Booker, a lot of that would happen  immediately because many of the States that have taken advantage of the  Affordable Care Act Medicaid expansion have a built-in clause to their  State's law that says that the minute the reimbursement rate declines,  even if it declines by only a few percentage points, the entirety of  the Medicaid expansion program is eliminated. So, overnight, you will  have millions of people who would lose their healthcare insurance.

But, as you have rightly pointed out, that is just the beginning of  the disaster because there are hundreds of rural hospitals in this  country that are right now living on the brink of disaster. If Medicaid  reimbursements drop by just 5 or 10 percent, those rural hospitals are  out of business. The same can be said of thousands of drug treatment  centers in this country, addiction treatment centers. So you are  ultimately talking about hundreds, if not thousands, of hospitals and  health centers closing and millions of Americans losing their  healthcare insurance. And for what? And for what? To be able to hoard a  bunch of money so that the richest Americans can buy a third vacation  home? So that millionaires can double their landscaping budget? Who is  asking for this in America today?

Of course there is a conversation to be had about efficiency in our  healthcare programs, but none of that conversation is happening here.  If it was, you wouldn't be reading the letters of all of these  associations representing healthcare groups predicting disaster; they  would actually be in the room at the table. If you really wanted to  save money, you would actually put the doctors and the hospitals and  the medical providers who know something about the system in a room,  but instead this is a political decision that has been made to cut a  certain amount of money that does not coincidentally line up to the  amount of money that the Republican budget bill wants to give in tax  cuts to the very, very wealthy.

So you, I think, rightly put emphasis on and drew attention to John  McCain's decision--and, of course, we should always give credit to Lisa  Murkowski and Susan Collins, who also voted no in 2017 on the repeal of  the Affordable Care Act bill--because it is just a reminder that you  are under no obligation as a U.S. Senator to do the wrong thing if you  know what the right thing is.

You work so hard to get this job, spend your entire life working to  become somebody who can make important decisions like we can in the  U.S. Senate, and you are under no obligation to outsource your decision  making to the President of the United States or your party leadership.  Everybody here gets to make an independent decision on what is right or  wrong, and this just feels plain wrong--a thoughtless, unplanned,  massive cut in Medicaid that is going to throw millions of people off  their healthcare in order to finance a tax cut, the majority of which  is going to go to people who don't need it. Every Senator here can make  up their own mind as to whether that is the right thing or the wrong  thing to do for this country.

The exercise that you are engaged in, Senator Booker, is a simple  one: just trying to make sure that all the facts are on the table.

That last segment you did on the impact on medical research should be  reason alone for folks to reconsider the path this administration is  taking. But the Medicaid cuts as a mechanism to further enrich those  that are already plenty rich--man, I just don't imagine that is  anything the American public are clamoring for.

So, Senator Booker, I just wanted to really thank you for standing up  and making this moment possible. I want to leave you with just two  stories on this topic that have come into my office and then ask you a  question. This is all lead-up to a question.

So I have a constituent who was paralyzed about a decade ago, and he  now uses a wheelchair, and the only insurance program that can provide  him with what he needs from a mechanical and technological standpoint,  plus the drugs he needs to survive, is Medicaid. It is his only option.  It is his only option. He can't work. He is paralyzed. Medicaid is his  only option. For him and for millions of others, Medicaid is life or  death. It is just life or death.

If you are talking about cutting Medicaid by as much as 20 percent-- that is what we are talking about here today. An $880 billion cut in  Medicaid represents about 10 percent of the overall program, but you  have to assume that States are not going to continue to match if the  Federal Government isn't putting in their share. So that 10-percent cut  could very quickly become something closer to a 20-percent cut. There  is no way that you can cut the Medicaid Program by 20 percent without  it impacting people like my constituent in a wheelchair who comes to  many of my events when we protest these Medicaid cuts. This is life or  death for many Americans.

But that is not the full extent of the horror that will happen. I was  just reading a letter the other day from an 80-year-old constituent of  mine who lives at home with his wife, but his wife is very frail, and  it is Medicaid and Connecticut's Medicaid waiver that allow for her to  receive in-home healthcare services.

He is panicked. He wants to spend the final years of his life with  his wife. He knows that if Medicaid gets cut even on the margins, that  Medicaid waiver likely is gone, and either his wife will pass or she  will have to be in an institution.

Query whether that institution will even be able to give her a place  because two-thirds of nursing home beds in this country are paid for by  Medicaid.

So one way or the other, he is staring separation from his wife in  the eye.  She either doesn't make it without the Medicaid reimbursement that  gives her the services at home or she is forced to go to an  institution, and they live separately for their final days.

This is the reality facing people who rely on Medicaid, whether you  are disabled or elderly. This is the reality that will be imposed on  millions of Americans in order to finance a tax cut for the wealthy.

The scope of this is just enormous, Senator Booker. So I guess this  is the question I wanted to ask you. You and I have been in government  for a long time. We have served in a variety of different capacities.

I don't think this country is really ready for the scope of the  healthcare cataclysm that could come with a trillion-dollar cut to the  health insurance program that is responsible for the care of one- quarter of Americans, two-thirds of nursing home beds, and the budgets  of literally tens of thousands of vital healthcare institutions in this  country.

Nobody is better than you at conveying the moral consequences of the  decisions we make here. Just share with us for a minute, as you sort of  wrap up a conversation on this topic of the healthcare priorities of  the Trump administration and the Republican Congress, what America may  look like in a world where we have decided to gut the health insurance  program of last resort for the most vulnerable Americans and the health  insurance program that insures 24 million Americans, two-thirds of whom  are working for a living. Just give us a little bit of a sense of the  enormity of the consequence that this ultimately would bring to this  country.

Mr. MURPHY. I did.

Mr. MURPHY. Will the Senator yield?

Mr. MURPHY. There is so much similarity between the debate that you  are forcing this Senate to have tonight and the debate that we were  having back in 2016 on this epidemic of gun violence. I would describe  it this way. The only thing that matters, the thing that matters more  than anything else in your life is protecting your loved ones from  physical harm.

Mr. MURPHY. You would give anything, right? Anything. You would give  your life savings, your house. You would perhaps give your own life in  order to protect your child or your brother or sister or mother or  father from physical harm. So when you and I have sat across from the  victims of gun violence, many of whom live in your neighborhood and my  neighborhood, in Newark and Hartford, we are looking at a kind of  desperation and sorrow that is unique--that is unique that also  comes with not just losing a loved one to gun violence but feeling  powerless in that exercise.

Mr. MURPHY. Feeling like there was nothing you could do and watching  your elected leader stand by and allow for this reality to continue to  occur in your neighborhood, where kids are being shot down in cold  blood and your elected leaders--the adults in charge of your  community--are standing idly by.

That is not fundamentally different than the reality that will be  visited upon millions of families if this size of a cut in Medicaid  funding goes into effect because families out there who rely on  Medicaid to keep alive their son or daughter who has a complicated  medical disease have no other quarter, have no other last resort  besides Medicaid. Medicaid stands between life and death for their son  or daughter. There is no other place for them to go.

So that same empty, hollow look that we have seen so many times in  the eyes of a mother or father who lost a son or daughter to gun  violence, that is the look that we are choosing to visit upon millions  of families in this country who, when faced with the loss of their only  health insurance option for their disabled child, will watch their  child potentially face the same fate as those young men in your  neighborhood and my neighborhood.

That is the reason why I pose this question to you that you are  answering about the moral gravity of this moment because it is not  fundamentally different than the one that brought us here in 2016.