Save America Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700855/save-america-act


Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I appreciate the remarks from my friend  from Minnesota. I think she laid out an unassailable case about how  this is going to greatly constrain people's abilities to cast their  votes, how it is a broad assault on democracy, how it effectively makes  up a problem that doesn't exist.

I think I am the last speaker tonight before everybody gets to go  home. So I am going to be very brief, and I am going to try to put  today's debate in some context.

Here is what President Trump told a gathering of lawmakers at his  golf resort. By the way, let's just not gloss over the fact that Donald  Trump doesn't spare any moment to make money off of his Presidency,  including demanding that, if you want an audience with him, you have to  go down and spend money at his golf resort.

Here is what he said. He said: If you pass the SAVE Act, ``[i]t will  guarantee the midterms. If you don't get it, big trouble, my opinion.''

Pass the SAVE Act, and ``[i]t will guarantee the midterms. If you  don't get it, big trouble.''

Donald Trump--one of the most unpopular Presidents at this point in  his Presidency in history. All he cares about is power and winning  elections. He can't maintain power in the Senate or the House this fall  being this unpopular in running a war that is out of control and that  is driving up costs for Americans, tariffs that are costing the average  family thousands of dollars a year, an economy that is not growing; and  manufacturing jobs that are fleeing. So he is seeking to gain power  that he believes will allow him to manipulate who can vote and who  can't vote.

That is why we are here. We are certainly not here because voter  fraud is a systemic problem in our elections.

The Heritage Foundation--the organization behind Project 2025 and  many of the ideas that form the foundation of this legislation--has  been able to uncover 10,000 instances of non--wait a second--5,000  instances of noncitizen voter--no, not 5--no, 400--no. It is 100. They  found 100 instances in a country of 300 million of noncitizen voters  trying to vote since 2000--in 26 years, 100 cases.

Another study found that the percent of voter fraud in Arizona over  the last 25 years was--and I have got to read this carefully--0.0000845  percent. I actually have no concept of what that number is. That number  is so tiny as to be kind of impossible to comprehend. The rate of voter  fraud over the last 25 years in Arizona is 0.0000845 percent.

When you ask Americans what the top problems are that are facing the  country right now--this is a Washington University poll, so it is not a  Democratic poll or a Republican poll--they are, 1, jobs are  disappearing; 2, prices are going up--let's see--3, the President  generally; 4, the cost of living; 5, corruption in government; 6,  polarization in government; 7, crime; 8, immigration; 9, abortion; 10,  healthcare. I would bet you, if you went 11 through 19, you would not  find voter fraud on that list. Statistically, this isn't a systemic  problem. Voters aren't asking for us to focus on it.

So why are we here? Why is this the emergency issue--the urgent  issue--that Congress is debating at nearing 11 o'clock on a Wednesday  night?

It is, first and foremost, because Trump is demanding it. He has said  he will not sign any other legislation until this bill reaches his  desk, and Republicans in the Senate are compliant. They are employees  of the President. He has said: This is the bill I want. So they are  attempting to deliver him this bill. He believes, I think wrongly, but  he believes this bill will give him special powers with which to change  the electorate in his favor.

But we are also here because Republicans do not want to talk about  the issues that are actually top of mind for Americans. They do not  want to talk about prices or the economy or healthcare. They do not  want to talk about corruption in government or the cost of living. That  is probably the primary reason we are debating this bill--because, if  you asked Americans what should be in a ``save America'' law, they  would not say this.

There are 4 million Americans who are losing their healthcare as we  speak--4 million Americans. There are 20 million Americans who, right  now, are getting ready to sit down at the kitchen table and figure out  how they are going to afford a 100-percent increase in their healthcare  premiums. There are millions of families right now, because of the  actions of Donald Trump and Republicans in this Congress, who are  deciding whether they are going to pay the tuition bill for their child  next semester or whether they are going to have to come home and  postpone college for a little while because they just can't afford  college and healthcare.

That is a crisis in this country. That is a healthcare cataclysm that  is happening in this country.

There are hospitals and birthing centers and clinics that are closing  in every corner of America because of the multitrillion-dollar cut to  Medicaid. There are 4 million Americans who are losing healthcare and  20 million Americans seeing an enormous healthcare increase, and there  are hundreds of clinics closing. We are not talking about that tonight.

Our economy is in trouble.

The economy lost 92,000 jobs in February. The Chairman of the Federal  Reserve said today that we have had zero net job growth in this country  over the last 6 months. The unemployment rate is 4.4 percent, up from 4  percent when Donald Trump took office; long-term unemployment, 25.3  percent, up from 21 percent when Donald Trump took office. The  unemployment rate for Black workers is 7.7, up from 6.2 percent when  Donald Trump took office.

The economy grew at an anemic 0.7 percent in the second quarter of  2025. We have lost 100,000 manufacturing jobs since Donald Trump took  office. We are losing jobs left and right.

This economy is in trouble, but we are not talking about that  tonight.

This administration is raising prices on people all across the  country. The tariffs alone, if the administration succeeds in  maintaining its current level of tariff revenue, will cost the average  family $2,500 this year. Who in America has $2,500 lying around? OK.  You know the folks who pay the ticket prices to show up and sit next to  Donald Trump at Mar-a-Lago have $2,500 sitting around, but 40 percent  of Americans are living paycheck to paycheck. Forty percent of  Americans don't even have $400 saved for an emergency medical procedure  or a car repair. The majority of Americans cannot afford Trump's  tariffs, which are going to charge them $2,500 in additional costs this  year.

That is not a bad economy. That is not bad luck. That is the  President of the United States making decisions to purposefully raise  people's cost of living by $2,500 this year.

And then he makes it worse because his war in Iran is jumping gas  prices. Those increased transportation costs will soon increase grocery  costs.

There is an inflation and cost-of-living epidemic in this country,  and we are not talking about that either.

The White House is for sale--for sale. This is the most corrupt White  House in the history of the country. No. 5 on that list of what  Americans care about today is corruption in government because they are  scratching their heads, wondering why this Congress is not talking  about the fact that the President of the United States was just gifted  a $400 million plane by a foreign government as a gift. They are  wondering why we aren't having hearings on the secret payments that the  President has been getting from foreign governments as private, quiet,  secret investors in his cryptocurrency businesses. They are scratching  their heads wondering why we aren't spending our time talking about the  fact that the President's family has all of a sudden shown up on the  boards of corporations that are getting contracts from the Federal  Government. This White House is a 24/7 grift operation, but we are not  talking about that this week on the floor of the Senate.

And, oh, by the way, we are at war. We are at war again in the Middle  East. A dozen Americans have died.

We have a new war breaking out as a consequence of the President's  military action in Iran between Israel and Lebanon. A thousand people  have already died in that conflict. The entire region is on fire.

The President can't articulate a single reasonable, realistic endgame  scenario for this war. We haven't had a single hearing in the Senate on  a war that is underway right now in the Middle East. We aren't talking  about that on the floor of the Senate this week.

And we have a Department of Homeland Security that is out of control,  that is murdering American citizens, that is terrorizing our  communities, that is tear-gassing schools, that is disappearing legal  residents. And we aren't talking about that on the Senate floor either  this week.

Inflation, the economy, cost of living, corruption in government,  polarization, crime, immigration, abortion, and healthcare--these are  the issues, when you ask voters, they say Congress should be focused  on. They don't list voter fraud because the rate of voter fraud in this  country is 0.000845 percent.

There are serious problems in this country. There are families going  through hell right now because of what Republicans have chosen to do to  raise people's costs and to hurt our economy. There are Americans dying  overseas right now in an illegal, unauthorized war that this Congress  refuses to do oversight on.

We could be spending our time saving Americans by reducing their  costs, creating more jobs, or actually doing our congressional duty to  make sure that we don't waste lives and treasure overseas on forever  wars with no end.

But, instead, we are debating a bill that is going to withdraw  people's right to vote because Donald Trump has ordered congressional  Republicans to give him a tool that he thinks will help him steal this  election.

I ran for the Senate to work on real problems, not fake problems and  conspiracy theories, and there are a whole lot of real problems--real  problems--that this country is facing right now that this Senate should  be focused on.