Capping Excessive Awarding of Sblc Entrants Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692069/capping-excessive-awarding-of-sblc-entrants-act-of-2025


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 458,  I call up the bill (H.R. 2987) to amend the Small Business Act to  require a limit on the number of small business lending companies, and  for other purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration in the  House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2987, the CEASE Act,  introduced by Representative Bresnahan.

This bill is simply a reversal of an irresponsible change made by the  Biden administration's SBA, which raised concerns on both sides of the  aisle.

Unlike a traditional community bank, small business lending  companies, or SBLCs, are regulated by the SBA. Historically, the SBA  recognized that they had finite resources to conduct oversight of the  SBLCs, reinforcing a need for a cap on the number of SBLCs.

Despite this, in 2023, the Biden administration lifted the 40-year  moratorium on licensing the SBLCs to participate in its flagship 7(a)  program, a government-backed lending program.

The SBA heard concerns from Members from both Chambers and both sides  of the aisle. Even the ranking member, Ms. Velazquez, said earlier this  week during the Rules Committee hearing that she was one of the first  to raise questions when the SBA lifted the licensing moratorium.

Biden's SBA hid behind promises of lender oversight and stronger  borrower protection yet still awarded a license to an unqualified  entity. This entity, which was seeking to sell its business when it was  awarded a license, ultimately surrendered its license before it could  even make a 7(a) loan.

This legislation puts the guardrails back and restores integrity to  the 7(a) program, ensuring taxpayer dollars are safe. I am confident  that the 16 SBLCs can and will be overseen effectively under  Administrator Loeffler's leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.