Destroying Unnecessary, Misaligned, and Prohibitive Red Tape Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697346/destroying-unnecessary-misaligned-and-prohibitive-red-tape-act


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 916,  I call up the bill (H.R. 4305) to direct the Chief Counsel for Advocacy  of the Small Business Administration to establish a Red Tape Hotline to  receive notifications of burdensome agency rules, and for other  purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4305, the DUMP  Red Tape Act, introduced by Representative Wied from the great State of  Wisconsin.

Mr. Speaker, entrepreneurs across America are driving our economic  growth, but too often they are forced to fight through layers of red  tape just to keep their doors open. Every day, small businesses deal  with outdated, duplicative, or unclear regulations that make it harder  for them to hire, grow, and innovate.

Since 1976, the SBA Office of Advocacy has served as a voice for  small businesses across the country. The Office of Advocacy works to  encourage small business success through the government's legislative,  regulatory, and administrative process. When it comes to regulatory  costs, Office of Advocacy is equipped to represent the interests of  small businesses at the Federal level.

To make this easier, Office of Advocacy launched the Red Tape  Hotline, a necessary resource that gives small businesses a direct,  real-time way to report burdensome regulations that are holding them  back.

The Red Tape Hotline empowers small business owners to speak up and  help Office of Advocacy hold Federal agencies accountable for the red  tape that is crushing their day-to-day operations.

The Red Tape Hotline was created by following President Trump's  executive order, ``Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation.'' The  DUMP Red Tape Act codifies the executive order and ensures that small  businesses always have a reliable channel to be heard.

This bill strengthens Office of Advocacy's ability to deliver small  business concerns directly to Congress, ensuring that we have the real- world data which we need to push for smarter, more effective regulatory  policies.

While the public can submit comments to proposed rules, this Red Tape  Hotline provides small businesses the opportunity to provide feedback  on the true burden of compliance with active regulations.

This bill also requires Office of Advocacy to submit an annual report  to Congress summarizing the notifications received through the hotline.  By strengthening and formalizing this process, Congress will receive a  clear picture of how Federal regulations affect different types of  businesses nationwide. This will help ensure that Congress is acting on  accurate, real-world information.

Some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle may argue that  the hotline improperly focuses on burdensome regulations rather than  collecting positive feedback, but it is simple: The purposes of this  tool is to identify obstacles that need attention, and regulations that  function well do not require intervention.

Small businesses are not asking us to preserve the status quo. They  are asking to eliminate the barriers that prevent them from thriving.  By isolating problematic rules, we empower Congress and Federal  agencies to focus time and resources where they are needed most, while  still preserving the regulations that work.

The DUMP Red Tape Act strengthens our commitment to a pro-job, pro- innovation economy by ensuring that Federal agencies remain accountable  and responsive to the needs of Main Street.

Mr. Speaker, with that in mind, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes''  on H.R.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas.  Hageman).

Mr. Speaker, despite what my colleagues say, there is no hotline that  exists exclusively for small businesses. H.R. 4305 will fix that  problem. It will provide an avenue for small businesses to engage with  the SBA Office of Advocacy, a voice that is focused on advocating for  Main Street.

This bill passed out of the committee on a bipartisan basis, and as  chairman, I am committed to getting our Members the information they  need to support Main Street.

Ultimately, this information will come as an annual report to  Congress upon enactment, but for now, we will continue to work with the  Office of Advocacy to understand concerns from small businesses across  the country.