Doe and Sba Research Act


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 788) to provide for Department of Energy and Small  Business Administration joint research and development activities, and  for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 788

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``DOE and SBA Research Act''.       SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AND SMALL BUSINESS                     ADMINISTRATION JOINT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT                     ACTIVITIES.

(a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy and the       Administrator of the Small Business Administration (in this       section referred to as the ``covered officials'') shall enter       into a memorandum of understanding or other appropriate       agreement to carry out cross-cutting and collaborative       research and development activities focused on the joint       advancement of Department of Energy and Small Business       Administration mission requirements and priorities.

(b) Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement.--The covered       officials shall carry out and coordinate the activities       described in subsection (a) by entering into one or more       memoranda of understanding or other appropriate agreements,       as jointly determined by the covered officials.

(c) Inclusion of Small Business Concerns.--In carrying out       the activities described in subsection (a), the covered       officials shall ensure the inclusion of small business       concerns (as defined under section 3 of the Small Business       Act (15 U.S.C. 632)) in such activities, as appropriate.

(d) Other Requirements.--In carrying out the activities       described in subsection (a), the covered officials may--

(1) carry out reimbursable agreements between the       Department of Energy, the Small Business Administration, and       appropriate entities in order to maximize the effectiveness       of research and development activities carried out pursuant       to a memorandum or agreement described in subsection (b); and

(2) collaborate with other Federal agencies as appropriate       to carry out such activities.

(e) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the covered officials shall submit to       Congress a report on activities carried out pursuant to a       memorandum or agreement described in subsection (b) that       includes the following:

(1) Coordination between the covered officials involved in       such activities.

(2) Potential opportunities to expand the technical       capabilities of the Department of Energy and the Small       Business Administration.

(3) Collaborative research achievements.

(4) Areas of future mutually beneficial success.

(5) Continuation of coordination activities between the       Department of Energy and the Small Business Administration.

(f) Research Security.--The activities carried out pursuant       to a memorandum or agreement described in subsection (b)       shall be applied in a manner consistent with subtitle D of       title VI of the Research and Development, Competition, and       Innovation Act (Public Law 117-167; 42 U.S.C. 19231 et seq.).       SEC. 3. COMPLIANCE WITH CUTGO.

No additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated to       carry out this Act or the amendments made by this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 788, the DOE and SBA  Research Act, led by my colleagues, Representatives LaLota, Morrison,  and Thanedar.

This legislation would require the SBA and DOE to enter a memorandum  of understanding to help unify and streamline research efforts between  the national labs and American small businesses. Currently, the 17  national laboratories across the United States provide the government  with some of its most cutting-edge research.

At the same time, our Nation's small businesses contribute  extensively to public and private sector research and development  efforts. Aligning research efforts between the DOE and the SBA would  increase the efficiency of the national labs and better integrate small  business innovation into government research.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to join me in voting for H.R.

Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 788. It is a  good and innovative bill.

I also today wanted to speak in support of H.R. 832, the Small  Business Advocacy Improvements Act of 2025.

I am proud to join my good friend and a great colleague and chairman,  Roger Williams, in introducing this bill, which will ensure that  American small businesses have a strong voice in trade and on the  discussions that take place on the global stage.

My home and my district of southern New Jersey represents--as so much  of the United States of America--a small business community that is the  backbone of our economy; driving innovation, creating jobs, and  strengthening communities.

In today's world, small businesses face competition not just from  their neighbors and other States, but from businesses and corporations  around the globe. These businesses face challenges that larger  corporations are often better equipped to navigate.

This bill will clarify the authority of the Small Business  Administration's august Office of Advocacy to examine international  economic data and represent small business interests in trade  negotiations, ensuring that our small business people are not left  behind.

America, as we know it, can't exist without small businesses, and  this bill will give them a leg up to make the American economy even  stronger.

I urge my colleagues to support both of these bills, H.R. 788 and  H.R. 832, and stand with America's small businesses.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  this commonsense legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.