Entrepreneurs with Disabilities Reporting Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691756/entrepreneurs-with-disabilities-reporting-act-of-2025


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 1621) to require the Administrator of the Small  Business Administration to submit to Congress a report on the  entrepreneurial challenges facing entrepreneurs with a disability, and  for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1621

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Entrepreneurs with       Disabilities Reporting Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. REPORT ON ENTREPRENEURSHIP CHALLENGES OF                     ENTREPRENEURS WITH DISABILITIES.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Small       Business Administration shall submit to Congress a report on       the challenges that entrepreneurs with a disability encounter       with starting and operating a business, including--

(1) an assessment of the challenges and needs of       entrepreneurs with a disability;

(2) a description of the resources and support that the       Administrator provides to entrepreneurs with a disability;

(3) a description of outreach to entrepreneurs with a       disability by the Administrator, including by district and       regional offices of the Small Business Administration, small       business development centers (as defined in section 3(t) of       the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(t))), and women's       business centers (as described under section 29(a) of such       Act (15 U.S.C. 656(a)));

(4) a description of any joint efforts between offices of       the Small Business Administration or the Small Business       Administration and other Federal agencies to advance the goal       of supporting the economic success of entrepreneurs with a       disability;

(5) any deficiencies in the resources and support described       under paragraph (2);

(6) a description of the use of, and access to, resources       of the Administration by entrepreneurs with a disability; and

(7) any recommendations for legislative actions that are       necessary to address the challenges or needs of entrepreneurs       with a disability that are identified in the report.

(b) No Additional Funds Authorized.--No additional funds       are authorized to carry out the requirements of this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1621, the Entrepreneurs with  Disabilities Reporting Act of 2025, introduced by Representatives  McGarvey and Stauber.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation requires the SBA to report to Congress  on the challenges facing individuals with disabilities and what  resources or programs the SBA provides to assist them. The report will  also include legislative recommendations to address those challenges.

America is the land of opportunity, meaning that anyone can and  should be able to engage in entrepreneurship without regard to whether  they have a disability. This bipartisan legislation will assess the  challenges that individuals with disabilities encounter when starting a  small business and identify whether and how government policies may  exacerbate those challenges.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives McGarvey and Stauber for their  leadership on this important issue and for introducing this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote on the bill, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  this commonsense legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.