Miracle on Ice Congressional Gold Medal Act


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  concur in the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 452) to award 3  Congressional Gold Medals to the members of the 1980 U.S. Olympic Men's  Ice Hockey Team, in recognition of their extraordinary achievement at  the 1980 Winter Olympics where, being comprised of amateur collegiate  players, they defeated the dominant Soviet hockey team in the historic  ``Miracle on Ice'', revitalizing American morale at the height of the  Cold War, inspiring generations and transforming the sport of hockey in  the United States.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the Senate amendment is as follows:

Senate amendment:

Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the       following:       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Miracle on Ice Congressional       Gold Medal Act''.       SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

Congress finds the following:

(1) The United States Olympic Men's Ice Hockey Team       competed at the 1980 Winter       Olympics, officially the XIII Olympic Winter Games and known       as the 1980 Lake Placid games, from February 13 to 24, 1980,       in Lake Placid, New York.

(2) Team USA, comprised of collegiate players, defeated the       defending Olympic champion the Soviet Union 4-3 on February       22, 1980, in the final round of the 1980 Winter Olympics       men's ice hockey tournament.

(3) The 1980 United States Olympic Men's Ice Hockey Team       roster included--

(A) Bill Baker (Grand Rapids, Minnesota);

(B) Neal Broten (Roseau, Minnesota);

(C) Dave Christian (Warroad, Minnesota);

(D) Steve Christoff (Richfield, Minnesota);

(E) Jim Craig (North Easton, Massachusetts);

(F) Mike Eruzione (Winthrop, Massachusetts);

(G) John Harrington (Virginia, Minnesota);

(H) Steve Janaszak (Saint Paul, Minnesota);

(I) Mark Johnson (Madison, Wisconsin);

(J) Rob McClanahan (Saint Paul, Minnesota);

(K) Ken Morrow (Flint, Michigan);

(L) Jack O'Callahan (Charlestown, Massachusetts);

(M) Mark Pavelich (Eveleth, Minnesota);

(N) Mike Ramsey (Minneapolis, Minnesota);

(O) Buzz Schneider (Grand Rapids, Minnesota);

(P) Dave Silk (Scituate, Massachusetts);

(Q) Eric Strobel (Rochester, Minnesota);

(R) Bob Suter (Madison, Wisconsin);

(S) Mark Wells (St. Clair Shores, Michigan); and

(T) Phil Verchota (Duluth, Minnesota).

(4) The ``Miracle on Ice'' United States and Soviet Union       final round game aired on tape delay on Feb 22, 1980, from       Lake Placid and drew 34,200,000 average viewers. The match is       remembered as a ``miracle'' as collegiate ice hockey players       defied expectations in defeating a Soviet team that won 4       consecutive gold medals dating back to 1964.

(5) Team USA defeated Finland 4-2 in its final game to win       the gold medal, its first gold medal since 1960 in men's ice       hockey.

(6) Herb Brooks, the last player cut from the 1960 United       States Olympic Men's Ice Hockey Team that won gold at Squaw       Valley, guided the 1980 team to its historic gold medal.       Known as a motivator, Brooks molded a team built around hard       work, belief in oneself, and belief in teammates. He reminded       his team when they played the Soviets, ``you were born to be       hockey players, everyone one of you . . . and you were meant       to be here''.

(7) The tournament occurred at a time when the United       States was struggling with rampant stagflation, high gas       prices, hostages held in Iran, and increased tensions with       the Soviet Union whose invasion of Afghanistan led to the       boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics.

(8) The Miracle on Ice was a turning point for ice hockey       in the United States. The game was named the greatest sports       moment of the 20th century by Sports Illustrated.

(9) The historic win brought ice hockey to the front-page       of newspapers everywhere, and forever opened the door to the       National Hockey League for players born in the United States.       The impact of the event was far-reaching and is still being       felt today.

(10) Since 1980, interest in the United States in the sport       of ice hockey has increased exponentially. Registrations with       USA Hockey have increased by nearly 400 percent since 1980       from 136,000 to over 564,000, and the number of National       Hockey League players from the United States has increased       from 72 in 1980 to 245 in 2024.       SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDALS.

(a) Award Authorized.--The Speaker of the House of       Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate       shall make appropriate arrangements for the award, on behalf       of Congress, of 3 gold medals of appropriate design to the       members of the 1980 United States Olympic Men's Ice Hockey       Team, in recognition of their extraordinary achievement at       the XIII Olympic Winter Games where, being comprised of       amateur collegiate players, they defeated the dominant Soviet       hockey team in the historic ``Miracle on Ice'', revitalizing       morale in the United States at the height of the Cold War,       inspiring generations, and transforming the sport of ice       hockey in the United States.

(b) Design and Striking.--For the purposes of the award       referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury       (referred to in this Act as the ``Secretary'') shall strike       gold medals with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions       to be determined by the Secretary.

(c) Disposition of Medals.--Following the award of the gold       medals under subsection (a)--

(1) one gold medal shall be given to the Lake Placid       Olympic Center in Lake Placid, New York, where it shall be       displayed and made available for research, as appropriate;

(2) one gold medal shall be given to the United States       Hockey Hall of Fame Museum in Eveleth, Minnesota, where it       shall be displayed and made available for research, as       appropriate; and

(3) one gold medal shall be given to the United States       Olympic & Paralympic Museum in Colorado Springs, Colorado,       where it shall be displayed and made available for research,       as appropriate.       SEC. 4. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of       the gold medals struck under section 3, at a price sufficient       to cover the costs thereof, including labor, materials, dies,       use of machinery, and overhead expenses.       SEC. 5. STATUS OF MEDALS.

(a) National Medals.--Medals struck under this Act are       national medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31,       United States Code.

(b) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of sections 5134 and       5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under       this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.       SEC. 6. AUTHORITY TO USE FUND AMOUNTS; PROCEEDS OF SALE.

(a) Authority To Use Fund Amounts.--There is authorized to       be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise       Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of       the medals struck under this Act.

(b) Proceeds of Sale.--Amounts received from the sale of       duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 4 shall be       deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 452, a bill that awards three  Congressional Gold Medals to the members of the 1980 U.S. Olympic Men's  Ice Hockey Team.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to start by thanking Congressman Stauber  and the numerous original sponsors for getting this important bill to  the floor today.

``Great moments are born from great opportunity.'' With those words,  Coach Herb Brooks rallied the young, underdog U.S. hockey team during a  dark chapter of the Cold War, a time when Americans faced nuclear  threats, economic uncertainty, and a crisis of confidence.

The Soviet Union's hockey team had dominated for decades, beating the  U.S. in their last 12 matchups, including a crushing 10-3 exhibition  win just 3 weeks earlier. No one expected the Americans to win.

However, on February 22, 1980, in Lake Placid, Team USA shocked the  world, defeating the Soviets in a stunning upset.

It wasn't just a hockey game. It was a symbolic victory for  democracy, resilience, and national pride.

Just days later, they claimed Olympic gold for the United States.

These 20 young men reminded a shaken Nation that its greatest moments  weren't in the past. They were still within reach.

Mr. Speaker, the players of the 1980 U.S. Olympic Ice Hockey Team are  deserving of these Congressional Gold Medals as the highest recognition  of national appreciation for their determination, courage, and  patriotism.

My hope is that what this team achieved on that ice in 1980 will  continue to inspire Americans today and for generations yet to come.

I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill. I even remember  where I was at that very moment.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, I want to reiterate the importance of the  1980 United States Olympic Hockey Team uniting during such a  challenging and turbulent period in American history. Their  unforgettable victory solidified the Nation's legacy of excellence both  on the ice and on the global stage. We owe these men a debt of  gratitude for transforming and shaping the landscape of American hockey  over the past four decades.

I thank Congressman Stauber for his leadership and his speech. It was  very good. I thank all of my colleagues in advance for supporting this  measure.