Northern Mariana Islands Small Business Access Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699176/northern-mariana-islands-small-business-access-act


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 3496) to amend the Small Business Act for microloan  eligibility for the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and  for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3496

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Northern Mariana Islands       Small Business Access Act''.       SEC. 2. INCLUSION OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA                     ISLANDS IN THE MICROLOAN PROGRAM.

(a) In General.--Section 7(m)(7)(B) of the Small Business       Act (15 U.S.C. 636(m)(7)(B)) is amended--

(1) by inserting ``, the Commonwealth of the Northern       Mariana Islands'' after ``Guam'' each place it appears; and

(2) in clause (i)(I)(bb), by striking ``\1/55\'' and       inserting ``\1/56\''.

(b) Technical Amendment.--Section 7(m)(11)(C)(ii) of the       Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(m)(11)(C)(ii)) is amended       by striking ``rural'' and all that follows through the end of       the clause and inserting ``rural; and''.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I  may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3496, the  Northern Mariana Islands Small Business Access Act. This bill was  introduced by Delegate King-Hinds and Representative Conaway.

The SBA microloan program provides entrepreneurs with access to  small-dollar loans through qualified lenders. Sometimes, entrepreneurs  do not need to access large sums of capital for their operations. That  is where the SBA microloan program can help entrepreneurs get just  enough capital to meet their exact needs.

Under current law, the SBA apportions microloan program funding to  intermediaries in 55 States and territories. Unfortunately, the  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is excluded. This creates  unnecessary barriers for small businesses in the Northern Mariana  Islands by limiting  opportunities for local entrepreneurship and economic growth.

H.R. 3496 fixes this oversight and ensures that the Commonwealth of  the Northern Mariana Islands is included within the geographic scope of  the SBA microloan program, increasing the number of States and  territories eligible to receive microloan program funding from 55 to  56.

Expanding eligibility for the microloan program will help spur  entrepreneurship, strengthen local economies, and ensure that small  businesses in all States and territories have a fair opportunity to  grow.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3496, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield such time as she may  consume to the gentlewoman from the Commonwealth of the Northern  Mariana Islands (Ms. King-Hinds), my good friend.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Madam Speaker, I have no further speakers, and  I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3496 to bring access to capital  for small businesses in the Northern Mariana Islands. I yield back the  balance of my time.