Save Sba From Sanctuary Cities Act of 2025


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 458,  I call up the bill (H.R. 2931) to direct the Administrator of the Small  Business Administration to relocate certain offices of the Small  Business Administration in sanctuary jurisdictions, and for other  purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2931, the Save SBA from  Sanctuary Cities Act of 2025, introduced by Representative Finstad.

This legislation does exactly what is necessary to ensure SBA  employees are safe.

Despite inheriting one of the most secure borders in American  history, President Biden relaxed border policies, and today,  communities continue to deal with these consequences.

I am talking about everything from crime against small businesses  forced to close their storefronts to the death of innocent Americans,  and it hasn't stopped, as evidenced by the tragedy in Boulder,  Colorado, earlier this week.

Thankfully, President Trump is taking action to restore the rule of  law with executive orders that stop the Federal subsidization of areas  that refuse to comply with immigration laws.

This legislation, in part, codifies those efforts and the work  already done at the SBA. Under Administrator Loeffler's leadership, the  regional offices in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver, New York City,  and Seattle will be moved to safer communities within those States; but  there are other cities that need to be reached.

Under this bill, the SBA administrator will make determinations on  what offices will be moved and will make those decisions public to  ensure transparency.

It is important to note that SBA services to small businesses  nationwide will not be interrupted by passing this legislation.

When a small business in any jurisdiction needs assistance, they can  still go to their local small business development center or their  community lender.

The previous administration's border crisis should not put the safety  of small businesses who go to the SBA offices and the SBA employees who  work in those offices at risk.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle are going to argue that  Republicans are working to close SBA offices. This bill simply  relocates these offices. As I said before, lending and counseling  services for small businesses will still be provided to constituents.

I urge all of my colleagues who support this bill to make Main Street  safe again.