Small Business Advocacy Improvements Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1687957/small-business-advocacy-improvements-act-of-2025


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 832) to clarify the primary functions and duties of  the Office of Advocacy of the Small Business Administration, and for  other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 832

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Small Business Advocacy       Improvements Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. AMENDMENT TO PRIMARY FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF THE                     OFFICE OF ADVOCACY OF THE SMALL BUSINESS                     ADMINISTRATION.

(a) Primary Functions.--Section 202 of Public Law 94-305       (15 U.S.C. 634b) is amended--

(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and the international       economy'' after ``economy'';

(2) in paragraph (9), by striking ``complete'' and       inserting ``compete''; and

(3) in paragraph (12), by striking ``serviced-disabled''       and inserting ``service-disabled''.

(b) Duties.--Section 203(a) of Public Law 94-305 (15 U.S.C.       634c) is amended--

(1) in paragraph (5), by striking ``and'' at the end;

(2) in paragraph (6), by striking the period at the end and       inserting ``; and''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(7) represent the views and interests of small businesses       before foreign governments and international entities for the       purpose of contributing to regulatory and trade initiatives       which may affect small businesses.''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my bill, H.R. 832, better known as  the Small Business Advocacy Improvements Act.

I thank my colleagues, Representatives Van Drew, Tran, and  Goodlander, for joining me in support of this critical legislation.

By design, the SBA Office of Advocacy acts as the independent voice  representing the views and interests of all small businesses within the  Federal Government. This means calling attention to harmful regulations  and inefficient rules preventing small businesses from competing for  government contracts.

This legislation would clarify the functions and duties of the SBA  Office of Advocacy when advocating for small businesses on the world  stage, specifically when regulatory international trade initiatives are  being developed.

Small business voices can easily be drowned out during these  important conversations. This legislation fixes that problem by  ensuring the views of Main Street are represented and heard before  foreign governments and international entities.

My hope this Congress is that we can continue to look for bipartisan  ways to make the SBA Office of Advocacy more effective in helping our  American small businesses.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  this commonsense legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.