Thinkdifferently About Disability Employment Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691777/thinkdifferently-about-disability-employment-act


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 1634) to provide for a memorandum of understanding  between the Small Business Administration and the National Council on  Disability to increase employment opportunities for individuals with  disabilities, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1634

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``ThinkDIFFERENTLY About       Disability Employment Act''.       SEC. 1. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING TO INCREASE EMPLOYMENT                     OPPORTUNITIES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH                     DISABILITIES.

(a) In General.--The Administrator of the Small Business       Administration, in consultation with the Chair of the       National Council on Disability, shall--

(1) provide assistance to individuals with disabilities who       desire to become entrepreneurs or to be self-employed;

(2) help individuals with disabilities find employment at       small business concerns (as defined under section 3 of the       Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)); and

(3) assist small business concerns with hiring individuals       with disabilities and with accessibility issues applicable to       individuals with disabilities.

(b) Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement.--The       Administrator, in consultation with the Chair, shall carry       out and coordinate the activities described in subsection (a)       by entering into one or more memoranda of understanding or       other appropriate agreements.

(c) Outreach and Education.--In carrying out the activities       described in subsection (a), the Administrator, in       consultation with the Chair, shall conduct outreach and       education about such activities.

(d) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in consultation       with the Chair, shall submit to Congress a report on       activities carried out pursuant to any memorandum or       agreement described in subsection (b) that includes the       following:

(1) A description of how the Administrator, in consultation       with the Chair, carried out such activities.

(2) An analysis of opportunities to expand the technical       capabilities of the Small Business Administration in carrying       out such activities.

(3) A description of achievements under any such memorandum       or agreement.

(4) A description of the plans of the Administrator, in       consultation with the Chair, to continue activities to expand       employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities.       SEC. 2. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.

No additional funds are authorized to carry out the       requirements of this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in full support of H.R. 1634, the  ThinkDIFFERENTLY About Disability Employment Act, introduced by  Representatives Stauber and Simon.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues for their collaboration on this  important legislation which aims to break down barriers and provide  greater opportunities for individuals with disabilities nationwide.

Far too many individuals with disabilities continue to face  systematic  challenges when trying to enter the workforce or start a small  business. As Congress, we have a responsibility to recognize their  talents and create opportunities that empower them to succeed.

The bill takes a simple, practical step toward directing the SBA to  work directly with the National Council on Disability, and together  they will coordinate efforts to help individuals with disabilities  pursue entrepreneurship, secure employment with small businesses, and  overcome accessibility challenges. This will help ensure that  individuals with disabilities have access to business counseling  through existing SBA programs, like the Small Business Development  Centers.

Importantly, H.R. 1634 is a commonsense, no-cost solution that  provides individuals with disabilities more opportunities to succeed on  Main Street and start their own small businesses.

I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan effort, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  this commonsense legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.