Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''; Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Defining Larger Participants of A Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment Applications''; Providing for Consideration of H.R. No Rogue Rulings Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act; and for Other Purposes


Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I  call up House Resolution 282 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 282

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the joint resolution (S.J.       Res. 18) disapproving the rule submitted by the Bureau of       Consumer Financial Protection relating to ``Overdraft       Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''. All points of       order against consideration of the joint resolution are       waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All       points of order against provisions in the joint resolution       are waived. The previous question shall be considered as       ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto       to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one       hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair       and ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial       Services or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to       commit.

Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the joint resolution (S.J.       Res. 28) disapproving the rule submitted by the Bureau of       Consumer Financial Protection relating to ``Defining Larger       Participants of a Market for General-Use Digital Consumer       Payment Applications''. All points of order against       consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint       resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint       resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage       without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate       equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking       minority member of the Committee on Financial Services or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to commit.

Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1526) to amend       title 28, United States Code, to limit the authority of       district courts to provide injunctive relief, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committee on the Judiciary now printed in       the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as       amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill,       as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 4.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 22) to amend       the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require proof       of United States citizenship to register an individual to       vote in elections for Federal office, and for other purposes.       All points of order against consideration of the bill are       waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of       order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on       any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening       motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on House Administration or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 5.  (a) House Resolution 23 and House Resolution 164       are laid on the table.         (b)(1) A motion to discharge a committee from       consideration of a bill or resolution that, by relating in       substance to or dealing with the same subject matter, is       substantially the same as House Resolution 23 shall not be in       order.

(b)(2) A motion to discharge the Committee on Rules from       consideration of a resolution providing a special order of       business for the consideration of a bill or resolution that,       by relating in substance to or dealing with the same subject       matter, is substantially the same as House Resolution 23       shall not be in order.

(c) A motion to discharge on the Calendar of Motions to       Discharge Committees that is rendered out of order pursuant       to subsection (b) shall be stricken from that calendar.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern) pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.

During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, the Rules Committee met and reported out a  rule providing for consideration of four measures: S.J. Res. 18,  disapproving the rule submitted by the Bureau of Customer Financial  Protection relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial  Institutions''; S.J. Res. 28, disapproving the rule submitted by the  Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection relating to ``Defining Larger  Participants of a Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment  Applications''; H.R. 1526, the No Rogue Rulings Act of 2025; and H.R.  22, the Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act.

House Resolution 282 provides for consideration of S.J. Res. 18 and  S.J. Res. 28, both under closed rules, with 1 hour of general debate  each, equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority  member of the Committee on Financial Services or their respective  designees and provides each one a motion to commit.

The rule further provides for consideration of H.R. 1526. This is the  act relating to the U.S. District Court's issuing nationwide  injunctions, and that is to be considered under a closed rule. The rule  provides 1 hour of general debate equally divided and controlled by the  chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or  their respective designees and provides for one motion to recommit.

The rule further provides for consideration of H.R. 22, the Safeguard  America Voter Eligibility Act under a closed rule. The rule provides  for 1 hour of general debate equally divided and controlled by the  chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on House  Administration or their respective designees and provides one motion to  recommit.

Finally, the rule provides that House Resolution 23 and House  Resolution 164 are laid on the table.

Mr. Speaker, this rule deals with several issues. The underlying  legislation included is essential. One of the bills included in this  rule is H.R. 1526 led by the Representative from California (Mr. Issa).

This bill limits the ability of U.S. District Court judges from  issuing nationwide injunctions. I would like to be clear. This bill  does not prohibit nationwide injunctions, Mr. Speaker. It merely  establishes a mechanism to issue nationwide injunctions under  appropriate circumstances.

Under the bill, if two separate States from two separate U.S.  judicial circuits are reviewing the same case, a panel of three  randomly chosen judges would be convened to determine whether issuing a  nationwide injunction is appropriate action. These injunctions would  then have the ability to be appealed directly to the United States  Supreme Court.

I believe that no one district court judge in the United States  anywhere, whether it be the Western District of Virginia, the Northern  District of West Virginia, one of the districts in California, or  anywhere else in the country, should have the ability to make  nationwide decisions as a district court judge.

This bill would prevent forum shopping and somewhat restore checks  and balances to our judicial system in the country by providing that we  have a randomly selected three-judge panel.

Also included in this rule is H.R. 22, the Safeguard American Voter  Eligibility Act, or the SAVE Act, championed by the Representative from  Texas (Mr. Roy). The bill prohibits noncitizens from voting. Let me get  that through. There has been some confusion. It prohibits noncitizens  from voting.

It does so by requiring States to obtain proof of citizenship when  registering individuals to vote in Federal elections. Even though most  States prohibit noncitizens from voting in their elections, these  noncitizens are still registered to vote in some States and in some  cities around the country.

Also noncitizens sometimes get registered by mistake. I am not saying  this happens by design, but it happens by mistake, and it largely  happens due to the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 known as the  Motor Voter Act. This requires every person applying for a driver's  license with their State's Department of Motor Vehicles to receive a  voter registration application. Various States and their Departments of  Motor Vehicles don't generally check citizenship status before giving  out the voter registration application. Some do, and hopefully this  legislation will encourage more to do so.

During the last election cycle, we even saw that some Federal  agencies were instructed to hand out registration forms without the  ability to discern whether the person receiving the form is a citizen  or not. So the noncitizen shows up at a government office, and they are  given a form. They fill it out. I am not saying they are doing it for  ill purposes, Mr. Speaker, but they fill it out. They are given the  form, and then they fill it out. As a result, they end up showing up on  some voter rolls, and there is the potential that they may vote  improperly in one of our Federal elections.

Last Congress, then-West Virginia Secretary of State Mac Warner  testified before a House Administration  Committee hearing to discuss his efforts to protect West Virginia  elections. His State has removed 400,000 names from voter registration  rolls and implemented voter ID requirements.

This bill attempts to fix the various loopholes and ensure that only  eligible United States citizens are voting in our country's Federal  elections. Now, Mr. Speaker, I keep saying Federal elections. If a  local government wants to have folks who are not citizens voting, then  that is their right. It is the same thing with the various States. It  can happen out there if that is what they want, but in the Federal  elections, that is where Congress gets into the act.

Also, this rule includes two resolutions of disapproval that both  passed the Senate. S.J. Res. 18 nullifies the rule finalized by the  Biden administration in December of 2024, that would be roughly 4  months ago, that attempts to cap overdraft fees.

Overdraft fees are a necessary evil that I believe in most cases  actually help the consumer. Now, I understand nobody wants to pay it,  but transparency is certainly helpful for consumers on an issue like  this, and I am not sure these caps are the way to go.

Traditionally, things like overdraft fees are regulated by State  regulators. It is unclear whether the Consumer Financial Protection  Bureau, the CFPB, can do this rulemaking under its cited authority in  the Truth in Lending Act.

I have serious concerns that if this rule goes into effect that it  can potentially bring about a criminal charge and even perhaps criminal  punishment. I don't think the CFPB looked at all the criminal laws of  the States, but having practiced for many years in the criminal courts  of the Commonwealth of Virginia and having discussed it with the  patrons of the bill, the same is fairly much true in the State of  Kentucky.

Mr. Speaker, if you use a draft or a check, and I know not a lot of  people do that, but in the rural area I represent, they are still used  frequently particularly by my senior citizens. Mr. Speaker, if you use  a draft or a check to pay a merchant for something and that check comes  back from the bank marked insufficient funds, then under Virginia law,  you have created a presumption that the individual is attempting to  defraud the merchant. That entitles, when the check is returned, the  merchant to charge up to $50 for a returned check fee and to seek  criminal penalties. If the check is not made good then they can seek  criminal penalties which carry with it up to 12 months in jail for most  checks and up to a $2,500 fine. That is certainly a whole lot more than  the average fee for insufficient funds currently that are being charged  by financial institutions, banks, and credit unions of about $35.

Further, Mr. Speaker, if a criminal charge is brought, then you may  have the cost of an attorney, and you have to spend a day in court  trying to work it out. If you pay it off after the charge is brought  but before going to court, then you still have to pay all of the court  costs associated with the charge being brought.

This is a significant problem that I don't think CFPB thought about  when they were instituting this rule because if the banks and credit  unions only allow a $5 fee, many of them will discontinue the use of  this service. They won't allow you to sign up for it any longer, Mr.  Speaker, and you could face potential criminal penalties.

Mr. Speaker, you can have the overdraft protection fee and pay about  $35 or a $50 merchant fee and potential criminal charges. I think this  is one that really does need to go away. I am surprised that my  Democratic colleagues aren't supporting this, but they have other  reasons.

S.J. Res. 28 nullifies another Biden administration rule that was  finalized in December of 2024 as well that would create burdensome  regulatory requirements for certain non-bank digital payments and  digital wallet companies. This rule expands CFPB's regulatory power and  was another attempt by the Biden administration to rush a rule out of  the door for the CFPB after President Trump had been elected but before  the new administration had the ability to have any input or  consultation on how to carry out a public rulemaking process.

I am concerned this will cut down on people's use of innovative money  transfer apps.

All four of these legislative items are steps in the right direction  to cut down on red tape, ensure fair elections, and restore the system  of checks and balances in our country.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, the gentlewoman apologized for the noises  on the floor. I love the noises and greatly appreciate having babies  around.

Foxx).

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I rise for a parliamentary inquiry.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, are there any points of order that  properly lie against this resolution we are currently debating?

Mr. GRIFFITH. That is correct.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate that.

I will say, the reason I raise that issue is because what we have in  this rule is really just a different form of the classic motion to lay  on the table or to postpone indefinitely.

Mr. Speaker, I understand that you have to go back to Jefferson's  Manual and old practices to figure that out. Yet, that is, in essence,  what this rule does in relationship to the resolutions that have been  discussed being laid on the table and not being brought up.

Mr. Speaker, I will talk about proxies for a minute, if I might. I  have always been opposed to proxy voting. I would say to my colleagues,  both on the other side of the aisle and my side of the aisle, if I were  to ever break that feeling that it is not the right way to run this  body, this might be the one that would tempt me. Yet, we can't.

Even though we are looking now at a certain class that we are all  sympathetic to, moms and babies and new dads, there are already  discussions underway for expanding that. Now that this has started to  be discussed, there are all kinds of discussions around Capitol Hill  about other things that should be granted the ability to vote by proxy.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that if Members agree with me that  Representatives shouldn't vote by proxy, this is an appropriate  technique under the rules of this House to allow us to, in essence, lay  the issue of voting by proxy on the table.

I have heard people say: These folks followed the rules.

This is also a component of the rules, and oftentimes there is a  clash of the rules.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to quit making it sound like it is  some kind of a nefarious thing. I don't agree with voting by proxy. I  didn't vote by proxy when it was allowed. I didn't vote for anybody  else by proxy when it was allowed. I have always been opposed to it. I  think it is bad for the Republic.

In the long term, individuals may have differences of opinion.  Individuals may disagree. Individuals may have circumstances where they  that cry out to us to say: Shouldn't we allow it in this case?

Yet, I think it is bad for the Republic to go down that path. Just  because others have done it and they did it when it was legal or proper  under the rules and because some have had inappropriate behavior and  done it when it wasn't supposed to be done, it does not mean that we  should change the ruling or the rules of this House to allow it.

I was sitting here thinking. We have all kinds of rules, rules of the  road, et cetera. Just because not everybody stops at a stop sign or not  everybody stops at a red light doesn't mean that we should suddenly  change the law and say people don't have to stop. That is the  circumstance that I think that we are in currently.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. GRIFFITH.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, point of order.

Mr. GRIFFITH. I believe the gentleman is referencing a Member by  name, and I don't believe that is proper.

Mr. GRIFFITH. There you go.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I withdraw my point of order.

Mr. Speaker, I have failed. I thought I made it very clear that when  I talk about overdraft fees, I am talking about the little guy because  the CFPB's rule doesn't recognize the laws of the States that make it a  crime in some cases to have an overdraft. It makes it so that the  little guy is going to pay more. CFPB didn't take that into  consideration, in my opinion. They didn't understand that.

Yet, my colleague on the other side just talks about somehow  Republicans are only looking out for the big businesses. No. No, this  rule sets up the debate for overturning the CFPB rule and helping the  little guy not face $150 to $750--that is in Virginia; I don't know  about other States--in charges if they have to deal with a criminal  penalty. $50 from the merchant, and they are worrying about a $5 to $35  fee. Yet, they are not paying attention to the real harm. That is it.

We have heard lots of arguments on all the issues included in this  rule, and so I think it is important that we pass it. I urge everyone  to vote ``yes.''

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment to H. Res. 282 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

Strike Sec. 4 and insert the following and redesignate the       subsequent sections accordingly:

Sec. 4. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 22) to amend       the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require proof       of United States citizenship to register an individual to       vote in elections for Federal office, and for other purposes.       All points of order against consideration of the bill are       waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of       order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on       any amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening       motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on House Administration or their respective       designees; (2) the amendment specified in section 5 of this       resolution, if offered by Representative Dexter of Oregon or       a designee, which shall be in order without intervention of       any point of order, shall be considered as read, shall be       separately debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and       controlled by the proponent and an opponent, and shall not be       subject to a demand for division of the question; and (3) one       motion to recommit.

Sec. 5. The amendment referred to in section 4 is as       follows:

Amend section 8 of the bill to read as follows:       SEC. 8. EFFECTIVE DATE

(a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), this Act and       the amendments made by this Act shall take effect on the date       of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to       applications for voter registration which are submitted on or       after such date.

(b) Exception.--This Act and the amendments made by this       Act shall not take effect with respect to a State unless the       State certifies that the implementation of this Act and the       amendments made by this Act will not disenfranchise any       eligible married woman voter.