Providing for Consideration of H.R. Student Compensation and Opportunity Through Rights and Endorsements Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Combating the Lies of Authoritarians in School Systems Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Transparency in Reporting of Adversarial Contributions to Education Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Promoting Responsible Oversight to Eliminate Communist Teachings for Our Kids Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Small Business Regulatory Reduction Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Destroying Unnecessary, Misaligned, and Prohibitive Red Tape Act


Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I  call up House Resolution 916 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 916

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 4312) to       protect the name, image, and likeness rights of student       athletes and to promote fair competition with respect to       intercollegiate athletics, and for other purposes. All points       of order against consideration of the bill are waived. In       lieu of the amendments in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committees on Education and Workforce and       Energy and Commerce now printed in the bill, an amendment in       the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules       Committee Print 119-14 shall be considered as adopted. The       bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of       order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived.       The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the       bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to       final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour       of debate equally divided among and controlled by the chair       and ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and       Workforce or their respective designees and the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and       Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to       recommit.

Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House any bill specified in section       3 of this resolution. All points of order against       consideration of each such bill are waived. The respective       amendments in the nature of a substitute recommended by the       Committee on Education and Workforce now printed in each such       bill shall be considered as adopted. Each such bill, as       amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in each such bill, as amended, are waived.       The previous question shall be considered as ordered on each       such bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto,       to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one       hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair       and ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and       Workforce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion       to recommit.

Sec. 3.  The bills referred to in section 2 of this       resolution are as follows:         (a) The bill (H.R. 1005) to prohibit elementary and       secondary schools from accepting funds from or entering into       contracts with the Government of the People's Republic of       China and the Chinese Communist Party, and for other       purposes.

(b) The bill (H.R. 1049) to ensure that parents are aware       of foreign influence in their child's public school, and for       other purposes.

(c) The bill (H.R. 1069) to prohibit the availability of       Federal education funds for elementary and secondary schools       that receive direct or indirect support from the Government       of the People's Republic of China.

Sec. 4.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2965) to       require the Administrator of the Small Business       Administration to ensure that the small business regulatory       budget for a small business concern in a fiscal year is not       greater than zero, and for other purposes. All points of       order against consideration of the bill are waived. The       amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the       Committee on Small Business now printed in the bill shall be       considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be       considered as read. All points of order against provisions in       the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall       be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Small Business or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 5.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 4305) to direct       the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business       Administration to establish a Red Tape Hotline to receive       notifications of burdensome agency rules, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committee on Small Business now printed in       the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as       amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill,       as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Small Business or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

The Rules Committee met last night and reported out a rule providing  for consideration of six measures: H.R. 4312, the SCORE Act; H.R. 1005,  Combating the Lies of Authoritarians in School Systems Act; H.R. 1049,  Transparency in Reporting of Adversarial Contributions to Education  Act; H.R. 1069, the PROTECT Our Kids Act; H.R. 2965, Small Business  Regulatory Reduction Act of 2025; and H.R. 4305, the DUMP Red Tape Act.

House Resolution 916 provides for consideration of H.R. 4312, the  SCORE Act, under a closed rule. The rule provides 1 hour of general  debate equally divided amongst and controlled by the chair and ranking  minority member of the Committee on Education and Workforce or their  respective designees, and the chair and ranking member of the Committee  on Energy and Commerce or their respective designees and provides for  one motion to recommit.

The rule further provides for consideration of H.R. 1005, Combating  the Lies of Authoritarians in School Systems Act; H.R. 1049,  Transparency in Reporting of Adversarial Contributions to Education  Act; and H.R. 1069, the PROTECT Our Kids Act, all under closed rules  with 1 hour of general debate each, equally divided and controlled by  the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and  Workforce or their respective designees, and provides each one a motion  to recommit.

Finally, the rule provides for consideration of H.R. 2965, the Small  Business Regulatory Reduction Act of 2025, and H.R. 4305, the DUMP Red  Tape Act, both under closed rules with 1 hour of general debate each,  equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member  of the Committee on Small Business or their respective designees, and  provides each one a motion to recommit.

This rule deals with several critical issues. There are three bills  that all came out of the Education and Workforce Committee that would  combat efforts by the Chinese Communist Party who meddle in our schools  and universities. These bills include H.R. 1005, the Combating the Lies  of Authoritarians in School Systems Act, led by Representative Joyce of  Ohio. The bill prohibits public elementary and secondary schools from  participating in financial contracts with the People's Republic of  China. Additionally, H.R. 1005 requires school systems that receive  sizable funds of $10,000 or more from foreign sources to disclose their  agreements to the Department of Education.

Another bill being considered under this rule is H.R. 1069, the  PROTECT Our Kids Act, led by Representative Hern from Oklahoma. Under  H.R. 1069, Federal funding would be barred for elementary and secondary  schools that have a partnership with a cultural or language institute  funded by the Chinese Government, including a Confucius Institute. It  would also bar any school that directly operates a learning center  supported by the Chinese Government that receives support from an  individual or entity acting on behalf of the Chinese Government.

On the outside, these seem like harmless educational organizations  that seek to teach students Chinese language and culture. However, they  are often used as tools by the CCP to steal American knowledge and/or  indoctrinate children with anti-American ideas.

Lastly, H.R. 1049, the Transparency in Reporting of Adversarial  Contributions to Education Act, led by Representative Bean from  Florida, empowers parents by giving them the right to know when a  foreign government or foreign entity of concern, particularly the  Chinese Communist party funds, influences, or provides curriculum for  American students in public schools.

Upon written request, a parent is entitled to review any curriculum  that was purchased by foreign entities for their children's classroom.

While I think we can agree that it can be beneficial to broaden our  children's horizons with new ideas from across global cultures, we must  ensure it is done properly without undue foreign influence.

There are also two Small Business Committee bills being considered  under this rule. H.R. 2965, the Small Business Regulatory Reduction  Act, led by Representative Van Duyne from Texas, would ensure that any  agency action taken by the Small Business Administration does not  increase compliance costs on small businesses. The agency meant to be  the promoter of small businesses shouldn't add to the already crushing  regulatory burden facing these businesses.

H.R. 4305, the DUMP Red Tape Act, is led by Representative Wied from  Wisconsin. This bill creates a dedicated hotline so small businesses  can report to the Small Business Administration on any overly  burdensome and costly regulations they must deal with. I think we can  agree that we should do everything we can to help protect our small  businesses in this country.

Finally in this rule, we also will be considering H.R. 4312, the  SCORE Act, led by Representative Bilirakis from Florida and the  chairmen of each subcommittee that has jurisdiction over this issue:  Energy and Commerce Committee, Education and Workforce Committee, and  the Judiciary Committee.

Mr. Speaker, this bill affirms the right of student-athletes to  profit from their name, image, and likeness, or NIL. What the SCORE Act  is trying to do is level the playing field for universities of all  sizes and establish protections for student-athletes that all schools  must abide by.

What we have gotten into is a race to the bottom with over 30 State  laws and athletes jumping from team to team. The SCORE Act will make  sure that universities that hit a certain threshold in athletics  revenue are required to provide academic support, career counseling,  and medical benefits.

As a longtime mediocre swimmer and a former swim coach, I am glad to  see that the SCORE Act attempts to protect our Olympic sports. Under  the bill, large universities must offer 14 to 16 different sports,  which will ensure that non-revenue-producing sports are still  supported. I personally hope this will include swimming, but the  universities get to make that decision.

This bill would also protect athletes from unscrupulous agents. As I  said before, the SCORE Act affirms the right of student athletes to  make money by endorsing products and services. To protect the athlete,  the SCORE Act caps agent fees at 5 percent of each contract's value.

The SCORE Act also allows for revenue sharing amongst student  athletes. Under this bill, up to 22 percent of the average athletic  revenue of the top 70 universities could be paid out to athletes by  those universities.

The SCORE Act also requires NIL contracts to be examined to ensure  that a contract is, in fact, payment for services rendered, as opposed  to a payment to attend a certain institution. Without disclosure of NIL  deals, there is a real possibility that the integrity  of competition could be called into question.

This bipartisan bill has received overwhelming support from schools  and conferences across the country, including the NCAA. I believe this  bill is the first step--not the last, the first step--in protecting  college athletes and ensuring there is a national standard and an even  playing field for universities across the country. Accordingly, I urge  passage of this rule.

Mr. Speaker, isn't it amazing that we come here to talk about these  six bills and a significant portion of the debate from the other side  of the aisle deals with bills that we are not addressing? They talk  about some of those, and then they make allegations, Mr. Speaker, that  are just not accurate.

I remember hearing the phrase just a second ago: Well, what are they  doing to help small businesses? How soon we forget, Mr. Speaker, that  just last summer we passed the working families tax cuts bill with lots  of help for people on Main Street in Abingdon, Virginia, and Marion,  Virginia.

In every small town that I represent in the Ninth Congressional  District, those businesses are benefiting from what we did because we  made major adjustments for taxes that would have burdened our small  businesses and made it more expensive for them to compete against the  big companies. Actually, what we did was we kept everything that we  already had that was going to expire.

Now, it is true, the big companies get some of these tax cuts too.  However, Mr. Speaker, the people who really need them are the small  businesses. The people who need those breaks are the mom-and-pop shops.  The people who need those breaks are people like my son, who is 18, and  who is now getting tips. He is working tables at Mac and Bob's  Restaurant, and he is getting tips.

Guess what, Mr. Speaker?

He won't have to pay income taxes on that. Now, maybe he is at a  point where his money wouldn't be high enough that he would pay those  taxes anyway, but for those families who rely on that tip money as a  part of their income, that is a huge benefit to American families.

So I find it surprising that my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle want to focus on saying that we are not helping small businesses  when every single small business person in the United States knows that  we have been fighting for them and knows that we have been helping  them.

They know that these bills today in this rule--that is all we are  doing, Mr. Speaker, is a rule on six bills--relate to small businesses  and that what we are doing today will help a little bit.

They challenge us and ask: What are we doing to help small business?  This is after we did a huge benefit on a number of different issues for  small businesses, for mom-and-pops, and for people out there working.

Whether they are working overtime jobs where they are able to take a  tax credit for that as well, whether they are doing tips, or whether  they are just trying to buy some new equipment and want to be able to  write that off in the first year instead of having to amortize it over  a number of years--as used to be the law and it is what my colleagues  on the other side advocated for last summer--they will start paying  that again so that they can't take that write-off. That hurts small  business.

So I ask you, Mr. Speaker, just to consider that my colleagues on the  other side of the aisle really don't understand small business or they  wouldn't make such a comment.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate that some of my colleagues on  the other side of the aisle may have been involved in small businesses.  I was too, not just family, but I ran a small business for many, many  years. People may not consider a solo practitioner of law a small  business, but I tell you, Mr. Speaker, when you have to pay the light  bill and you have to pay the salaries, you are a small business.

Further, I have also been involved for many years in a swimming pool  that some years makes money but most years may show a little bit of a  profit but it is there mainly because we want it to be a community  pool. However, it is a corporation that makes money occasionally--even  if only on paper--and that corporation has to buy equipment.  Shockingly, Mr. Speaker, you need new kickboards. You need new diving  boards, and you need new swim blocks.

What we did last summer helps all of those small businesses, and  every one of them knows it. So to say that we haven't done anything on  that is really a misnomer and a mistake.

I will tell you, Mr. Speaker, that it is true that the bill, the  SCORE Act, does not solve all the ills that some may see out there, but  it is a step in the right direction. That is why in my opening I said  that this was a first step but not the last step in trying to solve  problems that we have in our college athletics.

It is true that the big sports make lots of money, but the gymnasts  of the world and the swimmers of the world don't bring in a lot of  revenue. I can assure you, Mr. Speaker, that when I would be swimming  in the pool, even in my prime, it was never considered mass appeal  entertainment. Nobody would have paid to watch our swimming meets. Now,  we had a good time swimming for Emory & Henry College, now University,  but it was not bringing in great revenues to the college.

That is why this bill says that if you are going to be doing this,  Mr. Speaker, then some of these revenues have to be spent to keep other  sports going as well. We are trying to make sure that there is some  recognition of the Olympic sports, and we are trying to make sure that  there is recognition of other sports. That also means women's sports.  Mr. Speaker, you have to have some abilities to take some of the money  that you make off the revenue sports, as they are called, and use them  for the other sports.

Now, if we want to continue with the Wild Wild West, as my friend,  Gus Bilirakis, likes to say, then we do nothing and we defeat this  rule. We do nothing, and it will continue to be a crazy arena out there  where students aren't looked at, and particularly, Mr. Speaker, if you  are not the top-billed students on the football team or on the  basketball team. If you are a student athlete in any other way, then  you are getting harmed by what is starting to happen and what is  happening in our larger universities where everything is going to pay  the top-named athletes who  come to your school next year. This starts us down that path.

Is it a perfect bill? I will not claim that. The rule makes it so  that we get this first step moving down the pathway to try to resolve  some of these issues.

I fully expect that we will have bills in the future that will deal  with some of the other issues. We will find that when we do this, we  probably have solved some problems, and we will discover additional  problems. Sometimes when you get an answer to a question, it raises  more questions. That is what this bill is supposed to do. It is  supposed to start us down the path.

If we find that there are other issues that Congress needs to step in  and deal with, then we can do so. We are not limited to taking action  only in December 2025. That is why we have a legislative body that will  consider if this bill does good.

I submit to you, Mr. Speaker, that the SCORE Act does good. Does it  do perfectly? No. Does it solve everything that everybody might think  of? No. Does it solve problems we have yet to think of? No.

It is a good start in an area where there is no guidance currently,  where the NCAA has lost control of our college athletics completely,  and where it is, in fact, a Wild Wild West where the vast majority of  students, I submit, who are student athletes are being hurt and left  behind.

We are trying to rectify it, to create a balance, so to speak. That  is why, as a first step on this first-step bill, we need to pass the  rule.

Wow. I am going to talk about the rule. That is what I am supposed to  talk about.

I will cede to my colleague, the ranking member of the Rules  Committee, that it is absolutely a fair point of debate to bring up the  number of closed rules, but he does so without providing all the  context.

When accounting for closed rules in the rules package, CRAs and bills  that received no amendments--this is for this Congress--less than 35  percent of closed rules have been at the discretion of the Rules  Committee.

I know the ranking member will also say there was no formal deadline  or call for amendments. Don't be misled, Mr. Speaker. He knows all too  well that when he was chairman of the committee, the committee did not  always provide a formal amendment deadline every week when they ran the  show, either.

Mr. Speaker, it is true that this rule has six closed measures. It  should be  noted that amendments were only submitted on three of the six. This  means that, of the six bills, only three were closed at the discretion  of the committee.

My friend, the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern), may also  recall that Members can submit amendments, and the Rules Committee may  make them in order, whether there is a formal deadline to submit them  or not. That is a practice that both Republicans and Democrats have  employed.

Mr. Speaker, sometimes we get down here and we get all riled up. Been  there, done that. I have been riled up myself before, but I find it  fascinating from a historical context that my colleague said that when  you have closed rules, this is what it looks like in an authoritarian  dictatorship.

Mr. Speaker, I know that the words ``authoritarian dictatorship''  must poll well because my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are  consistently throwing it out there. Here is what is so fascinating: In  an authoritarian dictatorship, you don't get to claim that something  that the majority is doing is like an authoritarian dictatorship  because you would be banned from saying such things. You would not be  allowed to say such things. You would not be allowed to have your time  to debate the rule and then the bills. All of that would go by the  wayside. That has not happened here.

Mr. Speaker, we can argue and, on some points, I might even agree  with my colleague from Massachusetts. In the general running of the  House floor, I might even be willing to go further than him on some  issues because I would like to see us reform a lot of the things we do  around here.

Mr. Speaker, we are nowhere near his so-called authoritarian  dictatorship from a historical perspective. For those of us who study  those movements throughout history, I would submit, Mr. Speaker, that  to even say that is damaging to this great Republic, which is known  throughout the world as the beacon of freedom and known as the United  States of America.

Mr. Speaker, my colleague from Massachusetts and I agree on one thing  in his comments: Killing defenseless people is wrong.

I don't know whether that happened or not, but, as he knows or ought  to know, Mr. Speaker, both the Senate and the Armed Services Committee  in the House are looking into these allegations. Again, let me  unequivocally state that I agree: Killing of defenseless people is  wrong.

Let's talk about affordability. I do agree that the affordability of  healthcare is an issue. It is a complex issue. It is not in any of the  bills that we are dealing with today, and that is his complaint, it is  that there ought to be something in there.

Mr. Speaker, let me remind folks how we got here. We got here with a  bill that came out of the Speaker's office, Speaker Pelosi's office,  called the Affordable Care Act, ObamaCare. It was going to make  everybody's world much better.

Mr. Speaker, it did take care of preexisting conditions. I wasn't  here then. It is something that Republicans should have fixed. They  should have fixed that. Other than that, it did not make healthcare  affordable.

In fact, the biggest complaint that my colleagues have had throughout  the course of the last few weeks about the enhanced premium tax credits  was due to a temporary program that they said would end December of  2025, and now they claim nobody can afford it without this temporary  program that was brought in because of COVID. Nobody can afford  insurance in the exchanges. They have, in fact, admitted that  healthcare costs and health insurance costs in this country are a  problem because of ObamaCare.

Mr. Speaker, we have talked about everything. I have thought about  maybe getting up here and giving a speech on the National D-day  Memorial. People are talking about everything that has nothing to do  with this rule. I believe that I have exhausted all of my comments that  are directly related to the rule, so I am prepared to close at the  appropriate time. If we keep bringing up new issues, I may feel  compelled to respond.

Mr. Speaker, if we are just talking about the rule that deals with  these six bills that we are considering this week, then I am prepared  to close.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I am going to surprise you. I am actually  going to talk about what we are supposed to talk about, and that would  be the rule.

I am not going to talk about everything that is out there that I  think ought to be changed in the world, and I am not going to say that  if you don't do everything I want done that we shouldn't pass anything.  If you vote this rule down, you are basically saying if you are not  going to do what I want, you shouldn't do anything. I don't believe  that is the way a legislative body ought to operate.

Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of this rule in order to bring more  transparency and oversight into our children's schools, to ensure that  our children are not being improperly influenced by foreign actors or  that foreign actors aren't using contributions to our schools to  benefit themselves.

One of our colleagues on the Education and Workforce Committee did a  whole hearing on the Chinese Communist Party back in 2023, and part of  what this bill is addressing are issues that were brought out at that  time, one of which struck home.

Fairfax County's Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and  Technology, which at one time was the number one high school in the  United States of America, has apparently slipped to number five. I did  some checking before I came here today. They received over $3 million  from Chinese entities. In return, the top-ranked high school in the  United States gave them all the techniques that we are using to teach  our students to be better scientists, to be better in the technology  field, to be better in mathematics, and to be able to compete better  with the United States. It doesn't make any sense.

That is why some of these bills are great bills that make sure that  we are reining that in, that we know about it, that the parents know  about it, that the government knows about it. We should know if we are  getting foreign money influence in our schools, our students, or maybe  stealing our ideas.

These bills help our small businesses. On top of that, we take the  first step, as I said in the beginning and in the debate, not the last  step to bring integrity into the name, image, and likeness, NIL,  process in college sports by setting up a Federal framework--not  possibly 50; we already have 30--but a Federal framework to ensure that  we have fairness across the board on college athletics.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of this rule so that we can bring  about these good policies and we can debate all the other things that  ail the world another day.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment to H. Res. 916 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 6. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 6074) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986       to extend the enhancement of the health care premium tax       credit. All points of order against consideration of the bill       are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points       of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill       and on any amendment thereto to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 7. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the       consideration of H.R. 6074.