Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing''


Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 177, I call  up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 61) providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to ``National  Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire  Manufacturing'', and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. GRIFFITH.  Res. 61.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of my bill, H.J. Res.  61, a resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter  8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the  Environmental Protection Agency relating to ``National Emission  Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing.''

My resolution will repeal this suspect rule that the Biden  administration pushed out after the election but before President  Trump's inauguration.

This rule was flawed to begin with. It was published on November 29,  2024, after the election of Mr. Trump but before his administration  could take office.

Further, as required by the Clean Air Act, EPA performed a risk and  technology review specifically on rubber tire plant emissions as  recently as 2020. After the risk and technology review, the EPA  concluded that the pollutant thresholds and emission regulations  already in place were sufficient and protected public health with an  ``ample margin of safety.''

Madam Speaker, under the Clean Air Act, this should have been the end  of it, as the EPA is only required to review and revise the standards  on emissions every 8 years. To make matters worse, the EPA basically  said the only way to comply with the new regulation is to buy  regenerative thermal oxidizers, which are essentially flares that burn  off the smokestack exhaust at the specific tire plants.

These devices are expensive and likely will not be able to be  installed within the 3-year Clean Air Act deadline. It is my  understanding that the tire industry estimates that it will cost about  $100 million to get the regenerative thermal oxidizers ordered,  fabricated, and installed and then about $20 million more per year to  operate the devices.

While this cost is across several affected plants, these figures are  certainly much higher than the EPA's estimates.

I also note that this rule does not affect most of my constituents. I  am sure some of my constituents drive from eastern Henry County to work  at the Danville Goodyear plant located in the district of my neighbor,  Congressman John McGuire, and that facility would be affected.

In the Rules Committee, I was erroneously under the assumption that  this might affect my Yokohama Tire plant today. I still submit, Madam  Speaker, that it could affect them because what happens at the EPA, if  they do it now on the larger producers of tires, et cetera, at some  point, they are going to look at doing it at the medium-sized  producers.

The Yokohama plant that employs a lot of people in my district, in my  hometown of Salem, Virginia, could be affected long term, but currently  it affects Danville. Now, that is about 16 miles from the edge of my  district. In my area, because it is a rural area, lots of people drive  more than 16 or 17 or 18 miles, whatever the number is, to get to a  good-paying job like these facilities have that make tires for the  American market.

This rule wouldn't be the first time my constituents have seen an  environmental rule from the government inflicting economic pain on our  rural part of Virginia. Several years ago, an EPA rule ended up closing  down a plant in a small town.

In the end, the Supreme Court struck down the rule just a few weeks  after the coal-fired plant closed. It was in Glen Lyn, Virginia. A few  weeks after the plant was closed by Appalachian Power, the Supreme  Court ruled that the EPA hadn't done it right. The rule was improper  and it was invalidated by the Supreme Court, but they are not going to  come back in and reopen the plant.

Those jobs are lost. The jobs of the people who worked there, who  then ate lunch at the local lunch facilities, or who might have bought  a car, or might have bought something else there in the very small town  of Glen Lyn, no longer did so. As a result, the people there lost their  livelihood, their economic resilience because of an erroneous EPA  regulation.

The EPA's callous disregard for my peoples' jobs is not forgotten.  What happened in Glen Lyn took about a decade. The population dropped,  and last year, they turned in their charter to be a town. They are now  an unincorporated census area inside of Giles County, and it all  started with an EPA regulation that was misguided and improperly done.

I submit, Madam Speaker, that this regulation is probably not  properly done, but that is for the courts to decide. We can fix it,  though, here in Congress with this Congressional Review Act.

Some on the other side may say, if we repeal this regulation, we are  letting tire manufacturers get away with unchecked pollution.

Madam Speaker, I say not so. That is not so. The EPA's National  Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants would still exist. All  major sources would still have to abide by their Clean Air Act Title V  permits and various other Federal and local controls and regulations.

Regardless, if Congress were to pass this joint resolution, rubber  tire manufacturers will still be subjected to pollution regulations.  The EPA can always come back with an updated hazardous air pollutant  standard if they can ever get actual data indicating specific and  significant pollution. They don't have that now.

Madam Speaker, I urge all Members to join me in voting in favor of  H.J. Res. 61 because it is important for peoples' jobs and for the  principle of not doing willy-nilly regulations at the end of an  administration in order to pursue something that does not have  verifiable data indicating specific and significant pollution.

Mr. Speaker, further, as alluded to in this New York Post article,  titled, ``Jen Psaki mocks reporter when asked about Keystone pipeline  job losses,'' so-called ``green jobs'' are not plentiful enough to make  up for jobs lost because of EPA regulations.                   [From the New York Post, Feb. 8, 2021]

Washington--White House press secretary Jen Psaki on Monday       mocked a reporter who asked when workers on the canceled       Keystone XL pipeline would get ``green jobs'' promised by       President Biden.

It's expected that up to 11,000 jobs will be lost following       Biden's day-one decision to immediately shut down       construction of the pipeline that was supposed to carry oil       from Canada to Texas--leaving South Dakotans reeling and       1,000 people immediately out of work.

``Where is it that they can go for their green job?'' Fox       News reporter Peter Doocy asked Psaki at her Monday afternoon       press briefing, referring to Biden's promise to create good-      paying union jobs in the green energy sector as his       administration attempts to end the nation's reliance on       fossil fuels.

``That is something the administration has promised and       there is now a gap so I'm just curious when that happens,       when those people can count on that?'' Doocy added.

``Well, I'd certainly welcome you to present your data of       all the thousands and thousands of people who won't be       getting a green job,'' Psaki snarked. ``Maybe next time       you're here you can present that.''

``But you said they will be getting green jobs. I'm just       asking when that happens?'' Doocy responded, noting a report       by the Laborers' International Union of North America that       found 1,000 union jobs on the Keystone project would       ``immediately vanish.''

Another 10,000 construction jobs expected to be created by       the project have also been nixed by Biden's decision.

A prominent union leader and Biden ally, AFL-CIO president       Richard Trumka, lashed the decision in Axios on HBO interview       Sunday, saying Biden should have also announced where he       would replace those lost jobs.

``I wish he hadn't done that on the first day, because the       Laborers International was right. It did and will cost us       jobs in the process,'' Trumka told Jonathan Swan.

``I wish he had paired that more carefully with the thing       that he did second by saying, `Here's where we're creating       jobs,' '' he went on, saying he believed Biden knows his       announcement was a ``mistake.''

Trumka, a former coal miner, also signaled his skepticism       at Biden's plan to transition coal, gas and oil workers to       clean energy jobs, saying he was subject to a similar failed       policy.

``You know, when they laid off at the mines back in       Pennsylvania, they told us they were going to train us to be       computer programmers,'' Trumka said.

``And I said, `Where are the computer programmer job at?'       `Uh, they're in, Oklahoma and they're in Vegas and they're       here.' And I said, `So, in other words, what we're going to       be is unemployed miners and unemployed computer programmers       as well' '' he recounted.

But Psaki swatted away the criticism and made a vague       promise that Biden would put a jobs plan forward in the       coming weeks.

``He has every plan to share more details on that plan in       the weeks ahead,'' she said when asked how Biden would       support workers left jobless by the decision.

Biden's climate czar John Kerry was also condemned by       Republicans last month as ``out of touch'' when he suggested       that energy and coal workers impacted by climate change       efforts could ``go to work to make the solar panels.''

Last month, the Biden administration unveiled its $2       trillion Green New Deal-fueled environmental plan, which       includes eliminating coal, oil and natural gas as electricity       sources by 2035.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, let me assure you that those of us on this side of the  aisle have no desire to make people sick.

The number one test in a community as to whether or not there is a  likelihood of being sick or healthy is whether or not the people have a  good, strong economy and have a job. What this regulation would do is  to take that away.

As I talked about with Glen Lyn, if you start shutting down  factories, you shut down towns, and people don't have jobs. Then you  will have people who are clearly going to have more issues with their  health than they currently have.

Further, in regard to the various things that my colleague said, I  have seen it before where the EPA goes out and they create a maximum  achievable control technology and they claim, oh, it is out there or it  will be soon, and industry tells me it doesn't exist.

Now, in this case, it does exist. It is just very expensive and it  would take longer than the Clean Air Act gives them in order to install  it. This is where I think we should take care of it instead of letting  the executive branch do all of our work for us. They used proxy data  and used total hydrocarbons instead of looking at what the EPA is  charged with doing, which is the actual hazardous air pollutant. They  don't have that data, and when they last checked for that data, they  said there was an ample margin of safety.

November 29, they suddenly throw this regulation on the books as a  final rule without referencing how the ample margin of safety that was  found in 2020 somehow disappeared in a 4-year time period, how it went  away. They don't have any data to show actual hazardous air pollutants.  They used proxy data. That is not good enough for regulations that  could cause the curtailment of tire manufacturing in the United States.

Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from North Carolina  (Mr. Rouzer), my colleague.

Obviously, when, in 2020, the EPA found there was an ample margin of  safety, there was no reason for the Energy and Commerce Oversight  Committee, which at the time I chaired, to do an oversight hearing on  something that appeared to be a matter which on its face would not  require new regulation.

The EPA, of course, does things that sometimes are perplexing to many  of us. I would submit as well that one would have anticipated they  would have used, as they are supposed to, an actual hazardous air  pollutant study or standard. Instead, they used a proxy study of total  hydrocarbons.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Reclaiming my time, I would like to enter into a  colloquy with the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr. Kelly).

Is the gentleman trying to tell the American people that it is only a  minor rule, as one of our colleagues said, it is only a minor rule if  it doesn't apply to you?

I yield to the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr. Kelly) for a response.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Also, if it doesn't take your job?

Mr. Speaker, I recognize none of us wants the world polluted. The  gentlewoman indicated that somehow this was going to affect arsenic and  lead. I suppose, in a theoretical world, perhaps it could, but there  are other regulations on tire manufacturing that may deal with that.

That is not what this Congressional Review Act is about. It is about  a regulation that was put into effect because, instead of looking for  things like arsenic and lead or actual hazardous air pollutants, the  EPA used a proxy measurement and measured carbon dioxide. They didn't  use a test to come up with this rule based on arsenic or lead. It was a  proxy using carbon.

Further, somebody said earlier, Mr. Speaker, that we were stripping  away critical regulations. I would say, Mr. Speaker, if it was so  critical, why did the Biden administration wait until November 29 with  less than 2 months left in their term? If it was so critical, why did  the EPA in 2020 find that there was an ample margin of safety in the  regulations that already existed?

Mr. Speaker, this is not about stripping away all regulations on tire  manufacturing. It is one specific ill-advised, ill-timed, expensive  regulation.

Mr. Speaker, the EPA was under no obligation to do this regulation.  They may have been under an obligation to look at unregulated hazardous  air pollutants, but nowhere in the statute does it allow for proxy  carbon studies.

Hydrocarbons are not listed as a hazardous air pollutant. The plain  language, I repeat, does not authorize proxy or surrogate studies to  say: Well, we looked at it, and there is a lot of carbon. Therefore, we  are going to make specific regulations that cost hundreds of millions  of dollars and may or may not cost jobs.

That is not their job. That is the purpose of the Congressional  Review Act. It is to rein in unreasonable, improper, or irrational  regulations done at the last minute by an outgoing administration or by  an incoming team.

This is not something that needs to be on the books to protect  health. They did a proxy study. They don't have actual data that shows  that this would do any good at all. It will perhaps cause significant  curtailment in production at certain facilities of tires made in the  United States. It is our job as Members of Congress to prevent this  travesty.

Mr. Speaker, I think that the arguments that we have made have now  worn out. We have used up the mileage on these arguments. Now, we get  to vote ``yes,'' and voting ``yes'' is where the rubber meets the road  and gives us a more sound regulatory scheme related to tire  manufacturing.

Mr. Speaker, I ask everyone to vote ``yes,'' and I yield back the  balance of my time.