Congratulating Terry Nelson on His Retirement From Ftium


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694749/congratulating-terry-nelson-on-his-retirement-from-ftium


Ms. CRAIG. Mr Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Terry Nelson on  his retirement as Co-Chair of the Finishing Trades Institute of the  Upper Midwest (FTIUM), following over four decades of leadership and  advocacy in the labor industry.

After graduating from Minnesota's own Hennepin Vocational Technical  Education Center, Nelson began his career with the International Union  of Painters and Allied Trades (IUPAT) in 1982.

In 1992, Nelson began the first of numerous leadership roles, when he  was elected as a trustee for the Minneapolis Painters Health and  Welfare Fund and the Minneapolis Painters Pension Fund. He served in  several roles within IUPAT including as President of Local Union 386  and Business Manager/Secretary-Treasurer for District Council 82. In  this role, he helped the Council remain solvent during the Great  Recession, led negotiations for stronger contracts and worked with a  developer to create a software program to streamline the reporting  process for prevailing wage concerns. He went on to continue serving  his union as a Chairman of the General President's Advisory Committee  and Special Assistant to the General President. Nelson also helped  mobilize members to advocate for union priorities and has been a strong  partner for my office in advocating for organized labor.

Since 2007, Terry has served as the co-chair of the Finishing Trades  Institute of the Upper Midwest (FTIUM), helping FTIUM gain  accreditation in 2018. He has long advocated for expanding educational  pathways for trade students and I had the pleasure of working with him  on my bipartisan Supporting Apprenticeship Colleges Act.

Nelson leaves a tremendous legacy as a public servant--in fact,  Governor Walz even declared August 11, 2025 ``Terry L Nelson Day'' in  Minnesota. I am grateful for his leadership and dedication to ensuring  workers receive the pay and benefits they deserve. It has been an honor  working with Terry over the years and I look forward to a continued  friendship with him.