Congratulating Public Safety Director Pete Koerner on His Retirement


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702067/congratulating-public-safety-director-pete-koerner-on-his-retirement


Ms. CRAIG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate my friend,  Public Safety Director Pete Koerner, on his retirement after 34 years  with the city of Cottage Grove. Chief Koerner is a dedicated public  servant and an outstanding leader in our community.

Chief Koerner began his career with the Cottage Grove Police  Department in 1992, where he served as a community service officer.  Throughout his tenure, Chief Koerner served in several roles including  as a school resource officer, a detective, a Project D.A.R.E. officer  and a crisis negotiator. He was first promoted to sergeant, then  captain, and in 2018, he was named Director of Public Safety.

As Director of Public Safety, Chief Koerner strengthened community  trust through his commitment to transparency and service. He was kind  enough to facilitate a ride-along for me with his department, which  provided me with new insight into the valuable work Cottage Grove  police officers, like Chief Koerner, do every day. He was instrumental  in advocating for the construction of the HERO Training Center in  Cottage Grove which provides public safety personnel with access to  critical educational resources. I had the privilege of touring this  outstanding facility and am grateful for Chief Koerner's work to make  it a reality.

Chief Koerner's community involvement extends beyond his official  role. In his free time, Chief Koerner has coached baseball and  basketball for the Cottage Grove Athletic Association. He also served  as a board member for several community groups, including the Friends  in Need Food Shelf, the Holiday Train Committee, the Strawberry  Festival Committee and the Cottage Grove Lions.

I am deeply inspired by Chief Koerner's commitment to serving his  neighbors. His leadership in public safety will have a lasting impact  on Cottage Grove, and I am grateful for all he has done to protect and  support our community. I ask my colleagues to join me in thanking Chief  Koerner and in wishing him all the best on his well-earned retirement.