Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of nearly 44 million American  consumers who have invested in, traded, or used digital assets. That is  one in five Americans. The public interest in these markets is already  here, and it is not going away.

Under the status quo, there is a gap in regulation for the digital  commodity asset market. Our work here today could begin to provide the  protections that American investors are accustomed to in traditional  financial markets that are regulated by the CFTC.

Regardless of whether Congress acts, these markets will continue to  grow. The only question is whether we will begin the hard work of  developing regulation or refuse to begin.

The CLARITY Act would put consumer protections in place for the first  time for this industry. Consumers will finally be protected by the same  sort of guardrails that protect investors in other sectors of the  economy: segregation of customer deposits, consumer disclosures,  mandatory recordkeeping, and examination by regulators. We do not want  another FTX.

The 2022 collapse of the world's third largest cryptocurrency  exchange wiped out an estimated $8 billion to $10 billion in value,  leaving American consumers holding the bag. The CLARITY Act would have  largely mitigated or avoided this crisis entirely.

Former Biden administration CFTC Chairman Russ Behnam testified  yesterday before the Senate Agriculture Committee:

`` . . . inaction will only result in greater risk to our financial  markets and investors, through lack of market transparency, fraud,  market manipulation, corruption, and conflicts of interest.''

That is lack of action.

Mr. Speaker, let me address the elephant in the room: the First  Family's involvement with digital assets and personally profiting from  them.

It has rightfully raised questions of impropriety and alarmed  government ethics watchdogs. The First Family's personal financial  involvement in other sectors, such as telecoms, should ring alarm  bells, as well, loud and clear as it comes to ethics in our country.

There is a time and place for holding the powerful accountable, and  that must happen. We should address executive branch corruption  independently, and it should apply to all sectors.

Today, we must focus on regulation and protections for consumers  because, today, one in five Americans, and growing, lack those  protections and lack any guardrails. It is our job to start putting  them in place.

Is this bill perfect? No. Can it be improved upon? Absolutely, and I  encourage my Senate colleagues to keep working on those outstanding  issues.

Mr. DAVIS of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.  3633, known as the CLARITY Act.

I am honored to serve as a co-lead on this legislation, alongside  Chairman Thompson, Chairman Hill, Ranking Member Craig, Subcommittee  Chair Johnson, and so many others who came to the table in good faith  to get this done.

Let me also take a moment to thank the staff, both the majority and  the minority staff. They put in so many hours working on this. I know I  was up late one night. It was probably midnight. I really commend the  team. They helped work on a very complex issue here that is before us  and to help shape a bipartisan product that reflects the seriousness of  the moment.

This bill reflects compromise, collaboration, and months of work to  craft the regulatory framework that meets the moment, because the truth  is, we can't afford to fall behind.

Right now we are at a crossroad. The digital asset industry is  growing, evolving, changing the way people around the world engage with  financial markets and emerging technologies. Without a clear regulatory  structure in place, we are seeing innovation move overseas not because  our talent isn't here, but because the rules aren't here.

The CLARITY Act provides us with an opportunity then to change that,  to lead, to establish thoughtful and balanced guardrails that support  innovation, protect consumers, and foster confidence in our markets.

You see disclosures and reports dealing with so many provisions,  antifraud, manipulation. You can't commingle funds.

But let me be clear: The bill isn't perfect. I have been vocal about  that, too.

I remain concerned about the absence of meaningful conflict-of- interest provisions dealing with the executive branch. It doesn't  matter who occupies the White House. The bottom line is,  whoever is in the White House, we need clear standards that ensure  public trust is never compromised.

I also remain concerned about adequate resources for the CFTC. Yes, I  acknowledge this bill provides more flexibility to deal with hiring,  but we also need to see more resources because we are asking the CFTC  to take on a major role here.

Mr. DAVIS of North Carolina. In the 118th Congress, we passed FIT21  with overwhelming bipartisan support. The CLARITY Act builds on this  work. Let's pass the CLARITY Act and send a strong message to the  American people and the world that the United States will lead in  building a forward-looking digital economy.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.

Ms. CRAIG.  McDonald Rivet), my distinguished colleague who serves on  the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Commodity Markets,  Digital Assets, and Rural Development.

Ms. McDONALD RIVET. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to voice support for  the CLARITY Act. While there is still work to be done, it is an  important step in providing crucial and clear regulatory framework to  the crypto industry.

Let's break it down. Today, one in six U.S. adults, 17 percent of the  population, are invested in or use cryptocurrency. That is 55 million  Americans. There is more than $3 trillion invested in the industry. It  is dangerous and irresponsible that a market of this size and scope is  currently operating without a clear regulatory framework. For  consumers, innovators, and the stability of our Nation's economy, the  CLARITY Act is an important first step forward.

It protects consumers and equips assigned agencies with the  appropriate authority to provide efficient and thorough oversight over  digital asset markets. It also provides desperately needed certainty so  that businesses can grow and evolve.

I will be clear: If the CLARITY Act had been in place, the FTX market  crash that caused their customers to lose $8 billion would not have  happened.

This bill strengthens our national security by giving regulators the  tools they need to track cross-border transactions and stop digital  assets from being used to evade sanctions or fund our adversaries.

The bill is not perfect, and it does not resolve every issue. Like  many of my colleagues, I am deeply concerned about the Trump family's  potential conflicts of interest in using crypto to profit from the  Office of the Presidency. That is why I voted for amendments to impose  guardrails to stop elected officials from improperly profiting off  trades, and I will continue to push strongly for solutions to this  problem.

However, we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good. We stand  at a critical moment where market structure is critical for our  consumers, economy, and security, and the CLARITY Act moves us  meaningfully forward.

Ms. CRAIG. Mr. Speaker, I have no other speakers at the moment. I  continue to reserve the balance of my time.

Ms. CRAIG. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I, too, would like to thank the gentleman from  Pennsylvania, Chairman G.T. Thompson, and his team for working on this  consumer protection legislation in a bipartisan manner.

I believe bipartisan legislation is always preferable to partisan  legislation. It is stronger. It is harder to undo when it has broad  support and leadership changes overnight.

I heard my chairman talk about the farm bill. I regret that it wasn't  a bipartisan path through reconciliation for farm bill provisions, but  I am optimistic that we can work together in many other areas.

While I wait to see what the gentleman has in store for us for farm  programs left behind, I, too, agree that rural development is  incredibly important, Mr. Speaker. I hope that the bipartisanship shown  through the CLARITY Act process can act as a reminder that we  accomplish more and we go further when we work together.

Ms. CRAIG. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.