Recognizing Mazon's ``No One Deserves to Go Hungry'' Campaign


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701341/recognizing-mazons-no-one-deserves-to-go-hungry-campaign


Ms. CRAIG. Mr. Speaker, the list of the Trump administration's  reckless attacks on SNAP, our country's largest and most efficient  anti-hunger program, is miles long:

Taking food assistance away from 4 million Americans, illegally  demanding SNAP participants' personal data, spreading misinformation  about SNAP and fraud, failing to uphold their duties to states and  program beneficiaries, eliminating 30 percent of USDA staff,  haphazardly eliminating and relocating many regional offices and more.

Today, in response to these attacks, MAZON delivered more than 47,000  postcards to USDA. These postcards flooding USDA send a clear message:  that no one deserves to go hungry and SNAP must be protected, not cut.

The more than 47,000 handwritten postcards MAZON delivered today also  represent the more than 47 million Americans that are facing financial  instability and aren't sure where their next meal will come from.

They are an expression of concern and outrage over the state of  hunger in America and the need to take positive action to address it-- not exacerbate it, as Republicans in Congress and the White House have  chosen to do over the past year.

These postcards were sent from people's homes, synagogues, schools,  community organizations, and nonprofits; some even hosted postcard  writing parties where they invited their loved ones to take part in  communal action with them.

It is an important reminder of what can happen when we refuse to lose  hope. A reminder that we should continue challenging politicians who  say that America can't afford to feed its people.

My hope is that these postcards refocus this administration on the  things that matter. I hope that they remind the Secretary of her duty  to carry out SNAP in good faith and as it was intended: to provide for  the basic nutritional needs of the American people; to provide a hand  up at a time when so many need help affording groceries, rent,  utilities and childcare.