Financial Services and General Government and National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. EDWARDS. Mr. Chair, I ask the chairman of the committee to please  accept my compliments for all he has done to help make appropriations  great again. I have certainly enjoyed watching the statesmanship, the  bipartisanship, and the bringing of the appropriations process back to  its relevancy.

Mr. Chairman, turning to the NSRP bill, I would like to say that this  bill reflects a clear understanding that putting America first also  means leading abroad with strength, accountability, and purpose. It  strengthens our diplomatic and security tools. It reinforces our  alliances, and it counters adversaries who seek to exploit instability  around the world.

It sends an important message that strong alliances require shared  responsibility. Our partners must contribute to their own defense if  they expect continued support from the United States, protecting  American taxpayers while keeping our alliances credible. It also  reinforces accountability in our own hemisphere by standing up for  American companies and the rule of law.

Just as important, this bill cuts off funding pathways that could  benefit the Taliban and other terrorist organizations, and it continues  to shine a light on Russian atrocities in Ukraine, including the  abduction of Ukrainian children. This legislation reflects American  leadership, strength, and moral clarity, and I urge my colleagues to  support it.

Mr. Chairman, while the FSGG bill contains many important provisions,  I would like to touch base on one key provision that is important to  the folks back in North Carolina.

This bill is about accountability, and nowhere is that clearer than  in how it addresses the United States Postal Service's failure in  western North Carolina. Nearly 1 year after Hurricane Helene, five post  offices in my district remain closed, forcing families, seniors, and  small businesses to drive 30 minutes or more just to access basic mail  service.

Mr. EDWARDS. Mr. Chair, that is why I fought to include two  provisions that bring real oversight and real answers. First, the  United States Postal Service is now directed to report to Congress  within 90 days with a concrete plan to reopen and restore service,  including in western North Carolina. Second, the Postal Service's  Inspector General must submit a specific reopening plan for facilities  closed due to Hurricane Helene.

Mr. Chairman, I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill.