Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President, I congratulate the Senator from  Kansas on his eloquent remarks, expressing the feelings--certainly mine  and those, I believe, of virtually every Member of this body--that we  are here not as Democrats or Republicans but to work together to do  whatever we can to address the concerns that are literally  unprecedented. 

  This is an unprecedented time in our country. I cannot remember a  time in my life or in our history when the government has literally  closed down the country in order to contain a disease. That is  literally what we are doing. Whether it is the Federal Government by  its travel restrictions, or whether it is the State governments  suggesting that schools be closed, or whether it is mayors saying that  restaurants must be closed, we are closing down the country to contain  a disease. Because the government is doing that on behalf of all the  people, we are going to have to pay the costs of closing down the  country to contain this disease. 

  Today, the news is that the auto industry across the country is  closing down, at least temporarily. There are layoffs. 

  I have watched over the last 40 years as Tennessee has gone from  almost no auto jobs to proudly calling itself, in many ways, the No. 1  auto State. One hundred forty thousand Tennesseans work in auto jobs in  Tennessee; that is one-third of all of our manufacturing jobs. They are  spread through 88 counties. And over these 40 years as textiles and  other industries moved away from the United States and out of our  State, the auto companies moved in--virtually into every county--and  our family incomes went up. So if we are, in many ways, the No. 1 auto  State, then we are the No. 1 State to be hurt when the auto plants  begin to close. 

  We are also hurt, as are citizens in every State, when the  restaurants shut down. Fifteen million Americans work in restaurants.  It is one of our largest industries, if not our largest industry.  Almost all of those workers are being laid off in Tennessee and in many  other places in the country and even more will be. 

  Not all of those affected are working for big auto companies or  medium-sized restaurants. I received an email yesterday from friends in  Tennessee who run a kennel. Well, you may say that is not so important.  Well, it is important to a lot of us. They say:  

       We are . . . suffering a massive drop off in our business       as a result of the Coronavirus. I fear we may have to close       our doors for a month or two (hopefully not that long), as       our wonderful customers are forced to curtail travel. I am       currently trying to secure around $50,000 in loans to       supplement our dwindling reserves to see us through until May       [or] June. I am currently applying . . . for SBA disaster       relief. This precipitous drop in business comes on the heels       of major flood damages to our fencing [caused] by the       [recent] floods . . . our flood insurance refuses to cover       [that]. We are not seeking charity, just a business loan from       $30,000 [to] $50,000 to secure our business until it passes.       We always pay our way.  

  This couple has two young children and maybe a couple of employees in  their kennel. They are awfully good people. They are salt-of-the-earth  Tennesseans. They are like many Americans who are suddenly confronted  with this disease that just came out of the blue and has caused our  government to shut our country down. 

  Now, what shall we do about it? 

  Well, a couple of weeks ago, Congress and the President reacted with  $8.3 billion to help beef up our public health system. We have the best  public health system in the world, and we wanted to help it get  started. 

  Today, we passed a bill that some people have estimated at $100  billion, which includes a whole variety of other steps from Democrats  and Republicans that includes encouraging more testing, that creates a  new system of paid leave for businesses of less than 500 employees, and  family leave. 

  As Senator McConnell said, we are going to stay here this week until  we take step 3. And step 3, according to the President's proposal,  would include direct financial payments to Americans; it would include  support for essential businesses that need stabilization like the  airlines; and it would include loans to small businesses so they can  keep their employees working. Perhaps that proposal would be good for  that small kennel I talked about. 

  That is said to cost perhaps another trillion dollars. A trillion  dollars is a lot of money, even in the United States. Our gross  domestic product is about $22.3 trillion. We have 25 percent of all the  money in the world in this country just for 5 percent of the people.  But the idea that we would have to spend a trillion dollars or more to  contain a disease would be unthinkable a few weeks ago, but what we  have learned very quickly is we are going to have to pay the cost of  containing the disease because the way we are containing it is that the  government is shutting down major parts of our economy. I don't believe  that what we do today or what we propose to do later in the week will  be enough because, as I look at the number of people being laid off in  this country, our State unemployment agencies are not going to be able  to deal with that. 

  In Tennessee, for example, where unemployment has been very low and  where people have found it easy to find a job, there were only 2,000  applications for unemployment insurance last week, but already this  week by 2 p.m. on Wednesday, in the middle of the week, there were four  times that many applications, 9,177. If you are successful in  unemployment compensation in our State, you get $257 per week for 26  weeks. 

  So we are going to have to do even more than the Congress has done,  even more than the President has done, and I think we have to recognize  that the President was wise on January 31, when we only had six cases  of coronavirus detected in the United States, to impose the strictest  travel bans on people coming into our country in 50 years. Dr. Fauci,  whom all of us respect, said if he hadn't done that, we would have many  more cases today. 

  Still, we have a disease that is causing the governments--this one,  the State government, the local government--to shut major parts of our  economy down. That is why I voted today  for the legislation that was phase 2 in our effort to respond to that,  even though I have significant issues with the sick leave and family  leave proposals that are part of it. I believe those provisions, while  well-intended by the administration and by the House of  Representatives, will hurt many employers and will shortchange many  employees. 

  First, to be fair, I want to try to make sure that what the Treasury  intends to do is on the record. I have had several conversations with  the Secretary of the Treasury and with other officials to ask them just  what they intended to do and to list the problems that I had. So here  is what they say--and I am characterizing the conversations and the  writings we have had. 

  They pointed out that what many businesses have read is in this bill  was what was in the draft of it that the House passed on Friday before  technical corrections were made over the weekend and that the technical  corrections greatly improved the bill from the point of view of  employers. 

  The Treasury Department writes that, under the legislation, employers  receive a dollar-for-dollar refundable tax credit for the COVID-19- related sick and family leave payments made to their employees. As  amended--they made the technical corrections over the weekend--the  credit is carefully calibrated, in the Treasury's words, to ensure that  there is no sick or family leave requirement in excess of the credit.  The legislation now also includes explicit grants of regulatory  authority to both the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of the  Treasury to ensure consistency between the leave requirements and the  credit provisions. 

  In addition--and this is what the Treasury officials have been saying  to us over the last few days--the legislation now provides that the  sick and family leave payments are not considered wages for employment  tax purposes. The legislation now extends the employer credit to  include costs for the maintenance of health benefits that are paid by  the employers while employees are on leave. 

  Lastly, the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service are considering  options to provide an advance payment for the refundable credit to ease  any tax flow burden that a small fraction of employers may experience.  I will have more to say about that in a minute, but in plain English,  what that means is that they are considering a way to make sure that,  before the employer has to pay this required family leave to an  employee, the Federal Government has given the money to the employer. 

  Besides this, the legislation now includes an explicit grant of  authority, the Treasury writes, to the Secretary of Labor to exempt  small businesses from the only long-term leave requirements it contains  where those requirements would result in financial hardship. 

  In its conversations with me and in the writings that it has sent  out, the Treasury makes the argument that, far from imposing special  burdens, the net effect of this legislation is to provide an important  benefit given that many already provide sick leave and that many more  will need to do so in response to the COVID-19 outbreak. Moreover, by  structuring coverage for paid sick leave as a credit, the legislation  ensures that employers generally receive relief immediately rather than  having to wait for refunds. 

  In the event the amount of the credit exceeds an employer's tax  liability, the credit is made refundable to ensure that the employer is  fully compensated for all payments made under the leave requirements.  The Treasury goes on to write that the Treasury and the IRS are working  on options to provide an advance payment of the credit in order to get  cash in the pockets of small businesses and their employees  immediately. 

  The intent of the legislation, the Treasury argues, is to fully fund  the payments employers make to their employees who experience  employment interruptions related to the COVID-19. 

  In summary, according to the Department of the Treasury, the amended  legislation does not require employers to make payments in excess of  amounts eligible for the refundable tax credit and does not require  employers to pay employment taxes on those amounts. To the contrary, it  provides an important and immediate benefit to small businesses and  their employees for whom financial assistance is needed as quickly as  possible. That has been the argument of the Secretary of the Treasury  and his subordinates in conversations with many of us over the last few  days. That is their intention. 

  Now, I read that in detail because, in the Dakotas, in Tennessee, and  in many places all across this country, if my figures are right, there  are about 6 million businesses that could be affected by this mandate,  businesses that employ 51 million employees--or at least that did  employ 51 million employees until all of the problems that have been  created by this virus. 

  In my having tried to be fair in giving you what I understand the  Treasury's intention to be, which I think will be useful to the owners  of small businesses, to their accountants, and to their lawyers, who  are trying to figure out the law that was passed today, here are my  problems with it. 

  No. 1, I am not sure that the Treasury can live up to its promise to  make sure that the employer has the money from the Federal Government  before the employer has to pay the sick leave to the employee. 

  Here is my principle. I think, in these circumstances, sick leave and  family leave are a good idea. I mean, if someone is quarantined for 2  weeks, I think all of us should have to pay the cost of that and, for  another 10 weeks, some of the cost of the medical and family leave. I  buy that, and I can support that. Yet I believe, if Washington, DC, is  going to require it, Washington, DC, should pay for it. If Washington,  DC, is going to require a small business--many of which are struggling  and many of which are going out of business--to pay a mandate,  Washington, DC, should pay for it 

  This is no time to be imposing on small businesses an expensive, new  mandate--an unexpected new cost--when they don't have money coming in  to pay for the normal costs that they had. I know it is the Secretary's  goal to let it work this way, for he has told me this, and he has told  all of us this. He has said it in public and has put out a statement. 

  Under the sick leave proposal, every couple of weeks, a businessman  will put aside enough money for withholding and social security taxes.  That adds up to about 15 percent of an employee's salary. What the  Treasury is saying is that the employer can use that money. Instead of  setting it aside for the government, the employer can use it to pay  sick leave. 

  There are two problems with that. One is that I don't like the idea  of the employer's using the employee's tax money. You usually get in  trouble for that. If I were to set aside the Senator from North  Dakota's tax payment and then use it for some purpose, you could go to  jail for that in some cases. At least it is inappropriate. I am  uncomfortable with that. A business might only have 7.5 percent of the  salary set aside for that purpose, but even if it is 15 percent, I am  not sure it is enough. 

  The Treasury Secretary said the Treasury understands that, so it will  allow advance payment, and it hopes that it can come up with a system  that would get it there immediately. He hasn't promised that it would  come in 1 day. I am sure, if he were here on the Senate floor, he would  like to say his objective would be to get it there on the same day.  Well, wanting to get it there on the same day and getting it there are  two different things. 

  If I am a small business person in Tennessee and know that I am going  to have to cut a payroll check on Monday and that I have no money  coming in to pay for it and that there is not enough money in my escrow  account to pay for it, I would want my money from the Federal  Government before I would cut the check. 

  So I intend to try to amend the legislation that we passed this  weekend to say that, with sick leave and paid family leave, since  Washington is requiring it and Washington is paying for it, then  Washington will need to make sure the employer has the money before the  employer has to write the check. That is No. 1. 

  No. 2, I want to make sure that the employer doesn't have to pay more  on sick leave than the Federal Government's cap. There is a cap that, I  think, is about $132,000 annualized pay on sick leave. If an employee  makes more than that, that employee is going to have to take a pay cut  or he or she  might use the private right of action to sue the employer and say: I  want you to pay the gap between the $132,000 and whatever I made. 

  You may say, I am not too sympathetic to the employee who makes that  much money. Yet I am not talking about being sympathetic to the  employee; I am talking about being sympathetic to the employer who may  not have any money. Remember, this is a Washington mandate, and  Washington should pay for it. Through technical changes this past  weekend--and it said so in the information I just read--the Treasury  Department has amended the bill to try to make that clear, and I hope  that it is successful. 

  No. 3 is with regard to layoffs, and I mentioned the restaurant  industry. There are 15 million people who work in the restaurant  industry. If they are not laid off now, they are going to be mostly all  laid off before very long. Unfortunately, none of those men and women  who have been laid off are eligible for this sick leave because you are  going to have to work for 30 days for this small business, for this  company with fewer than 500 employees, in order to be eligible for the  paid sick leave. 

  I am afraid, as a result of this, many employers who are worried  about this provision may have an incentive to lay off more of their  employees. The truth is that one doesn't need much more incentive  because you are a restaurant and have been told by the local health  board to close down. You don't have any money coming in, and you can't  pay your employees anyway, so you don't have any choice. My point is  that this is a very limited benefit in the restaurant industry and,  probably, in many other industries because it does not help the laid- off employee. 

  Finally, there has been a lot said with regard to the smallest  companies--those with fewer than 50 employees--in that they can apply  to the Secretary of Labor and he will make you exempt from the mandate.  I think that is a good idea because this is the small mom-and-pop diner  or it might be the kennel that I just talked about that might have  three or four employees and that is not accustomed to dealing with all  of this Washington legalese and its requirements and regulations. It is  not geared up for that. 

  As I read the language in the law, it is a much narrower exception  than that, so I am going to attempt to amend the law that passed today  in order to broaden the exception so the Secretary of Labor has more  authority to waive the mandate for businesses with fewer than 50  employees 

  As I said, there are a number of important benefits in the bill that  we passed today, especially on testing. We have seen a great increase  in the number of available tests over the last few weeks. The Governor  of Tennessee said yesterday that we have sufficient testing. Well, that  is for today but maybe not for tomorrow or the next day. 

  One of the greatest steps forward has been to finally allow  commercial testing to be used. I mean, why shouldn't the Mayo Clinic or  the Cleveland Clinic be able to go ahead and develop tests and move  ahead with them? Now, they can. While we have done a great deal, there  is a great deal more that we must do. 

  I am convinced, even if we do as Senator McConnell has said and pass  our phase three legislation this weekend, which would include loans to  small businesses, direct payments to individuals, and stabilizing  payments to airlines, for example, and maybe to other industries, that  there is more to do. 

  My guess is that the next step after that--phase four, let's call  it--will be to look to our State employment compensation systems and  make sure they are able to handle the large numbers of people who are  losing their jobs because the government is shutting down the economy  in order to contain the disease. 

  I voted for the Johnson amendment today, which was to the bill for  which I later voted, because I thought it was headed in the right  direction. Rather than Washington's issuing mandates, I would rather  Washington work with the States in an existing program and make sure  that States have sufficient funding on top of their own funds to deal  with the large numbers of autoworkers, restaurant workers, and workers  at the small kennel that has two or three employees. In addition to  that, I believe the figure in the weekly fund is going to have to be  higher than the $327 that it is in Tennessee. 

  This is unprecedented. We are closing down the economy in order to  contain the disease. Because we are doing that, we governments at all  levels are going to have to pay the bill. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT