Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I am on the floor to speak about the  coronavirus, but first let me express to the families in Tennessee my  heartfelt concern for them as the result of a tornado that swept  through Middle Tennessee last night while people were sleeping. 

  The number of deaths is 22 so far in Nashville, and in Wilson,  Putnam, and Benton Counties. I have seen floods, and I have seen fires.  The damage they cause is terrible, but there is nothing quite like  seeing what a tornado can do. It can arrive in 30 seconds or 1 minute  and be gone and leave behind it death and buildings laid flat to the  ground. I can't imagine what it must be like for that to happen at 1 in  the morning when nobody knows it is coming. 

  I will be in Tennessee on Friday when the Senate concludes its  business this week and will be visiting those areas. Our office has  been in touch with mayors in all of the counties and communities  affected. Senator Blackburn and I are working together, along with the  rest of the Tennessee delegation in the House, to make certain that we  give full Federal support to Governor Lee. The President talked to  Governor Lee today, and, as a result of that call, the White House put  out a statement indicating the President may be in Tennessee on Friday.  That would be welcomed as well.                                 Coronavirus  

  Mr. President, let me speak for a moment about the coronavirus. The  country was transfixed by the impeachment process for about a month,  and now they are transfixed by the coronavirus, but this is different.  This is personal. This could affect each of us. When I am home--and I  am sure when the Presiding Officer is home--there are lots of questions  about the coronavirus. 

  I want to speak this morning about a hearing that we had in the  Senate's Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee that was  reassuring to me and, I think, to the Democrats as well as the  Republicans there. It was reassuring because we had four respected  professionals from the government with broad experience in dealing with  public health crises--whether it is anthrax, Ebola, or other  coronaviruses. We have had all of that in the United States in the last  25 years, and we have dealt with that. 

  At the end of the hearing, Senator Murray, the ranking Democrat on  the committee, and I, and the Democrats on committee who aren't  bashful, and the Republicans on committee who aren't bashful, but I  think I can speak for them in saying those four professionals, many of  whom have worked for 25 or 30 years in terms of helping our country  deal with health crises, continue to earn our respect. We believe what  they tell us, and they promised to tell us the truth. 

  When I saw the Vice President earlier today, I said to him: Mr. Vice  President, I am glad that you have been placed in charge of this. As a  former Governor, I think it makes sense to place a Vice President--that  indicates the highest level of attention--and a former Governor,  someone who is accustomed to working with States and local governments,  in charge of a problem that is going to be solved primarily by our  exceptional State and local public health systems. So I think  you are exactly the right person to be in charge. 

  My advice to him was to let the professionals do the talking because  people believe them. If the President and the Vice President give their  view, they are entitled to do it, but someone will think they are  simply justifying what they are doing. If the Democrats, on the other  hand, say something about the coronavirus response, someone will think,  well, they are just criticizing President Trump. 

  But if Dr. Fauci, for example, who for over 35 years--since 1984,  which is a long time, working for President Reagan, President H. W.  Bush, President Clinton, President George W. Bush, President Obama, and  President Trump; working on HIV/AIDS; working on anthrax; working on  two Ebola epidemics--if Dr. Fauci answers a question and tells us  something, we believe that. What we need is accurate information for  the American people about exactly where we stand with this crisis and  what we need to do in Congress that we have not already done. 

  So, in the next few minutes, I would like to talk about what we heard  this morning and to compliment those four professionals who were there: 

  Dr. Anne Schuchat, is the Principal Deputy Director of the Centers  for Disease Control. She has had 30 years working with infectious  diseases, most of that time with the CDC. 

  Dr. Fauci I just described, working with six Presidents. I believe he  has virtually universal respect here for truth-telling and competence. 

  Dr. Robert Kadlec. He is the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and  Response at the Department of Health and Human Services. He used to  advise the Department of Defense, and then he helped Senator Burr to  write the legislation that set up the agency that helps us be better  prepared to deal with such health crises as we might experience here. 

  Then Dr. Stephen Hahn. He is the newest one of the four in terms of  coming to the government, but he has been the head of the MD Anderson  Cancer Center in Texas, one of the most respected institutions in the  world. 

  So those are the professionals that we heard this morning. 

  Now, what did we hear? We heard that the coronavirus is alarming in  terms of what is happening around the world. There are 90,000 cases or  more and 3,000 deaths. All of this has happened in the last 2, 2\1/2\  months, so far as we know. 

  What has happened at home? What has happened at home here in the  United States is that we have slightly more than 100 cases that are  detected. About half of those are Americans who were traveling and had  to be brought home and were repatriated, as we say, and the other half  have been detected here. Unfortunately, we have had six deaths. 

  It is fair to say that citizens in the United States are at low risk  for infection from the coronavirus, but you don't have to take my word  for it. Take the word of the professionals who testified this morning  before the Senate's Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee or  take the words of what the New York Times said a couple of days ago on  its front page in the Sunday newspaper in describing the situation in  the United States. 

  Here is what the Times said: ``Much about the coronavirus remains  unclear, and it is far from certain that the outbreak will reach severe  proportions in the United States or affect many regions at once.''  Continuing, the New York Times: ``With its top-notch scientists, modern  hospitals and sprawling public health infrastructure, most experts  agree, the United States is among the countries best prepared to  prevent or manage such an epidemic.'' 

  That is the New York Times' front page assessment 2 days ago. 

  Now, in addition to the possible effect on the lives of Americans,  this problem can disrupt our economy. Twenty percent of what we import,  according to our Trade Representative, comes from China. So we are not  just talking about medicines or masks. We are talking about parts of  cars or chemicals, such as those for Eastman Chemical in East  Tennessee, which employs thousands of people. It can cause our economy  to slow down and economies in the rest of the world to slow down. 

  The purpose of our hearing this morning was, first, to get an idea of  what Americans needed to know about the coronavirus. We learned some  things. We learned that, based on the data that we have and that has  been received just in the last couple of days from China, we haven't  seen many children infected by the coronavirus. They may be, but the  average age of the people who seem to be infected by it is 50, and the  people who get the sickest are people who are already sick. 

  The second thing we have learned seems so simple it doesn't seem to  be true. What can we do about the coronavirus? How can we keep from  getting it? Wash your hands. Wash your hands. I find myself now doing  it a few more times a day, and I didn't used to do it as often. 

  Our hands pick up germs from our cell phones or from the rails we  touch or from the hands we shake or from the seats in front of us on  the airplane. Then what do we do? We put our hands on our face many  more times an hour than most people are aware. That is the single  biggest way this spreads. 

  Wash your hands. That is what Dr. Fauci says--the professional who  has been working on these diseases for decades. 

  Here is something else we learned to put the coronavirus into  context. We are just past the peak of the flu season. Most of us know  about the flu. We have a vaccine for the flu--not for the coronavirus,  but for the flu--and most of us take it. But there are tens of millions  of us who will get the flu this flu season. Fifty thousand Americans,  on average, die from the flu each year--50,000 Americans. It might be  30,000 one year and might be 70,000 in a very bad year. But there are a  lot of people who die from the flu. 

  The flu is a respiratory disease, just like the coronavirus is a  respiratory disease. It is a different respiratory disease, but the  symptoms are similar: fever and a cough. 

  We also learned this morning from the professionals who told us this:  For 80 percent of the people who are infected with the coronavirus, it  is a fairly mild experience. Twenty percent--mainly older people--are  sicker, and they are the ones who need the attention. 

  Those are some of the things we learned this morning from the  professionals who have been working on epidemics or potential epidemics  for a long time. 

  What should we do about it? Let's start with what we have done about  it. I think it is important for the American people to know that. Let's  start with Congress. This is not our first rodeo, so to speak. We have  faced public health threats for the last 20 years. There are Members of  Congress and staff who were here during the anthrax attack in 2001,  nearly 20 years ago. In 2003, we saw SARS. That was another type of  coronavirus. Then, in 2009, the flu pandemic killed more than 150,000  people around the world. Then there were the Ebola outbreaks in 2014  and 2018. 

  After every one of those incidents, Congress, working with Democratic  and Republican Presidents, tried to prepare the Federal Government to  be ready for the next problem. 

  After anthrax, we created Project BioShield to develop and stockpile  new treatments and vaccines. After the 2003 SARS outbreak, in 2006,  Congress created the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act. Senator  Burr of North Carolina was the principal author. It guides the  government on how to respond to public health emergencies, and it  created a fund the government can use to respond quickly to problems  that come up. 

  Last year, Congress provided more than $4 billion for public health  and preparedness programs. When a crisis occurs, like this  coronavirus--all of which has happened since the first of the year,  maybe a little since December, but mostly since the first of the year-- money is often needed quickly, so Congress created a couple of funds  the agencies can take money from. One of them is the Rapid Response  Fund. Secretary Azar has already taken $105 million from that fund for  this healthcare issue. We have given him the authority to take another  $136 million, which he has done. 

  The President has recommended $2.5 billion more. Congress, with many  different suggestions having been made,  this week is likely to approve additional funding to do whatever our  professionals tell us needs to be done to keep us safe and help protect  our economy. 

  In addition to what Congress has done, our various Presidents have  done even more. For example, President Obama, if you will remember,  sent our military to Africa to deal with the Ebola outbreak before it  came here. That was quite an extraordinary action. President George W.  Bush sent Centers for Disease Control scientists around the world to  help with the SARS epidemic. In the same way, President Trump has done  something that hasn't been done in this country for over 50 years. At a  time when there were only six confirmed cases of coronavirus in the  United States, this administration announced they would quarantine  Americans who may have been exposed to the virus while in China and  would not allow foreign nationals who traveled to China in the last 14  days to enter the United States, and warned Americans not to travel to  China and, more recently, to think more carefully about traveling to  parts of Italy or South Korea. The President added Iran to these travel  restrictions more recently. 

  Dr. Fauci, the National Institutes of Health professional whom we  heard from this morning, said that without those Executive actions, we  would have many more cases right now. 

  The third thing the administration has done is to develop a test to  diagnose whether you have the coronavirus. We didn't have that before  because this is a new virus. The administration is rapidly working on  that--not as fast as everyone would like, but fast, so far as I can  tell. 

  The FDA is working with 65 private sector test developers in addition  to the 46 labs in 38 States who are using the Centers for Disease  Control test. The goal is to have in place kits that will allow 1  million tests to be done shortly. 

  As far as a vaccine, the professionals are working on a vaccine more  rapidly than any vaccine ever before, but it still takes more than a  year. However, the President met with drug manufacturers to see if  existing treatments might be used earlier. Our National Laboratories  have gotten involved as well. 

  As we look at the impact of the coronavirus, we think mostly about  our own health, but we also see other issues, such as the effect on our  economy. 13 percent of the facilities that make active ingredients for  drugs are in China. We need to take a look at that. 

  I would like to conclude where I started. People ask me: What can we  do about the coronavirus? The answer is as simple as wash your hands,  drink a lot of water, and isolate yourself if you feel sick. If you  have a fever and a cough, call your doctor. Stay home, and don't infect  your neighbors. 

  Are we going to be able to contain the coronavirus in the United  States? I go back to what the New York Times said on its front page on  Sunday. We have experienced dealing with new diseases in the United  States. We have professionals who, for several decades through several  administrations, both Democratic and Republican, have been successful  in doing that. We have Presidents, both Democratic and Republican, who  have taken strong Executive action, including this one, to protect the  American people. 

  In short, while this is an alarming problem around the world--surely,  more Americans will become infected--most experts agree that we are  fortunate that the United States is the country in the world with the  scientists, with the resources, and with the experience to do the best  possible job of containing the spread of this virus. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT