Going Back to College Safely


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to make  comments on two other subjects. The first is about a subject that is  concerning about 70, 75 million American families; that is, going back  to college and going back to school. The question is on the minds of  many Americans: Will we be going back to college? Will our children be  going back to school? 

  We finished a hearing today--the Presiding Officer was present; the  Senator from Alaska was present--on going back to college safely. The  question is not whether we are going back to college in the United  States of America; the question is how to go back safely. We all  understand that when 70, 75 million students go back to college and go  back to school, that is the surest sign that American life is regaining  its rhythm--not just for the students themselves but, especially with  the children, for their parents, most of whom work outside the home. 

  Today's subject was about college. We had excellent witnesses. We had  Mitch Daniels, the president of Purdue University. He was introduced by  the Senator from Indiana. We had the president of Brown University,  Christina Paxson. We had Logan Hampton, who was president of a small  historically Black college in Jackson, TN, Lane College. And we had the  President of American Public Health Association, Dr. Benjamin. They  talked with us about the various strategies and concerns that existed. 

  I will, in a few minutes, ask consent to put my opening statement in  the Record, but if I can summarize it, it would be this. Most of our  6,000 public colleges and universities--some public, some private, some  church schools--will be open in August for in-person students but not  all of them. The University of California State system has said so far  that it expects only to offer online courses. But at Purdue, for  example--an institution of 55,000 students--President Daniels has  decided, with the approval of his board, and President Paxson of  Brown--a different kind of institution in the Northeast, different from  Purdue--they both decided it is their obligation to open up and to  create a safe environment for the students to come back. 

  There are several reasons for this. There is some health risk in  coming back. Of course, wise leadership can address that. But I think,  as all of us have looked at our colleges, wise leadership can make  colleges among the safest communities to live and work in America over  the next year because colleges have certain advantages. In the first  place, most of the campus community is young. While we can't be  cavalier about the effect of COVID-19 on young people, as Dr. Fauci has  warned us, the fact is that COVID-19 seems to hurt the young much less. 

  The second reason it would be easier to go back to college is that  there is a lot of space in colleges that isn't used. Colleges are the  most notorious wasters of space in our society. It is rare that a class  is taught in the early morning or late evening or on Saturdays or in  the summers. There is plenty of time and plenty of space to spread out  on most college campuses.  

  As we learn more and more about COVID-19, it looks like there are  three things we really need to do: Keep 6 feet apart, wash our hands,  and wear a mask. Do those three things, and we can probably go back to  school, back to work, out to eat, and do most of the things we would  like to do. 

  At a college, as President Daniels says, he intends to develop a  culture of masks. Vanderbilt University is going to require a mask to  be worn in all indoor situations. Then they are taking a number of  other steps. Concerts and parties and large gatherings are out. Flu  shots and grab-and-go meals are in. 

  There will be systematic testing, and testing will be done in  different ways. The president of Brown would like to test every  student, she said in an article in the New York Times a few weeks ago. 

  The president of Purdue said: Well, maybe systematic testing. There  will be different strategies for testing, but the goal of testing is  two things. One is containing the disease; that is, identifying the  sick and the exposed so that they can be quarantined so the rest of us  don't have to be, and the other is to build confidence. 

  I know that when I took a test last week after I was exposed to  COVID-19, I went home for 2 weeks of self-isolation, as the attending  physician said I should do. That should have been it, but I went to my  local public health department and took a test, which turned out to be  negative, for peace of mind. It gave me more confidence to go back home  and be with my family. 

  The anticipation is that there will be plenty of testing. Admiral  Giroir, the Assistant Secretary of Public Health, has told our  committee, we are, in the United States, doing about 10 million tests a  month now. States are submitting to the Federal Government a plan each  month about their testing needs. The Federal Government is helping fill  in any gaps. Over the next 2, 3 months, the number of tests will go  from about 10 million a month to 40 or 50 million tests a month. That  is a lot of tests. We are already testing more than any country in the  world. 

  My guess is that colleges and universities--even though there are  6,000 of them, 127 different institutions in Tennessee--if they will be  in touch with their Governor and be a part of the State testing plan,  they can have adequate tests, not only to contain the disease and  isolate those who should be isolated but to give peace of mind to other  students and faculty and members of the community who come onboard. 

  Finally, we talked a little bit about the role of the Federal  Government. We have a classic discussion about that here. Some want to  say Washington should do it; some want to say the State should do it.  Generally, our friends on the Democratic side trust Washington, DC;  generally, we on the Republican side trust the States. But there is a  role for both. The Federal Government, through the Centers for Disease  Control, can provide advice. The Federal Government, as it is doing  through the Shark Tank, as we call it, at the National Institutes of  Health, can accelerate the number of rapid tests that are available at  a low cost for campuses. 

  The Federal Government can provide additional funding for campuses,  as we did in the CARES Act. Those are some of the things we can do from  here. But the things we ought not to try to do from here are to order  California to open its campuses if California doesn't want to or to  tell Purdue and Notre Dame and Brown and the University of Tennessee  and Vanderbilt that they cannot open their campuses if they do want to  and think they can do it safely. We should not be trying to tell each  of those campuses exactly how many tests they have, what kind of tests  they have, any more than we try to tell them what the faculty ought to  be paid or what student admissions policies ought to be or what the  curriculum ought to be. 

  While the Federal Government needs to create an umbrella in which  individual campuses can go back to school safely, we need to be careful  about telling everybody exactly what to do. 

  We had a very big event here 4, 5 years ago when we fixed No Child  Left Behind. Everybody wanted it fixed--Democrats, Republicans, labor  unions, Governors, teachers. Why? Because after a while, everybody got  tired of Washington, DC, telling 100,000 public schools exactly what to  do, what teachers to hire, what curriculum to have--all of these  things. The same is true with our colleges. 

  Our system of colleges and universities is the best in the world.  Everyone concedes that. It has not gotten  there by Washington ordering what it should do, and Washington  shouldn't order what it should do about this disease. It should advise;  it should help; it can help send money. But the autonomy of each campus  ought to be respected. 

  One other thing about the colleges and universities have asked for  from us is liability protection. 

   This is the umbrella organization  for hiring education, and it includes liability protection. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ALEXANDER. Next week in our committee we will take a look at  going back to school safely, K-12. That is a lot more families--20  million college students, 75 million children in K-12. And in every one  of those families, in every one of those homes, I can tell you those  families are worried about whether those children can go back to school  and whether they can go safely. I believe they can, and all across the  country, Governors, classroom teachers, mayors, principals are working,  just as we heard today from the college presidents, to make sure they  go back safely.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT