Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President, in this impeachment proceeding, I  worked with other Senators to make sure that we had the right to ask  for more documents and witnesses, but there was no need for more  evidence to prove something that I believe had already been proven and  that did not meet the U.S. Constitution's high bar for an impeachable  offense. 

  There was no need for more evidence to prove that the President asked  Ukraine to investigate Joe Biden and his son, Hunter. He said this on  television on October 3, 2019, and he said it during his July 25, 2019,  telephone call with the President of Ukraine. 

  There was no need for more evidence to conclude that the President  withheld United States aid, at least in part, to pressure Ukraine to  investigate the Bidens. The House managers have proved this with what  they called a ``mountain of overwhelming evidence.'' One of the  managers said it was ``proved beyond a shadow of a doubt.'' 

  There was no need to consider further the frivolous second Article of  Impeachment that would remove from the President and future  Presidents--remove this President for asserting his constitutional  prerogative to protect confidential conversations with his close  advisers.  

  It was inappropriate for the President to ask a foreign leader to  investigate his political opponent and to withhold U.S. aid to  encourage this investigation. When elected officials inappropriately  interfere with such investigations, it undermines the principle of  equal justice under the law. But the Constitution does not give the  Senate the power to remove the President from office and ban him from  this year's ballot simply for actions that are inappropriate. 

  The question, then, is not whether the President did it but whether  the Senate or the American people should decide what to do about what  he did. I believe that the Constitution clearly provides that the  people should make that decision in the Presidential election that  began on Monday in Iowa. 

  The Senate has spent 11 long days considering this mountain of  evidence, the arguments of the House managers and the President's  lawyers, their answers to Senators' questions, and the House record.  Even if the House charges were true, they don't meet the Constitution's  ``Treason, Bribery, or other High Crimes and Misdemeanors'' standard  for impeachable offense. 

  The Framers believed that there never ever should be a partisan  impeachment. That is why the Constitution requires a two-thirds vote of  the Senate to convict. Yet not one House Republican voted for these  articles. 

  If this shallow, hurried, and wholly partisan impeachment were to  succeed, it would rip the country apart, pouring gasoline on the fire  of cultural divisions that already exist. It would create a weapon of  perpetual impeachment to be used against future Presidents whenever the  House of Representatives is of a different political party. 

  Our founding documents provide for duly elected Presidents who serve  with ``the consent of the governed,'' not at the pleasure of the U.S.  Congress. Let the people decide. 

  A year ago, at the Southeastern Conference basketball tournament, a  friend of 40 years sitting in front of me turned to me and said: ``I am  very unhappy with you for voting against the President.'' She was  referring to my vote against the President's decision to spend money  that Congress hadn't appropriated to build the border wall. 

  I believed then and now that the U.S. Constitution gives to the  Congress the exclusive power to appropriate money. This separation of  powers creates checks and balances in our government that preserve our  individual liberty by not allowing, in that case, the Executive to have  too much power. 

  I replied to my friend: ``Look, I was not voting for or against the  President. I was voting for the United States Constitution.'' Well, she  wasn't convinced. 

  This past Sunday, walking my dog Rufus in Nashville, I was confronted  by a neighbor who said she was angry and crushed by my vote against  allowing more witnesses in the impeachment trial. ``The Senate should  remove the President for extortion,'' she said. 

  I replied to her: ``I was not voting for or against the President. I  was voting for the United States Constitution, which, in my view, does  not give the Senate the power to remove a President from his office and  from this year's election ballot simply for actions that are  inappropriate. The United States Constitution says a President may be  convicted only for Treason, Bribery, and other High Crimes and  Misdemeanors. President Trump's actions regarding Ukraine are a far cry  from that. Plus,'' I said, ``unlike the Nixon impeachment, when almost  all Republicans voted to initiate an impeachment inquiry, not one  single Republican voted to initiate this impeachment inquiry against  President Trump. The Trump impeachment,'' I said to her, ``was a  completely partisan action, and the Framers of the United States  Constitution, especially James Madison, believed we should never ever  have a partisan impeachment. That would undermine the separation of  powers by allowing the House of Representatives to immobilize the  executive branch, as well as the Senate, by a perpetual partisan series  of impeachments.'' Well, she was not convinced. 

  When our country was created, there never had been anything quite  like it--a democratic republic with a written Constitution. Perhaps its  greatest innovation was the separation of powers among the Presidency,  the Supreme Court, and the Congress. 

  The late Justice Scalia said this of checks and balances: ``Every tin  horn dictator in the world today, every president for life, has a Bill  of Rights. . . . What has made us free is our Constitution.'' What he  meant was, what makes the United States different and protects our  individual liberty is the separation of powers and the checks and  balances in our Constitution. 

  The goal of our Founders was not to have a King as a chief executive,  on the one hand, or not to have a British-style parliament, on the  other, which could remove our chief executive or prime minister with a  majority or no-confidence vote. The principle reason our Constitution  created a U.S. Senate is so that one body of Congress can pause and  resist the excesses of the Executive or popular passions that could run  through the House of Representatives like a freight train. 

  The language of the Constitution, of course, is subject to  interpretation, but on some things, its words are clear. The President  cannot spend money that Congress doesn't appropriate--that is clear-- and the Senate can't remove a President for anything less than treason,  bribery, high crimes and misdemeanors, and two-thirds of us, the  Senators, must agree on that. That requires a bipartisan consensus. 

  We Senators take an oath to base our decisions on the provisions of  our Constitution, which is what I have endeavored to do during this  impeachment proceeding. 

   They include an editorial from  February 3 from the Wall Street Journal; an editorial from the National  Review, also dated February 3; an opinion editorial by Robert Doar,  president of the American Enterprise Institute on February 1; an  article from KnoxTNToday, yesterday; and a transcript from my  appearance on ``Meet the Press'' on Sunday, February 2, 2020. These  documents illuminate and further explain my statement today. 

  Thank you. 

   3, 2020]     Editorial Board: Lamar Alexander's Finest Hour--His Vote Against               Witnesses was Rooted in Constitutional Wisdom  

       Senate Republicans are taking even more media abuse than       usual after voting to bar witnesses from the impeachment       trial of President Trump. ``Cringing abdication'' and ``a       dishonorable Senate'' are two examples of the sputtering       progressive rage. On the contrary, we think it was Lamar       Alexander's finest hour. 

       The Tennessee Republican, who isn't running for re-election       this year, was a decisive vote in the narrowly divided Senate       on calling witnesses. He listened to the evidence and       arguments from both sides, and then he offered his sensible       judgment: Even if Mr. Trump did what House managers charge,       it still isn't enough to remove a President from office.``It       was inappropriate for the president to ask a foreign leader       to investigate his political opponent and to withhold United       States aid to encourage that investigation,'' Mr. Alexander       said in a statement Thursday night. ``But the Constitution       does not give the Senate the power to remove the president       from office and ban him from this year's ballot simply for       actions that are inappropriate.'' 

       The House managers had proved their case to his       satisfaction even without new witnesses, Mr. Alexander added,       but ``they do not meet the Constitution's `treason, bribery,       or other high crimes and misdemeanors' standard for an       impeachable offense.'' Nebraska Sen. Ben Sasse told reporters       ``let me be clear: Lamar speaks for lots and lots of us.'' 

       This isn't an abdication. It's a wise judgment based on       what Mr. Trump did and the rushed, partisan nature of the       House impeachment. Mr. Trump was wrong to ask Ukraine to       investigate Joe and Hunter Biden, and wrong to use U.S. aid       as leverage. His call with Ukraine's President was far from       ``perfect.'' It was reckless and self-destructive, as Mr.       Trump often is. 

       Nearly all of his advisers and several Senators opposed his       actions, Senators like Wisconsin's Ron Johnson lobbied Mr.       Trump hard against the aid delay, and in the end the aid was       delivered within the fiscal year and Ukraine did not begin an       investigation. Even the House managers did not allege       specific crimes in their impeachment articles. For those who       want the best overall account of what happened, we again       recommend the Nov. 18 letter that Mr. Johnson wrote to House       Republicans. 

       Mr. Alexander's statement made two other crucial points.       The first concerns the damage that partisan removal of Mr.       Trump would do to the country.  

       ``The framers believed that there should never, ever be a       partisan impeachment. That is why the Constitution requires a       2/3 vote of the Senate for conviction. Yet not one House       Republican voted for these articles,'' Mr. Alexander noted.       ``If this shallow, hurried and wholly partisan impeachment       were to succeed, it would rip the country apart, pouring       gasoline on the fire of cultural divisions that already       exist. It would create the weapon of perpetual impeachment to       be used against future presidents whenever the House of       Representatives is of a different political party.'' 

       Does anyone who isn't a Resistance partisan doubt this?       Democrats and the press talk as if removing Mr. Trump is a       matter of constitutional routine that would restore American       politics to some pre-2016 normalcy. That's a dangerous       illusion. 

       The ouster of Mr. Trump, the political outsider, on such       slender grounds would be seen by half the country as an       insider coup d'etat. Unlike Richard Nixon's resignation, it       would never be accepted by Mr. Trump's voters, who would wave       it as a bloody flag for years to come. Payback against the       next Democratic President when the Republicans retake the       House would be a certainty. 

       Mr. Alexander directed Americans to the better solution of       our constitutional bedrock. ``The question then is not       whether the president did it, but whether the United States       Senate or the American people should decide what to do about       what he did,'' his statement said. ``Our founding documents       provide for duly elected presidents who serve with `the       consent of the governed,' not at the pleasure of the United       States Congress. Let the people decide.'' 

       Democrats and their allies in the media have spent three       years trying to nullify the election their candidate lost in       2016. They have hawked false Russian conspiracy theories,       ignored abuse by the FBI, floated fantasies about triggering       the 25th Amendment, and tried to turn bad presidential       judgment toward Ukraine into an impeachable offense. Yet Mr.       Trump's job approval rating has increased during the       impeachment hearings and trial. 

       Our friendly advice to Democrats and the impeachment press       is to accept that you lost fair and square in 2016 and focus       on nominating a better Democratic candidate this year. On the       recent polling evidence, that task is urgent. In the       meantime, thank you, Lamar Alexander.                                   ____                   [From the National Review, Feb. 3, 2020]               Editorial Board: Lamar Alexander Gets It Right  

       The impeachment saga is drawing to a close. 

       The Senate is prepared to acquit without hearing from       witnesses, after Lamar Alexander, a swing vote, came out       against calling them late last week. 

       In his statement, Alexander expressed the correct view on       the underlying matter--one we have been urging Republicans to       publicly adopt since impeachment first got off the ground. 

       The Tennessee Republican said that it has been amply       established that Donald Trump used a hold on defense aid to       pressure the Ukrainians to undertake the investigations that       he wanted, and that this was, as he mildly put it,       inappropriate. But this misconduct, he argued, doesn't rise       to the level of the high crimes and misdemeanors required to       remove a president from office. If the Senate were to do so       anyway, it would further envenom the nation's partisan       divide. Besides, there is a national election looming where       the public itself can decide whether Trump should stay in       office or not. 

       Since we already know the core of what happened, Alexander       explained, there was no need to hear from additional       witnesses in the Senate trial. (On this theory of the case,       the Senate is in effect acting like an appellate court,       rendering a judgment on a threshold question of law, rather       than a trial court sifting through the facts.) 

       In the wake of Alexander's statement, other Senate       Republicans endorsed his line of analysis, which, it must be       noted, is superior to the defense mounted by the White House       legal team over the last two weeks. 

       Because the president refused to acknowledge what he did,       his team implausibly denied there was a quid pro quo and       argued that one hadn't been proven since there were no first-      hand witnesses. Obviously, this position was at odds with the       defense team's insistence that no further witnesses be       called. It also raised the natural question why, if people       with firsthand knowledge had exculpatory information, the       White House wasn't eager to let them come forward. 

       Additionally, the White House maintained that a president       can't be impeached unless he's guilty of a criminal       violation. This is an erroneous interpretation of the       Constitution, although it is true that past presidential       impeachments have involved violations of the law and that       such violations provide a bright line that's missing if the       charge is only abuse of power. Alan Dershowitz argued this       position most aggressively for the president's defense, and       made it even worse by briefly seeming--before walking it       back--to argue that anything a president does to advance his       reelection is properly motivated. 

       As for the House managers, they were at their strongest       making the case that the president had done what they       alleged, and their weakest arguing that he should be removed       for it. 

       They tried to inflate the gravity of Trump's offense by       repeatedly calling it ``election interference.'' At the end       of the day, though, what the Trump team sought was not an       investigation of Joe or Hunter Biden, but a statement by the       Ukrainians that they'd look into Burisma, the Ukrainian       company on whose board Hunter Biden sat. The firm has a shady       past and has been investigated before. Trump should have       steered clear of anything involving his potential opponent,       but it's not obvious that a new Burisma probe would have had       any effect on 2020 (the vulnerability for Biden is Hunter's       payments, which are already on the record) and, of course,       the announcement of an investigation never happened. 

       They said that Trump's seeking this Ukrainian interference       was in keeping with his welcoming of Russian meddling,       implying that Trump had been found guilty of colluding with       the Russians in 2016, rather than exonerated. (Part of the       complaint here is that Trump made use of material that       emerged via Russian hacking. Then again, so did Bernie       Sanders in his fight with the DNC.) 

       They alleged that the brief delay in aid to Ukraine somehow       endangered our national security, a risible claim given that       the Ukrainians got the aid and that Trump has provided       Ukraine lethal assistance that President Obama never did. 

       They accused the president of obstruction of justice for       asserting privileges invoked by other presidents and not       producing documents and witnesses on the House's accelerated       timeline, a charge that White House lawyer Patrick Philbin       effectively dismantled. 

       Finally, they insisted that a trial without witnesses       wouldn't be fair, despite making no real effort to secure the       new witnesses during their own rushed impeachment inquiry. 

       As for the Senate trial being a ``cover up,'' as Democrats       now insist it is, there is nothing stopping the House--or the       Senate, for that matter--from seeking testimony from John       Bolton and others outside the confines of the trial. This       would be entirely reasonable congressional oversight (despite       the White House arguing otherwise) and there is still a       public interest in knowing as much as possible about this       matter, even if Trump isn't going to be removed. 

       If nothing else, the last two weeks have been a forum for       extensive discussion about the respective powers of the two       elected branches of government. We are sympathetic to the       view that the executive branch has too much power. If       Congress seeks to remedy this imbalance by impeaching and       removing presidents, though, it will be sorely disappointed,       since the two-thirds requirement for a Senate conviction is       an almost insuperable obstacle to removal (as both House       Republicans and House Democrats have experienced the last 20       years). 

       It would be better if Congress undertook a more systematic       effort to take back prerogatives it has ceded to the       executive branch and the courts. But we aren't optimistic on       this score, since the same Democrats who claim to be       sticklers about congressional power on the Ukraine matter       won't say a discouraging word about Elizabeth Warren's and       Bernie Sanders's promised adventures in unilateral rule as       president. 

       At the end of the day, Nancy Pelosi impeached knowing that       the Senate wouldn't convict, and so here we are--with nine       months to go until voters get to make their judgment: not       just about Ukraine, but about the last four years and Trump's       eventual opponent.                                   ____                         [From the AEI, Feb. 1, 2020]  

      Alexander Got It Right: It Takes More To Remove a President                              (By Robert Doar)  

       ``It was inappropriate for the president to ask a foreign       leader to investigate his political opponent and to withhold       United States aid to encourage that investigation. When       elected officials inappropriately interfere with such       investigations, it undermines the principle of equal justice       under the law. But the Constitution does not give the Senate       the power to remove the president from office and ban him       from this year's ballot simply for actions that are       inappropriate.'' 

       Republican Sen. Lamar Alexander's words reminded me of the       struggle my father, John Doar, had as he considered whether       the conduct of President Richard Nixon was so serious that it       should lead the House to impeach him and the Senate to remove       him from office. Dad was in charge of the House Judiciary       Committee staff, which took seven months (between December       1973 and July 1974) to examine the evidence and consider the       question. What he concluded, and what the House Judiciary       Committee by bipartisan majorities also found, was that Nixon       deserved impeachment and removal for a pattern of conduct       over a multi-year period that both obstructed justice and       abused power. 

       So the first article, concerning obstruction of justice,       found that Nixon and his subordinates had tampered with       witnesses and interfered with the Department of Justice's       investigations. They had paid hush money and attempted to       misuse the CIA. And they had lied repeatedly to investigators       and the American people. 

       On abuse of power, Nixon was found to have misused his       authority over the IRS, the FBI, the CIA, and the Secret       Service to defeat political opponents and protect himself,       and in the process he had violated the constitutional rights       of citizens. After he came       under suspicion, he tried to manipulate these agencies to       interfere with the investigation. 

       President Trump's conduct toward Ukraine, though       inappropriate, differs significantly from Nixon's in one       crucial respect. Where Nixon's impeachable abuse of power       occurred over a period of several years, the conduct       challenged by the House's impeachment of Trump was not nearly       as prolonged. From July to September of last year, Trump       attempted to cajole a foreign government to open an       investigation into his political opponent. That conduct was       wrong. But it's not the same as what Nixon did over multiple       years. 

       This contrast brings to light a critical difference between       the House's behavior in 1974 and its efforts today. When       Nixon's actions came to light, the House conducted an       impeachment the right way: The House Judiciary Committee took       seven months to examine all of the evidence, built up a       theory of the case which matched the Constitution's       requirements, and produced charges that implicated the       president and his subordinates in a pattern of impeachable       conduct. Faced with certain impeachment and removal from       office, Nixon resigned. What Trump attempted to do, as       Alexander rightly sees, is not that. 

       Alexander is right about one other thing--we should let the       people decide who our next president should be.                                   ____                    [From the Knox TN Today, Feb. 4, 2020]                              Lamar Was Right                              (By Frank Cagle)  

       Since I'm older than dirt, there have been occasions over       the years when first-term state legislators would ask me if I       had any advice for them. 

       Yes. 

       When a major and controversial issue looms study it, decide       where you are and let everyone know where you are. In other       words, pick a side early, have a reputation for keeping your       word, and do not be known as a member who will go where the       wind blows. 

       Make sure you do not get into the group known as the       undecideds. You will get hammered by both sides, wooed by       both sides and hounded by the media. And finally, do not       under any circumstances be the deciding vote. Yours will be       the only vote anyone remembers. 

       You would think someone who has been around as long as       Lamar Alexander could avoid this trap. But not so. In the       impeachment trial of President Trump, he got the label       undecided, he was then hounded by the media and hammered by       both sides over whether he would march in lockstep with       Majority Leader Mitch McConnell or whether he would vote to       call more witnesses as the Democrats wanted. 

       And horror of horrors, he was the deciding vote and the       only one that will be remembered. When he announced how he       would vote the ``more witnesses'' movement collapsed. 

       Alexander now finds himself being excoriated by both sides.       The Trump supporters will never forget his failure to fall in       line and salute. The anti-Trumpers are expressing their       disappointment. 

       I've never been a Lamar fan. But I would like to make the       case that he did exactly the right thing and he expressed the       position of the majority of his Republican colleagues. He,       and anyone who has been paying attention, says Trump did what       he was accused of and what he did was wrong--inappropriate.       But it did not rise to the level of removing him from office.       There was no point in listening to additional witnesses and       dragging things out. Everyone knew he was guilty. But if       Trump is to be removed from office, let the voters do it. 

       If you believe that Trump didn't hold up aid to Ukraine or       that he didn't ask them to investigate Joe Biden you have       surrendered your critical faculties or you haven't been       paying attention. 

       Joe and Hunter Biden should be investigated. By the FBI. I       understand Trump's frustration that the mainstream media       could not be counted on to investigate what should be       disqualifying information about Biden's presidential run. (In       the media's defense, Trump's kids are also trading off their       father's position.) Trump's problem is that instead of       turning to the FBI he turned the problem over to Rudy       Giuliani and a couple of his questionable associates,       otherwise known as the ``Gang Who Couldn't Shoot Straight.'' 

       I doubt you could find 10 Republican senators who, in their       heart of hearts, didn't agree with Lamar's position. Many       have echoed his argument. But it will be Lamar who will take       the heat.                                   ____                     [From Meet the Press, Feb. 2, 2020]     Interview With Senator Lamar Alexander, U.S. Senator for Tennessee  

       Chuck Todd: Republican Senator Lamar Alexander of       Tennessee. Senator Alexander, welcome back. 

       Senator Lamar Alexander: Thank you, Chuck. 

       Todd: So one of the reasons you gave in your release about       not voting for more witnesses is that--and to decide that,       okay, this trial is over, let's let the people decide--was       that the election was too close. So let me ask you though, on       the witness vote itself, would it be helpful for the people       to decide if they had more information? 

       Alexander: Well, I mean, if you have eight witnesses who       say someone left the scene of an accident, why do you need       nine? I mean, the question for me was, do I need more       evidence to conclude that the president did what he did? And       I concluded no. So I voted. 

       Todd: What do you believe he did? 

       Alexander: What I believe he did. One, was that he called       the president of Ukraine and asked him to become involved in       investigating Joe Biden, who was-- 

       Todd: You believe his wrongdoing began there, not before? 

       Alexander: I don't know about that, but he admitted that.       The president admitted that. He released the transcript. He       said it on television. The second thing was, at least in       part, he delayed the military and other assistance to Ukraine       in order to encourage that investigation. Those are the two       things he did. I think he shouldn't have done it. I think it       was wrong. Inappropriate was the way I'd say it, improper,       crossing the line. And then the only question left is, who       decides what to do about that? 

       Todd: Well, who decides what to do with that? 

       Alexander: The people. The people is my conclusion. You       know, it struck me really for the first time early last week,       that we're not just being asked to remove the president from       office. We're saying, tell him you can't run in the 2020       election, which begins Monday in Iowa. 

       Todd: If this weren't an election year, would you have       looked at this differently? 

       Alexander: I would have looked at it differently and       probably come to the same conclusion because I think what he       did is a long way from treason, bribery, high crimes and       misdemeanors. I don't think it's the kind of inappropriate       action that the framers would expect the Senate to substitute       its judgment for the people in picking a president. 

       Todd: Does it wear on you though that one of the       foundational ways that the framers wrote the constitution was       almost fear of foreign interference. 

       Alexander: That's true. 

       Todd: So, and here it is. 

       Alexander: Well, if you hooked up with Ukraine to wage war       on the United States, as the first Senator from Tennessee       did, you could be expelled, but this wasn't that. What the       president should have done was, if he was upset about Joe       Biden and his son and what they were doing in Ukraine, he       should've called the Attorney General and told him that and       let the Attorney General handle it the way they always handle       cases that involve public things. 

       Todd: Why you think he didn't do that? 

       Alexander: Maybe he didn't know to do it. 

       Todd: Okay. This has been a rationale that I've heard from       a lot of Republicans. Well boy, he's still new to this. 

       Alexander: Well, a lot of people come to Washington-- 

       Todd: At what point though, is he no longer new to this? 

       Alexander: The bottom line is not an excuse. He shouldn't       have done it. And I said he shouldn't have done it and now I       think it's up to the American people to say, okay, good       economy, lower taxes, conservative judges, behavior that I       might not like, call to Ukraine. And weigh that against       Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders and pick a president. 

       Todd: Are you at all concerned though when you seek foreign       interference? He does not believe he's done anything wrong.       That what has happened here might encourage him that he can       continue to do this? 

       Alexander: I don't think so. I hope not. I mean, enduring       an impeachment is something that nobody should like. Even the       president said he didn't want that on his resume. I don't       blame him. So, if a call like that gets you an impeachment, I       would think he would think twice before he did it again. 

       Todd: What example in the life of Donald Trump has he been       chastened? 

       Alexander: I haven't studied his life that close, but, like       most people who survive to make it to the Presidency, he's       sure of himself. But hopefully he'll look at this and say,       okay, that was a mistake I shouldn't have done that,       shouldn't have done it that way. And he'll focus on the       strengths of his Administration, which are considerable. 

       Todd: Abuse of power, define it. 

       Alexander: Well, that's the problem with abuse of power. As       Professor Dershowitz said during his argument, he had a list       of 40 presidents who'd been accused of abuse of power from       Washington to Obama. So it's too vague a standard to use to       impeach a president. And the founders didn't use it. I mean,       they said, I mean, think of what a high bar they set. They       said treason, bribery, high crimes or misdemeanors. And then       they said 

       Todd: What do you think they meant by misdemeanors?       Violation of a public trust. 

       Alexander: At the time they used it, misdemeanor meant a       different thing in Great Britain. But I think Dershowitz was       right. It was something akin to treason, bribery and other       high crimes and misdemeanors, very high. And then in addition       to that, two thirds of us in the Senate have to agree to       that, which is very hard to do, which is why we've never       removed a president this way in 230 years. 

       Todd: One of your other reasonings was the partisan nature       of the impeachment vote itself in the House. Except now we       are answering a partisan impeachment vote in the House with a       partisan, I guess, I don't know what we would call this right       now. 

       Alexander: Well you all it acquittal. That's what happens. 

       Todd: An acquittal, but essentially also, on how the trial       was run--a partisan way from       the trial. So, if we make bipartisanship a standard, if       somebody has a stranglehold on a base of a political party,       then what you're saying is, you can overcome any impeachable       offense as long as you have this stranglehold on a group of       people. 

       Alexander: Well, as far as what the Senate did, I thought       we gave a good hearing to the case. I mean, I help make sure       that we didn't dismiss it. We heard it. There were some who       wanted to dismiss it. I helped make sure that we had a right       to ask for more evidence if we needed it, which we thought we       didn't. We heard, we saw videotapes of 192 times that       witnesses testified. We sat there for 11 and 12 hour days for       nine days. So, I think we heard the case pretty well, but the       partisan points, the most important point to me, James       Madison, others thought there never, ever should be a wholly       partisan impeachment. And if you look at Nixon, when the vote       that authorized that inquiry was 410 to four and you look at       Trump, where not a single Republican voted for it. If you       start out with a partisan impeachment, you're almost destined       to have a partisan acquittal. 

       Todd: Alright, but what do you do if you have somebody who       has the ability to essentially be a populist? You know, be       somebody who is able to say it's fake news. It's deep state.       Don't trust this. Don't trust that. The establishment is       doing this. And so don't worry about truth anymore. Don't       worry about what you hear over there. I mean, some may say       I'm painting an accurate picture. Some may be saying I'm       painting a radical picture. But how do you prevent that? 

       Alexander: Well, the way you prevent that in our system,       according to the Declaration of Independence, is we have duly       elected presidents with the consent of the governed. So we       vote them out of office. The other thing we do is, as in the       Nixon case, Nixon had just been elected big in 1972 big time,       only lost only one state, I think. But then a consensus       developed, a bipartisan consensus, that what he was doing was       wrong. And then when they found the crimes, he only had 10 or       12 votes that would have kept him in the Senate. So he quit.       So those are the two options you have. 

       Todd: Have we essentially eliminated impeachment as a tool       for a first-term president? 

       Alexander: No, I don't think so. I think impeachment as a       tool should be rarely used and it's never been used in 230       years to remove a president. There been 63 impeachments,       eight convictions. They're all federal judges on a lower       standard. 

       Todd: Does it bother you that the president's lead lawyer,       Pat Cipollone, is now fingered as being in the room with John       Bolton the first time the president asked John Bolton to call       the new President of Ukraine and have him take a meeting with       Rudy Giuliani? And I say that because Pat Cipollone is up       there arguing that there's no direct evidence and yet, he may       have been a firsthand witness. 

       Alexander: Well, it doesn't have anything to do with my       decision because my decision was, did the president do it,       what he's charged with? He wasn't charged with a crime. He       was charged with two things. And my conclusion was, he did do       that and I don't need any more evidence to prove it. That       doesn't have anything to do with where Cipollone was. 

       Todd: No, I say that does it only reinforce what some       believe is that the White House was disingenuous about this       the whole time. They've been disingenuous about how they've       handled subpoenas from the House or requests from the House. 

       Alexander: I don't agree with that Chuck, either. The fact       of the matter is in the Nixon case, the House voted 410 to       four to authorize an inquiry. That means that it authorized       subpoenas by the judiciary committee for impeachment. This       House never did that. And so, all the subpoenas that they       asked for were not properly authorized. That's the reason       that the president didn't respond to them. 

       Todd: Bill Clinton offered regret for his behavior. This       president has not. Does that bother you? 

       Alexander: Well, there hasn't been a vote yet either, so       we'll see what he says and does. I think that's up to him. 

       Todd: You're comfortable acquitting him before he says       something of regret. Would that not, would that not help make       your acquittal vote? 

       Alexander: Well, I wasn't asked to decide who says his       level of regret. I was asked, did he make a phone call and       did he, at least in part, hold up aid in order to influence       an investigation of Joe Biden? I concluded yes. So I don't       need to assess his level of regret. What I hope he would do       is when he makes his State of the Union address, that he puts       this completely behind him, never mentions it and talks about       what he thinks he's done for the country and where we're       headed. He's got a pretty good story to tell. If he'll focus       on it. 

       Todd: You're one of the few people that detailed what you       believe he did wrong. One of the few Republicans that have       accepted the facts as they were presented. Mitt Romney was       just uninvited from CPAC. Mike Pompeo can't speak freely in       talking about Maria Bonovich, the ousted ambassador. Is there       room for dissent in the Republican party right now? 

       Alexander: Well, I believe there is. I mean, I dissent when       I need to. Whether it's on-- 

       Todd: --not easy though right now, is it? 

       Alexander: Well, I voted in a way that not everybody       appreciated on immigration. Just before I was reelected, I       voted against the president's decision to use what I thought       was unauthorized money to build a wall, even though I think       we need the wall. I said, I thought he did it this past week       and we'll vote to acquit him. So I'm very comfortable saying       what I believe. And I think others can as well. 

       Todd: You know, in that phone call, there's one thing on       the phone call that I'm surprised frankly, hasn't been       brought up more by others. It's the mere mention of the word,       CrowdStrike is a Russian intelligence sort of piece of       propaganda that they've been circulating. Does it bother you       that the President of United States is reiterating Russian       propaganda? 

       Alexander: Yes. I think that's a mistake. I mean if you,       see what's happening in the Baltic States where Russians have       a big warehouse in St. Petersburg in Russia where they're       devoted to destabilizing Western democracies. I mean, for       example, in one of the Baltic States, they accused a NATO       officer of raping a local girl--of course it didn't happen,       but it threw the government in a complete disarray for a       week. So I think we need to be sensitive to the fact that the       Russians are out to do no good to destabilize Western       democracies, including us. And be very wary of theories that       Russians come up with and peddle. 

       Todd: Well, I was just going to say this, is it not       alarming? The President of United States in this phone call       and you clearly are judging him on the phone, more so than, 

       Alexander: Well the phone call and the evidence. There was       plenty of evidence. I mean the House managers came to us and       said, we have overwhelming evidence. We have a mountain of       evidence and we approve it beyond a shadow of a doubt. Which       made me think, well then why do you need more evidence? 

       Todd: Do you think it's more helpful for the public to hear       from John Bolton? 

       Alexander: They'll read his book in two weeks. 

       Todd: You don't want to see him testify. 

       Alexander: Well, if the question is do I need more evidence       to think the president did it, the answer is no. I guess I'm       coming back to this issue--if you looked at it as an isolated       incident, here he is using Russian propaganda in order to try       to talk to this new president of Ukraine. That's alarming.       Where is he getting this CrowdStrike propaganda. My view is       that that is Russian propaganda. Maybe he has information       that I didn't have. 

       Todd: Okay. Are you definitely voting to acquit or do you       think you may vote present? 

       Alexander: No question. I'm going to vote to acquit. I'm       very concerned about any action that we could take that would       establish a perpetual impeachment in the House of       Representatives whenever the House was a different party than       the president. That would immobilize the Senate. You know, we       have to take those articles, stop what we're doing, sit in       our chairs for 11 hours a day for three or four weeks and       consider it. And it would immobilize the presidency. So I       don't want a situation--and the framers didn't either--where       a partisan majority in the house of either party can stop the       government. 

       Todd: You used the phrase ``pour gasoline on a fire.'' 

       Alexander: Yeah. 

       Todd: It certainly struck home with me reading you saying       something that I've been thinking long and hard about. How       concerned are you about the democracy as it stands right now? 

       Alexander: Well, I'm concerned and I want to give credit to       Marco Rubio because that's really his phrase. I borrowed it       from him--pouring gasoline on the cultural fires. 

       Todd: He went a step further. He said this was an       impeachable offense, but he was uncomfortable in an election       year. 

       Alexander: But, I'm concerned about the divisions in the       country. They're reflected in the Senate. They make it harder       to get a result. I mean, I work pretty hard to get results on       healthcare, making it easier to go to college. And we've had       some real success with it. But the Senate is for the purpose       of solving big problems that the country will accept. And       that goes back to what happened this past week. The country       would not have accepted the Senate saying to it, you can't       vote for or against President Trump in the Iowa caucus, New       Hampshire primary, or the election this year. 

       Todd: Are you glad you're leaving? 

       Alexander: No, I've really loved being in the Senate, but       it's time for me to go on, turn the page, think of something       else to do. It'll be my third permanent retirement. 

       Todd: You've retired a few times, is this one going to       stick? 

       Alexander: Well, we'll see. 

       Todd: Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican from Tennessee,       our always thoughtful guest. Thanks for coming on. 

       Alexander: Thank you, Chuck.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT