Letter to Alex Azar, Secretary of the Dept. of Health and Human Services - Key Health Committee Senators Urge Making COVID-19 Antibodies Test Free for Everyone


Dear Secretary Azar:

We write to make clear that tests for antibodies of COVID-19 or SARS-CoV-2 arerequired to be covered at no cost to patients in accordance with the Families FirstCoronavirus Response Act (P.L. 116-127) and the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, andEconomic Security Act (P.L. 116-136).

Increasing the availability of testing is one of Congress' primary goals as wecombat this disease. Increasing diagnosing testing is vital to slowing the spread ofthe virus, and our country's economic and educational well-being is dependent onAmericans having confidence in being able to go back to school, work, and out toeat.

It is critical that the federal government incentivize the development of tests thatcan detect COVID-19 antibodies, which will help better inform Americans abouttheir short, and potentially long, term immunity to COVID-19.To achieve this goal, Congress included provisions guaranteeing coverage at nocost to the patient for COVID-19 testing in the Families First CoronavirusResponse Act (P.L. 116-127) and the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and EconomicSecurity Act (P.L. 116-136).

Specifically, the laws provide that, "the detection of SARS--CoV--2 or thediagnosis of the virus that causes COVID--19" must be covered for all patients,regardless of their source or status of health care coverage. This provision appliesto a current or future diagnostic test, that: "(A) is approved, cleared, or authorized under section 510(k), 513, 515, or 564 ofthe Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360(k), 360c, 360e, 360bbb--3);"(B) the developer has requested, or intends to request, emergency useauthorization under section 564 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21U.S.C. 360bbb--3), unless and until the emergency use authorization request undersuch section 564 has been denied or the developer of such test does not submit arequest under such section within a reasonable timeframe;"(C) is developed in and authorized by a State that has notified the Secretary ofHealth and Human Services of its intention to review tests intended to diagnoseCOVID--19; or"(D) other test that the Secretary determines appropriate in guidance.''It is the express intent of Congress that this statutory provision applies to both thediagnosis of COVID-19 or SARS-CoV-2 and the detection of antibodies to SARS--CoV--2 that indicate a person may be immune to future infection, at least for theshort term.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely,