TAXPAYER FIRST ACT OF 2019--Continued


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I want to congratulate my colleague  from Louisiana, one of the most diligent Members of the U.S. Senate. He  complimented the occupant of the Chair, Senator Gardner from Colorado,  for doing a great job for his State. I think Senator Cassidy did a good  job advocating for his State. But he left a little bit of perspective  out on what he offered, and I would like to add some perspective. 

  As he was speaking, I was thinking about the creation of the Great  Smoky Mountains National Park. This occurred in the 1930s. During the  Great Depression, when everyone was worried about a job and everyone  was worried about our country, the people of North Carolina and  Tennessee appropriated through their State legislatures $2 million  each. Then John D. Rockefeller, Jr., heard about the effort, and he  said: ``I will give $5 million if the States will match it.'' 

  So you had four--two from North Carolina, two from Tennessee--and  then they set out to raise another $1 million. They raised that from  schoolchildren. They collected pennies and dimes and quarters in the  middle of the Depression to create the Great Smoky Mountains National  Park. 

  At the time they did that, what did the people of Tennessee and North  Carolina do? They gave it to the people of the United States of  America. They gave it to all of us. They didn't charge for it. In fact,  they said: ``The only way we will give it to you is if you will not put  an interest fee on it.'' 

  They didn't say: ``Only Tennesseans, only North Carolinians can  come.'' They didn't say: ``We don't want anybody from Louisiana coming  to the national park and the Great Smokies or from Colorado or from any  other State.'' They gave it to the people of this country. 

  And what has happened? There are now 14 million people a year who  come to the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. We only have 6 or 7  million in Tennessee, so we have a lot of people. We have a lot of  interlopers, don't we? We have a lot of people who don't live where our  park is, who use it. We are happy about that. We are proud of it. We  are glad we gave it to the country, and we are glad Ken Burns includes  it among one of the great treasures that he calls America's Best Idea.  It is a park for the country given by the people of Tennessee and North  Carolina and the schoolchildren, and we didn't object to everybody  enjoying it. 

  I believe I voted every single time that the coastal States have been  decimated by a hurricane. The Senator from Louisiana talked about $685  billion. I didn't say, as a Senator from Tennessee: ``You know, we  don't have a coast. We don't have an ocean. It wasn't us. Hurricanes  don't come here. Don't charge me.'' 

  We gladly paid our share of the bill because we are part of one  country. We are part of one country. That was four people, right? Six  hundred and eighty-five billion dollars for people who were hurt, not  just paid for by people who live on the coast but by people who live in  Colorado and Tennessee and Iowa and places where there is not a coast-- because we are one country. 

  So the idea that we should only favor those items that come just from  our State is not a very good argument for coastal resiliency because,  if the Senator from Louisiana wants to bring that bill up based on the  argument he made, why should anybody who doesn't live on a coast vote  for it? I voted for it in committee because I thought it was an  important issue, even though we don't have a coast. He is a very  skillful advocate, a very diligent Senator. He is doing a good job of  talking for his State, but he is missing the point. 

  His other point is, let's add it to this bill. Well, the Senate floor  is littered with bills that never made it through here because they got  loaded down with too many good ideas. People say: ``Well, there is a  train that is likely to get to the station, let's load it up.'' And  what happens? It just slows down, and after a while, it stops, and  nothing happens. Because people have said: ``If I don't get what I want  on the train, I am not for anything.''  

  That is why the Land and Water Conservation Fund has never been  permanently funded. This was an idea Congress passed in 1964, 60 years  ago. In 1985 and 1986, I was chairman of President Reagan's Commission  on America's Outdoors. It looked at what we should do in the great  American outdoors. We didn't say the great Tennessee outdoors or the  great Louisiana outdoors or the great Colorado outdoors. We looked at  the great American outdoors. We looked at the great American outdoors  and said: ``What can we do so our children and grandchildren can enjoy  what we have enjoyed?'' 

  The people of Wyoming aren't the only ones who enjoy Yellowstone--or  the people of Montana. Three or four million people a year go to a  western park like that. They travel from all over the country to go  there. 

  When I look at the Great Smokies in football season, when we play  LSU, those Tigers arrive on Tuesday. Well, the game is not until  Saturday. Why do they come? Because they want to go to the Great Smoky  Mountains National Park. We don't put up a big sign and say: ``Sorry,  you didn't pay for it. We gave it to the country. It is not for you.''  They like it, and we like to have them there. 

  So the point, though, was that sometimes you have a good idea, and if  you add one more good idea to a piece of legislation, it sinks the  whole ship. That would be the case here. The Senator from Louisiana is  talking about a very big idea: What do we do about revenue sharing from  oil and gas revenues and coastal resiliency and climate change? He  didn't say too much about climate change, but if his sea level is  rising, it is probably because of climate change, so maybe we ought to  think about that too. So if we are going to bring up this whole issue  of coastal resiliency, my guess is that some Senators will say: ``All  right, let's talk about a moratorium on oil and gas drilling. Let's  talk about a fairer share.'' 

  Ninety percent of the drilling in Alaska goes to Alaska. Fifty  percent of the drilling in Wyoming goes to Wyoming. Twenty-seven  percent of the drilling 3 miles off the coast of Louisiana goes to  Louisiana. If it is in the Federal lands beyond 3 miles, 37\1/2\  percent is split up among four States. That is the area where the oil  comes from, but that land belongs to all 46 States. So we could have a  pretty good debate about that, about the moratorium. 

  Then someone would say: ``What about the oceans? The oceans deserve  some of the care that comes from drilling in the oceans, drilling in  the water, so let's talk about the oceans.'' If we got into a  moratorium on oil and gas drilling, adding the oceans, changing revenue  sharing, there is no more difficult issue in the U.S. Senate than to  adjust and say: ``Well, Louisiana gets 27 percent, maybe it ought to go  to 40. Alaska gets 90, maybe Wyoming should go up to 90.'' There is no  more difficult issue than that to deal with. It sunk a lot of bills to  bring that up. 

  I remember the member of the congregation who was disappointed  because the preacher only preached a verse from the Gospel of Luke.  Well, you can't preach the whole Bible in one sermon, and we can't pass  every good idea in one bill. In fact, we have two bills together here  that are, by themselves, about enough to stop the train before it gets  to the station. 

  Everybody here knows that it has been since 1964 that people have  tried to pass the Land and Water Conservation Fund funding, even though  the idea--money from environmental burden, that is drilling offshore-- for an environmental benefit--that is to let States and the Federal  Government buy land that is treasured, as Senator Daines from Montana  says, 80 percent of the access good fishing in Montana comes with Land  and Water Conservation Fund money. So that bill has been out there a  long time. 

  How long have we tried to fix the national parks and the boat ramps  and the wildlife refuges and the roads and the national forests and the  Indian schools, which are in shambles in many cases? Decades. We have  been going  and using up our parks and our public lands, and we haven't been  maintaining them. 

  Again, you don't just get to go to the public land in Kansas, if you  are from Kansas, or to the Great Smokies, if you are from Tennessee or  North Carolina, or to Yellowstone, if you are from Wyoming or Montana-- all of us go to that, and we have let them run down. That is about  people. That is about people. 

  Here we are in this big COVID-19 crisis. What does everyone want to  do today more than anything else? Get outdoors. Get out of the house.  Here you are, cooped up with teenagers or Grandma or all of you, just a  few people sitting there for 3 months. You want a little space. 

  The people who go to these open spaces are the people who live on the  coast. They live in the big cities. They want a little variety in their  lives, and we are glad for them to have it. When they go, they don't  want a bathroom that doesn't work or a visitors center that is in  shambles. They don't want a pothole in the road or a trail that is worn  down. They would like to have a place they could enjoy, that is in good  shape, and they can go home. 

  I think about the campground on Chilhowee Mountain just outside the  Smokies. There might be a few campers from Louisiana who like to come  up there whenever we play LSU. I don't know, but probably there are.  Well, it has been closed for 2 or 3 years because the sewage system  doesn't work. That is at least 500 families who don't get to have the  opportunity to do that. 

  I am sympathetic to the Senator from Louisiana. I think he is one of  our most able Senators. He is making a very forceful argument for a  real problem: coastal resiliency. But I don't buy this idea that just  because this bill doesn't fix that problem we should jeopardize this  bill. 

  Think about it. We have the President of the United States, who  personally is interested in this bill. His Secretary of the Interior  came down to Tennessee to see me 2\1/2\ years ago. It is the  first administration that said: ``We are going to look at the money we  get from energy exploration, and after we give some to Louisiana and  after we give some to Wyoming and after we give some to Alaska and the  other coastal States, we are going to take half of what is left for 5  years, and we are going to use it to fix all of those things that need  to be fixed in our national treasures.''  

  I said: ``OK, if the President is going to support it and his Office  of Management and Budget is going to be the first Office of Management  and Budget to allow money to be spent in that way, I am going to get  behind it.'' 

  Then I came up here and fell into some pretty good company; the  Senator from Colorado, the Senator from Montana, Senator Warner from  Virginia, and Senator Portman from Ohio were already working on the  subject. Senator King of Maine, Senator Heinrich, Senator Cantwell were  involved in the land and water. It became absolutely clear that, if we  didn't put these two bills together, none of them--neither of them-- would pass. If they didn't go together, neither of them would pass. 

  We consulted with all of the people in the Senate who were working on  this. There wasn't complete agreement. There were a number of Senators  who had other amendments that they would have liked to have, Senators  whom I greatly respect and whose amendments I would probably support by  the one. But as we looked at it and as we consulted with the more than  800 groups--the sportsmen, the anglers, the environmental groups--we  all agreed that our only chance to get both bills was to put them  together and say to the Senate: ``Let's vote on it; let's send it to  the House to see if they will vote on it; and after 60 years of trying,  maybe we can get a good result.'' 

  I think that is why we got 80 votes. The first time, this came up on  a procedural vote, and 79 the second time it came up. 

  A number of Senators have gone home tonight because this is a late- night vote. The reason we are having a late-night vote is because those  who agree with Senator Cassidy have insisted on taking the maximum  amount of time. That is their right to do, so we are here. If we  succeed tonight, then we will have three votes on Monday, all of which  are very important votes. So we are close to getting this train to the  station. 

  Senator Cassidy has made an eloquent appeal to add an idea that is  good, but an idea that is big and complex and deserves its own day in  the Sun, just as it came to our Energy Committee, of which I sit and he  sits. I voted for it at that time, but we just can't add it to this  bill and get this train to the station. That is the fact of the matter. 

  As much as I respect him and his ideas, I hope that he and others who  agree with him would say: ``Look, this is our one chance to get this  kind of funding to make our national parks and all the rest of our  public lands--the boat ramps, the trails, the roads, the sewage--our  one chance to begin to fix the maintenance over a 5-year period of time  instead of 10, 15, 25 years, or never. It is our one chance to do  that.'' 

  I am sure it is our one chance to get the Land and Water Conservation  Fund permanently funded, as Congress agreed to do in 1964 and as  President Reagan's Commission on America's Outdoors, which I chaired in  1985 and 1986, recommended as its No. 1 priority. 

  Let's not try to preach the whole Bible in one sermon. We have two  good big ideas. Together, they make the most important piece of  conservation legislation in a half century. 

  You say: ``Well, Senators are always exaggerating.'' I don't try to  exaggerate too much, and I defy anyone to point me another bill that  does more. I know we have been working on land and water since 1964.  That is more than a half century. I know that this deferred maintenance  has been building up for a long, long time. It is the single biggest  problem the national parks and our public lands have. 

  I think 95 percent of the American people would wonder why we can't  pass it in 5 minutes. The reason is, there are lots of good ideas here,  and if you load them all up in the same wheelbarrow or on the same  train, the wheelbarrow collapses, and the train doesn't get to the  station. That is where we are. That is where we are. 

  I hope that, with respect to the good ideas advocated tonight by the  Senator from Louisiana--I know he will keep at it. I am on the same  committee he is. I have voted for his idea before. I think it deserves  its day in the Sun, and I will help him do that, but I would like to  ask him to help us finish the job here on the most important piece of  conservation legislation. I want him to know that those LSU Tigers are  always welcome in the Great Smoky Mountains, even if we bought it and  paid for it and gave it to the whole country. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT