Flexibility for Workers Education Act


Mrs. HINSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and for  his leadership in committee on this piece of legislation that is  designed to empower the American worker.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, H.R. 2262, the  Flexibility for Workers Education Act.

For too long, we know that Washington, D.C., has pursued policies  that left American workers behind. Republicans continue to advance  progrowth, proworker policies that expand opportunity, reward hard  work, and help Americans to get ahead.

No matter where I go out in Iowa--Main Street businesses, farm shops,  manufacturing facilities, healthcare facilities--I meet the hardworking  men and women of Iowa who want to take that next step in their careers.  They want to build skills. They want to earn  more money for their families, and they want to provide a better future  for their kids and for other Iowans.

However, outdated regulatory red tape prevents skilled workers from  being able to take advantage of voluntary--I repeat--voluntary  professional development opportunities offered by employers. My bill,  the Flexibility for Workers Education Act, would cut this red tape,  expanding access to these voluntary education programs that allow  workers to reach their full potential on their terms.

Mr. Speaker, imagine a facilities associate, ready for advancement,  who can take evening training courses sponsored by their employer to  become an appliance technician. That kind of flexibility opens the door  to higher pay and that long-term career growth that they need to see.

I am also very proud to have the support of the chairman of the  Education and Workforce Committee, so I thank Representative Walberg  for his support. The gentleman understands how much this will impact  workers' bottom lines, being able to take more money home to provide  for their families, and so I thank the gentleman for this practical  approach that benefits everyone.

Again, we know workers gain skills. They gain opportunity. Employers  retain these talented employees in the workforce. There is stronger  morale, and communities are building a stronger, more resilient  workforce.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and  continue to expand opportunities for American workers and families. I  look forward to continuing to deliver more commonsense solutions to  help Iowans and Americans comfortably work and raise their families.