Georgia Leaders, Trump Administration Stand Together In Fight Against Human Trafficking


U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Kelly Loeffler (R-GA), Governor Brian Kemp, First Lady Marty Kemp, and Attorney General Chris Carr are united in the fight against human trafficking. Today, the Georgia leaders welcomed Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump, Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar, and other Trump administration officials to Atlanta to visit a safe house, meet with survivors, and hold a roundtable discussion.

"I'm looking forward to another visit to Atlanta, this time to meet with survivors of human trafficking and their caregivers as we work together to end the evil scourge of modern slavery once and for all," said Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump. "While I am proud of the robust work that the Trump Administration is doing to combat trafficking, this is an issue -- the gravest of human rights violations -- that is still far too prevalent, in our own neighborhoods and across the globe. Together, with the help of our state and local partners and the NGO community, we are committed to ending this epidemic."

"At HHS, the core of our anti-trafficking mission is to identify victims, to support survivors, and to build local capacity to prevent and respond to human trafficking," said Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar. "As we mark the 20th anniversary of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act this year, we will continue our work to prevent human trafficking before it occurs and ensure that the victims and their families get the support that they need."

"Georgia has taken a strong stance against human trafficking, and our efforts are making a real difference," said Senator David Perdue. "I'm delighted to have Ivanka Trump and administration officials in Atlanta today to learn how Georgia is cracking down on human traffickers and seeking justice for victims. Ending this epidemic requires an all-hands-on-deck approach, and Governor and First Lady Kemp are leading the way. With federal, state, and local leaders working together, I'm confident we will be able to put this horrific industry out of business in Georgia."

"Human trafficking is a heinous crime that exploits the most vulnerable," said Senator Kelly Loeffler. "I am grateful to First Lady Kemp and Ivanka Trump for their leadership in combatting this modern day slavery. Georgia has a strong partner in the administration in our shared mission to end human trafficking. Together, we're raising awareness, helping victims, and aggressively pursuing criminal prosecutions."

"Aiding survivors as they rebuild their lives is one of the most important factors in the fight to end human trafficking, and providing education and job opportunities is critical," said Governor Brian Kemp. "Marty, the girls, and I are truly thankful for Ivanka Trump's leadership on this issue. Together, we will make it clear that Georgia -- and our nation -- will not rest until this evil industry is stopped."

"While traveling the state, I've sat down with human trafficking survivors, heard their stories, and learned about their challenges," said First Lady Marty Kemp. "One of their greatest needs is employment opportunities to provide for themselves and their families as they continue on their path to healing. GRACE Commission members and I look forward to working with Advisor Ivanka Trump, our Trump administration partners, and business leaders here in the Peach State to support incredible opportunities like Wellspring Living's Women's Academy and stand with our survivors."

"It is an honor to be a part of the host committee welcoming Advisor to the President, Ivanka Trump, and her team to Atlanta to discuss our state and the Administration's coordinated fight against human trafficking," said Attorney General Chris Carr. "In Georgia, we are committed to rescuing victims and putting buyers and traffickers behind bars where they belong. We believe in a collaborative approach, and I am grateful to work alongside President and Ivanka Trump, Senators Perdue and Loeffler, Governor and First Lady Kemp and our many local, state and federal officials to combat this evil industry."

In the United States Senate, Senator Perdue has been a strong voice for ending human trafficking and increasing penalties for those convicted of such offenses. He supported multiple bills to combat human trafficking that have become law, including the Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act, Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, Ending Modern Slavery Initiative Act, and Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act.