Loeffler, Perdue Join President Trump On CDC Visit


U.S. Senators Kelly Loeffler (R-Ga.) and David Perdue (R-Ga.) today joined President Donald Trump at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) headquarters in Atlanta to tour the facility and receive an update on the agency's coronavirus (COVID-19) response.

"I was honored to travel home to Georgia with President Trump today to join him for his tour of the CDC," said Senator Loeffler. "This visit further exemplifies the administration's dedication to addressing the coronavirus and ensuring the health and safety of Americans. The CDC is home to world-class experts whose knowledge, experience and dedication are instrumental in combating the spread of the virus. It plays a critical role in the global effort to address this public health emergency through its work with state and local health departments as well as international partners. As the administration continues to work as a united force to keep the public safe, Americans can rest assured that the threat of the coronavirus remains low and they are in good hands with our leaders on the frontlines."

"President Trump's visit to Georgia today emphasizes his commitment to leading in our fight against the coronavirus and indicates how important the CDC is in that fight. Dr. Redfield and his team are on the front lines of protecting all of us from the coronavirus," said Senator Perdue. "The CDC has a critical role in combating this disease worldwide, and I am extremely proud of their work to safeguard public health. Together, we are taking strong action to help keep Georgians and Americans healthy and safe."

Background:

Senators Loeffler and Perdue continue to monitor the situation and will update Georgians on the latest coronavirus response as they become available. Loeffler and Perdue have attended regular congressional briefings led by the Coronavirus Task Force to learn guidance for preventing the spread of the disease and improve treatment.

On Thursday, March 5, Loeffler and Perdue voted in favor of supplemental funding to support the U.S. government's coronavirus response. 

To help prevent the spread of viruses, the CDC recommends:

Avoiding close contact with people who are sick;Avoiding touching your eyes, nose, and mouth;Staying home when you are sick;Covering your cough or sneeze with a tissue;Cleaning and disinfecting frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe; andWashing your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.If you have recently traveled to areas where there are ongoing outbreaks of COVID-19 and you develop fever with cough and shortness of breath within fourteen days of your travel, or if you have had contact with someone who is suspected to have COVID-19, stay home and call your health care provider or local health department right away. Be sure to call before going to a doctor's office, emergency room, or urgent care center and tell them about your recent travel and symptoms.