Perdue, Loeffler Support Strong Economic Solutions For Families During Coronavirus Pandemic


U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Kelly Loeffler (R-GA) today voted to support the bipartisan Families First Coronavirus Response Act, which will provide critical resources to help stop the spread of the virus and support families and small businesses.

"The United States is facing extraordinary challenges that require extraordinary solutions," said Senator Perdue. "This bipartisan coronavirus relief package will directly support the health and economic security of American families and workers. By providing free coronavirus testing for all Americans, we'll see an increase in early detection and treatment. This will dramatically reduce the rate of new infection and help slow the spread of coronavirus in our communities. As a former business leader, I will continue to approach this through the lens of how to best help our workers and consumers who are trying to make it from paycheck to paycheck. While this is an important next step, these actions alone will not end this pandemic. We also need to continue partnerships with the private sector to leverage our overall response and make sure Americans have what they need to get through this challenging time."

"As the coronavirus continues to impact our nation, Americans need us to act swiftly to protect our communities, families, businesses and way of life," said Senator Loeffler. "This legislation is far from perfect, but it offers Americans free access to coronavirus testing and defers tax payments. I will continue to work day and night with my Senate colleagues to ensure the next round of assistance fully supports Georgia's workers, employers and those on the front lines of combating COVID-19, offsets any impact on small businesses, and provides meaningful economic relief for all Americans."

Background On Actions Taken By Senators Perdue And Loeffler:

Former business leaders, Perdue and Loeffler this week sent a letter to Trump Administration officials highlighting ways to support small businesses.Last week, Perdue and Loeffler took action to return home 31 Georgians from the Grand Princess cruise ship who were quarantined at Dobbins Air Reserve Base.On March 13, Perdue and Loeffler supported President Donald Trump's national emergency and Governor Brian Kemp's public health emergency declarations.On March 12, Perdue and Loeffler announced that the Trump Administration is providing Georgia with nearly $15 million to combat the spread of the coronavirus.On March 6, Perdue and Loeffler joined President Trump at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) headquarters in Atlanta for a tour and update on the agency's coronavirus response.On March 5, Perdue and Loeffler voted in favor of $8.3 billion in supplemental funding to support the U.S. government's initial coronavirus response.On March 2, Perdue and Loeffler issued a joint statement after Governor Kemp announced the first coronavirus cases in Georgia.In February, Perdue and Loeffler updated Georgians on the U.S. government's coronavirus response and provided guidance for staying healthy and safe.