Senator David Perdue On Gradually Reopening Economy


U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today joined Augusta's Morning News, Mountain Mornings, and The Valley's Morning News to discuss the COVID-19 relief packages passed by Congress and plans to gradually reopen the American economy.

Click here or on the image below to listen.

Highlights:

Helping Georgians: "All of my staff is totally focused on helping Georgians get through this crisis. We're talking to people all day, every day. If people have a question, they can call our office at 404-865-0087, and we have a resource page at perdue.senate.gov. We want to make sure Georgians get the help they need financially and the advice they need medically."

Transition Phase: "We're beginning to look at a transition phase where we try to get back to work. To do that, though, we have to make sure we're past this peak and that we have adequate protections in place. The truth is there's a human cost to closing down this economy just like there's a human cost to this virus."

Gradual Reopening: "We have to look at whether we can open up certain sectors and areas, and I think we can. For example, we have some hospitals around the southeast that don't have any COVID-19 patients, but they can't do elective surgeries and they're going bankrupt. I believe we can reopen some of those and dedicate certain hospitals to COVID-19 patients. Other sectors can be reopened as well. I believe you'll start to see the president and others talking about how we can do this gradually."

Long-Term Crisis: "We just put in $2.2 trillion to bridge this crisis and keep a potential liquidity problem from becoming an insolvency problem. That $2.2 trillion is all borrowed money. About half of it will get paid back, and the other half will have some return on investment. But the long-term crisis is that we're losing the ability to do the right thing. Because of this debt crisis, at some point in the future we may not have the ability to go out and borrow money to help us through a crisis like this the way we do now."

Unsung Heroes: "We've had essential workers doing their jobs this whole time. We have grocery store workers, supply chain workers, and logistics people. Right there at Fort Benning, most of those soldiers in uniform have still been performing their duties. We have a lot of heroes out there. People are stepping up all over the state."