Senator David Perdue: Free-Market System Works


U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today addressed more than 2,000 business and community leaders at Georgia Chamber of Commerce's Eggs & Issues Breakfast in Atlanta.

Highlights:

Business-Friendly: "Government works in Georgia. We have a governor who understands what business-friendly means, and we have a mayor in Atlanta -- the biggest city in the Southeast -- who understands what it means."

Economic Miracle: "In the last 75 years, the United States has enjoyed the greatest era of economic boom in the history of humankind. This miracle we've enjoyed came from several things: capital formation, innovation, the rule of law, and the best workforce in the history of the world. We take it for granted, and we cannot afford to do that."

Seven Million New Jobs: "We have all the evidence we need in this debate about capitalism. The free-market, free-enterprise system we believe in actually works. Nearly seven million new jobs have been created in the last three years. We have the highest middle-class income ever measured in the United States, the lowest unemployment in 50 years, and the lowest Asian, Hispanic, and African-American unemployment ever measured."

Level Playing Field: "President Trump is trying to create a level playing field with the rest of the world. We now have new trade agreements with South Korea, Japan, Canada and Mexico, and other agreements in principle. What's just beginning to work is our relationship with China. We cannot fall into another 50 year Cold War or arms race with China. It's unnecessary. They don't want it; we don't want it. The best way to avoid that is to have an open and honest trade relationship. We are now taking a step-by-step, incremental approach to a fair and level playing field with China. This morning, the President is actually signing the first phase agreement that will change the way we deal with China."

Backbone of Freedom: "I'm committed to making sure that this free-enterprise, free-market system, that's the backbone of our capitalism and our freedom, remains strong for our children and our grandchildren."