Senator David Perdue Discusses Debt Crisis On The Erick Erickson Show


U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined The Erick Erickson Show to discuss the debt crisis and efforts to provide disaster relief for Georgia farmers impacted by Hurricane Michael.

Highlights:

Drain The Swamp: "Right now, we're spending less as a percentage of the economy on discretionary items than we were in 2011. President Trump has come in and drained the swamp. For example, we fired 9,000 people at the VA for not doing their jobs. The real problem is in mandatory spending. That's Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, pensions and benefits for federal employees, and the interest on the debt. We need to save those programs, because Medicare's trust fund goes to zero in six short years. This is a crisis of our own making. We can fix it, but we need to get on it right away. Partisanship in Washington keeps us from trying to do these big things. Hopefully, if we get President Trump to his second term, we'll be able to get this done."

Facing The Debt Crisis: "We've grown the economy and are on the path to lowering the debt curve by $2 trillion, but if we don't save Social Security and Medicare, our debt is projected to be over $35 trillion in 10 years. That just can't happen. The world won't let that happen. Growing the economy is the first step, and President Trump is on it. In the last three years, 2.5 million people have pulled themselves out of poverty. I believe if we can keep this momentum over the next four years, we can do a lot more in terms of getting people back to work."

Disaster Relief On The Way: "Georgia farmers are the best in the world. We've got great dirt. We've got great people. Normally, we have pretty good weather, but we've had some really outstanding travesties happen over the last couple years. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue has been working feverishly. Governor Kemp, I, and others have been on this. The bureaucracy is what slowed this disaster relief down. I give President Trump a lot of credit, because he broke through that logjam in the beginning or else we'd still be sitting here debating how much we can give to the farmers."