Senator David Perdue Connects Georgians With Top Officials Implementing CARES Act


U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) continues to connect Georgians with key administration and state officials to provide answers regarding theimplementation of the CARES Act and other coronavirus relief packages.

"My top priority is helping all Georgians get through this crisis," said Senator Perdue. "My role at the federal level has been to help provide relief and facilitate candid conversations between senior officials and Georgia leaders on a daily basis. We have been fortunate to receive constructive feedback, which is critical as we continue to improve our response efforts and prepare for the way forward."

Dr. Tammy Beckham, Director of Infectious Disease at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)and President and CEO of the Georgia Hospital Association Earl Rogers joined Senator Perdue to discuss the challenges our hospitals are facing and support for our health care providers and workers.

"Testing is a critical component of a multifaceted approach that is needed to get America back to work," said Dr. Beckham, a member of the COVID-19 Task Force. "Members of the Georgia Hospital Association are integral to this collaborative system that will expand testing, optimize usage, improve data, and innovate during this unprecedented public health threat.""Georgia Hospital Association and its 165 hospital members from all corners of the state are most appreciative of Senator Perdue for his unwavering support during this COVID-19 crisis," said Earl Rogers. "Time and again, Senator Perdue has connected our hospital members with appropriate administration officials who have assisted them in meeting these extraordinary challenges. Senator Perdue is there when we need him and is always quick to respond."U.S. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue and President of Georgia Farm Bureau Gerald Long joined Senator Perdue to speak with hundreds of farmers about their labor needs and food supply challenges during the coronavirus.

"I appreciate the relationship USDA has with our home folks in Georgia," said Secretary Perdue. "We just announced our Coronavirus Food Assistance Program, which will provide $19 billion in assistance to our farmers. President Trump and our Administration stands behind our farmers and consumers during this time of national crisis. USDA is working hard to get relief dispersed quickly to all sectors of our agriculture community.""Georgia Farm Bureau appreciates the work that Senator David Perdue and Secretary Sonny Perdue are doing to assist our farmers during the COVID-19 pandemic," said Gerald Long. "As we navigate through these uncertain and unprecedented times, their leadership and steadfast support of Georgia agriculture is invaluable. I'd like to thank them for the work they are doing to assist farmers in these difficult times."National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow and Georgia Director for National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) Nathan Humphrey joined the Senator to answer questions from thousands of small business owners.

"To all the people in Georgia, keep your head up and we'll get through this," said Director Kudlow. "We had a powerful economic growth spurt for three years before this virus. If we can help individuals, families, and businesses with cash and liquidity to get through the next couple of months, then when the virus flattens out and starts to go down, we can get America back to work.""We were happy to have Senator Perdue speak with us and answer our members' questions," said Nathan Humphrey. "Due to the coronavirus public health emergency, NFIB is taking all the steps that we can to provide businesses with the most up-to-date information."Since the passage of the CARES Act, Senator Perdue has spoken daily with health care leaders and hospitals about their needs on the frontlines, small business owners and local community lenders about bridging the gap for the business community, and individuals about receiving direct payments to get money into the hands of Georgia families. The Senator is a member of President Trump's congressional task force to reopen the economy.

For more information, visit Senator Perdue's resource page at www.perdue.senate.gov/coronavirus.