Senator David Perdue Releases Coronavirus Public Service Announcement


U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following video discussing the coronavirus response. He also shared a 20-second public service announcement encouraging Georgians to follow the advice of public health officials.

Click here to download the video. Click here to download the public service announcement.

Transcript: 

"Hi everybody, this is David Perdue, the senior United States Senator from Georgia. I just wanted to give you a brief update on how we're responding to the COVID-19, or coronavirus, crisis and what you can do to protect yourself and your family.

"First of all, I know this virus is causing a lot of concern, and rightfully so. Let me assure you of this: the world's best public health officials are right here in Georgia at the CDC. They're working around the clock to help contain this virus and to develop a vaccine. I just visited the CDC's headquarters in Atlanta with President Trump, and we all should be incredibly proud of the work they're doing there at the CDC.

"The President's early travel restrictions gave us time to prepare for the virus, and we're continuing to take action to safeguard public health. We're doing this by: cutting red tape; partnering with the private sector to expand testing availability; and ensuring state and local officials have the resources they need. We're also working on ways to help families and businesses that might be impacted financially.

"On a personal note, it's encouraging to see so many Georgians stepping up to lend a hand during this challenging time. Thank you to the doctors and nurses working around the clock, to retail workers stocking shelves, to truck drivers putting in overtime, and to parents who have suddenly become teachers, as well. We're facing a big challenge in America, but we're stronger when we work together.

"Finally, please remember to follow the advice of public health officials: stay home if you are sick; wash your hands frequently with soap and water; keep a safe distance from others. If you are experiencing symptoms, call your health care provider right away. You don't necessarily need to go there, just call them and give them your symptoms.

"Remember this: we're all in this together, and together, we can continue to lead by example and win in this crisis. Thank you and God bless."

For additional information and continuous updates, please visit Senator Perdue's website, the Georgia Department of Public Health, and the Centers for Disease Control.