Senator David Perdue Fights for Georgia Small Business Relief


U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined the U.S. Small Business Administration for a discussion with thousands of Georgia small business owners. Senator Perdue addressed the federal response to COVID-19 and gave an update on the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), which resumed accepting applications on Monday, April 27 at 10:30 am. The Senator was joined by Ashley Bell, Regional Administrator of the U.S. Small Business Administration, Chris Clark, President & CEO of the Georgia Chamber of Commerce, and Dr. Michael Faulkender, Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy at the U.S. Department of Treasury.

"Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, and it is critical that they have the liquidity needed to keep workers employed," said Senator David Perdue. "The Paycheck Protection Program was designed to keep our small businesses afloat and protect American workers during this crisis. We continue to work on ways to make these programs better and more accessible to those in need. I'm pleased to share that PPP loan processing has resumed as of this morning and more relief is on the way. While we work to defeat this virus, we must continue to protect our small business community and find ways to safeguard our long-term economic security."

"Thank you, Senator Perdue, for your support of small business as America's entrepreneurs navigate through the COVID-19 pandemic," said Ashley D. Bell, SBA Regional Administrator and Entrepreneurship Policy Advisor for the White House Opportunity & Revitalization Council. "We are encouraged to see the necessary funding is made available to small businesses and underserved communities during this fluid time of uncertainty to ensure that jobs are protected and small businesses have the resources to continue to not only survive, but to continue to contribute to our local economies."

"I want to thank Senator Perdue for his help on getting the CARES Act passed and making sure we have liquidity in the market," said Chris Clark, President & CEO of the Georgia Chamber of Commerce. "We were very excited to have Senator Perdue share his thoughts on the implementation of the relief packages and give an update on where we are today in our federal response to COVID-19."

Last week, President Trump signed into law the COVID-19 "Phase 3.5" relief bill, delivering another $310 billion to the Paycheck Protection Program. The bill also provided an additional $50 billion for the Small Business Administration's emergency disaster lending and $10 billion in SBA disaster grants.