Senator David Perdue Talks Recent Unrest & Reopening Economy


U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Brad Means on The Means Report to discuss recent unrest across the country and the phased approach to get America back to work.

Highlights:

Tragic Events: "Obviously, these are tragic events. They're horrible. I'm upset about it. I know a lot of people are upset about it. But to take a peaceful demonstration, as we saw in Atlanta and other cities, and let it turn into a violent protest does not solve the problem. It detracts, really, from the fundamental problem that we have."

Praying For Peace: "From a federal level, I think "calm' is the word we're trying to plead for. My prayer is that we'll look each other in the eye and do this peacefully. Let's get some results."

Phased Approach: "We shouldn't let our guard down, and I think it's absolutely right to follow the President's phased approach to get this economy going again. I advocated for that and said if you're going to shut the economy down, you have to start right away talking about how to reopen it. Any time you disrupt the supply and demand cycle in a free-market economy it's going to be bumpy."

Strategic Stockpile: "One of the great learnings that we have is that our strategic stockpile of personal protective equipment was not adequate. Neither was the capacity to test and to screen the number of Americans we needed to in a serious pandemic like this. We put $16 billion toward strengthening that strategic reserve. In the state of Georgia, you see regular people stepping in to fill the breech. There's an apparel company in Savannah that stopped profitable orders and started making masks."

Constituent Conference Calls: "We've reached out to almost a million people in the state of Georgia and talked to almost a hundred thousand, listening to their questions, giving them advice about where to get help, how to see about their aid, who to contact about a health issue. We're all soldiering through this. I'm impressed with how Georgians have stepped up in a moment of crisis."