Senator David Perdue Discusses COVID-19 Crisis On WABE Podcast


U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Sam Whitehead on WABE's podcast "Did You Wash Your Hands?" to discuss the COVID-19 crisis and Congress' action to protect Americans and stabilize the U.S. economy.

Click here or on the image below to listen.

Highlights:

Balanced Approach: "Right now, we need to find a balance in our approach. I look at our crisis this way: you have a medical crisis, and you have an economic crisis that is caused by this medical crisis. You've got to treat theses crises together."

Three Phases: "One is the initial mobilization stage, you expand testing and you get that process up and running. We're late getting there relative to what other countries have done, but we're catching up very fast. The second phase is the transition phase, you've got to find a balance between isolating geographically and demographically the people that are at risk in these hotspots. The third phase is full-on mobilization, where we get the economy going again. Let me tell you, our economy is going to bounce back when we get through this virus. And we will get through it."

Protecting American Workers: "Let's be very clear -- the Phase Three bill is all about the employee. It's about American workers. We want to keep their jobs, and that's why the bridge loan structure was decided upon. This bill is intended to protect the economy. We don't want to kill the economy while we kill this virus. At the same time, we have to allow for the time it takes to work through all of this."

Working Together: "The number one thing the Trump Administration is trying to do is beef up testing. We have hospitals now in Georgia working together to make sure that anybody who needs to be tested is getting tested. The Governor's office has been really good at mobilizing this and coordinating between people who have capacity. The American way is showing up here, and we're working through this crisis."

Increase Testing Capacity: "We still need a lot more testing capacity, there's no doubt about that. Everybody that's involved in that effort is in a full court press right now. I was on the phone all day yesterday trying to help people find supply chains for masks, swabs, and items like that. There are changes coming."

Continued Relief: "The Phase Three package is intended to get us through this gap, to bridge this crisis, and get us back to work. If this drags on and on, and our numbers are totally different than any other country that has gone through this cycle, then we'll have to review it at that time."