Senators Perdue, Loeffler Support Coronavirus Funding


U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Kelly Loeffler (R-GA) today voted in favor of supplemental funding to support the U.S. government's coronavirus response. They plan to join President Trump tomorrow as he tours the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

"President Trump and Vice President Pence have one priority: protecting the American people," said Senator Perdue. "The Administration responded aggressively to the initial outbreak and has taken strong action to safeguard public health. This funding package will ensure resources are available to help develop a vaccine, screen potential cases, and contain the spread of the virus. Georgia's own CDC is on the front lines of the coronavirus response, and I appreciate the work they do every day to keep Americans safe. Please continue to take extra precautions and follow advice from the CDC and other officials."

"The government's most basic function is to protect its citizens. Today, we took a crucial step to ensure that federal, state and local officials have the resources necessary to safeguard our country and mitigate the spread of the coronavirus in the wake of this public health emergency," said Senator Loeffler. "This bill provides essential safeguards to guarantee federal dollars are spent responsibly and enables coordinating agencies to address many critical public health priorities, including making diagnostic tests more widely available, supporting treatments to ease symptoms of those infected, and expediting the development of vaccines. As we continue to monitor the situation in Georgia and nationwide, I am proud to give those on the front lines, including Georgia-based CDC, the resources to combat this disease head-on."

As the situation has evolved, Perdue and Loeffler have attended regular congressional briefings led by the Coronavirus Task Force.

Currently, the United States is:

Expediting the development of a vaccineEducating state and local officials about containment and mitigation measuresTaking unprecedented steps to ensure travelers do not spread the virusTo help prevent the spread of viruses, the CDC recommends:

Avoiding close contact with people who are sickAvoiding touching your eyes, nose, and mouthStaying home when you are sickCovering your cough or sneeze with a tissueCleaning and disinfecting frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipeWashing your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds