Senator David Perdue Supports Launch Of Federal School Safety Clearinghouse


U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the Trump Administration for launching SchoolSafety.gov to provide one-stop access to federal resources, programs, and recommendations for school safety. Establishing this resource has been one of Perdue's top priorities in the U.S. Senate. In September 2019, Senator Perdue introduced the bipartisan School Safety Clearinghouse Act, which will codify the clearinghouse into law and ensure resources for safe school design are available from administration to administration.

The website was developed by the Departments of Education, Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, and Justice to fulfill a key recommendation from President Trump's Federal Commission on School Safety.

"Every child deserves access to a safe learning environment," said Senator Perdue, whose parents were both public schoolteachers. "SchoolSafety.gov will empower parents, teachers, and administrators to make informed decisions about the best ways to keep their schools secure. Of course, we still have to find better ways to enforce existing law and keep guns out of the wrong hands, but bridging the information gap is an essential first step. The Trump Administration is following through on their commitment to create safer schools, and we will continue working together to keep children safe."

SchoolSafety.gov is a resource for the American public, primarily K-12 school administrators, to access free information, guidance, best practices, and tools that make school safety initiatives more actionable in schools. Today's launch represents the first phase of SchoolSafety.gov, and the website will be continually expanded and refined in coordination with partners and stakeholders.

In the U.S. Senate, Senator Perdue has been a leading voice for safer schools:

In September 2019, Perdue introduced the School Safety Clearinghouse Act. Co-sponsors of the bill include U.S. Senators Doug Jones (D-AL), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Steve Daines (R-MT), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Kelly Loeffler (R-GA), and Thom Tillis (R-NC).In August 2019, Perdue toured Mashburn Elementary School in Cumming, Georgia, with First Lady Marty Kemp and saw firsthand how the school has used state grant funding to improve security on campus.In October 2019, Perdue spoke on the Senate floor to commemorate "America's Safe Schools Week."Perdue wrote an op-ed on school safety for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.