Senator David Perdue Announces Updates Amid Coronavirus


In response to President Trump's national emergency and Governor Kemp's public health emergency declarations, along with the advice of our nation's public health experts and medical professionals, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced that his offices will begin telework procedures starting Monday, March 16th. All staff will be available remotely in both Georgia and Washington, D.C.

"The health and safety of Georgians is my top priority," said Senator Perdue. "At this time, we have decided to take additional measures to protect the safety of our staff and the constituents we welcome into our offices every day. Our team remains fully operational and ready to assist the needs of all Georgians, and that will not change. We all play a role in combating the spread of this virus, so I urge everyone to be vigilant and take extra precautions now to keep our communities healthy."

While Senator Perdue's team will be teleworking, staff members are ready and available to serve the needs of Georgians. Adjusting operations temporarily in order to ensure our staff and others stay healthy will not affect the quality of service that constituents have come to expect when they contact Senator Perdue's offices.

If you or someone you know needs assistance during this time, you can still contact our offices by phone or by email, and we will get back to you promptly.

To help prevent the spread of viruses, the CDC recommends:

Avoiding close contact with people who are sickAvoiding touching your eyes, nose, and mouthStaying home when you are sickCovering your cough or sneeze with a tissueCleaning and disinfecting frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipeWashing your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds If you have recently traveled to areas where there are ongoing outbreaks of coronavirus, and you develop fever with cough and shortness of breath within fourteen days of your travel, or if you have had contact with someone who is suspected to have coronavirus, stay home and call your health care provider or local health department right away. Be sure to call before going to a doctor's office, emergency room, or urgent care center and tell them about your recent travel and symptoms.