Senators Perdue & Loeffler Announce Disaster Relief Block Grant For Georgia Farmers


U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Kelly Loeffler (R-GA) today joined Georgia Agriculture Commissioner Gary W. Black in announcing the Farm Recovery Block Grant program for farmers and forest landowners impacted by Hurricane Michael in October 2018.

Following the devastation of Hurricane Michael, Senator Perdue, U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and the entire Georgia delegation fought for months to secure $19 billion in disaster aid for Georgia's agriculture community and other areas affected by natural disasters. President Trump broke through gridlock in Congress and signed a critical disaster assistance package on June 6, 2019. In November 2019, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced that Georgia would receive funding for block grants.

"President Trump and Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue are keeping their promise to deliver relief for farmers who lost everything during Hurricane Michael," said Senator Perdue. "As Georgia's agriculture communities continue to replant and rebuild, this relief will provide much-needed assistance for our farm families. Governor Brian Kemp and Commissioner Gary Black have been stalwart champions for our farmers, and I thank them for working swiftly to get this relief to the communities who are counting on it. Moving forward, we will continue fighting to ensure Georgia farmers have the resources they need to get back on their feet."

"For Georgia farmers and forest landowners, today is a huge day," said Senator Loeffler. "After spending nearly 500 days trying to recover from Hurricane Michael, the agriculture community will receive much-needed relief through a $347 million grant. I'm incredibly grateful to Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and Georgia Agriculture Commissioner Gary Black for their dedication to our farmers and delivering this critical aid. Georgia farmers should know that every level of government is working to help them recover -- from President Trump to Governor Kemp to everyone in between. Their success means America's success."

The Georgia Department of Agriculture (GDA) will begin accepting online applications for the $347 million in block grant funds on March 18, 2020. Georgia farmers and forest landowners in 95 eligible counties who suffered losses to beef, dairy, fruit and vegetable, pecan, poultry, timber, and uninsured infrastructure can enroll in the recovery program at www.farmrecovery.com. The federal block grants seek to help recover losses not covered under existing USDA Farm Service Agency programs. Applications must be submitted by the April 8, 2020 deadline.