Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699091/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, we are here on the floor of the Senate today  to discuss the War Powers Resolution, to discuss the recent war  activities in Venezuela, and yet there still is a debate. Some say  there is not a war; some say there is a war; some say we won't know for  a while if there is a war or isn't a war.

Last year, we had this debate. The junior Senator from Texas came  forward and presented a War Powers Resolution for Gaza. He said that  President Biden's decision to send U.S. troops in to build a beachhead,  to build a pier, was sending them into a war zone.

Interestingly, every Republican Senator at that time voted against a  point of order, and the point of order said no hostilities existed. The  point of order at the time said Gaza is not a war. And every Republican  voted against that point of order because every Republican considered  that Gaza was a war zone and that the War Powers Resolution applied.

Fast forward to today, the proposition that the majority of  Republicans will put forward is a point of order saying there isn't a  war in Venezuela. So they all believed that there was a war in Gaza,  but they all now believe that there is not a war in Venezuela.

Now, there are arguments, I think, actually for both being war. In  Gaza, the troops that were building the beachhead were fired on  multiple times, so I think U.S. troops under fire sounds a bit like you  are putting them into a war.

Now, we have a situation in Venezuela where hundreds of troops were  sent in--dozens and dozens--and pilots and planes were sent in. You  bombed a nation's capital. You had extraordinary rendition of the  nation's President, and now, we have a blockade involving hundreds of  ships and thousands of sailors, but that is not a war.

It is somewhat boggling to the mind that almost every Republican  Senator believed there was a war when a few soldiers were shot at in  Gaza trying to build a pier. I agreed with them. I think that was  putting U.S. troops into war.

But now every Republican--not every Republican--virtually all  Republican Senators who believed that it was a war in Gaza now believe  it is not a war in Venezuela.

Now, some of them on the quiet will tell you: Well, it was a war, but  it is all over. It is all done. Yeah. We are not going to quibble. We  really weren't arresting somebody. It wasn't a drug arrest. It was a  war. It is a mini-war. But it is all over, so the War Powers Resolution  doesn't apply because the war is over.

And yet, we still have an entire military blockade of a country, and  that is not a war. This is a real question.

So we have been given a legal opinion by the current administration,  and we had one of their assistant attorneys general come and explain to  us why this is not a war. You have to realize this is an important part  of the debate because, if it is a drug bust, it is not a war. So they  told us this is really just a drug bust. We had to bomb the entire  capital. We had to remove all their air defenses. We have an armada of  20,000 ships and hundreds of airplanes flown from all over the world,  but it really was just a drug arrest; it really isn't a war.

But this young man came in to us, and he explained to us that we  probably don't know yet whether it is a war. The way we will know it is  a war is by the scope, the extent, and the duration, including how many  people die in the war.

So the problem we have, though, is the Constitution gives us the  power to initiate war, to declare war. But if we don't know if it is a  war until after all the people die and we add up how many people died  and they call it a constitutional war because a lot of people died,  wouldn't it then be a little bit late to vote on initiating a war?

See, this is an enormous debate. This is an important debate, and  this should not be sluffed over as, Oh, no big deal. The war is already  over.

Well, we actually don't even know if the war is already over. We are  under a blockade. The current administration has said they will send  troops back in if they need to. They said they will send troops into  other countries if they need to. The blockade is said to be, Oh, we are  going to control the ships, and we are going to sell the oil, and we  are going to run. We are in charge. It is our oil. We are going to be  in charge of Venezuela.

But that sounds to me like a military blockade, a long-term military  blockade, and I don't know how we argue that that is not war. But the  position of the administration and probably the position of other  Presidential administrations--because this isn't really and shouldn't  be Republican versus Democrat--this should be legislative prerogative  versus Presidential prerogative, and it should be about the  Constitution.

The Constitution specifically, thoughtfully, vested the power of  initiating war and declaring war to Congress. They talked about it.  They talked about it in the Constitutional Convention. They wrote about  it in the Federalist Papers, and from Hamilton to Jefferson, the  spectrum of our Founding Fathers concluded they didn't want the  President to have this power. They said the initiation--the declaration  of war shall be vested by Congress in the legislature.

So what we have is an elaborate song and dance. They know the  declaration of war resides here. They know initiation of war--so they  argue first that it is not war; it is a drug bust. But then they say:  Well, internationally, people say it probably is a war, so in case you  think it is a war, we are going to tell you that it is not really a war  because we won't know if it is a war until it is over. We will tell you  more about it. We will know when the war is over whether it actually  was a war and whether we should have voted to initiate war when the war  is over depending on how many people die.

And then they say: Well, we are going to look at the scope, extent,  and duration of the war, but since we don't know what that is, we are  going to guess based on what the policymakers say. And they say to us  now we are not going back in, so we don't have to vote on whether or  not we are going to war with Venezuela.

This, to me, is an absurdity; it is logic that runs in circles, and  it doesn't get us any closer to where we need to be. The reason the  Founding Fathers gave this power to the legislature is because they  wanted to make war less frequent, they wanted to make war hard to  initiate, they wanted to see war more as a defensive notion, not as an  offensive enterprise.

During the debate over whether Gaza was a war, the resolution was  introduced by the junior Senator from Texas, and virtually every  Republican voted for it. Interestingly, Marco Rubio voted for it. The  Secretary of State actually voted to say that the war in Gaza where  troops were being shot at that were building a pier was a war. But now,  things seem to have reversed, and all those who thought Gaza was a war  where there were some shots being fired at the people trying to build a  pier--which by many people's interpretation would be a lot less than an  entire invasion of a capital and removal of a President and a blockade  of an entire country--every Republican in this body, including the  current Secretary of State, voted that Gaza was a war.

In making the arguments that Gaza was a war, the junior Senator from  Texas expressed the reality that the Senate had abdicated its  constitutional responsibility. So at that time, the junior Senator from  Texas argued that Gaza was a war. He said:

Over recent decades, we have seen the Senate hand away much       of our responsibility on foreign policy and national security       to the Executives. That is contrary to the design of our       Constitution, and it is frankly harmful to the Senate and       harmful to this country.

I couldn't agree more, but I don't understand how it was harmful when  we were talking about Gaza and it is no longer harmful when we are  talking about arguably a much greater military incursion into a  country. It seems as if--and I know this would be shocking to people-- that there is some partisanship here, that there is a different  definition of war under Democrats than there is under Republicans.

My colleague from Texas went on to highlight the flagrant hypocrisy  of both parties, saying on the Senate floor:

[Now], far too often, the Senate has stepped out of our       historic role in foreign policy and [has] said: Whatever the       President wants, we, the Senate, aren't going to say anything       about it.

When there is a Republican President, Democrats suddenly       discover their voice and say: Hey, the Senate ought to say       something.

But when it is a Democrat President, it seems no matter how       incoherent and disastrous the foreign policy from the       Democrat President, [the] Democrat Senators don't want the       Senate to exercise its authority.

I would argue today is evidence that both sides are guilty of this. I  would argue that if Gaza was a war, that bombing of the Venezuelan  capital and removal of the President and the blockade of an entire  country might qualify as a war.

If a few soldiers shooting at our soldiers who are trying to build a  temporary pier or a temporary port in Gaza is war--which every  Republican in the body voted for--certainly they must think the  invasion of a capital is a war, that removing a President is war, or  that blockade of a country.

So even though the first incursion, the first invasion, may well be  over, is the blockade of a country not a war? Are we not at war when we  have a military blockade of a country?

The American people are sick and tired of their elected officials  disregarding the Constitution when their party is in power and then  becoming ardent defenders of the Constitution when the opposing party  is in power. Each of us took an oath to the Constitution to defend it  that applies at all times, not just when it is politically convenient.

Congress maintains a constitutional duty to debate matters of war.  Playing politics when the lives of our brave servicemembers are on the  line and our country is at risk of being entangled in yet another  foreign conflict is an inexcusable dereliction of duty.

At this point, I think we need to have a fulsome debate--a debate in  the country, a debate in the Senate--over what war is. But I think  anyone who accepts the ludicrous notion that they will tell you what  war is after the war is over should not be treated seriously.

How can we do our duty? How can we do our duty to initiate and  declare war if we don't know what war is until it is over?

If after the war we can count the casualties, and there are a  significant amount of casualties, or the incursion took a significant  amount of time, then there is war. Or some will say: Well, we can just  defund the war. You know what, it has never happened.

Find me the Senator or Congressman who wants to vote against money  for our troops who are being shot at. It is very difficult to stop  funding a war once we start because a nation's patriotism rises up  naturally.

The time to start a war is before it gets started. But if they are  telling you they define war by how many casualties there are, you have  got to wait until the war is over to determine whether it was a war, to  determine whether we should initiate the war. This is an absurdity.

Both parties, frankly, have been guilty of hypocrisy on this, but the  order today that we will be voting on is whether or not the point of  order says that this is not a war.

Well, invasion of another country, blockading of a country, and  removing another country's leader, to my mind, clearly is war, and I  will vote against this point of order.