Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696661/continuing-appropriations-and-extensions-act-2026


Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, instead of a clean CR, this bill contains  language that has been air-dropped in that will destroy hemp farming in  Kentucky and across the United States.

Tucked away on page 163, title VII, division B of this spending  package is a provision that will shut down the hemp industry across the  United States. My amendment would strip the provision designed to  regulate the hemp industry to death.

The bill as it now stands overrides the regulatory frameworks of  several States, cancels the collective decisions of hemp consumers, and  destroys the livelihoods of hemp farmers. And it couldn't come at a  worse time for America farmers. Times are tough for our farmers.  Farmers' costs have increased as the price of fertilizer and machinery  have jumped, while prices for their crops, like soybean, corn, and  wheat, have declined.

For many farmers, hemp has proved to be a lifeline, a new cash crop.  Farmers turn to growing hemp to mitigate the losses they endured during  this season of hardship. But that lifeline may soon be extinguished by  this very legislation.

The effective hemp ban included in this spending package is a result,  we are told, of bad actors skirting the legal limits by overly  enhancing the concentration of THC in their products. The hemp  industry, myself, and others have come together, and we have been  willing to negotiate to get rid of the bad actors. Yet, instead, we are  met with legislation that would be prohibition.

Members of the industry, myself, and others who are advocates of this  have been willing to get rid of synthetic cannabinoids, willing to  compromise at every turn, but we are met with the numbers in this bill,  which will eradicate the hemp industry.

For the last several weeks, we have offered proposals with the goal  of creating an environment in which the hemp industry could thrive and  sell products, and we have been met with those who want to prohibit the  industry from continuing.

This bill's per-serving THC content limit would make illegal any hemp  product that contains more than 0.4 milligrams. That would be nearly  100 percent of the existing market. The numbers put forward in this  bill will eliminate 100 percent of the hemp products in our country.  That amounts to an effective ban because the limit is so low that the  products intended to manage pain or anxiety will lose their effect.

The States have done what they are supposed to. The States have  instituted laws. Twenty-three States have instituted laws on hemp. None  of them have limits anywhere close to what is being proposed in this  bill. So what will happen is most of the things that your States have  regulated, are regulating, and have made legal will be made illegal by  this bill. This bill will effectively preempt and nullify all State  laws concerning hemp.

Currently, Maine limits THC to 3 milligrams per serving; that will be  overruled. My home State limits THC to 5 milligrams in beverages; that  will be overruled. Minnesota, Utah, and Louisiana also have 5  milligrams per serving. Alabama and Georgia have 10 milligrams.  Tennessee has 15 milligrams. The bill before us nullifies all these  State laws and makes the hemp industry kaput.

The language in this bill will outlaw all current hemp plants and  seeds. It changes the definition of what a hemp plant is. It makes it  so low that there may not even be an existing plant that can meet the  parameters. But every plant in the country will have to be destroyed.  Every hemp seed in the country will have to be destroyed. This is the  most thoughtless, ignorant proposal to an industry that I have seen in  a long, long time.

The States have made progress, and more progress is coming. Most  States have age limits.

To add insult to injury, we are given this legislation in an  appropriations bill. We have Senate rules against this.

So I would recommend that we vote for this amendment, and my  amendment would strip out the language.

I would transfer the remainder of my time to Senator Merkley.