Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I call up my amendment, No. 1506, and I ask  that it be reported by number. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, my amendment would pay for the emergency  funds for the coronavirus. 

  I think that we should not let fear or urgency cause us to lose our  minds and cause us to act in an irresponsible fashion. I, for one, have  looked at foreign aid over the years as welfare that we send to other  countries that really is not particularly in our best interests anyway.  If you follow foreign aid through the years, what you will find is that  it goes from middle-class folks in rich countries to rich people in  poor countries. Frankly, people enrich themselves at our expense. They  steal our money. The Mubarak family in Egypt is now worth billions of  dollars, which it skimmed off the top. The history of this throughout  the Third World is legion and is well known. 

  My amendment would basically take the $8 billion from the welfare we  give to foreign countries in order to pay for this. I see no reason we  shouldn't do this. I am not opposed to the emergency funding, but I  think that the emergency funding should be gotten from elsewhere in the  budget and that this is the responsible way to act. 

  Every day, people across the country are confronted with unexpected  expenses. We budget and we plan, but things happen. When they do, we  adjust and plan accordingly. Sometimes we confront an expense that is  not only unexpected but is urgent, and that is where we find ourselves  today. We want to respond and make sure we are providing resources to  our medical professionals and researchers. That is important, and I  fully support that, which is why we should use this moment to  ask ourselves whether it is really necessary to keep spending on  wasteful things. 

  If we don't consider this now, when will we ever consider this? 

  We want an all-hands-on-deck response, so we should be cutting out  waste and moving those resources to something that is of more immediate  concern. So, if the coronavirus is of immediate concern--and I think it  is--let's address that situation now, but let's do so by taking money  from less urgent things and money that we are wasting overseas--money  that is often stolen by Third-World dictators. That is exactly what I  am proposing today. 

  We have the money. We don't need to borrow more money. We just have  to start setting our own priorities. For example, we shouldn't spend  another dollar in developing a foreign economy this year. That spending  should be stopped, and the money should be spent here to buy supplies,  to help expedite research, and to support our communities. The funds I  am proposing to keep at home have been used abroad for all kinds of  unnecessary and wasteful things. I will give you a few examples. 

  We send U.S. taxpayer dollars to fund kids from Pakistan to go to  space camp in America. We spend money on combating student truancy in  the Philippines. We have been funding the Peruvian Green New Deal. We  actually send money to help deported illegal immigrants start up  businesses in El Salvador. What business is it of the U.S. taxpayer to  be funding small businesses in El Salvador for people who broke the law  by trying to break into our country? It is insane. At this point in  time, I think this money would be better spent on research on the  coronavirus and on a response to this epidemic should it become worse  in our country. 

  The list doesn't stop there. I don't know why we can't agree to spend  this money on the coronavirus instead of spending it abroad. We spend  over $50 billion a year in Afghanistan--building their roads, building  their schools, trying to create a nation where there really is no  nation. We need to spend that money here at home. Besides, it is the  law. 

  We have a law called pay-go, or pay as you go, which is supposed to  require Congress to pay for new spending. It has been around for a  couple of decades. Yet we have broken the law thousands of times. What  do they do? They see something they want. You know, they are kids in a  candy store. They want to spend. They want to give you, give you, give  you free money, so they just ignore the law. So what happens every year  is that they exceed the pay-as-you-go, and they don't do the thing they  are supposed to do, which is to offset this with a spending cut. Then  they just write a small, little note in there, reading they have agreed  to ignore the pay-go rules again. That is what will happen in this  case. 

  The other way they ignore the rules on pay-go is they declare things  to be emergencies, so everything is an emergency. They say: Well, what  would we do if we didn't have this--if it weren't an emergency? 

  We already spend billions of dollars and have spent billions of  dollars over the years to prepare for epidemics. We fund the CDC, and  we fund the NIH. There is a lot of money out there. 

  Once again, I am not against giving additional money, but we should  just make a decision. We should be mature people and say we are not  just going to print up the money or borrow it from China but are going  to take it, maybe, from something less necessary. 

  When we don't want to pay for new spending, we just simply waive  these rules on pay-go. We declare the spending to be emergency, and we  get around the requirement. That is how we got a $23 trillion debt. We  actually borrow $2 million every minute. 

  People say: Well, we have to do something. People are running around,  acting crazy--we have to do something. Well, who is going to do  something about the $23 trillion debt? 

  Do we not have 5 minutes to take a vote? In 15 minutes, we will be  taking this vote, and people could simply vote and say that we are not  going to borrow more money and that we will take the money from  somewhere else in the budget that is less pressing. 

  Mark my words--there is no fiscal responsibility up here among either  party. It will be a small minority of us who will say that this funding  should be offset by taking it from somewhere else in the budget. 

  In times of emergency, Congress scrambles to put together new  spending, but we should be working just as hard to pay for the cost  that comes with emergencies. 

  Which is a higher priority--spending millions of dollars to stabilize  the supply chain of medical supplies and treatments here at home or  spending millions on international arts festivals? Which is a higher  priority--spending millions to train frontline medical professionals  here at home on how to limit exposure to the coronavirus or spending  millions of dollars, if not billions of dollars, paving roads in  Afghanistan? My amendment gives us a chance to set priorities. 

  We can support our communities and give our medical system the  resources its needs, and we can do it without adding to the debt. That  is the responsible way. My amendment would do exactly that, and I  encourage the other Senators to consider fiscal responsibility. 

  I thank the Presiding Officer. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT