Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, when the Senate begins its debate, as it has  been doing today on the War Powers Act, in considering this resolution,  we are considering whether to do our duty to the Constitution. 

  The debate over war powers is bigger than any one Senator, bigger  than any one President, and bigger than any political party. The debate  over war powers is a fundamental constitutional debate, and the  Constitution and our Founding Fathers were clear: The power to declare  war lies in the legislature. 

  Madison put it this way: The executive is the branch most prone to  war. Therefore, the Constitution, with studied care, vested the power  to declare war in the legislature. 

  Yet we have increasingly deferred and delegated the war powers back  to the executive. We have abdicated our role as the body that should be  deciding with the people when to go to war. 

  While the President may have the power to repel an attack, Congress  has done little to stop increasingly bold arguments that everything is  in response to an imminent attack. 

  I will never forget President Obama coming to speak to the Republican  caucus a few years ago, and he said: Well, they were under imminent  attack, and we were like: Who, in the Libyan war, and he said: Well,  Benghazi. And it was like: For goodness' sake, we thought imminent  attack was of America, not of a foreign city. That is how far afield we  have come, that a President would come to us and say: I can do whatever  I want if there is an imminent attack of a foreign city. How ludicrous. 

  Given Congress's inaction, it should come as no surprise that  administration lawyers increasingly argue that everything is imminent  and that statutes limiting their authority actually don't limit their  authority; that the statutes actually say they can do whatever they  want. 

  Presidents actually argue that article II of the Constitution--this  is what gives the President power. Article I is the congressional  power; article II is the President. They argue that the article II  section of the Constitution lets the President do anything he or she  wishes; that there are no limits on Presidential authority. That is  absurd. 

  Under President Obama, we droned hundreds of people in Pakistan; we  bombed Libya to help defeat Qadhafi; we put military personnel in  dozens and dozens of countries around the world fighting militants and  regional thugs here and there, but with each passing year it had less  and less to do with 9/11. It is hard to explain to someone how a goat  herder in Mali has anything to do with the attacks of 9/11. Yet every  President comes back to us and says: Well, you voted for this  proclamation in 2001. It gives me the power to do whatever I want  wherever I want. 

  In our Republic, if we are going to go to war, the Constitution says  you must come to Congress, not for consultation but for permission. 

  Today's vote is not a vote for or against the current President.  Today's vote is for or against the Constitution. Either you believe  that war requires the permission of Congress or you don't. 

  Why is this vote necessary? Because we live in a topsy-turvy world,  where Presidents now argue that their war power is absolute. Don't talk  to me. I will do what I want--but the Constitution envisioned that we  did not ever want one person to decide when we went to war. 

  Presidents now argue that a decades-old authorization of force  against a long-deceased autocrat--Saddam Hussein--is still valid and  applies to an Iranian general, and that is absurd. That is insulting to  the people; it is insulting to the Constitution; and it shouldn't be. 

  You cannot argue that the Constitution gives the President unlimited  power and say: Oh, well, if that doesn't work, I am also arguing that  in 2002 Congress voted to go to war with Saddam Hussein, and that gives  me the power to kill an Iranian general. 

  Presidents have also argued that bombing is not war. They argue  somehow that bombs are not war and that there is a certain attitude of,  well, maybe 100 soldiers aren't, maybe 1,000. What does it take to be  at war? 

  They argue sometimes that we are not in hostilities when we are  dropping bombs everywhere around a country. They sometimes argue that  battles are kinetic action and not really war. 

  We have been at war too long in too many places. It is time to bring  our soldiers home. 

  This week, I joined the President to honor two of our soldiers who  were killed in action. I stopped with the President at Dover Air Force  Base. Let me tell you, it was a sad and somber memorial for two of our  Nation's heroes. But people need to think about this. This isn't a  chess game. This isn't a geopolitical chess game and we are just moving  troops here and there and they are somehow represented by symbols on a  big map or a board. This is about people. It is about our young people  of our country, and they deserve better. Our soldiers deserve to know  what they are fighting for. Our soldiers deserve to know what the  mission is. Our soldiers deserve to know if we are making progress.  They deserve to be told the truth. 

  America's longest war in Afghanistan is in its 20th year. We now have  kids fighting who weren't even born when the war began. 

  My committee this week held a hearing to discuss the Afghanistan  Papers--papers that reveal that the highest ranking officials in our  military and in our government and in our State Department have known  for many years that the Afghanistan war lacks a real mission; that it  lacks a real national security rationale. 

  My vote today is not simply about Iran or the killing of Soleimani.  My vote today is about the constitutional requirement that Congress  must declare war. This vote should be 100 to 0. It is a vote for or  against the Constitution. This is about acknowledging the Constitution  says no one man, no one woman can take a nation to war. 

  Many Members will quietly acknowledge that the separation of powers  assigned Congress the power to declare war, but when push comes to  shove, many Senators are afraid to appear to oppose a President of  their own party. 

  For me, this debate is not about party. I have supported the  constitutional mandate that Congress must declare war under both  Democratic and Republican Presidents, and I will continue. 

  For me, this debate is not a dry and esoteric or meaningless debate.  It is a debate about life and death. It is a debate that, more than any  other debate, embodies our commitment to our soldiers. It is a debate  that strikes at the heart of our duty to do everything possible to  protect human life. 

  Today's vote is historic in that the majority of the House and the  Senate will now be on record affirming Congress's power over issues of  war. Even at the height of the Vietnam war, the height of America's  probably most unpopular war, congressional majorities did not stand up  and assert their constitutional prerogative. Today we are doing that.  That is a step forward. 

  In the aftermath of the most partisan impeachment in our history,  today, though, marks a high-water mark for the bipartisan assertion of  the separation of powers. 

  For me, it will have all been worthwhile when I see our troops  returning home to their families safe and sound. For me, it will all be  worthwhile when we finally end the Afghan war, when we finally end the  Iraq war, and when we finally end the wars in Yemen and throughout  Africa. When that day comes, I look forward to standing arm-in-arm  across the political divide to welcome our brave soldiers home. Until  that day, I will continue to fight for the truth that great nations  don't fight perpetual wars. 

  Thank you. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT