Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700453/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, once war begins and American soldiers are  under fire, a rational discussion of the pros and cons of war becomes  nearly impossible. That is exactly why our Founders wrote a  Constitution that demands a debate before the initiation of war.

But there was no debate in Congress, let alone a vote. Americans  awoke to discover their country once again embroiled in a war in the  Middle East. Americans were not asked if they would bear the burdens of  war. Instead, the American people were told, through a Presidential 8- minute video posted around 2:30 in the morning, that the country was  once again at war.

And, because there was no national discussion about going to war, we  do not know whether ground troops will be used, we have no idea how  long the war will last, we have no idea who will lead Iran after the  death of the Supreme Leader, and we have no idea how many casualties  the American people are supposed to tolerate. We cannot know the answer  to these questions because no one bothered to make the case that war  with Iran was worth the sacrifice.

The Senate only now debates whether hostilities should end after they  have already begun. Before I discuss the merits of this war, I want to  say that my prayers and those of my family are with the troops in the  region and in combat and anyone who may be called to do so. I do not  take lightly that combat has begun, that many have been severely  injured, and that lives have been lost.

It is because of those realities of war that the Constitution grants  the power to declare war to the U.S. Congress--not one individual  sitting in the Oval Office. Giving Congress the power to declare war  was meant to prevent the ability of one person to commit the Nation to  war. When the Nation goes to war, it should be a collective decision,  where a clear rationale for war is articulated. But more importantly, a  debate and a vote in Congress provides the Nation with the only  opportunity to discuss whether a country is aware of and accepts the  inevitable sacrifices of war, especially the loss of life.

The people have been robbed of a public debate. Let me inform the  public, that evasion is intentional.

The congressional leadership--resigned to their own irrelevance--will  gladly hand the President the power to initiate war in exchange for  plausible deniability. The congressional leadership wants to make the  case to the voters that they are not to be held accountable at the  ballot box because they simply played no role in the decision to go to  war. That is not statesmanship. That is shameful.

This country is now at war, which already cost the lives of six  American servicemembers and many more are severely wounded. Those  soldiers and their families deserved a public debate and a vote in  Congress before the initiation of hostilities.

But had Congress debated war with Iran, we would have been wise to  recall the words of John Quincy Adams who, as Secretary of State,  advocated a foreign policy of restraint. ``Wherever the standard of  freedom and independence has been or shall be unfurled,'' argued Adams,  ``there will [America's] heart, her benedictions, and her prayers be.  But she goes not abroad in search of monsters to destroy.''

There is wisdom in Adams's words, but his was not an original  argument. It was George Washington himself who warned in his farewell  address to stay out of the world's endless conflicts.

Congress has tragically forgotten this advice. The history of the  21st century has been one of endless wars in which America perpetually  searches for the next monster to destroy. From Afghanistan to Iraq to  Libya to Syria to Venezuela, the advocates for war tell us that a  country is a threat and that toppling a foreign government is a noble  quest to protect security at home while spreading freedom globally.

While they have recycled their arguments, when they bother to make  them, the results are always instability, chaos, suffering, and  resentment.

The Iraq war was launched under similar false pretenses, and the  consequences of that fateful decision still reverberate throughout the  Middle East to this day. The overthrow of Iraq's secular government and  the collapse of its civil society spurred some of the worst sectarian  violence in modern history and directly led to the rise of ISIS.

Over a decade since the U.S. military intervention that toppled  Muammar Qadhafi, and a year after the fall of Assad, these divided,  unstable countries struggle to escape the cycle of violence and chaos.  And although Nicolas Maduro may have been removed from power by  American military forces, the socialist and oppressive Chavista regime  has not been removed from the Venezuelan government. And, most  tragically, after two decades of war, the Taliban flag flies over  Kabul. America's adventures have not produced the promised utopias, or  even Jeffersonian democracies.

History is replete with examples of wars that quickly escalate beyond  their initiator's intent. While some may think that we maintain  escalation dominance, the spiral of violence can rapidly get out of  control.

America is at war. But Americans don't want this war. They didn't  vote for it. In fact, they voted for just the opposite. Beyond the  documents and words of our Founders, that is why their intentions to  only grant the power to Congress is so important today. If the  President came to Congress to ask for authorization for war, the  people's representatives can do what they were elected to do and  represent them. Debate provides information and answers we do not now  have.

The constitutional separation of war powers is not just some notion  that belongs in our history books. It is a vital part of a democratic  republic. This Congress should be ashamed of how it has allowed this  unilateral march to war. No others in our history have been this  cavalier with our military men and women and tax dollars as they are at  this moment.

I urge my colleagues to join in opposing both this war and the  unilateral actions that were taken without congressional authorization  as the Constitution commands.