ICYMI: Daily Caller: Rand Paul Calls Out Past Administration On Flynn Unmasking: "What Did President Obama Know And When Did He Know It?'


Today, Daily Caller's Justin Caruso reported on U.S. Senator Rand Paul (R-KY) revealing stunning new information concerning high-ranking Obama administration officials involved in the unmasking of former National Intelligence Director General Michael Flynn. The piece quotes from Senator Paul's Wednesday press conference, where he said, "If Vice President Biden and the president's inner circle of advisors were all listening to a senior Trump advisor's personal phone conversation, this would amount to a serious abuse of power. The only question remains is "What did President Obama know, and when did he know it?'" You can read more at the Daily Caller's website HERE or below: *** Republican Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul said that members of former President Barack Obama's administration could have committed "a serious abuse of power" by unmasking Gen. Mike Flynn's phone conversations and questioned what Obama knew about the surveillance. Acting Director of U.S. National Intelligence Richard Grenell released a report Wednesday showing that members of Obama's administration, including then-Vice President Joe Biden and then-FBI director James Comey, were involved in Flynn"s unmasking Wednesday. In a press conference Wednesday, Paul criticized the unmasking. "This is incredibly troubling and shocking, that the previous administration, under President Obama, under Vice President Biden's specific instruction, was eavesdropping on an American -- an American advisor to the next president," Paul said. "If Vice President Biden and the president's inner circle of advisors were all listening to a senior Trump advisor's personal phone conversation, this would amount to a serious abuse of power. The only question remains is "What did President Obama know, and when did he know it?'" "Each of these officials need to be asked if and when they discussed this information with President Obama, and what he advised they do with the information," the Kentucky senator continued.