Reopening the Economy


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, no amount of money--not all the money in  China--will save us from ourselves. Our only hope of rescuing this  great country is to reopen the economy. If you print up billions of  dollars and give it to people, they are unlikely to spend it until you  end the quarantine. 

  The good news, though, is that the scientific community finally has  facts instead of conjecture. The models that used 3.4 percent mortality  were, fortunately, very wrong. Random samples of thousands of people  have now been tested for antibodies or immunity to coronavirus. Two  large randomized studies in California show similar results. The number  of people who already developed antibodies to the coronavirus is 25 to  50 times higher than the number that is being reported as infected.  This is great news. This study means that the mortality rate may well  be 25 to 50 times less deadly than previously thought. 

  The virus is still dangerous, and we shouldn't ignore the risks, but  we should put those risks in perspective. These randomized tests  indicate that, instead of a 3.4 percent mortality, that the rate could  be as much as only 0.1 percent or 0.2 percent. We now have scientific  evidence from randomized studies that we can manage this disease  without continuing the draconian lockdown of the economy. 

  The question before us isn't to do nothing or to print endless  amounts of bailout cash. The debate should now include the one choice  that will get our economy growing again: reopening American commerce. 

  Today, I rise in opposition to spending $500 billion more. The virus  bailouts have already cost over $2 trillion. Our annual deficit this  year will approach $4 trillion. We can't continue on this course. No  amount of bailout dollars will stimulate an economy that is being  strangled by quarantine. 

  It is not a lack of money that plagues us but a lack of commerce.  This economic calamity only resolves when we begin to reopen the  economy. Opening the economy will require Americans to rise above  partisanship, to understand that deaths from infectious disease will  continue, but that we cannot indefinitely quarantine. 

  Make no mistake about it, this has been a difficult month for our  country. For many of us, we have not seen a greater challenge. I am  encouraged to see how our communities are responding. In Kentucky, we  have seen tremendous collaboration. People from all walks of life have  come together to help each other. We have worked to identify and supply  additional protective gear, masks, and gloves to protect our doctors  and nurses who risk their lives on a daily basis. 

  UPS has set up an airlift operation out of Louisville that includes a  healthcare facility for FEMA. This lets FEMA make overnight deliveries  from anywhere in the country. Over 3 million pounds of masks, gloves,  and other equipment have been shipped to the Louisville airport by UPS. 

  We have worked with some of our bourbon distillers to assist them in  transitioning to producing hand sanitizer. We helped repatriate  Americans trapped overseas. We also have seen how our communities have  banded together to support neighbors, businesses, and those in need. 

  When protective equipment was in short supply, we discovered a way to  use industrial masks, and we supported legislation to allow us to bring  approximately 30 million masks into the medical community. When the FDA  wouldn't approve COVID-19 tests other than the CDC's--a test that  initially failed--we introduced legislation that circumvented the FDA  and circumvented the redtape to get testing done quicker. 

  Over the years, the U.S. has accumulated more than $23 trillion in  debt, spending money that we do not have and borrowing from our kids'  and our grandkids' future. The gargantuan Federal bailout that just  passed over $2 trillion brings us closer and closer to a point of no  return, a point in which the world loses confidence in the dollar and a  point in which our debt becomes an existential threat to our security.  The United States is already having to borrow simply to pay our  promises to senior citizens. 

  The U.S. is borrowing about $1 trillion a year just to pay for  everyday obligations. This is before the pandemic bailout. The U.S. is  already borrowing nearly $2 million every minute. With the recent $2  trillion bailout, we are borrowing faster than we have ever borrowed  before. 

  Had we practiced sound budgeting in the past, we would have been in a  significantly better position to weather this storm. Congress' failures  of the past, coupled with the pandemic prices of the present, could  seriously jeopardize our economic future. In this moment, we need to  think carefully about what we do next. 

  To stop the spread of this virus, commerce has been disrupted,  businesses have closed, and millions have lost their jobs. Right now,  the number is 20 million unemployed. The job losses will continue no  matter how much money you throw at it until you reopen the economy. 

  Our government has intervened with unprecedented scale to prop up our  economy. We have injected $2 trillion. I do believe it makes sense for  the government to provide support to businesses and families who can't  make it through this. I supported expanding unemployment benefits for  workers displaced by government quarantine, including self-employed  individuals that have lost their businesses. But make no mistake, the  massive economic calamity we are experiencing right now was caused by  government. 

  Passing out $1,200 checks indiscriminately to people who haven't lost  their jobs will do nothing to rescue the country. If we were going to  make discrete direct payments, the criteria should have been sending  checks to people who needed it, people who lost their jobs, people  furloughed, people who had wage cuts. Instead of directing help to the  unemployed, though, some of these bailout checks will go to couples who  earn nearly $200,000 a year. But you could give everybody in the  country $12,000, and it wouldn't end this recession. Our recovery only  comes when the quarantine has ended. 

  Experts will disagree on the exact date that we should reopen the  economy, but sane, rational counsel should continue to push for the  quickest end possible. Opining about never shaking hands again is a  recipe for keeping the economy closed until no one dies from  infectious disease. While the infectious disease experts should be  queried, so, too, should economists. We should seek counsel about  balancing the harm to health caused by disease with the harm to health  caused by enforcing dysfunction on the economy--not easy decisions. 

  Most importantly, leaders in each State must weigh in on the problem.  New York City's opening date will be different from Fargo, ND. We need  to get past a one-size-fits-all approach to infectious disease. 

  Realize that most of this money that is being loaned to small  business is not a loan. Most of this money will not be repaid. It will  ultimately be considered grants that will be added to our national  debt. 

  Let's be honest about this. Applications for the program opened to  overwhelming initial demand. The current data indicates that the money  is gone, so now, here we are again, with leadership from both parties  saying, Let's do another $300 billion, what is another couple hundred  billion dollars? But realize the money desired is not money we have  saved for a rainy day. This money doesn't exist anywhere. It will be  created or borrowed. Even more alarming than the money is the idea that  one Senator can stand on the floor and pass legislation spending a  half-trillion dollars and have no recorded vote and no debate. 

  Look, I understand the hardships of Senators returning from around  the country, so I have not invoked the Senate rules to demand a  recorded vote. I did return today, though, so that history will record  that not everyone gave in to the massive debt Congress is creating. My  hope is that, across the country, there will remain a vibrant voice for  limited government for our constitutional Republic. I don't want to see  this massive accumulation of debt destroy this great country. My advice  to the Senate and to the American people is let's be aware of what we  are doing by creating all this new debt, and let's think before we jump  to a terrible, terrible conclusion. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT