Setting Forth the Congressional Budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2026 and Setting Forth the Appropriate Budgetary Levels


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695544/setting-forth-the-congressional-budget-for-the-united-states-government-for-fiscal-year-2026-and-setting-forth-the-appropriate-budgetary-levels


Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a budget that  balances over 5 years. My budget, the Six Penny Plan, the Six Penny  Plan budget, cuts 6 percent of all spending to rebalance in just 5  years.

I am able to introduce this budget because neither Republicans nor  Democrats introduced a budget this year. So we are running a $7  trillion government without a budget this year. So I think it is  important that we have at least some debate and vote on a budget.

Most Republicans say they are for a balanced budget amendment. Most  of them have voted for it at some point in time. Yet most of the  budgets and most of the spending that go through here seem to be adding  to the debt, not canceling it out.

Since I was elected, Congress has passed a budget less than half of  the time. For almost five decades, Congress has passed all required  annual appropriations bills only four times. So four times in 50 years  has Congress actually gone through and individually passed the  appropriations bills. As a consequence, the looting of the American  taxpayer continues.

By promising yet another so-called clean continuing resolution,  Republicans are doubling down on embracing what they once considered to  be reckless spending levels.

Today, I propose a clear path back towards fiscal responsibility. I  urge the Senate to adopt my Six Penny Plan that will balance the  Federal budget.

This year, the United States will spend $6.7 trillion while bringing  in about $4.7 trillion. That is $2 trillion more being spent than what  is coming in. A deficit of this magnitude should be concerning enough  even on its own merits. But to add insult to injury, Congress passed a  budget just 5 months ago which set a spending cap of almost $6 trillion  for the year. So 5 months ago, Congress did actually pass a budget-- halfway through the year we were already in--to spend $6 trillion this  year. Turns out, though, we have spent $6.6 trillion. So we couldn't  even get it right 6 months ago when the vast majority of Republicans  voted for a budget that said they were going to spend $6 trillion in a  year that was half over, and now they have spent $6.6 trillion.

Next year, it is going to be even worse. The budget that was passed  in the spring said we would spend $6.3 trillion next year, but it turns  out it is going to be $7.2 trillion next year.

What is going on here? We keep passing budgets. We keep saying we are  going to get better. We keep saying the bills we are passing are making  the deficit less. Yet the deficit keeps getting worse.

So even when Congress passes a budget, they seem to immediately  renege on the deal they just passed. The numbers in the budget end up  not being of consequence because the spending goes on unabated.

This week, Congress will likely vote on locking in spending levels.  The spending levels will be the same spending levels that Republicans  criticized as the Biden spending levels last December. So when there  was a Democrat in the White House, when President Biden was there, all  the Republicans were unified in saying ``We despise the Biden spending  levels. We are against spending in deficit and deficit spending. We are  against all of that''--until the Republicans got in charge, and 3  months later, they voted for the exact same levels.

The continuing resolution from March of this year is the exact same  levels as the Biden spending levels. What are we going to vote for in a  couple of days here? The Biden spending levels again. What does that  lead to? Two trillion dollars in deficit.

So every time we vote for a continuing resolution, for continuing the  spending at the same level, we are voting for a level of spending that  is $2 trillion short of what comes in.

According to the Congressional Budget Office, enacting a yearlong  CR--continuing resolution--will result in blowing through next year's  spending target by nearly $1 trillion.

So the target that was passed last spring was 6.3, but the spending  is actually going to be 7.2. How can you be off a trillion dollars? How  can you with a straight face go home and say: Oh, well, we were just  off a trillion.

And this year, we don't have a budget because--I don't know--maybe  our math was so bad last year, we decided not to do it. But the deficit  next year is going to be $2.1 trillion.

It is getting worse, not better. Next year's deficit will be $100  billion more than the deficit this year.

It was not that long ago that Republicans were castigating the Biden  administration and saying they were reckless. Now we are doing the same  thing.

It was not that long ago that Republicans argued to the American  people that Biden's overspending inevitably was causing inflation; it  was to blame for the rise in the cost of goods. Anybody remember  Bidenomics? Anybody remember Biden inflation? It was accurate because  it was based on debt, and debt causes inflation. When the Federal  Reserves buys the debt and monetizes the debt, that recreates  inflation.

But the same thing is happening. Nothing has changed. A new party in  charge, and the same spending and the same debt.

It wasn't that long ago that conservatives were staunchly opposed to  raising the debt ceiling, and only the unholy alliance between  Democrats and Big Government Republicans would get the spending bills  through, would get the debt ceiling through.

But now it has evaporated. Virtually the entire Republican Party now  supports this debt. On an inauspicious day, March 15 of this year, the  Republican continuing resolution was signed into law. On the Ides of  March, Republicans took ownership of the Biden spending levels. The  Biden spending levels are now Republican spending levels.

To make matters worse, this summer, Republicans voted to raise the  debt ceiling by $5 trillion. We have never ever voted to raise the debt  ceiling that much. It used to be the conservative line that we held the  line and said: We are not doing that or, if we are going to raise the  debt ceiling, we are going to do it in a small amount for a short  period of time in order that we would discuss this again and again and  again until we get it right.

But Republicans now own the spending problem. Republicans now own the  debt expansion. Republicans must rediscover our principles of fiscal  responsibility. Our country's future depends on it.

Our national debt now stands at $37 trillion and grows with each  passing second. If you have ever seen the usdebtclock.org, the website,  the numbers are spinning literally out of control. To put this debt in  perspective, every American household is on the hook for over $238,000  to cover Uncle Sam's reckless spending spree.

To put it bluntly, the state of our Nation's fiscal health is bleak.  The government now spends over a trillion dollars just on interest.  This is more than we spend on our national defense.

We should heed this fact as a warning. As Hoover Institution  Historian Niall Ferguson points out, ``Any great power that spends more  on debt service than on defense will not stay great for very long.''

We must act now if America is to, once again, be a rising nation, but  we are currently on a path toward decline. If we continue down this  unsustainable path, American families will be forced to deal with even  higher inflation, confiscatory tax rates, rising interest, and a weak  economy. It will be harder to find a job and provide for your family  because the deals made in the Halls of Congress always stick the  taxpayers with the bill. You either are going to have to pay for it  through taxes--the debt will always be paid either through taxes or  through inflation and high prices at the grocery store.

Government spending and fiscal malfeasance have not only weakened  every American family's purchasing power, but our national economy is  weaker as well. At $37 trillion, the Federal debt is nearly twice what  it was 10 years ago. The Federal debt is now larger than the entire  economy. Our economy is about $29 trillion; the debt is at $37 trillion  or, to put it in more tangible terms, the U.S. debt is large enough to  fill 34 NFL stadiums with $100 bills.

Government spending is so out of control that even if every bank  account in the United States were emptied to pay down our debt, it  would only cover just about half of what Washington owes. So if  everybody's bank account was liquidated in the whole country, it only  would pay for half of the debt.

This is an amazing problem. This is an extraordinary problem.  Something must be done.

America is in a historic state of financial disarray. Right after the  end of World War II, the world's most expensive war, our accumulated  debt was 18 percent larger than the entire economy. We are now 20  percent. So we have now exceeded even the debt of World War II.

America's leading financial minds have already sounded the alarm. The  Chairman of the Federal Reserve said that Federal spending is on an  unsustainable path, and it is past time for Congress to correct it.

The CEO of JPMorgan Chase, America's largest bank, warned that the  Federal Government must reduce its deficits before lenders finally say  enough and stop loaning the government money.

Just this week, the Director of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget  Office suggested that the U.S. economy is weakening. The people who  rank our credit have downgraded the U.S. credit rating.

As interest payments on the national debt crowd out the rest of the  government's budget, entitlement cuts, inflation, and eventually  default on the debt are what lie ahead for the American economy.

Unfortunately, a debt crisis will not just stop with our economy. A  threat to our financial security is also a threat to our national  security. We must remember that the surest path to peace is leaving no  doubt in your adversary's mind about your ability to respond with  aggression.

With increasingly dubious financial health and a larger share of  resources devoted to interest payments, the United States is sending a  message of weakness.

Yet Congress has reportedly chosen to ignore the deficit, raise the  debt ceiling, and continue to fund foreign wars. Instead of budgeting,  Congress decided to kick the difficult decisions down the  road. Unfortunately, continuing spending at the Biden administration  levels is a path that is not sustainable and will further our fiscal  decay with $2 trillion annual deficits as far as the eye can see.

Since entering the Senate, I have introduced several proposals to  lead us back to a balanced Federal budget. In 2017, I introduced a  budget that would freeze spending. In 2017, if you simply froze  spending--you didn't cut one penny from anything, but you froze  spending for 5 years--we would have balanced in 5 years just by  freezing spending.

I introduced a budget a few years later, and it would have taken one  penny--1 percent across the board  would balance in 5 years. A few years later, I introduced it again; it  was a two-penny plan. Then came the pandemic. We spent so much money.  We closed the economy down. We did such terrible things to the country,  and now it is a six-penny plan. It takes a 6-percent cut.

How can we possibly survive a 6-percent cut?

I will tell you how I present it to people. I have people come in.  They always have something that seems to be of value for people. I will  give you an example. The folks that come in and they are looking for  Alzheimer's research. I have family members with Alzheimer's. I have a  great deal of sympathy. I look at them and tell them where we are, and  I tell them we are a rich country; we ought to have some government  money researching Alzheimer's. And I say: You know, we are $2 trillion  short this year. If we cut everybody by 6 percent, we will be able to  balance the budget. So the Alzheimer's research, we spend $100 million  on. If next year we spend $94 million and we did that for everyone, we  could balance the budget.

Interestingly, people who are emotionally involved with this--moms,  dads, grandparents with Alzheimer's--look at me and say: You know what?  For the good of the country, we can do that.

Yet if you talk to people around here, they go: Oh, you hate old  people. I don't hate old people. I aspire to be an old person.

The thing is, you have to have a little bit of a haircut for every  program up here. If you just cut one program, you will never get  through it. You have to cut everything all across the board, not  because you don't like the recipients, not because you don't want to  help people, but because you don't want to destroy our country.

For just six pennies on the dollar, we can reverse this dismal  trajectory. In just 5 years, we can restore trust in the U.S. dollar,  the U.S. economy, and steer the U.S. Government away from this fiscal  cliff. History will remember who had the courage to stand up to make  these hard choices. History will remember those who chose not to leave  this enormous bill to their children.

Vote yes on this plan. Vote yes on restoring fiscal sanity. Vote yes  on securing the future for our country.                               159, S. Con. Res.  22.