Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690543/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-global-tariffs


Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, you know, there was an old-fashioned  conservative principle that believed that less taxes were better than  more taxes; that if you taxed something, you got less of it, so that if  you place a new tax on trade, you will get less trade.

There was also this idea that you didn't do taxation without  representation. That idea goes not only back to our American  Revolution, it goes back to the English civil war as well.

It goes back to probably Magna Carta. I mean, for hundreds of years  the English were arguing of the supremacy of Parliament, that  Parliament would be able to have the power over the King. So when we  were leading up to the Revolution, the cry from James Otis was,  ``Taxation without representation is tyranny.''

These were the words of James Otis, but they still ring true today.  It should not come as a surprise that in a country founded on a tax  revolt, one person  is not allowed to raise taxes. Our Founding Fathers saw this and said:  No, we want to make sure that the authority of taxation begins not only  in Congress, that it actually originates in the House, the body closest  to the people.

Our Constitution forbids taxes from being enacted without the  approval of Congress, and yet here we are.

An emergency has been declared, as the Senator from Virginia  remarked, everywhere. There is an emergency everywhere. Sounds like an  emergency everywhere is really an emergency nowhere. But despite the  constitutional restraints or constraints on executive power, Americans  have now been ordered to pay higher taxes in the form of tariffs but  without the consent of Congress.

The tariffs we discuss today are global tariffs. Just about every  country in the world is subjected to at least a 10-percent tariff, to  say nothing of the dozens of countries whose imports will be taxed at a  much higher rate.

Congress didn't debate these tariffs. Congress didn't vote to enact  these tariffs. The tariffs are simply imposed by Presidential fiat, by  proclamation.

Government by one person who assumes all power by asserting a so- called emergency is the antithesis of constitutional government. It was  Montesquieu that our Founding Fathers looked to in setting up the  separation of powers.

And Montesquieu said that when you unite the legislative power with  the executive power in the body of one person, that no liberty can  exist. They worried about this. They fretted about it. They worried  about having too much power with the President, and so they severely  constricted the power of the Presidency. They said the President  couldn't take us to war; only Congress could. They said the President  couldn't spend money; only Congress could. They said the President  couldn't tax people; only Congress could.

These were the very bedrock and still are the very bedrock of our  constitutional principles. Yet, people--particularly on my side--are  looking away and saying: Oh, whatever. We will just let the President  do whatever.

Look, I supported President Trump. I still support President Trump on  many things. But I am not for a country run by emergencies. Even if the  person was doing what I wanted and was, you know, making every day my  birthday, I would not be for that unless we deliberated upon that.  There are constitutional processes that are incredibly important.

The Constitution doesn't allow the President of the United States to  be the sole decider. Even the President must abide by the proper limits  of Executive power.

Thankfully, our Constitution does more than merely hope that our  Chief Executive will remain within the confines of the Constitution;  our Constitution explicitly limits the power of the Presidency. Our  Founders led a rebellion against a King precisely over this. They went  to great lengths to circumscribe and limit the power of the Presidency.

Devoted as they were to the preservation of individual liberty, the  Founders divided power among three branches of government. But more  importantly, those three branches were to check and balance each other  to prevent one branch from accumulating too much power.

Madison wrote in the Federalist Papers that the Constitution was to  pit ambition against ambition. The natural ambition of men and women to  accumulate power was to be checked by other branches of people who  would say: You can't have that power. It is our power.

That pitting of ambition back and forth was to constrain government.  It was to constrain government from running away and power from being  run away with one person.

The Founding Fathers empowered Congress with tools to ensure that the  liberties of the people would not be threatened by one-person rule. The  Founders would not be surprised that the Executive would attempt to  aggrandize power at the expense of the legislature. They would have  expected it. Indeed, they did expect it. But they would be surprised-- the Founders would be shocked that Congress would voluntarily and  recklessly and fecklessly give up their power to the Presidency, to  submit to emergency rule. The Founders would not have expected the  House of Representatives to become so craven as to refuse to even allow  a vote on ending the emergency.

The law says that the vote we will have is mandatory. It is  privileged. The Senate will adhere to the law.

The House will not have a vote. The House, in its haste to give away  its power to tax, actually passed a rule to prevent a mandatory vote on  ending the emergencies. They prevent it because the rule says that days  no longer exist. They declared that legislative days will not exist  despite the legislature continuing to meet each day.

The House has essentially ruled that days are not days and they are  not to be counted as days until such time as the House again agrees to  allow days to be counted as days. Does that sound absurd? Absolutely.  It is absurd. It is craven. It is cowardice at its best, and it is  dishonest because a rule of the House is preventing a law from being  obeyed. I didn't know we could pass a rule to prevent a law from being  obeyed.

When the emergency powers were granted to the President in 1966, the  Emergencies Act was meant to constrain the Republic. We were already  worried about too many emergencies. Many on my side have actually  cosponsored bills that say emergencies should automatically end unless  affirmatively approved by Congress. Many of those people now are  looking the other way. They are looking the other way and saying: Well,  it is our President now.

I had a reform of the Emergencies Act under the previous President, a  Democrat. I had the same bill under a Republican. This should not be a  partisan issue.

The Founders would not have expected the upper chamber, the Senate,  to let the novel use of a statute traditionally used to sanction  adversaries to become used for tariffs to tax American people and to  let it go unchallenged. This is not constitutionalism; this is  cowardice.

Our system of government cannot work when Congress abdicates its  legislative authority. Madison said we would pit ambition against  ambition, but what if we have Presidential ambition and we have  congressional acquiescence? we have congressional timidity? we have  congressional nonentity, choosing to become a nonentity, not  participate, do whatever you want? It is a recipe for disaster. Madison  and those of the revolutionary generation would have expected Members  of Congress to jealously guard their authority from the imperial  pretensions of the Chief Executive.

To endorse governance by emergency rule is to fail to live up to what  the Constitution demands of us, and failure to do our constitutional  duty is an invitation to further emergency rule.

I know some Republicans like the idea of taxing trade, but what if  there is a next President who is a Democrat who says: By emergency  rule, I decree there will be no gasoline-using cars. We will have only  electric cars.

That is what we are preparing ourselves for. Every distortion of the  checks and balances of powers gets worse. Every time a party changes  hands, they say: Well, you guys did this, so we are going to leapfrog  and do this. And it goes back and forth until the individual citizen  knows nothing other than the loss of liberty.

Even President Trump didn't try to argue that this law called IEEPA,  which is normally used for sanctions--he didn't act upon it in his  first term. He makes a claim today, though, likely because the  appropriate trade laws on the books require months to be implemented,  and he can't wait. And the Republicans go along, and they say:  Emergency? No problem. Constitution? What? Constitution? Forget about  it.

Members of his political party will stand by his assertion. Some may  cast their actions today as an exercise of party loyalty. Some may even  be praised by Pennsylvania Avenue. But for those who care to listen  closely, within that praise will be heard a touch of disdain.

It is no secret that Congress lacks the fortitude to stand up for its  prerogatives, and this is bipartisan. Presidents in both parties  routinely exceed their power because they know that Congress has  weakened itself to such an extent that it cannot challenge and will not  challenge Executive overreach.

Congress delegates its legislative authority to the President so that  the  laws we live under are, in reality, written by bureaucrats who the  people do not know, will never meet, and cannot hold accountable  through elections.

But I don't want to let off both parties on this. The powers that  have been given to the President over trade have been given to the  President by Congress over many decades. Congress acquiesced. Congress  said: Here. We don't want to deal with it. You can have it.

Congress today can scarcely be bothered to even consider individual  appropriations bills. By consistently waiting until the last second to  pass a massive funding bill and threaten a government shutdown, the  leadership deprives Congress of what Madison called its most complete  and effectual weapon: the power of the purse.

We just put it all in one bill, and then they say: If you don't for  it, you are for shutting the government down.

You can't shut the government down, so you have to vote for the  massive bill, which includes more pork than you can probably ever  imagine.

Congress has--unique among the three branches--unilaterally disarmed  and demonstrated itself unable and unwilling to check the Executive.

If Americans are to live under this emergency rule, it will not be  because the President sought too much power; it will be because  Congress let it happen.

If Americans are to live in a country where the President alone  decides what is to be taxed, at what rate, and for how long, it will be  because Congress is too feeble to stand up for the interests and bank  accounts of the people.

If Americans live in a country where their elected representatives in  the legislature cannot or will not speak for them, it will be because  those representatives silenced themselves. They gave in. They did not  stand up and do their duty.

We can show the people that the constitutional principle of the  separation of powers still means something and that we can successfully  challenge the Presidential attempt to raise taxes without the consent  of Congress.

Tariffs are taxes, plain and simple. Tariffs don't punish foreign  governments; they punish American families. When we tax imports, we  raise the price of everything from groceries, to smartphones, to  washing machines, to just about every conceivable product.

Voters in the last election indicated they were fed up with high  prices. Every time Americans went to the grocery store, they were  reminded that inflation and putting food on their family's table was  more difficult and left them with less money for other necessities.

Many pundits say the 2024 election hinged on promises to reduce  inflation and lower taxes. Does it make any sense to impose a tax on  imports that will make all Americans worse off? Shouldn't we learn from  our success?

We should ask ourselves a fundamental question: Is trade good? Well,  trade is simply capitalism. Trade never occurs unless you want a  product more than you want your money. Has anyone ever made a trade, a  voluntary trade, where you thought you were being ripped off? No. You  buy stuff only because you think you are making a good deal.

Those who say that, oh, no, we are being ripped off--it is a fallacy.  It asserts that one of the parties must necessarily lose or be taken  advantage of. The argument belies a fundamental misunderstanding of  trade. By definition, every voluntary trade is mutually beneficial.

Trade is good. That isn't an opinion; it is a fact. For at least the  last 50 years, as trade rises, so does wealth. And people say the  middle class has gotten smaller? Slightly but only because it moved to  the upper class.

These tariffs will make Americans poorer, and they will make the  defenders of those tariffs pay. Tariffs bring us closer to the day when  the people are ruled by a czar of industrial policy. When that day  comes, we will wish we had defended the Constitution when we still had  the power to do so.

We cannot afford to stand idly by while the constitutional principle  of the separation of powers is eviscerated. Legislators who stand aside  and abdicate the power to tax will one day rue the accumulation of  power in the office of one person.

I stand against this emergency, I stand against these tariffs, and I  stand against shredding the Constitution.

I have no animus towards the President. I voted for him and support  his administration.

I come to the floor today not because I want to but because I am  compelled to. I love my country and the principles upon which it is  founded. The oath I took upon taking this office is to the Constitution  of the United States and not to any person or faction.

I want to preserve the divisions of power that protect us and our  children from the rule of one person. That is why I will today vote to  end this emergency. I will vote to reclaim the taxation power of  Congress, where the Constitution properly places it, and I urge the  Members of my party to do the same.