U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Border Management, Federal Workforce, and Regulatory Affairs Rules of Procedure


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688269/us-senate-subcommittee-on-border-management-federal-workforce-and-regulatory-affairs-rules-of-procedure


Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, Senate Standing Rule XXVI requires each  committee to adopt rules to govern the procedure of the committee and  to publish those rules in the Congressional Record not later than March  1 of the first year of each Congress. On February 27, 2025, a majority  of the members of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental  Affairs' Subcommittee on Border Management, Federal Workforce, and  Regulatory Affairs adopted subcommittee rules of procedure.

The Subcommittee shall be governed,       where applicable, by the rules of the Committee on Homeland       Security and Governmental Affairs and the Standing Rules of       the Senate.

(2) QUORUMS. For public or executive sessions, one Member       of the Subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for the       administering of oaths and the taking of testimony in any       given case or subject matter. One-third of the Members of the       Subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of       business other than the administering of oaths and the taking       of testimony, provided that one Member of the minority is       present. Proxies shall not be considered for the       establishment of a quorum.

(3) TAKING TESTIMONY. In any hearings conducted by the       Subcommittee, the Chair or the Chair's designee may swear in       each witness prior to their testimony.

(4) SUBCOMMITTEE SUBPOENAS. Subpoenas for witnesses, as       well as documents and records, may be authorized and issued       by the Chair, or any other Member of the Subcommittee       designated by him or her, with the approval of the Ranking       Minority Member of the Subcommittee, provided that the Chair       may subpoena attendance or production without the approval of       the Ranking Minority Member where the Chair or a staff       officer designated by him or her has not received       notification from the Ranking Minority Member or a staff       officer designated by him or her of disapproval of the       subpoena within two calendar days excluding Saturdays and       Sundays, of being notified of the subpoena. If the subpoena       is disapproved by the Ranking Minority Member as provided       herein, the subpoena may be authorized by a vote of the       Members of the Subcommittee.

A written notice of intent to issue a subpoena shall be       provided to the Chair and Ranking Minority Member of the full       Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, or       staff officers designated by them, by the Subcommittee Chair,       or a staff officer designated by him or her, immediately upon       such authorization, and no subpoena shall be issued for at       least two calendar days, excluding Saturdays and Sundays,       from delivery to appropriate offices, unless the Chair and       Ranking Minority Member of the full Committee on Homeland       Security and Governmental Affairs waive the two-calendar day       waiting period or unless the Subcommittee Chair certifies in       writing to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the       full Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs       that, in his or her opinion, it is necessary to issue the       subpoena immediately.