U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Disaster Management, District of Columbia, and Census Rules of Procedure


Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, Senate Standing Rule XXVI requires each  committee to adopt rules to govern the procedure of the committee and  to publish those rules in the Congressional Record not later than March  1 of the first year of each Congress. On February 27, 2025, a majority  of the members of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental  Affairs' Subcommittee on Disaster Management, District of Columbia, and  Census adopted subcommittee rules of procedure.

Subcommittee rules. The Subcommittee shall be governed,       where applicable, by the rules of the full Committee on       Homeland Security and Government Affairs and the Standing       Rules of the Senate.

2. Quorums.

A. Transaction of routine business. One-third of the       membership of the Subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for       the transaction of routine business, provided       that one Member of the Minority is present. For the purpose       of this paragraph, the term ``routine business'' includes the       convening of a meeting and the consideration of any business       of the Subcommittee other than reporting to the full       Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs any       measures, matters, or recommendations.

B. Taking testimony. One Member of the Subcommittee shall       constitute a quorum for taking sworn or unsworn testimony.

C. Proxies prohibited in establishment of quorum. Proxies       shall not be considered for the establishment of a quorum.

3. Subcommittee subpoenas. The Chair of the Subcommittee,       with the approval of the Ranking Minority Member of the       Subcommittee, is authorized to subpoena the attendance of       witnesses or the production of memoranda, documents, records,       or any other materials at a hearing, provided that the Chair       may subpoena attendance or production without the approval of       the Ranking Minority Member where the Chair or a staff       officer designated by the Chair has not received notification       from the Ranking Minority Member or a staff officer       designated by the Chair of disapproval of the subpoena within       2 calendar days, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and legal       holidays in which the Senate is not in session, of being       notified of the subpoena. If a subpoena is disapproved by the       Ranking Minority Member as provided herein, the subpoena may       be authorized by vote of the Members of the Subcommittee.

Immediately upon authorization of the issuance of a       subpoena under these rules, a written notice of intent to       issue the subpoena shall be provided to the Chair and Ranking       Minority Member of the full Committee on Homeland Security       and Government Affairs, or staff officers designated by the       Chair and Ranking Minority Member for the full Committee, by       the Subcommittee Chair or a staff officer designated by the       Chair, and no subpoena shall be issued for at least 2       calendar days, excluding Saturdays and Sundays, from delivery       to the appropriate offices, unless the Chair and Ranking       Minority Member of the full Committee on Homeland Security       and Government Affairs waive the 2-calendar day waiting       period or unless the Subcommittee Chair certifies in writing       to the Chair and Ranking Minority Member of the full       Committee that, in the opinion of the Chair, it is necessary       to issue a subpoena immediately.

When the Subcommittee or its Chair authorizes subpoenas,       subpoenas may be issued upon the signature of the Chair or       any other Member of the Subcommittee designated by the Chair.