U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations Rules of Procedure


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1687952/us-senate-permanent-subcommittee-on-investigations-rules-of-procedure


Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, Senate Standing Rule XXVI requires each  committee to adopt rules to govern the procedure of the committee and  to publish those rules in the Congressional Record not later than March  1 of the first year of each Congress. On February 20, 2025, a majority  of the members of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental  Affairs' Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations adopted subcommittee  rules of procedure.

No public hearing connected with an investigation may be       held without the approval of either the Chair and the Ranking       Minority Member or a Majority of the Members of the       Subcommittee. In all cases, notification to all Subcommittee       Members of the intent to hold hearings must be given at least       7 days in advance to the date of the hearing. The Ranking       Minority Member should be kept fully apprised of preliminary       inquiries, investigations, and hearings. Preliminary       inquiries may be initiated by the Subcommittee Majority staff       upon the approval of the Chair and notice of such approval to       the Ranking Minority Member, Minority Staff Director, or the       Minority Chief Counsel. Preliminary inquiries may be       undertaken by the Minority staff upon the approval of the       Ranking Minority Member and notice of such approval to the       Chair, Staff Director, or Chief Counsel. Investigations may       be undertaken upon the approval of the Chair and the Ranking       Minority Member       with notice of such approval to all Members of the       Subcommittee.

No public hearing shall be held if the Minority Members of       the Subcommittee unanimously object, unless the Committee on       Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs (the       ``Committee'') approves of such public hearing by a majority       vote.

Senate Rules will govern all closed sessions convened by       the Subcommittee (Rule XXVI, Sec. 5(b), Standing Rules of the       Senate).

2. Subpoenas for witnesses, as well as documents and       records, may be authorized and issued by the Chair, or any       other Member of the Subcommittee designated by the Chair,       with notice to the Ranking Minority Member. A written notice       of intent to issue a subpoena shall be provided to the Chair       and Ranking Minority Member of the Committee, or staff       officers designated by them, by the Chair or a staff officer       designated by the Chair, immediately upon such authorization,       and no subpoena shall be issued for at least 48 hours,       excluding Saturdays and Sundays, from delivery to the       appropriate offices, unless the Chair and Ranking Minority       Member of the Committee waive the 48 hour waiting period or       unless the Chair certifies in writing to the Chair and       Ranking Minority Member of the Committee that, in the Chair's       opinion, it is necessary to issue a subpoena immediately.

3. The Chair shall have the authority to call meetings of       the Subcommittee. This authority may be delegated by the       Chair to any other Member of the Subcommittee when necessary.

4. If at least three Members of the Subcommittee desire the       Chair to call a special meeting, they may file, in the office       of the Subcommittee, a written request therefor, addressed to       the Chair. Immediately thereafter, the clerk of the       Subcommittee shall notify the Chair of such request. If,       within 3 calendar days after the filing of such request, the       Chair fails to call the requested special meeting, which is       to be held within 7 calendar days after the filing of such       request, a majority of the Subcommittee Members may file in       the office of the Subcommittee their written notice that a       special Subcommittee meeting will be held, specifying the       date and hour thereof, and the Subcommittee shall meet on       that date and hour. Immediately upon the filing of such       notice, the Subcommittee clerk shall notify all Subcommittee       Members that such special meeting will be held and inform       them of its date and hour. If the Chair is not present at any       regular, additional or special meeting, the Ranking Majority       Member present shall preside.

5. For public or executive sessions, one Member of the       Subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for the administering       of oaths and the taking of testimony in any given case or       subject matter.

One-third of the Members of the Subcommittee shall       constitute a quorum for the transaction of Subcommittee       business other than the administering of oaths and the taking       of testimony, provided that at least one member of the       minority is present.

6. All witnesses at public or executive hearings who       testify to matters of fact shall be sworn.

7. If, during public or executive sessions, a witness,       witness counsel, or any spectator conducts themselves in such       a manner as to prevent, impede, disrupt, obstruct, or       interfere with the orderly administration of such hearing,       the Chair or presiding Member of the Subcommittee present       during such hearing may request the Sergeant at Arms of the       Senate, a representative of the Sergeant at Arms of the       Senate, or any law enforcement official to eject said person       from the hearing room.

8. Counsel retained by any witness and accompanying such       witness shall be permitted to be present during the testimony       of such witness at any public or executive hearing and to       advise such witness while the witness is testifying of the       witness's legal rights; provided, however, that in the case       of any witness who is an officer or employee of the       government, or of a corporation or association, the Chair may       rule that representation by counsel from the government,       corporation, or association, or by counsel representing       another witness, creates a conflict of interest, and that the       witness may only be represented during interrogation by       Subcommittee staff or during testimony before the       Subcommittee by personal counsel not from the government,       corporation, or association, or by personal counsel not       representing another witness. This rule shall not be       construed to excuse a witness from testifying in the event       witness counsel is ejected for conduct preventing, impeding,       disrupting, obstructing, or interfering with the orderly       administration of the hearings; nor shall this rule be       construed as authorizing counsel to coach the witness or       answer for the witness. The failure of any witness to secure       counsel shall not excuse such witness from complying with a       subpoena or deposition notice.

9. Depositions

9.1 Notice. Notices for the taking of depositions in an       investigation authorized by the Subcommittee shall be       authorized and issued by the Chair. The Chair of the       Committee and the Ranking Minority Member of the Subcommittee       shall be kept fully apprised of the authorization for the       taking of depositions. Such notices shall specify a time and       place of examination, and the name of the Subcommittee Member       or Members or staff officer or officers who will take the       deposition. The deposition shall be in private. The       Subcommittee shall not initiate procedures leading to       criminal or civil enforcement proceedings for a witness's       failure to appear unless the deposition notice was       accompanied by a Subcommittee subpoena.

9.2 Counsel. Witnesses may be accompanied at a deposition       by counsel to advise them of their legal rights, subject to       the provisions of Rule 8.

9.3 Procedure. Witnesses shall be examined upon oath       administered by an individual authorized by local law to       administer oaths. Questions shall be propounded orally by       Subcommittee Members or staff. Objections by the witness as       to the form of questions shall be noted for the record. If a       witness objects to a question and refuses to testify on the       basis of relevance or privilege, the Subcommittee Members or       staff may proceed with the deposition, or may, at that time       or at a subsequent time, seek a ruling by telephone or       otherwise on the objection from the Chair or such       Subcommittee Member as designated by the Chair. If the Chair       or designated Member overrules the objection, these Members       may refer the matter to the Subcommittee or may order and       direct the witness to answer the question, but the       Subcommittee shall not initiate procedures leading to civil       or criminal enforcement unless the witness refuses to testify       after being ordered and directed to answer by the Chair or       designated Member.

9.4 Filing. The Subcommittee staff shall see that the       testimony is transcribed or electronically recorded. If it is       transcribed, the witness shall be furnished with a copy for       review pursuant to the provisions of Rule 12. The individual       administering the oath shall certify on the transcript that       the witness was duly sworn in the individual's presence, the       transcriber shall certify that the transcript is a true       record of the testimony, and the transcript shall then be       filed with the Subcommittee clerk. Subcommittee staff may       stipulate with the witness to changes in this procedure;       deviations from this procedure which do not substantially       impair the reliability of the record shall not relieve the       witness from the obligation to testify truthfully.

10. Any witness desiring to read a prepared or written       statement in executive or public hearings shall file a copy       of such statement with the Chair, Staff Director, or Chief       Counsel 48 hours in advance of the hearings at which the       statement is to be presented unless the Chair and the Ranking       Minority Member waive this requirement. The Subcommittee       shall determine whether such statement may be read or placed       in the record of the hearing.

11. A witness may request, on grounds of distraction,       harassment, personal safety, or physical discomfort, that       during testimony, television, motion picture, and other       cameras and lights, shall not be directed at the witness.       Such requests shall be ruled on by the Subcommittee Members       present at the hearing.

12. An accurate stenographic record shall be kept of the       testimony of all witnesses in executive and public hearings.       The record of a witness's own testimony, whether in public or       executive session, shall be made available for inspection by       the witness or witness counsel under Subcommittee       supervision; a copy of any testimony given in public session       or that part of the testimony given by the witness in       executive session and subsequently quoted or made part of the       record in a public session shall be made available to any       witness at the witness's expense if requested.

13. Interrogation of witnesses at Subcommittee hearings       shall be conducted on behalf of the Subcommittee by       Subcommittee Members and authorized Subcommittee staff       personnel only.

14. Any person who is the subject of an investigation in       public hearings may submit to the Chair questions in writing       for the cross-examination of other witnesses called by the       Subcommittee. With the consent of a majority of the Members       of the Subcommittee present and voting, these questions, or       paraphrased versions of them, shall be put to the witness by       the Chair, by a Member of the Subcommittee, or by counsel of       the Subcommittee.

15. Any person whose name is mentioned or who is       specifically identified, and who believes that testimony or       other evidence presented at a public hearing, or comment made       by a Subcommittee Member or counsel, tends to defame the       person or otherwise adversely affect the person's reputation,       may (a) request to appear personally before the Subcommittee       to testify, or, in the alternative, (b) file a sworn       statement of facts relevant to the testimony or other       evidence or comment complained of. Such request and such       statement shall be submitted to the Subcommittee for its       consideration and action.

If a person requests to appear personally before the       Subcommittee pursuant to alternative (a) referred to herein,       said request shall be considered untimely if it is not       received by the Chair, Staff Director, or Chief Counsel in       writing on or before thirty (30) days subsequent to the day       on which said person's name was mentioned or otherwise       specifically identified during a public hearing held before       the Subcommittee, unless the Chair and the Ranking Minority       Member waive this requirement.

If a person requests to file a sworn statement pursuant to       alternative (b) referred to herein, the Subcommittee may       condition the filing of said sworn statement upon said person       agreeing to appear personally before the       Subcommittee and to testify concerning the matters contained       in the person's sworn statement, as well as any other matters       related to the subject of the investigation before the       Subcommittee.

16. All testimony taken in executive session shall be kept       secret and will not be released for public information       without the approval of a majority of the Members of the       Subcommittee.

17. No Subcommittee report shall be released to the public       unless approved by a majority of the Subcommittee and after       no less than 10 days' notice and opportunity for comment by       the Members of the Subcommittee unless the need for such       notice and opportunity to comment has been waived in writing       by a majority of the Minority Members of the Subcommittee.

18. The Ranking Minority Member may select for appointment       to the Subcommittee staff a Chief Counsel for the Minority       and such other professional staff and clerical assistants as       the Ranking Minority Member deems advisable. The total       compensation allocated to such Minority staff shall be not       less than one-third the total amount allocated for all       Subcommittee staff salaries during any given year. The       Minority staff shall work under the direction and supervision       of the Ranking Minority Member. The Minority Staff Director       and the Minority Chief Counsel shall be kept fully informed       as to preliminary inquiries, investigations, and hearings,       and shall have access to all material in the files of the       Subcommittee.

19. When it is determined by the Chair and Ranking Minority       Member, or by a majority of the Subcommittee, that there is       reasonable cause to believe that a violation of law may have       occurred, the Chair and Ranking Minority Member by letter, or       the Subcommittee by resolution, are authorized to report such       violation to the proper State, local and/or Federal       authorities. Such letter or report may recite the basis for       the determination of reasonable cause. This rule is not       authority for release of documents or testimony.