Unanimous Consent Request


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, no virus, not even a plague, should cause us  to forget that our freedom is the result of resisting the concentration  of power in the hands of a few. 

  Recently, there has been dangerous talk of the President adjourning  Congress. I am reminded of the long English battle to forbid the King  from dissolving Parliament. In fact, Charles I lost his head partly  because he insisted on dissolving Parliament. In those days, Parliament  did not take Charles' royal power grab laying down. When Charles I  dissolved Parliament in 1629, members took matters into their own hands  and descended on the speaker, John Finch, and sat on him. Since he  could not rise, the Parliament could not close. While he squirmed and  was held down, Parliament passed several motions, condemning the King's  power grab. 

  Ultimately, the English Parliament would change the Constitution to  forbid the King from dissolving Parliament. Now, I am not suggesting we  hold the President of the Senate down and commandeer the Senate--though  the idea has crossed my mind. 

  Whatever path of resistance we take, talk of the administration  adjourning or temporarily dissolving Congress should loudly be resisted  as if the Republic depended on it. 

  Perhaps more alarming than allowing a President threatening to  dissolve Congress is that Congress currently has allowed itself to  become more of an oligarchy than an assembly. A few Members of the  leadership are set to pass legislation, spending nearly a half a  trillion dollars, without any recorded vote or debate. Shouldn't  someone shout stop? Shouldn't someone point out the terrible precedent  of having a few Members speak for all the Members? 

  I, for one, believe that if there exists too much danger to have  Congress meet--and if there exists too much danger to have Congress  meet in person, we should allow emergency voting remotely. 

  In that vein, I offer the following resolution. I ask unanimous  consent that the Senate proceed to the consideration of my resolution  at the desk; I further ask that the resolution be agreed to, the  preamble agreed to, and that the motions to reconsider be considered  made and laid upon the table without any intervening action or debate. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT