Beating Heart of Democracy is Freedom of Speech


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, freedom of speech is the beating heart  of a democracy. It is the entire reason that this building exists, so  that we can talk out our differences.

Free societies do not fear free speech, even when that speech is  hateful or malignant or stupid. Free societies recognize that the only  way to separate fact from fiction, love from hate, truth from lies,  wisdom from folly, or good from evil is to put them side by side and to  trust the people to know the difference.

No central authority must ever be given the power to take this vital  freedom away from the people or to punish anyone solely for expressing  their opinions.

We have based our entire form of government on the assumption that,  when exposed to all sides and all viewpoints, more than half of the  people are going to get it right more than half of the time. This  assumption has served us well through the centuries.

The left rejects this premise. For many years, leftists have told us  that speech is violence and can be answered with violence. This  justifies their shouting down opponents and disrupting peaceful  assemblies.

We have repeatedly watched leftist mobs burn our cities, loot  shopkeepers, and assault people on the streets while leftist  politicians egged them on.

We see the growing physical attacks on law enforcement. The left used  the FBI to suppress debate on critical issues ranging from COVID  lockdowns to Biden family influence peddling to climate hysteria. It  has called for government commissions to regulate it. In Europe,  leftist governments now criminalize it.

Mr. Speaker, I raise these points because a Member of this House  recently made some truly vile and despicable remarks about Charlie Kirk  after his brutal assassination. Her words should be loudly and  universally condemned.

Last night, on the House floor, a resolution of censure was brought  against her in the name of Charlie Kirk to formally punish her for her  hateful rhetoric, but what did Charlie Kirk say about hate speech?

He said this 5 years ago: ``My position is that even hate speech  should be completely and totally allowed in our country. The most  disgusting speech should absolutely be protected. . . . The ACLU used  to hold this viewpoint. The American Civil Liberties Union, they sued  so that legitimate Nazis could march through downtown Skokie. . . . Why  would the ACLU do this? Because, they said, as soon as you use the word  `hate,' that is a very subjective term because then, all of a sudden,  it is in the eyes or it is in the implementation of whomever has the  power. So here is my belief: The more speech, the better.''

That was Charlie Kirk.

We must never allow the left to become our teachers. If we ever do,  we will lose our country. There will be no moral high ground, no  changing of minds, and no rebirth of faith and freedom that we so  desperately need.

Free societies do not fear words and thoughts, even those that are  hateful, ugly, evil, or obscene, because the same freedom that protects  these darkest  impulses of our nature also protects the right of men and women of good  will to confront them, expose them, and reject them. The only true way  to expose them as wrong is to do exactly what Charlie Kirk did until  his last breath and with his last breath.

When the left calls us Nazis, fascists, and murderers, this might be  hateful and hurtful, but it is speech, nonetheless. It should be  criticized in the strongest possible terms as irresponsible,  inflammatory, outrageous, revolting, and wrong. It should be ridiculed  and shamed.

Businesses have every right to protect their reputation, and schools  have every right to protect their children, but we should defend their  right to say what they will and trust that the vast majority of  Americans will see it for what it is.

There are only two ways to resolve our differences: There is reason,  and there is force. The American Founders gave us a Republic governed  by reason and illuminated by freedom of speech.

That is the civilization that Charlie Kirk lived for and died for. He  devoted his life and ultimately gave his life to restore, strengthen,  and perpetuate a free society based on discourse and reason.

What a tragedy it would be if, in our outrage and grief, we were to  throw it all away.