Birthright Citizenship


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688130/birthright-citizenship


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, our country has just suffered the  largest illegal mass migration in history.

Over 4 years, the Democrats opened our borders and allowed an  unvetted and largely impoverished population of nearly 8 million to  illegally enter our country--a population the size of Washington State.

This illegal mass migration has overwhelmed our public schools,  public hospitals, homeless shelters, food banks, and law enforcement,  and it is costing American taxpayers $160 billion a year to support.  Worst of all, it has introduced into our country the most violent  criminal gangs and offenders on the planet.

It has also brought to a head the fundamental question of whether any  person in the world can break into our country, have a baby at taxpayer  expense, have that baby declared an American citizen, and then use that  as a pretext to remain.

Now, President Trump has issued an executive order challenging that  notion for all future births. The Democrats call this a threat to  democracy and a constitutional crisis. That is what they call anything  they disagree with these days, but it is neither. It is the  Constitution functioning as it should.

The President has created a dispute arising from a difference of  opinion in interpreting the Constitution. Opponents in this dispute  have appealed to the courts, as they should. Now, the courts will  resolve this dispute under the terms of our Constitution.

Meanwhile, I have a question for the Democrats: If the 14th Amendment  actually confers automatic citizenship to anyone born here, wouldn't it  have said all persons born or naturalized in the United States are  citizens of the United States? That is simple enough.

That is not what it says. It says: ``All persons born or naturalized  in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are  citizens of the United States.''

What does that mean? We know that it means the children of former  slaves are citizens. That is its stated purpose and the plain language  of the amendment passed, by the way, over the objections of the  Democratic Party. We know from the congressional debate that its  authors understood it to exclude foreign nationals who are merely  passing through the country.

The question of our time is whether those who have illegally entered  our country in defiance of our laws and who are subject to deportation  under those laws can be considered as having accepted the jurisdiction  of the laws that their very presence defies.

The Supreme Court has never considered this question. The closest it  came was the Ark decision 127 years ago, but that applied to legal  immigrants who had accepted the jurisdiction of the United States by  obeying its immigration laws and who had taken up legal, permanent  residence subject to a treaty ratified by the Senate.

Does the President have the authority by executive order to clear up  this matter as part of his organic constitutional responsibility to  take care that the laws be faithfully executed? I don't know. Obama  claimed the authority to create a legal residency for DACA  beneficiaries out of thin air, so maybe he does. The Court will  ultimately rule.

Does the Congress have the authority to clear up this matter by  statute? Only if that statute doesn't contradict the Constitution.

Here is the fine point of the matter: If the 14th Amendment does not  give automatic birthright citizenship to the children of those here  illegally and temporarily, then no law should be necessary to deny them  citizenship in the future because no law ever extended that right in  the first place. In that case, the President's executive order is  merely declaratory of existing law.

Several lower courts have stayed the President's executive order, and  no one is screaming that is a constitutional crisis, even though many  of us strenuously disagree with those judges just as strenuously as the  left disagrees with the President.

Ultimately, though, we have faith in our Constitution, and as the  case progresses through the courts, we will get  a clear and authoritative ruling that will then determine whether the  President's order stands or whether Congress needs to act either by  statute or constitutional amendment.

To call this a constitutional crisis is the kind of absurd and  juvenile hyperbole that passes for argument these days by the woke  left. I look forward to returning to a society someday when we can have  civil discussions over high principles as our Founders envisioned.