Condemning the Violent June 2025 Riots in Los Angeles, California


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, many Democrats in this House have called  the L.A. riots peaceful, even while Americans watched with their own  eyes as marauding mobs under foreign flags set cars on fire, threw  concrete blocks at police, terrorized motorists, and vandalized and  looted local shops.

The Democratic vice mayor of Cudahy has called on criminal street  gangs to attack Federal law enforcement.

The Democratic mayor of Los Angeles said that for the riots to stop,  the Federal Government had to stop enforcing Federal immigration law.  You just heard the same sentiment expressed on this floor a few minutes  ago.

The Democratic Newsom administration has paid millions of taxpayer  dollars to one of the principal organizers of these riots.

I have news for the Democrats: The doctrine of nullification died  with the Confederacy. States are not permitted to obstruct the  enforcement of Federal law. In a humiliating slap-down of Mr. Newsom,  even the notoriously liberal Ninth Circuit Court ruled that the  President has the clear authority to federalize the National Guard to  restore order whenever State or local officials are derelict in their  duty to protect the public and enforce the law.

Remember how all this started: ICE agents attempted to execute court- ordered warrants on criminal illegal aliens. When a mob intervened, ICE  called for local law enforcement. The mayor reportedly stopped them  from responding, and the Governor did nothing. Now, we saw during the  George Floyd riots what happens when leftist officials refuse to  counter violent mobs: American cities aflame, billions of dollars of  damage, and 19 people killed.

This resolution condemns the violence, but there is something far  more sinister afoot that strikes at the very foundation of a  constitutional Republic: the rule of law. As Abraham Lincoln told the  Democrats long ago: ``There is no grievance that is a fit object of  redress by mob law,'' and this generation of Americans is taking note.