Democrats' Big Mistake


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, the big, beautiful bill is now the law,  so it is no longer a theoretical discussion about what the bill might  do. We are about to find out what it will do.

The Democrats have succeeded in frightening Americans into lopsided  opposition. On the day it passed the House, one poll registered just 29  percent public support for it compared to 55 percent opposition.

This has encouraged Democrats to double down on their hysterical  warnings of societal collapse, warnings they hope will continue to  resonate with the public.

What they don't seem to grasp is that you can't spin the economy.  Everybody knows in their own lives exactly how the economy is doing and  any politician who tries to tell them otherwise just looks foolish.

Remember when the Democrats were telling us for years that Bidenomics  was working. The only economic indicator that matters is the answer  Americans give to this question: Are you better off today than you were  2 years ago?

Now, Americans may never realize that this bill protected them from a  22 percent income tax increase that was set to take effect on January  1. A family making $75,000 a year won't feel its taxes rise $1,500, so  it won't feel relief from this provision. We don't feel what doesn't  happen.

Democrats are counting on this fact while stoking class resentments  over tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, but millionaires and  billionaires don't work for tips. They don't get paid overtime. They  don't rely on Social Security. Working families do, and for the first  time, the big, beautiful bill shields these earnings from being taxed.  In addition, residents of high tax States will feel a big reduction in  their Federal income tax bill.

Further, businesses get relief, too, those awful millionaires and  billionaires, mainly in their ability to deduct 100 percent of their  expenses for manufacturing purchases. That means that manufacturers of  every variety will add equipment to their plants, increasing the  productivity and the pay of existing workers, and adding new jobs to  make that equipment.

By opening America's vast energy resources, domestic production is  about to rev up, a declaration of American energy independence that  will echo throughout the entire economy, then add the completion of the  border wall and the removal of millions of illegal aliens that the  Democrats allowed into our country.

Under Biden, most of the new jobs were snapped up by foreigners, and  real wages fell. Under Trump, most jobs are going to Americans, and  real wages for Americans are rising again, as employers are forced to  pay a market rate for labor.

The Democrats' mantra that millions of destitute Americans will lose  their Medicaid coverage is about to be challenged by reality. The fact  is that the only groups losing coverage are able-bodied grownups who  refuse to get off the couch and look for work, illegal aliens who  refuse to go home, and fraudsters.

What happens when millions of legitimate Medicaid recipients who have  been terrified by the Democrats realize that their benefits are  untouched? Well, we are going to find out.

Will the national debt balloon? Only if you accept the assumption  that the economy will grow at an anemic 1.8 percent next year. The  average 20th century growth rate, including the Depression, was 3.3  percent. A mere 3 percent growth rate will generate $4 trillion of new  revenues, and that doesn't include hundreds of billions of dollars  collected from imports or saved by eliminating waste identified by  DOGE.

How will average Americans fare? They will be paying significantly  lower taxes than they are today, especially if they work for tips or  overtime, are over 65, have children, or live in high-tax States.  Wages, long undercut by cheap illegal labor, are already rising.  Factories that make or buy equipment will be making and buying a lot  more of it.

No one unable to work will lose their Medicaid benefits. Their  neighborhoods will be safer as criminal illegals are deported and not  allowed to return. Their energy bills will be lower.

If all this relief creates just average economic growth, the deficit  will begin to shrink, which brings us back to the simple question that  we will put to people next year: Are you better off today than you were  2 years ago? Obnoxious protests, hysterical rhetoric, and doomsday  trolling won't change that simple and self-evident answer.

One party will have been proven undeniably right and the other  mendaciously wrong, and I think that is what the Democrats fear the  most.