Designation of Haiti for Temporary Protected Status


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701857/designation-of-haiti-for-temporary-protected-status


Mr. McCLINTOCK.  1689.

Mr. Speaker, for 4 years, our Nation suffered the largest illegal,  mass migration in history at the hands of the Democrats. The cost to  our country is immense: hospitals overrun with illegals demanding care;  food pantries and homeless shelters overwhelmed; classrooms packed with  non-English speaking students; rampant child, sex, and labor  trafficking; hundreds of thousands of Americans dead from fentanyl  overdoses; suppressed wages for working families; billions in welfare  costs to support this population; and, worst of all, the introduction  of the most violent criminals and criminal gangs and cartels in the  world into our communities.

President Trump reversed these ruinous policies simply by enforcing  our existing immigration laws. Illegal border crossings immediately  plunged more  than 95 percent. The largest illegal mass migration in history is now  being followed by the largest legal deportation in history, although  the Democrats are doing everything they can to obstruct it.

One aspect of this deliberately engineered nightmare was the abuse of  so-called temporary protected status. It proved Ronald Reagan's maxim  that there is nothing more permanent on this Earth than a temporary  government program.

Now, as its name implies, temporary protected status is supposed to  provide temporary residency to legal aliens who happened to be visiting  here when a disaster in their own country temporarily prevented their  safe return. The Democrats turned this temporary program into an open- ended and unconditional invitation for aliens to illegally enter our  country and then remain indefinitely.

Under Biden, the number of TPS beneficiaries nearly quadrupled in  just 4 years as aliens illegally entered our country in order to claim  this status.

The Immigration and Nationality Act not only gives the President the  power to extend temporary status as Biden did, it also gives the  President the power to withdraw that status when it is no longer  applicable or in the interests of our country, as this President has  done.

Barack Obama granted temporary protected status to Haitian nationals  in this country when Haiti suffered an earthquake in 2010. For 16  years, this status has persisted in different iterations, including  multiple designations, redesignations, and extensions.

During the Trump administrations, the Department of Homeland Security  has attempted to end this temporary status for Haiti, noting that  allowing hundreds of thousands of illegal aliens to reside in our  country indefinitely is counter to our national interests. The vast  majority of these TPS beneficiaries under Biden did not enter the  country legally only to find themselves stranded by unfortunate events,  rather they entered our country illegally to claim such status,  encouraged, aided, and abetted by the Democrats in power.

Indeed, as the House Judiciary Committee documented in a report early  last year, of the roughly 340,000 Haitian TPS holders, 312,000, 91  percent, came to the United States illegally. Their reward for  committing this crime was a work permit and indefinite protection from  deportation; and, yes, illegal entry into this country is a Federal  crime.

Abuses like these allowed the TPS program to balloon from roughly  410,000 when Biden took office to nearly 1.5 million aliens from 16  different countries by the day he left office.

As the number of aliens with TPS skyrocketed, American communities  such as Logansport, Indiana; Springfield, Illinois; and Charleroi,  Pennsylvania, cried out for help. Charleroi's population of 4,000  swelled to 7,000 almost overnight as a flood of Haitian nationals took  up residence.

The little town was forced to spend $400,000 for English language  instructors and $1 million overall just to support the influx of  students. This was all taken from the resources that would otherwise  have been available to their own students.

Our Immigration, Integrity, Security, and Enforcement Subcommittee  took testimony last year from a local official there, who told us of  severe strains on housing, medical care, education, emergency services,  law enforcement services, and other social services. He testified to a  dramatic increase in traffic collisions and citizens of this peaceful,  small town now afraid to walk the streets.

The Trump administration has heeded the cries of the American people.  Since taking office, the President has moved to withdraw TPS status for  foreign nationals whose conditions no longer warrant such status. In  other cases, the Trump administration has determined that these TPS  designations are simply not in our Nation's self-interest.

These decisions are clearly provided for under the Immigration and  Nationality Act, but today my Democratic colleagues argue that we  should ignore all of this, that we should return to the Biden  administration's immigration policies, starting with Haitian TPS. If  this bill passes, I think we can expect TPS status to be extended to  the millions more who wish to exploit our country and its taxpayers.

Americans will not soon forget the image of thousands of illegal  aliens from Haiti pouring across the southwest border and crowding  under the bridge in Del Rio, Texas. Put simply, this bill would serve  as de facto amnesty for hundreds of thousands of aliens from Haiti who  illegally poured across our southern border. America does not need to  relive that nightmare, and that is a choice.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose the bill today, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, the gentlewoman tells us that Haitian TPS recipients  contribute to our society. Well, no doubt some do. Overall, though,  nearly 53 percent of Haitian households are on at least one major  welfare program. Let me repeat that so that it sinks in. More than half  of Haitian households are on welfare. That means they are taking from  our society, not contributing to it.

Indeed, an exhaustive study in 2017 estimated that the average  illegal immigrant costs taxpayers between $87,000 and $110,000 to  support over a lifetime. That is a net drain after you account for the  taxes that they pay. That is a minimum $27 billion cost to American  taxpayers to maintain this population.

We are told many Haitian nationals fill healthcare jobs. Well, yes,  they take healthcare jobs that would otherwise be filled by Americans.  If Americans aren't taking those jobs, it is because cheap, migrant  labor is suppressing wages in those sectors. That is why working  families lost ground under the Biden administration.

As our immigration laws are enforced, wages for working families are  again beginning to rise. This bill takes us a giant step backward for  Americans, and that shouldn't surprise anyone who saw the Democrats'  reaction on this floor when President Trump suggested that the first  responsibility of this government should be to help Americans, not  illegal immigrants.

Mr. Speaker, I am now honored and pleased to yield such time as he  may consume to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Jordan), the chairman of  the House Judiciary Committee.

Mr. Speaker, the gentlewoman said that Haitian TPS holders all  entered this country through the front door legally. That is simply  untrue. Yes, about 9 percent entered legally on visas; 91 percent  entered illegally.

She tells us that Haiti is a dangerous place, and, therefore, our  country must accept every Haitian who can illegally enter our country  and then stay indefinitely.

Haiti isn't the only dangerous country in the world. Do the Democrats  seriously argue that this is grounds for TPS for the hundreds of  millions of people around the world who live in dangerous environments?  This is absurd.

Mr. Speaker, the gentleman tells us that we have no choice as a       matter of humaneness but to accept these refugees into our       country who are fleeing danger. This is the only refuge       that they have.

That is simply not true. Bill Melugin of FOX News was at the border  in 2021 when 15,000 Haitians bum-rushed our border. He just tweeted out  his recollection of the events, and let me read them to you:

``Many of them later discarded their IDs and paperwork showing they  had been living and working in South American countries for years  (mostly Chile) as they prepared to make fraudulent asylum claims. Their  documents were all over the ground. We collected many of them.''

They are not seeking refuge in the United States because they had  already found refuge in other countries. They came here to exploit our  system, an exploitation that the Democrats insist on aiding, abetting,  and encouraging.

Again, the Democrats tell us that Haiti is a dangerous place, and I  have news for them: Most of the world's population lives in dangerous  places.

Do the Democrats seriously argue that Americans are obligated to  admit hundreds of millions of people living in those dangerous places  into the United States and then support them?

That appears to be their policy, and that certainly is what we have  seen from them whenever they have taken power. It is what happens when  governments become corrupt and refuse to protect innocent citizens from  violent predators who roam the streets.

This should come as no surprise to Americans living in blue cities  where leftist DAs refuse to prosecute dangerous criminals and prefer to  release dangerous, criminal illegal aliens back onto our streets rather  than turn them over to ICE to be removed from our country.

That is what comes when you allow hundreds of thousands of unvetted  illegal aliens into our country from violent and lawless societies like  Haiti.

Yes, many of these people are fleeing these conditions. Many others  are creating them. Why would you allow the latter into our country to  create the same violence and lawlessness?

That is why we have immigration laws: to separate out the good from  the bad. There are good and bad in every community, but we need to keep  the bad out. That is what the Democrats seek constantly to undermine.

This argument not only flies in the face of common sense, but it  makes a mockery of the entire temporary protected status provisions of  our immigration law. The law was designed to ensure that foreign  nationals legally in our country, who are prevented from returning home  because of temporary conditions, could remain here until those  conditions have abated.

That law was never envisioned to allow aliens fleeing those  conditions to seek permanent residence in America by illegally entering  our country. Yet, that is precisely what the Democrats are turning this  program into with this bill today.

If we don't enforce our immigration laws, we have no immigration  laws. If we have no immigration laws, we have no border. If we have no  border, then we have no country.

This bill makes a mockery of a program meant to provide temporary  refuge for legal residents. This temporary status for Haitians has now  gone on for 16 years. Ninety-one percent of these TPS holders are not  legal visitors temporarily stranded in our country. Rather, they are  illegal aliens who broke our laws specifically to benefit from TPS  status.

The vast majority entered illegally during the Biden era of open  borders. They overwhelmed local communities. Among this population came  violent criminals who we can only count as they commit heinous  atrocities like the one we saw in Fort Myers just 9 days ago.

When the President asked the Democrats to stand if they agreed that  the first duty of the American Government is to protect the American  people and not illegal aliens, not one of them stood. It shouldn't  surprise us that they now bring this bill as the first step toward  returning to the open-border policies of the Biden administration.

America, take heed. As this debate has once again made painfully  clear, if the Democrats return to power, their first order of business  will be to reopen our borders and allow the illegal mass migration into  this country to continue. We can expect temporary protected status to  become permanent protected status for every nationality the Democrats  favor on the thinnest of pretexts. They have repeatedly made their  intentions clear: to continue the ruinous open-border policies of the  Biden administration.

I, for one, reject that bleak, lawless, impoverished, and violent  future. I ask the House to reject it as well by rejecting this, the  first in a long line of Democrat open-border bills.