Foundation of the Federal Bar Association Charter Amendments Act of 2025


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (S. 616) to amend title 36, United States Code, to revise the  Federal charter for the Foundation of the Federal Bar Association.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                   S. 616

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Foundation of the Federal       Bar Association Charter Amendments Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION.

Section 70501 of title 36, United States Code, is amended--

(1) by striking subsection (b); and

(2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).       SEC. 3. MEMBERSHIP.

Section 70503 of title 36, United States Code, is amended--

(1) by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the       following:

``(a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter,       eligibility for membership in the corporation and the rights       and privileges of members are as provided in the bylaws.'';       and

(2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).       SEC. 4. GOVERNING BODY.

Section 70504 of title 36, United States Code, is amended       to read as follows:       ``Sec. 70504. Governing body

``(a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors is the       governing body of the corporation. The board may exercise, or       provide for the exercise of, the powers of the corporation.       The board of directors and the responsibilities of the board       are as provided in the bylaws.

``(b) Officers.--The officers and the election of the       officers are as provided for in the bylaws.''.       SEC. 5. RESTRICTIONS.

Section 70507 of title 36, United States Code, is amended       to read as follows:       ``Sec. 70507. Restrictions

``(a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue       stock or declare or pay a dividend.

``(b) Political Activities.--

``(1) In general.--The activities, funds, income, and       property of the corporation may not be used to carry on       political activity or attempt to influence legislation.

``(2) No contribution, support, or participation.--The       corporation or a director or officer in the corporate       capacity of the director of officer may not contribute to,       support, or participate in any political activity or in any       manner attempt to influence legislation.

``(c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--

``(1) In general.--The income or assets of the corporation       may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a       director, officer, or member during the life of the charter       granted by this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the       payment, in amounts approved by the board of directors, of--

``(A) reasonable compensation; or

``(B) reimbursement for expenses incurred in undertaking       the corporation's business, to officers, directors, or       members.

``(2) Rule of construction.--This subsection shall not be       construed to--

``(A) prevent the award of a grant to a Federal Bar       Association chapter of which an officer, director, or member       may be a member; or

``(B) prevent the payment of reasonable compensation to the       corporation's employees for services undertaken on behalf of       the corporation.

``(d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a       director, officer, member, or employee.

``(e) Immunity From Liability.--Members and private       individuals are not liable for the obligations of the       corporation.

``(f) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The       corporation--

``(1) may not claim congressional approval or the authority       of the United States Government for any of its activities;       and

``(2) may acknowledge this charter.''.       SEC. 6. PRINCIPAL OFFICE.

Section 70508 of title 36, United States Code, is amended       by striking ``the District of Columbia,'' and inserting ``a       United States location decided by the board of directors and       specified in the bylaws,''.       SEC. 7. SERVICE OF PROCESS.

Section 70510 of title 36, United States Code, is amended       to read as follows:       ``Sec. 70510. Service of process

``The corporation shall comply with the law on service of       process of the State or District in which it is       incorporated.''.       SEC. 8. DEPOSIT OF ASSETS ON DISSOLUTION OR FINAL                     LIQUIDATION.

Section 70512 of title 36, United States Code, is amended       to read as follows:       ``Sec. 70512. Deposit of assets on dissolution or final

liquidation

``On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation,       any assets of the corporation remaining after the discharge       of all liabilities shall be distributed--

``(a) as provided by the board of directors; and

``(b) in compliance with the charter and bylaws.''.       SEC. 9. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of       complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall       be determined by reference to the latest statement titled       ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation'' for this Act,       submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the       Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, provided that such       statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

Mr. McCLINTOCK.  616.

Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of S. 616, the Foundation of the  Federal Bar Association Charter Amendments Act of 2025.

The Federal Bar Association was founded in 1920 as a nonprofit  organization. In 1954, Congress chartered the Federal Bar Association  as a congressionally chartered organization under title 36.

The FBA seeks to strengthen the Federal legal system and  administration of justice by providing services to Federal  practitioners, the Federal judiciary, and the public.

The FBA serves the Federal legal community by promoting standards of  professional competence and ethical conduct, providing educational  programs to the public and the profession, and facilitating the  administration of justice. The FBA is also committed to bringing civics  education programs to classrooms across the country.

Over the years, it has become necessary for the FBA to update its  bylaws. Because the FBA is a congressionally chartered organization, it  takes an act of Congress to make changes in its charter to permit the  FBA to update those bylaws.

S. 616 amends the FBA's current charter in several ways: It removes  the requirement for the FBA to be incorporated and domiciled in  Washington, D.C.;

It allows the board of directors to choose the location of the  principal office;

It specifies that the FBA's bylaws establish membership requirements,  responsibilities of the board of directors, and the election of  officers;

It prohibits a director or officer from contributing or participating  in political activities;

It prohibits loans to members and employees; and

It specifies that in the event of dissolution, any remaining assets  are to be distributed by as provided by the board of directors.

Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of S. 616, and I yield  back the balance of my time.