Government is Still the Problem


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, Zohran Mamdani's winning message was  affordability, that the necessities of life are increasingly out of  reach for most people, and that government is the answer.

He said on election night: ``There is no problem too large for  government to solve.''

Mr. Speaker, he is right about the problem, but he is completely  wrong about the solution. As Ronald Reagan often warned: ``Government  is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem.''

Housing affordability is a good place to start. When and where a free  market is maintained, homebuilders have every incentive to meet the  housing needs at every income level. The profit margin might be bigger  at the top, but the sheer numbers of lower income families compensate  with volume, assuring ample affordable housing for all income levels.

Government sets basic safety standards but otherwise leaves consumers  alone to make their own decisions about everything else. As the tax  base grows, new revenues are available to expand water systems,  electricity generation, highway capacity, schools, police, and fire,  all the necessities of a community.

Landlords have every incentive to provide as many rental units as the  population needs, while competition keeps rents low and demand keeps  units plentiful.

What has happened? Government decided to solve what socialists viewed  as problems.

To solve suburban sprawl, the socialists began imposing severe limits  and costly fees on construction permits. Builders could no longer  profit from building vast numbers of affordable homes, so they focused  their limited permits on the pricier models.

To solve climate change, the socialists mandated outrageously  expensive add-ons like solar panels and hermetically sealed windows.

To solve their environmental angst, they required pointless studies  that were endlessly time-consuming and outrageously costly along with  backbreaking, outrageous environmental fees, adding many tens of  thousands of dollars to the costs that were all passed on to helpless  homebuyers.

As these solutions drove up the price of housing, the socialists  began offering subsidies to lower income earners who had been priced  out of the market by the socialists' own policies. As taxpayer dollars  flooded into the already constricted market, prices and rents rose  still further. As socialists solved the rental problem by freezing  rents, landlords stopped building new units or maintaining existing  ones.

When anything is scarce, it is expensive. When it is plentiful, it is  cheap. Socialists have made housing scarce and, therefore, expensive.  Nowhere can this be seen more clearly than comparing the socialist  utopia of California with the free State of Texas.

Last year, more housing permits were granted in the Houston and  Dallas metropolitan areas than in all of Gavin Newsom's California. The  median price of a home in Texas is $345,000. In California, it is  $900,000.

Take healthcare. Americans once paid for their own healthcare. They  could choose among policies offered by hundreds of competing providers  for the one that best met their needs and circumstances. Most opted for  inexpensive catastrophic plans for accidents and illnesses that could  have bankrupted them, while paying for routine care out of pocket.  Competition for their business kept prices low and quality high.

Socialists objected to leaving the poor to an extensive network of  charities. They solved our healthcare inequalities with highly  subsidized and mandated coverage that leaves consumers powerless to  choose their own best options while severing the connection between the  patient and the payer.

When somebody else is paying the bill, the patient doesn't care about  price, and the payer doesn't care about quality. The result is costs  spiraling out of control while patient satisfaction continues to  decline.

At the center of socialism is the mistaken belief that profit is  waste, and if it can be removed from the equation, everything will be  cheaper. That is the fundamental misconception behind Mamdani's  government grocery stores. Yet, profit is not waste. Profit is the  essential ingredient that spurs competition, drives innovation, demands  efficiency, and craves consumer satisfaction. Take profit out of the  picture, and you have just learned the difference between FedEx and the  post office.

Consumer electronics have steadily declined in cost while quality has  steadily improved, precisely because the socialists have not yet  decided to solve this market. When they do, you can expect the same  high prices and decline in quality that they have already delivered in  every field that they have solved, from housing to healthcare.

It comes down to four simple words: Freedom works. Socialism sucks.