Jeremy and Angel Seay and Sergeant Brandon Mendoza Protect Our Communities From Duis Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693083/jeremy-and-angel-seay-and-sergeant-brandon-mendoza-protect-our-communities-from-duis-act-of-2025


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, this bill presents a very simple  proposition: Should someone who is a guest in this country and who  endangers Americans, while driving drunk, be allowed to stay in this  country?

Republicans say: Of course, not.

The Democrats say: Sure, why not.

This ought to be a no-brainer, especially after so many incidents of  preventable DUI traffic deaths involving foreign nationals.

Then gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Moore) and the gentleman from  Georgia (Mr. Carter) mentioned a few of the cases of aliens with  multiple drunk driving offenses released time and time again and not  deported, while the butcher's bill steadily grows.

Why are such people allowed to remain in our country? The Democrats  want it that way. In 2020, Joe Biden said that illegal aliens with DUI  convictions should be allowed to stay in the United States. He said:  ``You only arrest for the purpose of dealing with a felony that's  committed, and I don't count drunk driving as a felony.''

When Republicans tried to enact this law in 2021, then Democratic  Committee on the Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler opposed any limit to  DUI convictions. He said that whether someone has 2, 6, 10, or 20  convictions for DUI 30 years ago, someone can change. Of course, that  begs the question: How many have to die before they change?

Through some of these debates, the Democrats have consistently  supported open borders, sanctuary laws that shield violent criminals,  and even modest measures like this one that say we shouldn't have to  tolerate guests in this country who recklessly endanger our families.

In fact, now they are telling us that in order to stop their riots,  we have to stop enforcing our existing immigration laws.

Madam Speaker, the American people need to take note of debates like  this because none more clearly differentiate the two political parties  today.