Law Enforcement Officer and Firefighter Recreation Pass Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693930/law-enforcement-officer-and-firefighter-recreation-pass-act


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, as has been noted, H.R. 183 simply  extends the lifetime national parks pass to the frontline public safety  officers who risk their lives every day to protect our families and  communities. It is the same courtesy we already extend to U.S. military  members and their families, to our veterans, and to our Gold Star  families. The CBO estimates its cost at about $500,000 a year.

These men and women, just like those who serve our military, put  their lives on the line to protect our families. It seems fitting that  we should extend this small courtesy to them. It is simply a way to say  thank you to them, a simple but tangible token of our gratitude and  esteem.

I first introduced this legislation during the George Floyd riots,  when BLM rioters were chanting: ``Pigs in a blanket, fry `em like  bacon,'' and leftist politicians were calling for defunding local  police departments. We recently expanded it to include firefighters and  wildland firefighters, to whom we owe so much for protecting our homes,  towns, and communities, as well.

The bill was proposed to me by Janine D'Agostini, the wife of then-El  Dorado County Sheriff John D'Agostini, as a small token of appreciation  for law enforcement officers who were taking so much abuse when they  were trying so hard to protect our families from those who would prey  upon them.

Madam Speaker, it seems that, in those years, the wheel has come full  circle. Once again, law enforcement personnel are the target of doxing,  violent demonstrations, and leftist officials who so often seem to take  the side of the lawless against the law-abiding.

Our hearts go out to the many officers of ICE and CBP and their  families who have recently been subjected to violence and intimidation,  often fanned by the extremist rhetoric of elected officials who ought  to know better.

In fact, just 2 weeks ago, while ICE was serving a court-ordered  warrant in Carpinteria, a sitting Member of this House doxed an ICE  agent to a violent mob. That mob then took off after the agent and  physically attacked him with rocks, injuring him seriously enough to  require treatment in a hospital emergency room.

This has to stop. We want these brave men and women and their  families to know that the vast majority of the American people, the  majority of this Congress, and, of course, this President stand behind  them, appreciate them, and honor their work. We depend upon them not  only for our safety but for the very rule of law itself.

After all, without law enforcement, there is no law. Without law,  there is no civilization, as people in sanctuary cities like Los  Angeles, Portland, Seattle, San Francisco, Chicago, and New York are  learning all too well once again.

This bill was first introduced in 2021. It received a hearing in 2023  but was never marked up. It is long overdue, and I appreciate the House  finally considering it today.