No Immigration Benefits for Hamas Terrorists Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697237/no-immigration-benefits-for-hamas-terrorists-act-of-2025


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 176) to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act with  respect to aliens who carried out, participated in, planned, financed,  supported, or otherwise facilitated the attacks against Israel, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 176

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``No Immigration Benefits for       Hamas Terrorists Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. ALIENS WHO CARRIED OUT, PARTICIPATED IN, PLANNED,                     FINANCED, SUPPORTED, OR OTHERWISE FACILITATED                     ATTACKS AGAINST ISRAEL.

(a) Participants in Hamas Terrorism Against Israel.--      Section 212(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8       U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)) is amended--

(1) in subparagraph (B)(i), in the matter following       subclause (IX)--

(A) by inserting ``Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or Hamas''       after ``Palestine Liberation Organization''; and

(B) by inserting ``member,'' after ``representative,''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

``(H) Participants in hamas terrorism against israel.--Any       alien who carried out, participated in, planned, financed,       afforded material support to, or otherwise facilitated any of       the attacks against Israel initiated by Hamas beginning on       October 7, 2023, is inadmissible.''.

(b) Ineligibility for Relief.--Section 241(b)(3) of the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(b)(3)) is       amended by adding at the end the following:

``(D) Ineligibility for relief.--Any alien who carried out,       participated in, planned, financed, afforded material support       to, or otherwise facilitated any of the attacks against       Israel initiated by Hamas beginning on October 7, 2023, shall       be ineligible for any relief under the immigration laws,       including under this section, section 208, and section 2242       of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental       Appropriations Act, 1999 (and any regulations issued pursuant       to such section).''.

(c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 237(a)(4)(B) of the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1227(a)(4)(B)) is       amended by striking ``subparagraph (B) or (F)'' and inserting       ``subparagraph (B), (F), or (H)''.

(d) Report Required on Participants in Hamas Terrorism       Against Israel.--Beginning not later than one year after the       date of the enactment of this Act, and each year thereafter,       the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a report to       Congress, including the number of aliens who were--

(1) found to be inadmissible under section 212(a)(3)(H) of       the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)(H));       and

(2) described in section 212(a)(3)(H) of the Immigration       and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)(H)) and found to be       removable pursuant to section 237(a)(4)(B) of the Immigration       and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1227(a)(4)(B)).

Mr. McCLINTOCK.  176.

Mr. Speaker, although our political differences these days are vast,  there are still some things we come together on in this body. We  certainly did so during the last session. One of them was an enduring  opposition to Hamas and the terrorism they unleashed on innocent  civilians in Israel more than 2 years ago.

Earlier this year, the barbaric inhumanity of Hamas was revealed  again in the macabre and infuriating spectacle of returning the bodies  to the Bibas family. We last saw Shiri Bibas alive on October 7, 2023,  as she was seized, terrified and sobbing, begging for the lives of her  two little boys as they were dragged into the hell on Earth that Hamas  created. This February, their murdered bodies were treated as trophies,  and later we learned in a final act of cruelty that Shiri's body had  been substituted for another.

We all came together in this body last year and said that such  monsters as these must never be admitted into our country, never given  safe haven on our soil, and never tolerated where they are found.

H.R. 176 says that anyone associated with Hamas or Palestinian  Islamic jihad, in any capacity, or anyone who assisted these terrorist  activities in any form, will not be allowed in this country under any  circumstances, will be immediately removed if we do find them here, and  under no circumstances will we allow them to receive any immigration  benefit under our laws. We already single out Nazi collaborators and  PLO terrorists. This simply adds Hamas and the Palestinian Islamic  Jihad to that list.

Madam Speaker, for reasons I find inexplicable, the Senate couldn't  be bothered to take up this bill in the last session. They will  hopefully find the time in this session.

Under current law, being a member of Hamas or associated with its  barbaric attack against Israel is not an explicit ground of  inadmissibility or removability. That is just not good enough. Anyone  who gave them support in any form should never be allowed into this  country.

During the Biden years, the number of known or suspected terrorists  encountered at the Southwest border soared to nearly 400. Too many were  allowed into this country. How many more were among the 2 million known  gotaways is anybody's guess. How many more are among the 190,000  Afghans allowed into this country with minimal or no vetting is also  anybody's guess. We found out last week that one is far too many.

Under the Biden administration, Hamas terrorists didn't even have to  sneak in across the border. President Biden simply let them in through  the front door.

As just one example, less than 2 months ago, Federal officials  arrested a 33-year-old native of Gaza, who was living in Lafayette,  Louisiana, for his alleged involvement in Hamas' attack against Israel  on October 7.

After learning about the ongoing Hamas attack, the alleged terrorists  gathered a group of fighters and stormed into Israel to join the  barbarism. Less than a year later, he submitted a visa application,  which the Biden administration quickly approved, and he was allowed to  enter the United States.

After the October 7 attacks, Director Wray warned us that the FBI  ``cannot, and [does] not, discount the possibility that Hamas . . .  could exploit the conflict to call on their supporters to conduct  attacks on our own soil.'' These words proved to be prophetic.

On June 1, 2025, Mohammed Sabry Soliman, an Egyptian national,  attacked pro-Israeli demonstrators who were marching in Boulder,  Colorado, in  support of the release of hostages held captive by Hamas. While  shouting, ``Free Palestine,'' Soliman attacked the peaceful  demonstrators with Molotov cocktails, resulting in the hospitalization  of at least eight people who suffered burns and other injuries. At  least one of the victims had survived the Holocaust.

According to the Justice Department, Soliman stated he planned the  attack for more than a year. He ``wanted to kill all Zionist people and  wished they were all dead'' and would conduct the attack again if he  had the chance. He, too, was able to enter the United States through  the front door, this time with a tourist visa, under the Biden  administration.

This can never be allowed to happen again, regardless of which party  controls the executive branch. While we have a President who is  committed to securing our borders, protecting our communities, and  restoring the enforcement of our immigration laws, now is the time to  act.

Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, the gentleman says that the bill is  unnecessary because terrorists are already covered under the  Immigration and Nationality Act. This bill creates a new ground of  removability and a new ground of inadmissibility for aliens who carried  out, or participated in, or planned, or financed, or afforded material  support to or otherwise facilitated any of the attacks against Israel  beginning on October 7 of 2023.

In doing so, the bill treats the atrocities of October 7 on a par  with the Immigration and Nationality Act's current treatment of Nazi  persecution, genocide, torture, and extrajudicial killings.

Does anyone seriously argue that we should repeal the sanctions  against persons who aided and abetted the Nazi's Holocaust?

If not, then why would they oppose extending the same sanctions to  the Nazi's would-be, modern-day successors who just 2 years ago  slaughtered more than 1,200 innocent civilians, including children,  infants, and the elderly because they were Jewish?

Mr. McCLINTOCK. First of all, I am not familiar with the case, so I  can't comment on that directly. I am quite confident that we have an  existing process for applying the law and a process for appealing the  application of that law through a writ of habeas corpus in the  judiciary if an individual seeks to contest it.

Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, for 4 devastating years, our Nation suffered the  largest illegal mass migration in history. For 4 devastating years, we  were told that the laws had to be changed if we wanted to do anything  about it, and in the meantime anyone who illegally entered our country  could stay in our country and be supported by American taxpayers.

However, as President Trump said in this very Chamber and proved in  his first weeks in office: We didn't new need new laws. We needed a new  President.

The largest illegal mass migration in history must now be followed by  the largest legal deportation and repatriation in history.

New laws would be helpful to prevent a future Joe Biden from making a  mockery of our sovereignty and reopening our borders to the most  violent criminal gangs, cartels, criminals, and terrorists on the  planet, and it would be helpful to give a future President Donald Trump  the added tools to quickly and expeditiously prevent these same groups  from infiltrating our Nation, preying on our communities, and attacking  our people.

This law will stop the Hamas terrorists and their supporters who  perpetrated the most violent attack against innocent civilians since  the Holocaust from entering our country, as we already sanctioned Nazi  collaborators. Although they are a tiny fraction of those who do our  country harm, at least it does that.

To the apologists of the Democrats' open-border policies who say that  this is unnecessary and covered by other laws on the books, I would ask  these two questions: First, if that were so, then where were those laws  under Joe Biden?

Second, even if their argument was true and the legislation was  entirely unnecessary, then why would they object to sending a strong  message around the world that terrorists will get no quarter here?

Madam Speaker, if you have associated with Hamas, then you are  persona non grata in America, as you should be in any corner of the  world that values peace, justice, and human dignity.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.