Researching Efficient Federal Improvements for Necessary Energy Refining Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697033/researching-efficient-federal-improvements-for-necessary-energy-refining-act


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, no one has suffered more than  Californians because of the left's war on fossil fuels. Forty years of  folly are now driving energy prices out of reach for working families  and driving those working families out of California.

In 1980, 40 refineries served the California market, producing  abundant gasoline at easily affordable prices. Mr. Latta said 14  refineries were left. His numbers are old. We are now down to  nine refineries, and two more of those, Phillips in southern California  and Valero in northern California, are closing by April. That will  leave us just seven refineries to serve the State.

Californians already pay the highest gasoline prices in the United  States, averaging $4.64 a gallon as of yesterday. The same gallon costs  only $2.56 in Oklahoma.

When we lose these next two refineries, economists at UC Berkeley  predict Californians will be paying more than $8 a gallon by the  summer. Leftwing zealots like Gavin Newsom obsess over a 1-degree rise  in global temperatures over the next century, but they couldn't care  less that they are making it impossible for growing numbers of  Californians to heat their homes or get to work.

This is not only a quality-of-life issue for Californians and a  cautionary tale for the rest of the country. It is a national security  risk, as well. Forty military bases depend on these dwindling West  Coast refineries. As California strangles production, we must  increasingly rely on foreign imports from our enemies.

H.R. 3109 requires the National Petroleum Council to report on ways  to reverse such foolish and self-destructive policies. What has  happened to California is the predictable result of bad policy made by  fools.

I hope the REFINER Act will shine a light on their folly and  recommend ways to reverse the damage that they have caused before they  can do any more harm to our Nation's prosperity and security.