Supporting A Free, Democratic, and Secular Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691210/supporting-a-free-democratic-and-secular-iran


Mr. Speaker, this week, we passed a major milestone when a majority  of the entire House of Representatives signed on as cosponsors of H.  Res. 166, supporting a democratic, secular, and nonnuclear Republic of  Iran.

This truly bipartisan and broad-based House majority of 224,  consisting of 139 Republicans and 85 Democrats, endorses the general  principles propounded by Iranian democracy groups, most notably the 10- point plan proposed by the National Council of Resistance of Iran.

It calls for the universal right to vote; free elections; a market  economy; separation of religion and state; gender, religious, and  ethnic equality; foreign policy based on peaceful coexistence; peace in  the Middle East; and a nonnuclear Republic of Iran. It also condemns  the Iranian regime's terrorism, regional proxy war, and internal  oppression.

Over 4,000 parliamentarians worldwide, the majority of 33 national  legislative assemblies, over 130 world leaders, and 80 Nobel laureates  have endorsed these principles. I am gratified that a majority of the  entire House has stepped forward to support this resolution.

There are several Iranian groups fighting the Iranian dictatorship,  and it will ultimately be up to the people of Iran to chart their own  future, as the 10-point plan proposes.

One cause should unite us all, and that is the collapse of the  current regime. To this end, we have organized the Iran Human Rights  and Democracy Caucus within the House of Representatives. This is a  truly bipartisan caucus. Like the various liberation groups of Iran, we  Republicans and Democrats differ and quarrel about many things, but we  are solidly united in the support of the people of Iran and their  struggle for their own liberation from the tyranny of the mullahs.

The Iranian regime has made clear that it intends to acquire nuclear  weapons and, once acquired, to use them. President Trump has made clear  that this cannot be allowed to happen. I, for one, appreciate the  efforts of this  administration to stop that from happening without bloodshed. The  Iranian regime has proven itself to be utterly untrustworthy to abide  by any agreement it makes. That makes any negotiation with this regime  highly problematic.

There is only one solution that promises to resolve this danger  without the risk of a terrible war that could claim many thousands of  innocent lives, and that is the collapse of the regime from within.  Opposition to the oppression of the mullahs has been simmering in Iran  for many years. It is time to provide material support to help these  groups liberate their country.

Past administrations sent cargo pallets of cash on cargo planes to  these bloodthirsty mullahs in hopes of currying their favor and  cooperation. However good the intentions, the result was to help fund  the oppression of the Iranian people and the export of terrorism  throughout the world.

I believe the time has now come to provide the same assistance, not  to the oppressors of Iran, but to the people of Iran and the resistance  groups actively seeking their overthrow.

The overthrow of this regime from within would be the cheapest,  surest, and most peaceful way to remove it as a threat to the freedom  of the Iranian people, the stability of the region, and the peace of  the world. That is what the Iran Human Rights and Democracy Caucus was  organized to promote and what H. Res. 166 pledges to accomplish.

Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Fine has been here only about 6  weeks. As you can see, he is already distinguishing himself as a vital  voice for freedom abroad and for liberty at home. I couldn't be more  pleased to have him here today to speak on behalf of this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, Iran is one of the oldest and greatest civilizations in  history. It was one of the most free, advanced, prosperous, and open  countries in the Middle East just a few decades ago. Then, came the  revolution of 1979, when the progress abruptly ended with the takeover  by the theocratic despots who introduced a reign of terror that has  gone on now for decades.

Twice before, Iranians were on the verge of overthrowing this regime.  In 2009, as Iranians took to the streets during the so-called Green  Movement, they looked to the United States for support but got only  silence. In 2016, the American Government sent $1.7 billion in cash to  the mullahs on shrink-wrapped cargo pallets. In 2015, we released $150  billion more in frozen assets, all to get a nuclear agreement that Iran  never honored.

Today, America must stand with the people of Iran. The regime in  Tehran has been crystal clear about its intent to develop nuclear  weapons and, once developed, to use them.

There are only two ways this is going to end. It will end either with  thousands, perhaps millions, dead in a terrible war or with a  successful revolution and the long-overdue collapse of this regime.

The President is speaking out forcefully, and he is acting  decisively. So must Congress.

H. Res. 166 has 224 cosponsors, representing both political parties.  It expresses support for the Iranian resistance and its vision of a  free, secular, and nonnuclear Iran. I urge the leadership to bring it  to the floor for a vote.

Our Declaration of Independence proclaims that whenever a government  becomes destructive of the natural rights of its people, it becomes  their right to alter or abolish it. This critical hour has come for the  people of Iran.

I believe it is time for the United States to step forward with  material support for the freedom movement. For every dollar this  government has given over the years to this brutal dictatorship, we owe  many times over to the Iranians who are desperately trying to overthrow  their oppressors and restore the blessings of liberty to themselves and  their posterity.

They need the direct satellite access to the internet that the regime  has denied them on the ground. They need us to restore economic  sanctions, as the President is doing against the regime in a renewed  boycott of Iran.

Mr. Speaker, decisive turning points in history do not come often.  When history commands, we must answer. That answer will follow us far  into the future.

This time and in this hour, let the United States take a stand with  the people of Iran and, by so doing, fulfill those proud words in our  Liberty Bell, to proclaim liberty in all the land and to all the  inhabitants thereof.