Yosemite Belongs to the People


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688585/yosemite-belongs-to-the-people


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, a well-known bureaucratic response to  any attempt to reduce government spending is called the Washington  Monument strategy. If anybody suggests cutting the budget, then just  shut down the Washington Monument until enough tourists complain to  their Congressman.

We saw this strategy implemented with a vengeance during the  government shutdown under Obama. All reservations at the national parks  were canceled. Vendors were ordered to close, perishable deliveries  were turned back, The National Mall was cordoned off, gates to the  national parks were chained, and even highway turnouts with a view of  Yosemite Valley were barricaded.

Now, compare that to the government shutdown in the first Trump  administration. Vendors remained in business, the public lands remained  fully open to the public, no monuments were obstructed, no barricades  were erected, and the gates to the national parks remained fully  accessible.

Today, opponents of President Trump's war on government waste have  revived the Washington Monument strategy to maintain a bloated Federal  workforce that is crushing American taxpayers. Every dollar of  discretionary spending, which fully or partially funds every department  within the Federal Government, is now borrowed. Instead of long-overdue  streamlining, the Democrats are pushing for a tax increase that will  amount to about $1,500 on a family earning just $75,000.

At Yosemite National Park, in my district, disgruntled employees hung  a giant American flag upside-down on El Capitan the other day, ruining  the view for tourists who came to enjoy Yosemite's famous firefall.  Remote cameras at the park are now blocked by protest signs. A Yosemite  biologist told gullible reporters that the staff cuts would doom the  Sierra Nevada red fox to extinction. Others warned that layoffs would  result in visitors stuck in restrooms and fires raging out of control.

This is human sacrifice, dogs and cats living together, mass  hysteria, as a ``Ghostbusters'' character once put it.

What is the actual number of layoffs at Yosemite National Park that  will bring the beautiful valley to rack and ruin?

Mr. Speaker, 10, the number is 10 probationary employees, 10 out of  nearly 500 full-time winter employees, 25 if you include early  retirements and no firefighters.

This begs some important questions: Is the park so poorly managed  that only one employee has keys to the restrooms serving the 748,000- acre national park?

Apparently.

How will the Sierra Nevada red fox survive with only eight remaining  biologists at Yosemite looking out for it rather than nine? I guess we  will just have to find out.

How many of Yosemite's employees are working from home? We don't know  because the park management won't tell us. We do know that 34 percent  of National Park Service employees across the country were still  working from home in 2023. Need to find the nearest unlocked restroom?  Just email them.

Indeed, the employees who provide most of the visitor amenities, such  as the hotels, shops, and restaurants, don't even work for the Park  Service. They work for the park's private concessionaire.

It is true that hiring seasonal employees was delayed for a few weeks  when the administration put a temporary hold on new hires, but that  hold was soon lifted. These positions will actually increase by about  50.

More than a decade ago, when I first met with park management, I  noticed a placard in the conference room. It read: Is it good for the  park?

I suggested that was the wrong question. The right question is: Is it  good for the park's visitors?

It is a matter of attitude.

The Yosemite Grant Act of 1864 was the first time that land was set  aside for the use, resort, and recreation of the American people. It  says nothing about the park's employees. They work for the people, who,  in turn, have selected Donald Trump to exercise the executive powers of  the government and charged him to take care that the laws be faithfully  executed. He can't do that if he can't open the books, look at where  the money is spent, and determine whether it is being spent efficiently  and in accordance with the law or stop it when it isn't.

The antics of some of Yosemite's employees dishonor the silent  majority at the park, who are genuinely devoted to public service.

As Hamilton said: ``Here, sir, the people govern.''

All 2.4 million employees in the Federal workforce exercise powers  delegated by the President through our Constitution by virtue of his  election. Any Federal employee who doesn't respect the authority of the  people and the President they elected has no business working for them.