Guardrails Needed for Ai Chatbots


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700910/guardrails-needed-for-ai-chatbots


Mr. MULLIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about the rapid rise of  AI chatbots and the urgent need to put clear guardrails in place.

Artificial intelligence chatbots are becoming increasingly common in  our daily lives. They are embedded in our phones, our classrooms, and  our workplaces.

There is no question that this is an innovative technology with the  potential to democratize access to information, reduce costs, and  expand opportunity. As promising as this technology is, we must also be  clear about its limits.

AI chatbots are not and should not be treated as substitutes for  licensed professionals, like doctors, therapists, lawyers, and  financial advisers.

We have seen this most clearly in the mental health space. Users,  including children and other vulnerable individuals, are increasingly  turning to chatbots for therapy.

Tragically, we have seen too many cases in which the children took  their own lives after interacting with chatbots that failed to  recognize a person in crisis and even encouraged their harmful  thoughts.

These limitations extend beyond mental health, too. People are  turning to unqualified so-called robo-lawyers for legal advice and AI  financial advisers for guidance on investing their hard-earned  retirement savings.

These are high-stakes interactions that can have devastating  consequences without proper oversight, which is why every State  regulates the licensing of these professionals according to rigorous  standards.

Many chatbot providers have added disclaimers, saying their products  are not licensed professionals, but, Mr. Speaker, disclosures are not  enough.

For example, here, in just a few messages with my staff, this chatbot  readily claimed that it was a licensed healthcare professional and even  invented a fake license number. For a vulnerable user, that claim can  be all it takes to place complete trust in a system that is incapable  of consistently providing clinical care or sound professional guidance.

In another example, a seemingly benign bot, marketed as offering  legal guidance, quickly claimed to be a licensed attorney.

Clear rules are needed now to protect consumers, promote trust in  responsible innovation, and ensure a level playing field for companies  that are doing the right thing.

That is why I am introducing the CHATBOT Act. This legislation would  prohibit companies from claiming or implying that a chatbot is a  licensed professional through marketing or the bot's output.

This is a narrow, commonsense consumer protection bill. I am proud  that it has been endorsed by a broad coalition of healthcare, legal,  financial, and trade organizations as well as consumer protection and  technology policy organizations.

We must come together to ensure this new technology is developed  safely and responsibly.

I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support the  CHATBOT Act.