Our 250-Year-Old Experiment in Democracy


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701389/our-250-year-old-experiment-in-democracy


Mr. MULLIN. Mr. Speaker, all of us on this floor are heirs to a  political system that generations before us believed could be the way  to overcome our differences.

Is it perfect? Anyone who has been paying even the slightest  attention for the past 250 years knows the answer to that question, but  each generation has believed in our democracy. All of us elected to  this body believe we can make people's lives better, not by fighting in  the streets, not by fighting, where might makes right, but by coming  together, by talking, by arguing, and then by voting.

Sometimes we win. Sometimes we lose.

Why is it that the majority party seems to be doing everything in its  power to prevent voters from having their say?

I am actually old enough to remember when the Republican Party was  the party of States' rights. Now, unfortunately, it is the party of  following the lead of their President, overriding State laws to  ``nationalize the vote.'' It is the party of an executive order  attempting to eliminate voting by mail under the guise of voter fraud,  which we know is virtually nonexistent.

The SAVE Act and the MEGA Act make it harder for voters to cast a  ballot. It has sadly become a party of deniers who only believe  election results when they win.

President Trump's Department of Justice raided an election office in  Georgia. He sent FBI agents to seize ballots. Meanwhile, he is  attempting to extort Minnesota, California, and others into handing  over voter data. His supporters are calling for ICE to surround the  polls in November. We remember he sent an angry mob into this citadel  of democracy to hang his Vice President and overturn the results of an  election he lost in order to prevent a peaceful transfer of power.  History will never forget.

The American people always have the last word on who has power in  this country. If there is one thing we know how to do in this country  is run elections. We cast our ballots in school gyms, in churches, in  community rooms, and more commonly now at the kitchen table. Even  President Trump votes by mail.

Ours is a decentralized system by design. The Framers of the  Constitution, flawed as they were, knew that we would one day be faced  with this moment: A strongman and his followers ready to throw it all  away to avoid another free and fair election, but we won't let them.

My Republican colleagues, many of whom I genuinely like and respect,  know better. Privately, I believe they are deeply ashamed by what is  happening, and without a doubt, the American people are increasingly  disgusted with what they are seeing and experiencing.

They know America is less affordable than it was even just a year  ago. Support for the President's callous immigration policies has  collapsed. The images of Federal agents executing Americans in the  streets have been horrific.

All the while, the President is more obsessed with personal  grievances, renaming buildings, starting wars, and exacting revenge on  his opponents than making people's lives better.

He and his party know this is not a winning political message, so  they are resorting to changing the rules to cling to power, but the  American people know better.

All of us have a duty to protect elections. All of us must let the  will of the people prevail. This Congress must seat the winners of the  election regardless of party.

I hope there are some colleagues on the other side of the aisle who  can still muster the courage to do the same because our 250-year-old  experiment in democracy depends on it.