Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Walk-In Coolers and Walk-In Freezers''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689261/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-walk-in-coolers-and-walk-in-freezers


Mr. MULLIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to strongly oppose H.J. Res. 24. It  is baffling to me that amidst skyrocketing electricity costs, the  highest they have been since the 1990s, we are talking about  overturning commonsense energy efficiency standards.

Economists predict these standards would save American taxpayers  billions of dollars. Mr. Speaker, you don't need to be an economist to  know that a better fridge or freezer will mean lower costs on your  utility bill. For families going to their local grocery, these  standards would lower prices and reduce financial strain. For small  businesses, it means less overhead and more profitability.

These benefits are why the Department of Energy has set energy  efficiency standards for decades, across Republican and Democratic  administrations, with broad support and little controversy.

America should be leading the world in creating and adopting  innovative technologies, especially ones that reduce costs and help the  environment. Unfortunately, this was just another empty campaign  promise by candidate Trump that electricity costs would be reduced.

Let me just emphasize that Democrats believe in an economy that works  for all people. Under the last administration, we passed legislation  that created nearly half a million new jobs in just 2 years. The  Federal Government set standards that will save money.

Mr. Speaker, I conclude by saying that Americans will save $1  trillion on their energy bills over the next 30 years under the  previous policies. That is $1 trillion. We will continue to fight for  commonsense policies for everyday people, and that is why I oppose H.J.  Res. 24.