Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; the `omnibus' Low Nox Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690436/providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-and-nonroad-engine-pollution-control-standards-the-omnibus-low-nox-regulation-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision


Mr. MULLIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the  Republicans' dangerous attempt to revoke California's ability to  protect public health and reduce toxic vehicle emissions.

The Clean Air Act is clear. California has the fundamental right to  adopt vehicle emission standards that support our communities' unique  needs better than Federal standards.

This isn't new. It has been the law for more than 50 years, and the  Clean Air Act has been upheld by every administration, Republican and  Democrat. Republicans are making an extremist attack on this precedent,  and it is utterly hypocritical for them to call for States' rights when  it suits them.

I spent 10 years in the California Legislature, and I know firsthand  how critical it is for our States to meet the needs of our local  communities whose health and safety are at risk due to pollution.

The consequences of this are real. Toxic air pollution causes asthma,  heart disease, and contributes to over 100,000 deaths in America every  year. We have a moral duty to protect our residents from unnecessary  toxic air pollution and environmental harm.

Let's be clear. This attack comes as Republicans are trying to gut  Medicaid. While they are stripping healthcare from millions of  Americans, at the same time they are attacking our ability to protect  public health. It makes no sense.

It also makes no sense to create chaos for automakers that already  agreed to meet these standards with investments in domestic EV  production and manufacturing that created over 200,000 new jobs and  nearly $200 billion in private investment.

If they really cared about reducing costs for American families,  Republicans would focus on reversing Trump's reckless tariffs that are  increasing car prices by up to $15,000.

This is a hyperpartisan, political stunt that wastes everyone's time.  The Government Accountability Office has explicitly said that Congress  cannot use this process to overturn California's waivers with the EPA,  and we should not pretend otherwise.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to reject this effort. Let's  stand up for clean air, State rights, and for the health of the  American people.