China Financial Threat Mitigation Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694120/china-financial-threat-mitigation-act-of-2025


Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1549, the China Financial  Threat Mitigation Act, sponsored by Mr. Williams of Texas and Mr.  Gottheimer of New Jersey.

The People's Republic of China continues to pose a significant  challenge to America's economy and financial system. This doesn't mean  that China is simply an economic competitor. Rather, China has taken an  aggressive adversarial posture toward American  influence and power globally, leveraging its growing economic strength  to do so.

To address concerns raised by China's conduct in this regard,  American policymakers, including Members of Congress, need accurate  data about the potential risks posed. This includes information about  trade, both legal and illegal investments, demographics, subsidies for  domestic industries, and demand for oil and economic growth.

Unfortunately, despite these needs, the economic data available  directly from China is generally limited and unreliable. Even China's  gross domestic product figures are regarded as questionable.

Madam Speaker, this bill asks for a detailed study on these issues.  The bill would also require recommendations for additional actions to  strengthen international cooperation to mitigate risks and protect U.S.  interests.

The House previously passed this bill four times in the last three  Congresses, and I hope we can finally pass it into law.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, I thank Representative Williams of Texas and  Representative Gottheimer for sponsoring this bill. Their bipartisan  work resulted in a unanimous vote during our Committee on Financial  Services markup earlier this year, reflecting our shared concerns about  the aggressive economic and commercial activities of the Government of  the People's Republic of China.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.