Enhancing Multi-Class Share Disclosures Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693914/enhancing-multi-class-share-disclosures-act


Mr. Speaker, Mr. Meeks' bill closes documented gaps around multiclass  governance structures. Multiclass governance structures are those where  corporate insiders or beneficial owners retain an outsized amount of  voting power relative to their shares.

These structures, while they may add value, pose significant risk,  making transparency ever more important for investors. Specifically,  these structures pose significant risks for investors, including  limiting investors' ability to influence management, direct strategy,  and hold misaligned boards accountable.

Under current rules, the difference between a corporate insider's  voting power and their ownership interest, regardless of how large that  gap may be, is often disclosed in ways that are difficult for an  ordinary investor to comprehend.

Accordingly, the SEC Investor Advisory Committee recommended that the  Commission amend its rules to ensure that this gap is better identified  and quantified for investors via disclosed ratio.

This commonsense bill adopts this recommendation to ensure that  investors have the clearest information available to make the best  decisions for themselves. This bill is supported by the Council of  Institutional Investors, whose members manage trillions in working  families' assets.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Ms. WATERS.

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Meeks' bill clarifies for investors the truth around  multiclass shares--specifically, the difference between a corporate  insider's ownership interests versus their true voting power. These two  things are generally disclosed in ways that are hard for everyday  investors to understand.

This bill solves that problem by ensuring that this gap is quantified  for investors via a clearly disclosed ratio, as was recommended by the  SEC Investor Advisory Committee.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.