Financial Technology Protection Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693962/financial-technology-protection-act-of-2025


I rise in support of H.R. 2384, the Financial Technology Protection  Act sponsored by Representative Nunn and Representative Himes.

This bill seeks to establish the Independent Financial Technology  Working Group to Combat Terrorism and Illicit Financing, and for other  purposes.

This group is made up of both Federal agencies, companies dealing  with financial technology, and companies that engage in researching the  impact of financial technologies in global markets.

It will be tasked with evaluating emerging financial technologies,  including digital assets, to assess their potential use in combating  terrorism and illicit activities. It will conduct research on how bad  actors may exploit these technologies and recommend legal and  regulatory improvements to Congress and relevant agencies.  Additionally, the working group will develop a strategy to address  sanctions, evasion, and other illicit finance concerns.

The bill mandates that the group issue an annual report for 4 years  providing updates on its findings and recommendations.

Why is this needed? We know that Russia has used crypto exchanges and  alternative payment platforms to try to bypass the sanctions imposed  after its brutal and unlawful invasion of Ukraine. Hamas and other  terrorist groups have turned to cryptocurrencies to funnel resources  toward violent operations against innocent civilians as was exposed in  the investigation following the violent October 7 attacks on Israel.

North Korean hackers, operating as arms of the regime, have stolen  billions of dollars in cryptocurrency through cyberattacks, laundering  those funds to bankroll their illegal weapons programs and bypass  international sanctions.

These are not hypothetical risks. These are real, ongoing threats to  our national and global security.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, cybercriminal syndicates, supported by North Korea and  rogue states like Russia, are already exploiting financial technologies  to evade sanctions, fund war and terrorism, and destabilize  democracies. Ignoring these threats is not an option.

This working group is an initial robust approach to gain an  understanding of how to address these terrorism threats and prepare to  meet and predict them.

I thank Representatives Nunn and Himes for introducing this bill, and  I, again, urge my colleagues to support it.