Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693839/guiding-and-establishing-national-innovation-for-us-stablecoins-act


Mr. Speaker, 2 weeks ago Republicans boasted about how they would  provide billionaires with tax cuts they don't need by stripping  healthcare from 17 million Americans, shuttering hospitals across the  country, and starving 12 million families, including millions of  children.

These billionaires are the same individuals who proudly gave millions  of dollars to President Trump's campaign. They literally bought votes  during the last election and even sponsored Stalinist military parades  to celebrate the President's birthday.

No one should be surprised that these same Republicans' next order of  business is to validate, legitimize, and endorse the Trump family's  corruption and efforts to sell the White House to the highest bidder.

S. 1582, the so-called GENIUS Act, establishes a woefully deficient  Federal framework for dollar-denominated payment stablecoins in the  United States. Stablecoins are a form of digitized private money.  Unlike other types of crypto, these coins claim to always maintain  their value, often one coin for $1.

Nevertheless, that promise of stability is precisely what causes  stablecoins to be subject to bank-like runs where the public rushes to  sell their stablecoins at the first whiff of instability, making a bit  of bad news into a full-blown financial crisis.

It was for this reason that when I was chairwoman of the committee, I  sought to create a Federal framework to oversee these stablecoins and  ensure that consumers are protected. I worked with the Biden  administration and former Republican Chairman Patrick Henry to craft  legislation.

We achieved that goal, and I posted that legislation earlier this  year. We wanted to create a strong Federal system to oversee this type  of crypto market that protected consumers, our national security, and  financial stability.

Unfortunately, the election of Donald Trump ended those bipartisan  efforts and brought a significant new challenge to stablecoins. That  challenge was the Trump family's brazen corruption using crypto to sell  access in exchange for official acts.

It just so happens that those stablecoins are one of the main  vehicles Trump is using to make his corrupt crypto billions. The Trump  family's crypto company, World Liberty Financial, launched a stablecoin  called USD1 in April.

Shortly after that, the Abu Dhabi-backed investment from MGX bought  $2 billion of Trump's coins to make an investment in Binance, a company  that had been under investigation for numerous legal violations. Trump  and his family will make tens of millions of dollars just on that  transaction from the interest earnings alone. That is Abu Dhabi's  money.

More concerning, by passing this bill, Congress will be telling the  world that Congress is okay with corruption, okay with foreign  companies buying influence, and okay with criminals buying Trump coins  to seek pardons and beneficial treatment.

Each of my colleagues surely can see how this is a blatant conflict  of interest. Democrats and the rest of America do, as well. It is why I  introduced the Stop TRUMP in Crypto Act, to ban the President, Vice  President, and Members of Congress from crypto corruption. If we do not  ban elected officials in S. 1582, including the President or Vice  President, from crypto corruption, each of us will be complicit.

Let me be clear on this point because there has been a lot of  misinformation. This bill has a policy statement that elected officials  like Members of Congress and Senators, as well as government officials,  cannot issue their own stablecoin.

Are my colleagues aware who Republicans did not ban? Get this  straight. The President and the Vice President are the only elected  officials that can have a crypto business. Why are the Republicans  protecting the President so he can make billions and billions more?

Don't just take my word for it. Earlier this week, Chairman Hill  confirmed this much in the Rules Committee. Anyone who says the bill  stops the President's company from issuing stablecoins is not telling  the truth.

Yet, even if we adopted such a ban, the GENIUS Act, sent over by the  Senate and apparently unable to be amended, is still bad public policy.  S. 1582 creates the appearance of a Federal framework for stablecoins,  but it does not provide the Federal Government with the full authority  it needs to ensure that all stablecoin issuers comply with the law.

The bill also creates risks for consumers who will be stuck in a  lengthy bankruptcy process if a stablecoin ever fails.

Additionally, it leaves the door open for foreign firms that present  a major national security threat, including targets of sanctions, all  to appease those in the Trump family's inner circle which has ties to  those shady entities.

Yes, I am talking about Tether, the foreign stablecoin issuer  everyone knows has been used in terrorist financing, organized crime  schemes, and other horrible acts but which the Secretary of Commerce  has close ties with.

Let me give one more example of why this bill is just bad for  America. The very heart of this bill is that stablecoins will, in fact,  be stable because they will be backed one to one with solid, safe  assets. I invite anyone to read the bill.

While some of the reserves are cash and short-term Treasury  securities, this bill allows for uninsured deposits. We already know  how dangerous these deposits are. When Silicon Valley Bank failed,  Circle, the largest stablecoin today, had $3 billion locked up in  uninsured deposits and needed the Federal Government to rescue it. That  isn't all.

A stablecoin issuer is also permitted to hold bitcoin as reserves.  That is because someone added language in this bill late in the night  that added new definitions and language to the bill.

The language allows for a stablecoin issuer to use any money received  under repurchase agreements that are a means of exchange currently  authorized or adopted by a foreign government.

Do my colleagues know what Trump's favorite strongman, the dictator  of El Salvador, adopted as a legal currency? He adopted bitcoin.

This highly volatile cryptocurrency will now be eligible to be a  reserve backing your stablecoins. It is truly absurd and dangerous and  will lead to consumers losing their money and the taxpayers being  called on to bail out the financial system.

It is for all of these reasons that I submitted several amendments to  this bill, none of which were made in order by Republicans, because the  President has rejected any conflict of interest language that binds  him.

One interesting point is that even Chairman Hill himself inserted  language at the end of the so-called CLARITY Act that the House is  separately considering this week that actually amends the GENIUS Act.

Mr. Speaker, you heard me right. Rather than amend the GENIUS Act,  which our own chairman saw had problems, he put his changes at the end  of the CLARITY Act.

Mr. Speaker, you may be asking why he would do that. He could just  offer his amendments to the GENIUS Act. The reason is that House  Republican leadership has given up our power as the United States House  of Representatives to work the will of our Members on behalf of our  constituents and make changes to any legislation that the Senate sends  us. Instead, we are simply taking the language directly from the Senate  with no amendments, even when the chairman and other House Members know  that this bill is flawed.

Unfortunately, because President Trump demanded the bill be passed  without any changes, that is what the Republican Congress will do.

One of Chairman Hill's changes to the GENIUS Act addresses a key  concern I have had from the beginning, which is that Facebook and any  other Big Tech company should not be allowed to issue their own  stablecoin.  That would violate a longstanding separation of banking and commerce in  financial regulation, and our chairman's amended language would help  close this loophole.

Unfortunately, the GENIUS Act allows Elon Musk's X to issue its own  stablecoin and creates a pathway for Facebook to do the same.

For these reasons and many more, I strongly oppose this bill.

Ms. WATERS.  Velazquez), who is also the ranking member of the  Committee on Small Business.

Mr. Speaker, since assuming office, President Trump has been making  himself richer and richer, while working-class Americans are struggling  just to stay afloat.

President Trump has earned $1.2 billion since he entered office. The  Trump family has been using the Office of the Presidency, and the way  that they are doing this is extremely alarming to me and my fellow  Democrats.

Now, let me go through this timeline once more.

In September 2024, on the campaign trail, the Trump family launched  World Liberty Financial, which they have described as a decentralized  finance, or DeFi company.

On January 17, 2 days before the Presidential inauguration, President  Donald Trump launched his Trump memecoin. Days later, Melania Trump  launched her memecoin.

On March 25, 2025, World Liberty Financial launched a dollar-pegged  stablecoin just 1 week before the House Financial Services Committee  marked up stablecoin legislation and 2 weeks after Senate colleagues  held their markup.

On March 31, Eric Trump and Donald Trump, Jr.'s, American data  centers merged with American bitcoin, a bitcoin mining operation.

On July 8, Trump Media and Technology Group, the company that  operates the Truth Social media platform, announced that it had filed  paperwork with the SEC to approach to launch the crypto blue chip ETF  later this year.

Now, let's add all of this up.

Since January of this year, President Trump and his family have  launched or are planning to launch six different crypto ventures.  Congressional Republicans and the crypto industry will state that these  conflicts of interest take away from the discussion on other parts of  the bill. They claim that this bill is good for consumers and  investors.

Well, let me tell you, it is not. It is good for Trump's family and  wealthy crypto investors that can afford to see themselves through an  FTX-type collapse. No one, not a Republican or a Democrat, should be  using their office to make themselves richer while everyday Americans  are struggling to buy groceries and pay for their healthcare.

Everyday Americans are simply trying to survive, thanks to Republican  policies, while President Trump and his billionaire boys' club thrive  in the economy.

It is simple. People want to know why Members of Congress can't  simply exclude the President and the Vice President. Why do they keep  them in both of the bills as owners of crypto? Why did they avoid my  amendment that would take them out?

I don't believe that the President, the Vice President, his Cabinet,  his family, or any Members of Congress should be owners of crypto. I  certainly don't believe that the Office of the Presidency should be  used by anybody, any President, now or in the future, to be the owners  of crypto.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the following  letters from organizations that oppose this terrible bill: a letter  from the AFL-CIO, which is scoring this vote, and a letter from Public  Citizen.                                                           AFL-CIO,                                               Legislative Alert,                                                      July 14, 2025.

Dear Representative: On behalf of the AFL-CIO, I am writing       to urge you to oppose two bills on crypto currency that may       soon be up on the House floor for a vote this week. The       GENIUS Act, (S. 1582) and the CLARITY Act (HR 3633) pose       risks to both retirement funds and to the overall financial       stability of the U.S. economy. Instead of regulating crypto       currency, these bills will enable the crypto industry to       operate without effective oversight, and this will endanger       the financial health of working people.           Poorly regulated crypto assets are dangerous to pensions

Unions strongly support workers having retirement benefits       and regularly negotiate for pension plans in employment       contracts. But retirement plans are only solvent if their       assets are protected from fraud and unethical practices.       Neither of these bills provide a regulatory structure for       crypto assets or stablecoin that is similar to that of other       assets in pensions. While currently most pensions do not       carry crypto assets because of the risks associated with       them, the bills provide the facade of regulation that may       make these assets more mainstream in portfolios. Passing this       legislation will allow the proliferation of assets that       investors will wrongly perceive as safe.

But the problem with these bills is more significant than       they do not provide strong regulations for pensions; if they       are passed they will reduce the safety of many assets and       create problems across retirement investments. We are       particularly concerned that a loophole in the CLARITY Act (HR       3633) would allow non-crypto companies to put their stock on       the blockchain and evade the entire securities regulatory       framework that currently exists. This would reduce reporting       requirements, disclosures and other obligations. These       changes would put pensions and 401k plans in jeopardy of       having unsafe assets even if they were invested in       traditional securities.

Because we believe in strong, safe pensions that are there       for workers in their retirement, we oppose these bills and       ask that you do the same.                     Financial instability would increase

The AFL-CIO has always supported measures that properly       regulate financial markets so that working people are not       cheated of their hard earned wages. In the aftermath of the       2008 financial crisis which had its genesis in unregulated       derivatives markets and widespread fraudulent banking       activities, we supported legislation that created the       Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and strengthened       financial regulations through the Dodd-Frank Act.

The GENIUS and CLARITY Acts do not protect consumers,       workers or the financial system and instead they expose all       to more risk. The GENIUS Act would allow tech companies to       become de facto banks or issuers of a corporate currency,       without requiring them to adhere to equivalent bank       regulatory oversight. Stablecoins are not inherently stable       and the assets that are permitted to back the value of       stablecoins in the bill are not sufficiently strong. Thus, a       situation similar to the failure of Silicon Valley Bank       (SVB), which was brought about by the failure of the       stablecoin peg, looms large. The bills also do little to curb       the fraud, illegal activity and corruption that continues to       be prevalent in anonymous crypto markets. As such, these       bills provide the perfect environment for the next financial       crisis to germinate.                              Oppose These Bills

For all the reasons above and more, the AFL-CIO strongly       urges you to vote no on the GENIUS Act, (S. 1582) and no on       the CLARITY Act (HR 3633). Working people need policies that       effectively regulate financial markets and ensure that hard       earned retirement benefits are not endangered by risky       assets. We need to make sure that the financial system is       stable instead of creating a casino for crypto billionaires       to make more profits.            Sincerely,                                                     Jody Calemine,      Director, Government Affairs.                                   ____                                                    PUBLICCITIZEN,                                      Washington, DC, July 14, 2025.      Honorable Members,      House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Representative: On behalf of more than 500,000 members       and supporters of Public Citizen across the country, we ask       you to please vote NO on three cryptocurrency bills slated       for full House consideration this week. These include the       GENIUS Act (recently approved by the Senate); the CLARITY       Act; and the CBDC Anti-Surveillance Act. These dangerous       bills legitimize the cryptocurrency Ponzi scheme that will       undoubtedly leave more Americans scammed and will enable       criminal behavior.                         Trump's Massive Crypto Grift

Regardless of a Member's position on whether the many risks       of harm posed by, cryptocurrency outweigh its supporters'       inflated promises of innovation through blockchain-based       payment systems, no responsible lawmaker can support these       measures because they ratify the greatest corruption in       presidential history: Donald Trump's crypto ventures, which       astound in the scope of the grift and flagrancy of       commitment. Leading ethicists agree, including the White       House ethics ``czars'' for each president since Clinton       (except for Trump's).

Trump once dismissed bitcoin, the most popular crypto, as       ``based on thin air.'' It is a ``scam.'' It can facilitate       unlawful behavior, including drug trade and other illegal       activity.'' Now, he's the self-proclaimed crypto president.

In May, the Trump family announced an agreement with a fund       backed by Abu Dhabi that ``would be making a $2 billion       business deal using the Trump firm's digital coins,''       according to the New York Times. That deal involved a       stablecoin. The Constitution (Article 1, Section 9) forbids       accepting money (specifically a ``present'' or ``emolument'')       or anything of value from any ``king, prince, or foreign       state.''

Previously, Trump hosted a presidential dinner for the       largest new buyers of his crypto ``meme,'' called ``$Trump.''       Federal law strictly regulates payments to government       officials, including gifts. Although the president may       receive gifts, he or she may not ``solicit'' gifts. These       prohibitions begin with the Constitution's Emoluments Clause       and are reiterated in the U.S.'s anti-bribery statute, 18       U.S.C. Sec. 201, and federal regulations, 5 C.F.R. Sec. 2635.       Although section 2635.205 lists several exemptions from the       prohibition, none exempts soliciting purchases for personal       gain.

As to why the public might be interested in sending money,       the website explains: ``This Trump Meme celebrates a leader       who doesn't back down, no matter the odds.'' Under the Trump       meme website's question, ``What is a meme?'' the website       explains: ``Merriam-Webster's meme noun: 1: an idea,       behavior, style, or usage that spreads from person to person       within a culture.''

The website states that ``Trump Memes . . . are not       intended to be, or to be the subject of, an investment       opportunity, investment contract, or security of any type.''       Additionally, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)       stated that meme coins have ``no use.'' Other cryptocurrency       observers deride memes generally as without value. Former       aide Anthony Scaramucci said Trump's effort demeans broader       cryptocurrency efforts, calling it ``ldi Amin level       corruption.'' Another commenter said that the Trump meme ``is       effectively a `for sale' sign on the White House.'' Some,       including an author in the Washington Post, characterized       this token as a ``sh--coin.''

In short, it appears Trump is not soliciting money in       exchange for an investment or tangible product (such as a       Bible, sports shoes, or a guitar), but soliciting money in       exchange for nothing--that is, asking for a gift that will       benefit him personally.

Already, Trump has profited millions from the meme and       other ventures. His initial sale generated nearly $100       million. The latest salvo in April brought in roughly $100       million more. Some new buyers come through the Binance       exchange, legally barred for US investors, meaning that Trump       may well be violating the emoluments clause with this venture       as well.

The dangers inherent in the Trump meme portend ominously.       Should the president be allowed to enrich himself in this       way, other politician might follow this path, rendering the       prohibition on solicitation in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 201 and the       prohibitions on receipt of gifts by officials other than the       president meaningless.

Paradoxically, while this Trump meme is worthless (by his       own estimation) Trump managed to create an earlier crypto       that is worth less. In October, 2024, he became the ``chief       crypto advocate'' for World Liberty Financial, a nascent       cryptocurrency firm. The World Liberty Trump crypto is worse       because it cannot be resold. This Trump crypto buys only       ``governance,'' but only a minority share. Trump controls the       majority of the governance tokens.

Now, the House considers a trio of bills regarding       cryptocurrencies. At the very least, Congress must bar the       president along with all elected officials and their families       from owning, buying or otherwise trafficking in stablecoins.       Americans must be assured that policy won't be fashioned by       those profiting from the shape of the legislation.

Further, Congress should approve an amendment that restates       conflict laws that already apply to the president. Namely, he       may not solicit gifts; he may not accept gifts from a foreign       sovereign; he may not sell political favors.

Pro-crypto lawmakers apologize that Trump corruption will       persist whether or not Congress approves crypto legislation.       We reject this defeatist position. Congress must not abdicate       any powers to hold Trump accountable. Without conflict-of-      interest guardrails, approving these bills effectively       endorses Trump's conflicts. The bills will integrate crypto       into mainstream banking, serving to fatten his grift.

At the same time, we believe each bill fails to protect       investors while facilitating the funding of illicit       activities, which we explain in detail below.           h.r. 3633, the digital asset market clarity act of 2025

This measure succeeds the ``Fit 21 Act'' of the last       Congress, approved with bipartisan support, a result we       believe reflects profligate political spending by the crypto       sector in 2024. Now that the crypto political spenders       brazenly threaten to recycle even more of their ill-gotten       gains into future elections, Congress is speeding through       more pro-crypto bills.

The CLARITY Act falls so short of necessary investor       protections as to invite mockery. Putting a sign on the keg       at a frat party that says ``Over 21 only'' would achieve       better results at tamping down harmful behavior.       Fundamentally, the CLARITY Act accords the imprimatur of       federal government approval for crypto by awarding official       SEC-approved status for qualified firms.

To qualify for approved status, a firm might actually       register. Exemptions, however, abound. Sections 309 and 409       of the legislation would exempt firms if they relate to ``the       operation of a blockchain system.'' Crypto projects may win       exemption for contracts that trade and settle on a       blockchain. The bill exempts tokens with ``value, utility or       significance,'' a designation that the sponsor itself can       claim. And all existing tokens enjoy a grandfather       protection, legal amnesty for any reporting requirements.

In effect, the bill claims to establish a speed limit and       then provides what amount to exceptions for drivers with red       cars, fast cars, or if they're in a hurry.

Further, the bill offers a means for non-crypto companies       to bypass securities law and use the blockchain to raise       funds. This threatens to upend a near century of securities       law- and rule-making that established American markets as the       envied, disciplined, safe, and largest in the world. Once the       crypto craze dissolves and/or crashes, this element of the       bill, if it becomes law, will constitute one of the greatest       deteriorations of sound securities law ever. The Securities       Industry and Financial Markets Association, the lobby that       represents firms that underwrite and help investors trade       stocks, shares this concern. Recently the association wrote       to the Securities and Exchange Commission with a warning       about the potential pitfalls of allowing firms to put stocks       on the same blockchain technology that underpins digital       assets without following the same rules that apply to the       equities market. Doing so, SIFMA said, raises questions about       whether investors would be getting the best prices when       trading such tokenized stocks and if that trading could       hamper capital formation in the U.S.

The CLARITY Act fails to provide adequate compliance       requirements to deter money laundering. Drug, arms and human       traffickers use crypto to avoid detection. If crypto       promoters simply required every participant to register--just       as a driver secures a driver's license--much of this problem       would abate. That the bill sponsors resist this simple policy       speaks grimly about whom they are serving with this       legislation.

Finally, bill sponsors claim they promote this bill to keep       crypto innovation American and provide long needed       regulation. But not all ``innovation'' advances an economy.       Crafty cyberthieves deserve no trophy, nor do romance       scammers, but both varieties of       scammers frequently use crypto to bilk their marks. Moreover,       current securities law provides a rubric for crypto. The       Biden administration asked crypto to register and comply;       some did. Most, however, prefer to grift outside any       barriers. Congress must not plant the US flag on this rogue       industry through this bill.                                the genius act

The GENIUS Act focuses on essentially one element of what's       necessary to govern stablecoins: namely the integrity of       their reserves. It requires that the sponsor buy safe       securities, such as U.S. treasuries.

Even here, however, the GENIUS Act falls short because it       also allows a coin's sponsor to include uninsured demand       deposits. While cash might seem safe, if held in a bank,       accounts beyond $250,000 would not enjoy FDIC coverage. The       episode of Silicon Valley Bank's failure demonstrated this       vulnerability. Further, the bill relies on sponsor       certification (or attestation) as to the components of the       reserve. Instead, responsible legislation should require an       audit by a firm overseen by the Public Company Accounting       Oversight Board (PCAOB). (Some stablecoins have sought audits       from firms outside this recognized regime.)

Generally, the GENIUS Act includes several foundational       flaws. First, it invites major commercial firms such as       Amazon, Walmart, Twitter/X and/or Facebook/Meta to enter the       banking sector because it lacks provisions under the Banking       Holding Company Act that otherwise prohibit non-financial       firms from entering the banking business. The nation's       centuries old policy separating banking and commerce stems       from concerns about concentration in power. Creditors should       not face the moral hazard of competing with the borrower.       Viability of a credit facility should not hinge on the       viability of a commercial venture. For example, an automobile       manufacturer that also sponsored a stablecoin might raid the       reserve should car sales begin to falter. Or a major online       aggregating retailer might disfavor a subcontractor if it       failed to use the aggregator's stablecoin. History       illustrates that when banks have entered commerce, such as       financiers did in the late 19th century during the       construction of railroads, manipulations led to frequent       economic shocks. Any stablecoin legislation should obligate       issuers to abide by robust Bank Holding Company Act       provisions that guard against these harms by restricting       sponsorship to existing banks.

Second, the GENIUS Act provides a dual oversight structure,       permitting stablecoins under a certain value ($10 billion) to       register under individual states. This allows a race to the       bottom, where unscrupulous sponsors would seek the state with       the most convenient rules. The bill calls on the states to       establish safety standards, but these will inevitably be       worked out between industry and lawmakers with little       consumer protection given the scant interest by average       Americans in this sector. Further, a bad actor could game the       $10 billion limit by organizing multiple funds, beginning a       new one once the last one reaches this figure.

The bill also fails to establish clear safeguards for those       stablecoins that seek federal oversight, with the same vague       injunctions to regulators. As implementation of the 2010       Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act       demonstrates, regulators were slow to implement rules, and       those rules reflected intense Wall Street lobbying. With the       U.S. Supreme Court decision eliminating Chevron deference,       rules that industry finds inconvenient now may perish at the       whim of cherry-picked courts.

Third, the bill fails to provide speedy resolution for       customers in case of failure of a stablecoin. Bankruptcy does       not suit a firm that custodies savings that should be       available within days of a failure, as is the case with banks       that are resolved by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.       Section 9 of the GENIUS Act references sections of Chapter 11       of the Bankruptcy Code, affording holders of payment       stablecoins ``priority.'' But bankruptcy triggers an       automatic stay on payments that could take years before the       relief of funds, according to Georgetown Prof. Arthur       Wilmarth, which renders ``priority'' little relief in       actuality. Related to this, the bill includes inadequate       custodial rules. The GENIUS Act declares that stablecoins are       property of the investor and must be segregated from sponsor       funds. But this doesn't direct the bankruptcy court to pay       the investor immediately.

Lastly, the bill lacks a fair redemption regime. It simply       requires the stablecoin sponsor to establish a policy. It       fails to prohibit a firm from establishing exorbitant fees,       or setting an unreasonable time to honor a redemption, or       favoring some customers over others. A sponsor could       establish long waiting periods; a sponsor could even change       policies, such as advertising a low fee one month, then       raising it the next, and setting different fees for different       customers. In a money market mutual fund, all customers       receive the same prevailing interest rate and enjoy equal       redemption rules.                        central bank digital currency

The CBDC Anti-Surveillance State Act oddly places its       specious talking point in the bill's title. The bill would       bar the government from establishing a central bank digital       currency on the argument that it would invade personal       financial privacy.

In reality, the sponsors of this bill serve the interests       of private sector cryptocurrency promoters that we believe do       not want to be displaced by a better, government-sponsored       digital currency. It is revealing that so-called innovators       in the free market fear they might be outdone by federal       technocrats. Public Citizen believes these self-described       crypto innovators are craven fraudsters looting the       vulnerable with a Ponzi scheme.

Public Citizen does support exploration of a Central Bank       Digital Currency (CBDC). This federal digital coin, in one       form dubbed a FedAccount, holds the promise to address some       of the problems with the payment system.

Conceived by Lev Menand of Columbia Law School in June       2018, the CBDC would be a Federal Reserve account. It would       be available to ``any U.S. resident or business in digital       wallets operated by the Federal Reserve, the Post Office, or       one of the country's several thousand community banks,'' he       explains. ``The digital wallets would charge no fees and have       no minimum balances. They would come with debit cards, direct       deposit, and bill pay. They would have customer service,       privacy safeguards, and fraud protection--if, for example,       one lost their password. And these accounts would earn       interest at the same rate that the Fed pays to banks.''

Lack of profitability for the banks represents one of the       reasons that banks fail to service roughly six percent of the       population. The FedAccount would be available to those whom       banks have failed to serve regardless of their balance. They       would be streamlined to provide access with immediate payment       clearing. There would be no fees charged. With such an       account, delivery of federal payments would be immediate

We believe the Menand idea deserves attention. Searching       for a talking point, the bill's sponsors claim the idea would       lead to a surveillance state. They seem unaware that credit       card firms, major banks, and other financial institutions       already own personal financial data. By the bill's logic,       they should be banned as well.

For questions, please contact Bartlett Naylor.            Sincerely,                                                    Public Citizen.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, let me reiterate that it is irresponsible to  turn this bill over to the President of the United States, and I  continue to reserve the balance of my time.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my  time.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my  time.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am  prepared to close if the gentleman from Arkansas has no further  speakers.

Mr. Speaker, let me again reiterate that a vote for S. 1582 is a vote  to give Trump the pen to write the rules that would put more money in  his family's pockets. A vote for S. 1582 is a vote for consumer harm. A  vote for S. 1582 is a vote to plant the seeds for the next financial  crisis. A vote for S. 1582 is a vote to endanger our national security.

That is why I will be voting ``no'' on S. 1582, the GENIUS Act, and I  urge all other Members to also vote ``no''.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.