Hud Transparency Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 225, the HUD Transparency Act  of 2025, sponsored by Representative De La Cruz.

Oversight is a core function of the Financial Services Committee.  Inspectors general also play a critical role in providing transparency  about the functions of government, as well as holding government  officials accountable.

They are able to do this because they are independent of the  officials they oversee, and until recently, were only removed for  cause.

However, since taking office, President Trump has fired over 20 IGs  across the government. The majority of these IG firings took place in  the first week President Trump took office and violated lawful removal  procedures as they came with no warning or rationale.

In fact, the Trump administration has kept more than three in four  presidentially appointed inspector general positions vacant and without  Senate-confirmed leadership.

These actions not only silence future IGs but leave the public less  informed about critical activities happening across agencies.

Dangerously, Trump's actions, combined with Republican House  leadership who are unwilling to investigate anything Trump's team does,  enable the Trump administration to be entirely unaccountable.

Notably, the HUD Inspector General this bill would require to testify  before our committee was one of the people Trump arbitrarily fired  earlier this year.

Since that firing, the acting HUD IG has been replaced again, and  there is no one being considered by the Senate for confirmation. As a  result, no one in this Chamber knows when our committee will be able to  receive this testimony.

That said, and while I support this bill, this debate ignores the  real and urgent challenges facing HUD and our housing market, and how  the President and his administration are actively taking steps to  undermine efforts to address the affordable housing crisis.

For example, where is the legislation from our Republican colleagues  to stop Trump's plan to gut existing permanent supportive housing that  could force more than 170,000 people back on the streets? Twenty States  and D.C. have already sued HUD citing the plan as chaotic and unlawful.

Mr. Speaker, where are their investigations into the Director of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency, Bill Pulte, who is weaponizing the  housing finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac for politically  motivated witch hunts and trying to lock new home buyers into 50-year  mortgages?

If Republicans wanted to lower housing costs, why aren't they calling  to exempt materials like lumber from Trump's tariffs or why aren't we  negotiating the ROAD to Housing Act so that it can be included in NDAA  and quickly passed into law?

Mr. Speaker, the invitation to my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle is open. Join us in finally taking steps to address the rising  costs of housing. The American public wants us to lower their bills,  and Democrats have numerous ideas about how to do that. Join us in  ensuring that the HUD inspector general has the independence to do  their job without fear of retaliation when they uncover corruption or  abuse of power.

We will join Republicans in passing this bill today, but we need to  finally get to work to deliver real change for the American people.

Mr. Speaker, HUD plays a vital role in providing safe and affordable  housing to families all across the United States. Families depend on  HUD's programs to keep a roof over their heads.

H.R. 225 would allow Congress and the public to hear directly from an  independent oversight authority, provided one is ever confirmed, and  offer more transparency into the functions and operations of HUD,  especially at a time when Trump's appointees are abusing their power.

I again urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.