Ofac Licensure for Investigators Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693941/ofac-licensure-for-investigators-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1450, the OFAC Licensure for  Investigators Act, sponsored by Representative Beatty.

This bill would require the Secretary of the Treasury to develop a  pilot program at the Office of Foreign Assets Control, OFAC, by which  private-sector firms like blockchain analytics firms or the financial  intelligence units within correspondent banks could receive a license  to send or receive nominal financial transactions to and through  sanctioned entities. These small amounts could yield big details that  could further our understanding of what is happening and by whom in  sanctions evasion and money laundering investigations.

We need what this bill proposes because as the global anti-money  laundering and countering the financing of terrorism regime has become  increasingly effective in detecting and deterring the abuse of the  financial system, bad actors have often moved their transactions into  illicit markets and spaces or used technologies and methods that are  harder to track.

Investigative efforts by firms and in-house functions dedicated to  tracking down these attempts to avoid detection help banks and  governments, among others, to identify bad actors, accounts, and  typologies used by criminals and terrorists. They are limited, however,  in how far they can see into these dirty operations.

One of those limitations in the visibility into the financial  transactions of bad actors is due to sanctions, which appropriately and  forcefully prevents parties from engaging with targets of sanctions.  Investigators, whether in private firms or large bank intelligence  units, must stop a transaction after finding evidence that suggests  that a wallet, account, or address may be associated with a sanctioned  person. With the specific licenses envisioned by this bill, OFAC would  closely manage narrow and explicit exceptions to its sanctions programs  to allow investigators to engage with sanctioned persons in order to  gain more visibility into the opaque networks and practices.

Again, OFAC would be limited to allowing only nominal amounts for  such traceable transfers. The bill also ensures that there is robust  oversight of this process, requiring the recipients of these specific  licenses to report to OFAC monthly on their findings. This is similar  in concept to the keep-open letters that government officials provide  to financial institutions to keep open suspicious accounts so the  government can watch the transactions and follow the money.

That is because H.R. 1450 would help investigators better follow the  money to make their sanctions and money laundering investigations more  fruitful for the United States Government, banks, and others that  employ such services.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, this bill, H.R. 1450, the OFAC Licensure for  Investigators Act from Representative Beatty would develop a program at  the Department of the Treasury that would allow financial crime  investigators, including those at the Office of Foreign Assets Control,  that is OFAC, to better trace and understand the efforts by bad actors  to evade sanctions and launder funds. By allowing nominal amounts to be  directed through certain accounts with stringent U.S. Government  oversight, banks, government agencies, and others seeking knowledge  about how these bad actors behave and are connected will benefit. This  bill will help to keep our financial system and national security  secure.

I, again, urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield back  the balance of my time.