Protecting Americans From Harmful Crypto Practices


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690919/protecting-americans-from-harmful-crypto-practices


Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to further discuss with our  Members and this country the situation that we find ourselves in, the  chaotic situation that has so many people confused. It is a chaotic  situation that is causing trauma and harm to the people of this  country.

I know much of what I am going to say today perhaps has been said by  others before, but we need to talk about this situation over and over  again and daily so that people can understand what is going on and how  our democracy is being challenged.

Madam Speaker, last year, Trump denied knowing anything about Project  2025, the radical rightwing plan to reshape the Federal Government. Of  Project 2025, Trump said: ``I don't know anything about it. I don't  want to know anything about it.''

Trump, Elon Musk, and his appointees are now following the Project  2025 playbook. They are recklessly gutting Federal agencies and  government's capacity. Elon Musk has said that the government ``should  privatize everything that we possibly can.'' They are laying off or  pushing into retirement tens of thousands of Federal employees. The  cruelty is the point.

Russell Vought, Director of the Office of Management and Budget and  Project 2025 architect, has said of Federal employees: ``We want to put  them in trauma.''

It has been over 100 days since President Trump was inaugurated.  Since then, the President of the United States has questioned his role  to uphold the Constitution, an oath he made when he was sworn into  office. He has also questioned whether Americans are entitled to due  process, a foundational civil protection. He has endlessly flouted the  rule of law.

As a matter of fact, the American Civil Liberties Union has called  the Trump administration's action: ``One of the most abusive and  aggressive assaults on human rights in United States Presidential  history.''

In carrying out their pro-billionaire agenda, Republicans have also  gutted programs and agencies that serve as critical lifelines to  American families, many of which include their very own constituents.

The international leadership which Americans benefit greatly and  built for decades is now destabilized by Trump's trade war against our  allies.

In just a few months, Trump has introduced chaos in the stock market  and undermined confidence for consumers, investors, and small  businesses, many of which have cautioned that they will have to close  due to Trump's untenable tariffs which act as a tax on Americans and  their businesses.

At the same time, as families struggle, Trump has increased his  wealth by billions since taking office, which is a slap in the face to  American families struggling to put food on the table.

Just last week, alarming new information came to light regarding  foreign governments making business deals using Trump's crypto. A $2  billion business deal using the Trump firm's stablecoins with a fund  backed by Abu Dhabi was announced at a conference in Dubai.

This arrangement represents a significant contribution by a foreign  government to President Trump's private crypto business that will  abundantly grow the Trump family's wealth.

While Trump and his billionaire insiders' wealth catapults, Americans  are bracing themselves for layoffs, shortages, and higher prices in a  recession engineered by Trump.

While Trump and his family continue to land billions of dollars in  deals and investments with American companies and foreign entities,  Trump has asked Americans to just withstand the ``pain.'' This is from  his economic policies.

While Republicans work hard to make room for $7 trillion in tax cuts  for American oligarchs like Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos, Republicans are  cutting $880 billion in funding from Medicaid food stamps for Americans  who rely on this help.

Is this how Donald Trump has improved the lives of American  families--by damaging their retirement plans, jobs, and social safety  nets?

It is clear there is no such thing as business as usual anymore. This  is why this week I took a stand against Trump's actions. For several  years, I have led the effort in Congress to advance commonsense crypto  legislation to protect American investors and consumers from fraud and  from scams, while supporting crypto capital formation.

After years of good faith, bipartisan negotiation and collaboration  with regulators and stakeholders, former Chair McHenry and I even  drafted payment stablecoin legislation that would create a strong  Federal framework and put consumer protection front and center.

My bill would foster innovation, while properly addressing the  concerns I have long held about safeguarding our Nation's consumers  from scams that inundated the crypto industry. Our bill also addressed  national security concerns that adversaries and criminal organizations  could use stablecoins for their very harmful purposes.

While we are talking about crypto, I think it is important for me to  let the people know that crypto is a digital form of private cash. It  is very important that people understand that. We are trying to share  the information so people understand about this digital form of private  cash.

However, we live in a different world now. Many of these risks have  only increased since the inauguration of President Trump. President  Trump's actions have drastically altered the crypto landscape in ways  that are far more dangerous than what we could ever imagine. He has  gutted the financial regulators tasked with protecting Americans.

Ahead of the scheduled joint hearing between the Financial Services  Committee and the Agriculture Committee on crypto market structure  legislation, I presented a straightforward, acceptable, and  basic request to the Republicans.

I told the Chair of the Financial Services Committee that I would  only give my consent to this hearing if Republicans would include  provisions to block Trump--or any sitting President--and his family, as  well as Members of Congress, from further profiting off crypto at the  expense of American families in his crypto legislation. That is all I  asked for.

Unlike other hearings in Congress, this one was different. It  required every Member--Democrat and Republican--to agree to hold this  hearing. Well, I had to think whether I could agree to this hearing if  there wasn't a commitment to address the corruption I and many across  this country recognize.

Whether a Republican or Democrat, any Member of Congress that intends  to protect the public from the exploitation of government power should  stand by these foundational principles of our democracy.

Regrettably, Republicans rejected my request. In fact, rather than  post my legislation to stop corruption, they decided to not even post  their legislation.

Then when I asked for a commitment to include a prohibition on owning  crypto by the public officials writing the laws and rules governing  crypto, that was rejected, as well. Because the joint hearing needed  the consent of every Member, I could not in good faith agree to such a  hearing.

Madam Speaker, you see, through this legislation, Republicans are  legitimizing Trump's and his family's efforts to enrich themselves on  the backs of average Americans. Through his crypto businesses, Trump  has created a pathway to circumvent our country's national security and  anticorruption laws. This approach allows adversaries like China and  Russia to curry favor, either blatantly or anonymously, through  transfers of money to him and his inner circle.

This week, we saw new reports that insiders made nearly $100 million  on Melania's meme coin.

Public officials being able to sell access using crypto undermine our  democracy and free market system.

Let's look at this for what it is. This is how authoritarian regimes  do business.

Trump has turned the Office of the Presidency into a personal  moneymaking machine, and we must speak truth to power for the Americans  we took an oath to protect.

Let's take a look at the timeline of this, shall we?

As the Republican Presidential nominee, Trump launched his family's  crypto venture called World Liberty Financial, a decentralized finance  crypto platform. The Trump family now has a claim on 75 percent of net  revenues from token sales and 60 percent from World Liberty operations.

Concerning crypto industry data also shows that many investors in  World Liberty's crypto are based abroad in countries like Singapore,  South Korea, Hong Kong, and the United Arab Emirates. Because this  company was launched during Trump's campaign, it gave him an avenue to  possibly circumvent Federal laws that make it illegal for foreigners to  donate to Presidential campaigns or inaugural funds.

After the election and just before his inauguration, President Trump  and the First Lady, Melania Trump, kicked off his Presidency with the  launch of their own meme coins, which have reportedly lost the  investors, who trusted their President, $2 billion.

Guess what, Madam Speaker? The President and his family made at least  $350 million.

Then, in March, President Trump's World Liberty Financial announced  the launch of its stablecoin, conveniently named USD1, just before our  Financial Services Committee was scheduled to vote on legislation  regulating the stablecoin market.

Stablecoins are a type of crypto that claim to maintain a constant or  ``stable'' value and are used in most crypto transactions today.

In May, World Liberty Financial announced the firm will be making a  $2 billion business deal with a fund backed by Abu Dhabi, using the  Trump firm's stablecoins. This deal also includes Binance, the world's  largest crypto exchange.

Recently, Binance's founder has been seeking a pardon from the Trump  administration after he pleaded guilty to money laundering and spent 4  months in Federal prison. Nevertheless, Republicans' stablecoin bill  did nothing to address Trump's conflict and instead voted to hand Trump  the authority to write the rules over his and his competitors'  stablecoins.

That is right. Traditionally, our Federal financial regulators were  intentionally created by Congress to be independent from the White  House in order to put the stability of our financial markets above  politics. Trump has undermined that independence by making these  independent agencies now clear all rules with the White House.

If stablecoin legislation is passed, then agencies would draft rules  that would be sent straight to the Trump White House, and he could  directly make edits that would benefit his own stablecoin business. His  business could also make adjustments to their operations, knowing the  rules before their competitors.

Later, in March, Trump's sons launched their own Bitcoin company  called American Bitcoin. President Trump had conveniently already  instructed the Treasury to create a Bitcoin reserve and a digital asset  strategic reserve, a move that would boost the value of the Bitcoin he  and his Cabinet members own, using taxpayer resources.

Leading up to the White House's first crypto summit, World Liberty  purchased $20 million in crypto tokens, some of which include those  Trump picked for the strategic cryptocurrency reserve.

I found out recently that, last month, President Trump was venturing  deeper into crypto with a new project. This would be his very own video  game that uses crypto. The video game is supposed to resemble Monopoly  GO! Players travel around a board and earn money for constructing  buildings in a digital city.

Madam Speaker, you heard that right. Trump is producing video games  that involve crypto to model his own real estate business, which went  bankrupt.

Who do you think is helping him launch this video game? It is the  same person who helped launch his meme coin. This is his longtime pal,  Bill Zanker.

Other Trump companies, like Trump Media & Technology Group, which is  the parent company of Truth Social, are also leveraging the Office of  the President by partnering with major crypto platforms like  Crypto.com, promising to purchase $250 million in crypto, initiating  plans to launch crypto exchange traded funds, ETFs, and more.

Trump is gearing up to host a May 22 dinner for top Trump meme coin  holders. What this means is the more of his crypto that people buy, the  higher their chances of getting access to Trump. We don't know everyone  who is buying his cryptoassets. It could be foreign governments,  individuals, or special interests looking to directly influence  Presidential decisions.

Trump ran on a campaign to put more money in the pockets of  Americans. It turns out he just meant his pockets and those of his  cronies.

The first 100 days of the Trump administration were filled with  failures, chaos, and incompetence. The United States' role and  reputation globally have been severely damaged, and many Americans are  worried they will no longer receive the Social Security checks and  Medicaid they need.

Now, congressional Republicans insist on pushing forward crypto  market structure legislation, without addressing any of the corruption  I have mentioned here today.

Madam Speaker, I ask Members to keep in mind that all of this is  occurring against this unprecedented backdrop. Every day that  congressional Republicans refuse to stand up for their constituents,  they diminish their power and Congress' and damage the country's  democratic future.

At the same time, Trump has undone Congress' decades-long ethics  rules and enforcement laws. In doing so, he has removed many of the  institutions and watchdogs that would serve as a check on his own self- profiteering.

He has gutted the Corporate Transparency Act, frozen enforcement of  the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and disbanded the Department of  Justice's National Cryptocurrency Enforcement Team.

Trump has also been extremely clear about taking control of  independent agencies, even issuing executive orders making sure they  are no longer independent from the whims of politics. The Securities  and Exchange Commission has suspended several ongoing cases for Trump  donors and Trump's crypto investors.

For example, the Securities and Exchange Commission recently  suspended its enforcement action against Justin Sun, founder of the  TRON Foundation. The SEC's own complaint detailed how Sun sold  unregistered crypto asset securities, manipulated trading to  artificially inflate the prices of the tokens he issued, and secretly  paid celebrities to tout his tokens, all in violation of well- established and widely recognized securities laws. The timing also  raises significant concern as it aligns with Sun's $75 million  investment in Trump's World Liberty Financial.

We do not need to repeat the mistakes of the past with a new risky  financial product. We can integrate the lessons of the past for a  future that spearheads responsible innovation and growth.

Remember the predatory mortgages from the financial crisis? Those  were also sold as innovative products without sufficient guardrails.  Instead, they caused millions of people to lose their jobs, their  homes, their savings, reversing and worsening any gains that had been  made in Black and Latino homeownership and wealth. The collapse of the  housing market during this time displaced approximately 10 million  Americans.

As Trump wreaks chaos on the stock market and broader economy, he is  also injecting additional risk to our financial system, ultimately  putting the country on track for a recession and financial crisis.

Let's start with Trump's deregulatory agenda. Trump has shuttered the  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Republicans are paving the way  for a reality where the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is  dismantled and the economy is no longer guided by independent  regulators. Instead, regulators are being manipulated to serve the  political and financial interests of the President and his billionaire  insiders.

In this context, Trump's light-touch crypto legislation could have  real risk for us all.

Trump has undone critical enforcement mechanisms that make our  marketplace safer for consumers and hold bad actors accountable.

The Trump administration is also integrating unnecessary risk and  volatility into agencies. For example, according to recent reports, the  Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD, is attempting to  experiment with crypto in their operations, including by paying  grantees in stablecoin or crypto. One of Trump's executive orders  leaves the door wide open for Trump to require the use of his  stablecoins and meme coins in order to pay taxes or enter into other  arrangements with the government. This would be just another in a  string of this administration's egregious conflicts of interest.

During the 2008 financial crisis, we saw how poorly regulated money  market funds needed to be bailed out by the Treasury Secretary using  the Exchange Stabilization Fund. We also saw how the Federal Reserve  used its emergency lending authority to provide a bailout for American  International Group.

When we step back and view all of these factors, it is clear Trump is  socializing risk to American families who are not engaging with the  crypto ecosystem. I am deeply concerned that, as President, Trump will  transfer the risks from his ventures and sponsorship of the crypto  industry to the American taxpayer.

As Members of Congress, we must legislate. Every day they try to  shutter the CFPB, every day, we are fighting, whether it is at agency  headquarters or in the court.

As Members of Congress, we have the serious duty to protect and  defend the American public. Since the Republican majority refuses to do  its job, I am determined to shed light on these critical issues.

Now, I will move from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau into  the diversity, equality, and inclusion that he has made a top priority  in his administration.

There is a continuing legacy of racism, sexism, and discrimination in  our society. Bias and discrimination have contributed to the exclusion  of qualified women, people of color, LGBT, and persons with  disabilities, and veterans.

Diversity, equity, and inclusion policies are not about mandates and  quotas. On the contrary. DEI is about eliminating bias, opening doors,  and giving everyone, no matter what they look like or who they love a  fair opportunity for employment, promotion, and access to capital. DEI  is about understanding and knowing what these differences are and doing  everything that can be done, both in government and in corporations, to  just let those who wish to have a promotion--many of whom have worked  for 25 and 30 years--have a chance to interview, to see if their  talents are understood, and that they will have the opportunity to move  up.

Well, he has made DEI a very, very vocal point. He started out  talking about getting rid of that. He sent memos around to all of the  nonprofits and agencies telling them if they dare to have anything that  looks like DEI, which he doesn't have a definition for, that they are  going to be shut down, and that they are going to be penalized.

Trump and Musk are targeting any institution that displays a focus  towards diversity, equity, and inclusion.

When I became the first Black and the first woman chair of the House  Financial Services Committee back in 2019, I established Congress'  first-ever Diversity and Inclusion Subcommittee, chaired by  Representative Joyce Beatty. The Subcommittee on Diversity and  Inclusion held 18 hearings, released three major reports, and brought  long-overdue scrutiny to the ways in which systemic barriers in our  financial system disadvantage entire communities. We exposed inequities  in hiring and promotion. We shined a light on the racial wealth gap,  and we demanded that corporate America take diversity seriously, not as  a talking point but as a matter of policy, accountability, and economic  justice.

We know the numbers. Women make up more than 50 percent of the  population, people of color over 40 percent. And yet, in the financial  services industry, representation of these groups drops dramatically,  especially for women of color, at every level of leadership.

We are not dealing with a pipeline problem. We are dealing with an  access problem; a power problem.

I want to be clear. My commitment to DEI did not start there. Back in  2010, I helped to create the Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion at  our Nation's top financial regulators. These offices were designed to  embed DEI into the DNA of the financial system, from hiring and  contracting to how institutions supervise the banks they regulate.

These offices are now under assault, despite its legal mandate and  critical role in promoting equity in hiring, contracting, and oversight  across the financial system.

Let me be clear. DEI is about more than just checking a box. It is  about upward mobility. It is about making sure women and people of  color aren't just in the room but they are also at the head of the  table and also serving on boards, making investment decisions, and  building wealth that lasts.

That is why I fought to pass the Minority Business Resiliency Act,  now law, and secured $600 billion for community development, financial  institutions, and minority depository institutions during the pandemic.  That is why I continue to support the Minority Business Development  Agency, which has now been defunded and dismantled, even though it has  provided critical support to businesses all around the country.

Let me just continue on. You know, it is absolutely disturbing and  upsetting to walk through what is happening in our country under  President Trump and his entire administration.

Let me be absolutely clear. We are in the midst of a full-blown  affordable housing and homelessness crisis with over 771,000 people  experiencing homelessness on any given night in this country.

Rents and home prices are surging, and families are being priced out  of their communities. Housing supply is not keeping up with demand. As  a result, more and more families are pushed out onto the streets or  forced to choose between paying rent or buying groceries.

Across the country, renters and homeowners alike are spending well  over 30 and even 50 percent of their income on housing.

That is why I will soon reintroduce my legislative housing package to  address the housing and homelessness crisis head-on, which many of you  are familiar with, my Housing Crisis Response Act, Ending Homelessness  Act, and Downpayment Toward Equity Act. These bills will help increase  the supply of housing, bring down costs, and revive the dream of  homeownership for all.

While Democrats are fighting to deliver real relief to families  across this country, President Trump, along with co-president Elon Musk  and Secretary Scott Turner, are working to decimate HUD from the inside  out.

Since January, this administration has halted critical agency  operations, unlawfully put staff on leave or fired staff; terminated  programs that are key to ending housing discrimination, such as  Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing and the Equal Access Rules;  compromised Americans' sensitive data by granting Elon Musk's so-called  DOGE personnel with the agency exposing victims of domestic violence  and/or assault; reported plans to launch dangerous blockchain and  crypto experiments within HUD; and begun planning to shut down HUD  field offices all over the country.

Make no mistake, this agency isn't a luxury. It is a necessity. This  agency helps our veterans, our seniors, people with disabilities, and  families struggling to stay afloat.

When I saw the harmful impact of this administration, I quickly took  action and hand-delivered a letter to Secretary Turner, signed by 122  Democratic colleagues demanding answers. Now, I am talking  about Secretary Turner who has been appointed to dismantle HUD by  President Trump.

What is equally concerning to me in Congress is that Republican  Members continue their push to slash Federal investments in housing,  which represent less than 1 percent of all Federal spending. In their  latest fiscal year 2025 budget, they slashed housing by more than $500  million, which will put at least 32 million households at risk of  eviction and homelessness.

Just this week, Trump released a heartless fiscal year 2026 budget  that cuts 26 billion from rental assistance programs, including public  housing, housing choice vouchers, project-based rental assistance, and  housing for seniors and people with disabilities.

He is turning these lifeline programs into State block grants and  imposing a cruel 2-year cap on aid for able-bodied adults.

It doesn't stop there. His budget also calls for the obliteration of  critical community development programs like the Community Development  Block Grant, HOME, and fair housing grants. These are the very programs  that help create affordable housing, revitalize disadvantaged  neighborhoods, and protect families from housing discrimination.  Eliminating these programs will devastate our communities, displace  families who are already on the brink of homelessness, and destroy the  progress made to ensure every person in our Nation has access to safe,  stable, and affordable housing.

Despite all the chaos, I will not give up. I will not stand by. I  will continue to fight against Trump's sabotage, defend the agency, and  stand up for the families who depend on the agency to keep a roof over  their heads.

I have fought too long and too hard to let this administration tear  it down, and I will not stop until our Nation's affordable housing and  homelessness crisis ends once and for all.

But that is not all. Let's take a look at Social Security. Trump  promised repeatedly not to cut Social Security under his  administration. He said: ``Social Security will not be touched, it will  only be strengthened.''

But listen carefully to what Trump billionaire appointees are saying:  Elon Musk called Social Security ``the biggest Ponzi scheme of all  time.'' Let me say it again. The co-president, not elected by anybody,  appointed by Trump, Elon Musk called Social Security ``the biggest  Ponzi scheme of all time.''

Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick said only a ``fraudster'' would  complain about a missed Social Security check. He is saying: Seniors,  if you didn't get your Social Security check, don't complain because if  you complain, you must be about fraud. You must be about something else  rather than getting your check.

I don't know who this Lutnick is, but I only know that he is, too, a  billionaire. What the heck does he care about Social Security? What  does he care about a missed Social Security check? Not a darn thing.

Trump, Musk, and DOGE are undermining the infrastructure of Social  Security by planning to cut 7,000 employees at the Social Security  Administration. They are planning to take away the option to use the  phone to file for benefits, requiring seniors to visit a field office  if they do not use the internet. Trump has put these plans on hold for  now, but we know this administration will continue to make life harder  for seniors.

Now Trump is adding Social Security numbers to the Social Security  death list to force immigrants to leave the country. People who have  their Social Security numbers placed on the death list by mistake can  have their homes foreclosed on or bank accounts closed.

These actions would violate data privacy law. Those who end up on the  death list report, those mistakes can take months to fix.

Trump is risking seniors' ability to receive the benefits they have  earned. Now, I want to be very clear about this. He said he would not  cut Social Security, but he is destroying the infrastructure of Social  Security. So people can't have their questions answered, they can't get  into a Social Security office that has been closed down and they can't  get any answers by phone.

This is outrageous, and I am so afraid of what is happening to those  who depend on Social Security. I am so afraid that seniors with limited  amounts of Social Security are going to end up hungry. Of course, they  wouldn't be able to pay any rent unless they are getting subsidized by  HUD in some way.

Let's go to Medicaid. Just like with Social Security, Trump and the  Republicans are playing games with people's lives because now they are  coming for Medicaid through this dangerous reconciliation bill.

Congress' nonpartisan scorekeeper, the Congressional Budget Office,  just confirmed the truth: 5.5 million people would lose their Medicaid  coverage if Republicans cut the Federal match for expansion States; 3.3  million more would lose coverage if they cap Federal Medicaid spending  in those same States; 2.3 million people, mostly low income seniors and  people with disabilities, would lose coverage if Republicans repeal  Biden's enrollment rule; and a staggering 8.6 million Americans would  be pushed off Medicaid if Republicans limit States' ability to fund the  program through provider taxes.

Here is what that means in real life: seniors losing nursing home  care, children losing access to basic checkups, cancer patients cut off  in the middle of treatment, and families forced to choose between a  doctor's visit and rent.

Republicans say these cuts are about cutting waste, fraud, and abuse,  but Americans know what this really is. It is an attack on the most  vulnerable to pay for the wealthy and the well-connected.

These cuts would not just shrink the deficit. They would shrink the  life expectancy of millions. They would drive up hospital costs,  emergency room visits, and medical bankruptcies. These proposals would  lead entire communities, especially communities of color, Black,  Latino, and rural populations, without a healthcare safety net.

Republicans don't care as long as their billionaire boys' club can  pad their pockets. It is a stark reminder of whose interests they are  really serving.

This is from a Washington Post article:

``One month into a sweeping new tariff regime that President Donald  Trump vowed would bring jobs and factories `roaring back,' a  Pennsylvania manufacturing hub is full of skepticism.

``Trump once told supporters here in the Lehigh Valley that they know  `better than almost any place in this country' how global trade has  `outsourced your industries' and `wiped out your steel mills.' Now,  even in one of the communities the President suggested would benefit  most from his tariffs, his  economic overhaul is disrupting lives and testing some voters' patience  in an election-deciding swing State.

``New hires at a local truck-making plant had just started on the  shop floor last month when their company announced an abrupt change:  layoffs that could hit more than 10 percent of the workforce and that  the company blamed on tariffs and other economic uncertainty. Even  Trump's fans sometimes grimace at his plans to remake the world  economy, worried about higher costs in a politically competitive area  still scattered with lawn signs that read: `Trump Low Prices Kamala  High Prices.' ''

He had these signs all over America, promising low prices.

``Almost two-thirds of Americans disapprove of Trump's handling of  tariffs, and a lasting backlash could be especially consequential for  Republicans in areas such as the Lehigh Valley, a perennial Rust Belt  battleground where Trump's campaign pitch resonated with many voters.''

They believed him.

``Trump's tariffs have put pressure on some of the GOP's most  vulnerable incumbents in Congress, including the local Congressman,  freshman Ryan Mackenzie, as they try to defend Trump's agenda while  also acknowledging their constituents' concerns.

``Officials here are doubtful that any tariffs, no matter how  drastic, can recreate the economy of the past, when one steel company's  facilities in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, alone employed 30,000 people.  Manufacturing is still the biggest industry in the Lehigh Valley, with  investment booming in recent years. At the same time, leaders are proud  that they managed to diversify their economy after Bethlehem Steel  collapsed decades ago.

``Brian Higgins, a longtime Republican commissioner in Lower Macungie  Township, home to the truck plant, said it is hard to imagine  manufacturing rebounding to where it was decades ago. `I don't think  anybody thinks that you could bring the Lehigh Valley back to what it  was,' Higgins said. `Could we bring some manufacturing back there?  Probably, but not to the extent that people believe.'

`` `I just think it is going to cost more money, and then it is going  to hurt us with retaliatory tariffs,' said Higgins, a self-described  `Reagan Republican' who could not bring himself to vote for Trump.

``Trump argues that levying tariffs on imports will give him leverage  for trade deals and ultimately compel companies to ramp up production  in the United States. Critics say the strategy will raise costs for  consumers and destabilize the economy while leaving businesses too  uncertain about the future to make plans.''

Here, let me just share with you what was on an article from The  Washington Post: Trump's tariffs are causing untold harm to America.

Let me read another story. This story is from The Wall Street  Journal, ``The Dumbest Trade War in History.'' The Wall Street Journal  said that.

``President Trump will fire his first tariff salvo on Saturday  against those notorious American adversaries, Mexico and Canada. They  will get hit with a 25 percent border tax, while China, a real  adversary, will endure 10 percent. This reminds us of the old Bernard  Lewis joke that it is risky to be America's enemy, but it can be fatal  to be its friend.

``Leaving China aside, Mr. Trump's justification for this economic  assault on the neighbors makes no sense. While House Press Secretary  Karoline Leavitt said they have `enabled illegal drugs to pour into  America,' but drugs have flowed into the U.S. for decades and will  continue to do so as long as Americans keep using them. Neither country  can stop it.

``Drugs may be an excuse since Mr. Trump has made clear he likes  tariffs for their own sake. `We don't need the products they have,' Mr.  Trump said on Thursday. `We have all the oil you need. We have all the  trees you need, meaning the lumber.'

``Mr. Trump sometimes sounds as if the U.S. shouldn't import anything  at all, that America can be a perfectly closed economy making  everything at home. This is called autarky, and it isn't the world we  live in or one that we should want to live in, as Mr. Trump may soon  find out.

``Take the U.S. auto industry, which is really a North American  industry because supply chains in the three countries are highly  integrated. In 2024, Canada supplied almost 13 percent of U.S. imports  of auto parts and Mexico nearly 42 percent. Industry experts say a  vehicle made on the continent goes back and forth across borders a half  dozen times or more, as companies source components and add value in  the most cost-effective ways, and everyone benefits.

``The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative says that in 2023 the  industry added more than $809 billion to the U.S. economy, or about  11.2 percent of total U.S. manufacturing output, supporting `9.7  million direct and indirect jobs.' In 2022, the U.S. exported $75.4  billion in vehicles and parts to Canada and Mexico. That number jumped  14 percent in 2023 to $86.2 billion, according to the American  Automotive Policy Council.

``American carmakers would be much less competitive without this  trade. Regional integration is now an industrywide manufacturing  strategy--also employed in Japan, Korea, and Europe--aimed at using a  variety of high-skilled and low-cost labor markets to source  components, software, and assembly.

``The result has been that U.S. industrial capacity in autos has  grown alongside an increase in imported motor vehicles, engines, and  parts. From 1995 to 2019, imports of autos, engines, and parts rose 169  percent while U.S. industrial capacity in autos, engines, and parts  rose 71 percent.

``As the Cato Institute's Scott Lincicome puts it, the data shows  that `as imports go up, U.S. production goes up.' Thousands of good- paying auto jobs in Texas, Ohio, Illinois, and Michigan owe their  competitiveness to this ecosystem, relying heavily on suppliers in  Mexico and Canada.

``Tariffs will also cause mayhem in the cross-border trade in farm  goods. In fiscal 2024, Mexican food exports made up about 23 percent of  total U.S. agricultural imports, while Canada supplied some 20 percent.  Many top U.S. growers have moved to Mexico because limits on legal  immigration have made it hard to find workers in the U.S. Mexico now  supplies 90 percent of avocados sold in the U.S. Is Mr. Trump now an  avocado nationalist?

``Then, there is the prospect of retaliation, which Canada and Mexico  have shown they know how to do for maximum political impact. In 2009,  the Obama administration and congressional Democrats ended a pilot  program that allowed Mexican long-haul truckers into the U.S. as  stipulated in NAFTA. Mexico responded with targeted retaliation on 90  U.S. goods to pressure industries in key congressional districts.

``These included California grapes and wine, Oregon Christmas trees  and cherries, jams and jellies from Ohio, and North Dakota soy. When  Mr. Trump imposed steel and aluminum tariffs in 2018, Mexico got  results using the same tactic, putting tariffs on steel, pork products,  fresh cheese, and bourbon.

``Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has promised to respond to  U.S. tariffs on a dollar-for-dollar basis. Canada could suffer a larger  GDP hit since its economy is so much smaller, but American consumers  will feel the bite of higher costs for some goods.

``None of this is supposed to happen under the U.S.-Mexico-Canada  trade agreement that Mr. Trump negotiated and signed in his first term.  The U.S. willingness to ignore its treaty obligations, even with  friends, won't make other countries eager to do deals. Maybe Mr. Trump  will claim victory and pull back if he wins some token concessions, but  if a North American trade war persists, it will qualify as one of the  dumbest in history.''

Continuing with The Washington Post article:

`` `The Trump administration's policies are delivering much-needed  economic relief for everyday Americans while laying the groundwork for  a long-term restoration of American greatness,' White House spokesman  Kush Desai said in a statement, noting that inflation cooled in March  and that gross private domestic investment increased by 22 percent in  the first quarter of 2025.

``Employers added 177,000 jobs last month, a strong showing, despite  the upheaval from Trump's tariffs announced April 2. In interviews,  Lehigh Valley voters who had heard about the  Mack layoffs often brushed them off as routine--the company has  downsized before--or said they weren't sure they believed the firm's  explanation.

``But many, including Trump voters, also said they are bracing for  economic pain in the valley, which spans two counties: Lehigh, which  Democrat Kamala Harris won by less than 3 percentage points in the  fall, and Northampton, a bellwether that frequently backs the winners  of Presidential elections and went narrowly for Trump.

``Adrienne Rinehimer, 51, said she is building a house and might push  back her timeline if prices get too high. Retiree Rick Janko was  mostly''--he was at one time--``mostly supportive of the President's  agenda but rolled his eyes at claims that tariffs will bring  manufacturing back. Like Rinehimer, he cast his ballot for Trump last  year.''

Mr. Speaker, with the short time left, I say that I came to the floor  to talk about the harm being caused by the Trump administration, the  corruption in crypto, and the harm to people just trying to live their  lives.

Trump's regime is going after the supports that government provides  to help Americans live in safe homes, put food on the table, and take  care of the health of their kids. His tariffs are leading to a  recession and raising costs of food, cars, and housing.

The consistent and cruel policies are not just harming our  pocketbooks, but they are going after our democracy.

Mr. Speaker, this concludes the time that I have been afforded on the  floor today to give light to and transparency to what is happening in  this administration. I know that it is hard to believe. I know that  people could not believe that the President of the United States is  undermining our democracy, but this is a President who has no care, no  concern, and no respect. This is a President who dresses himself up  like the Pope and invites photographers to come and take a look. When I  talk about disrespect, this President disrespects everybody but his  money.

This is a democracy that is under fire. This is a democracy that is  at risk. This is a democracy that Democrats and Republicans alike  should be concerned about, that we would be willing to fight for. It  was at one point in time that we thought those on the opposite side of  the aisle were so patriotic.

Where is their patriotism now? Where will they stand up when the  democracy is at stake? This is a time when we thought that they were so  concerned about law and order. They have the biggest crook in the  history of this country, having been convicted 34 times. They cannot  say one word about what is wrong and about what he is doing and how he  has no respect for the law.

Mr. Speaker, I call on the Republicans: Why don't you prove who you  say you are instead of being afraid of the President of the United  States, who you think will primary you? Why is it you keep your mouths  shut because you don't stand up for the people in your districts  because you are afraid that President Trump will be angry with you?

Enough said. I thank you all so very much for affording me this  opportunity.