Taiwan Conflict Deterrence Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693875/taiwan-conflict-deterrence-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1716, the Taiwan Conflict  Deterrence Act of 2025, sponsored by Representative McClain and  cosponsored by Representative Sherman.

Recognizing that China is a threat to Taiwan and to democracy  globally, the United States must strongly and overtly support Taiwan,  in part by pushing back on China's overt provocation toward Taiwan.

As recently as last month, China flew over 70 warplanes over the  Taiwan Strait, encroaching into Taiwanese territory and raising new  concerns about Chinese Government aggression.

The commander of the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command shared in his April  congressional testimony that the Chinese military pressure on Taiwan  has reached a ``rapid boil.''

Month after month, the Chinese Communist Party and Government further  press at the edges of Taiwan's security and America's support for  Taiwan.

This Congress must speak loudly about our concern about such  international actions by the Chinese Government, actions that could  intentionally or unintentionally lead to an escalation of China's  conflict with Taiwan.

H.R. 1716, the Taiwan Conflict Deterrence Act of 2025, is one  sensible avenue to do so, requiring the Treasury Secretary to publish a  report on and restrict senior officials of the People's Republic of  China and their families from financial institutions and accounts in  the United States.

The report mandated by the bill is intended to raise public awareness  of hidden and corruptly gained funds that are directly or indirectly  controlled by such officials--for those listed in the report, and their  immediate family members.

The bill would also restrict U.S.-based financial services, intending  to limit the financial options for these officials and to extend the  deterrent or punitive impacts to their families.

Both actions would only occur under the bill if the President uses a  never-applied--and hopefully unnecessary--clause in the Taiwan  Relations Act, which would require congressional notification due to a  China-led threat to ``the security or the social or economic system of  the people on Taiwan and any danger to the interests of the United  States arising therefrom.''

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 1716, cosponsored by my colleagues  Representative McClain and Representative Sherman.

This bill supports Taiwan in combating Chinese provocations against  Taiwan. This bipartisan bill proposes to restrict top officials in  China from having significant transactions or engagement at American  financial institutions and aims to expose hidden funds of Chinese  officials if the Taiwan Relations Act congressional notification is  ever triggered by a United States President.

Especially now, as China increases its forays into Taiwanese  territory, the United States Congress should support stricter measures  against China's Government, sending the message that we will not  tolerate the next step beyond its incursions.

I support H.R. 1716 to protect global security and democracy, and I  support doing more to accomplish this goal.

Mr. Speaker, I, again, urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I  yield back the balance of my time.