America's Borders Are Safer


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694111/americas-borders-are-safer


Mr. MANN. Madam Speaker, America's borders are the safest they have  been in decades. Simply put, President Trump is the border security  President, and no narrative from the national media or leftwing talking  heads can change that.

Border security was the number one issue on the campaign trail and is  one of the main reasons that 77 million Americans elected him as  President--promises made, promises kept.

It is hard to believe that, in just 6 short months, President Trump  has reversed 4 years of disastrous open-border failures from the  previous administration. For 4 years, President Biden and Vice  President Harris told the country over and over again that they simply  did not have the authority or the ability to secure the border. The  reality is that this could not have been further from the truth.

President Trump has shown that the only thing we needed all along was  a President who was not afraid to actually enforce the law.

The facts speak for themselves. During the month of June, U.S.  Customs and Border Protection saw the lowest number of encounters ever  on our borders nationwide. Apprehensions along the border reached a new  historic low on June 28, when CBP had the lowest number of  apprehensions in a single day in agency history.

Under the previous administration, 27,766 illegal migrants were  paroled and released into the country in June alone. Madam Speaker, 1  year later, zero migrants were paroled into the country--again,  promises made, promises kept.

This leadership is exactly what Americans voted for this past  November, and House Republicans are united in equipping the President  to continue securing our borders for good.

In our One Big Beautiful Bill Act, we gave our law enforcement  agencies the tools and resources they need to help secure the border.  We allocated more than $46 billion to finish President Trump's border  wall and ensure that our borders have a physical barrier to keep bad  actors out. We invested in the CBP workforce, equipping the agency to  hire more personnel to keep our borders secure and enforce the law.

House Republicans invested in state-of-the-art border technology to  stop the trafficking of drugs and humans across our border and to  finally bring  the fentanyl crisis to an end. This deadly drug has taken the lives of  thousands of innocent Americans and made every State a border State--no  more.

America remains the land of opportunity that attracts millions of  individuals around the world each year. A few months ago, I had the  privilege of speaking at a naturalization ceremony for brand-new  American citizens who took their oath to the United States and  officially became fellow citizens. I was inspired by each of their  journeys in becoming Americans and couldn't help but feel blessed to  have been born in a land that so many people seek to call their home.  At the same time, my heart felt for them.

Of the 168 people who became Americans that day, some of them  underwent a multiyear-long process to come here legally. Instead of  rewarding their efforts, they watched for 4 years as a President and an  administration that were asleep at the wheel allowed our immigration  laws to be abused and taken advantage of month after month as millions  jumped the line by coming here illegally. I am so glad that America  overwhelmingly rejected that nonsense.

Today, our country is more secure and safe than it has been in nearly  half a decade. It turns out that common sense works after all, and I am  grateful for an administration that chooses common sense over caving to  radical, far-left activists.

I thank President Trump for upholding his commitment to making  America safe again and securing our border--promises made, promises  kept.