America is Back


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688493/america-is-back


Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, on November 5, 2024, America endorsed the  greatest political comeback in modern history by electing President  Trump the 47th President of the United States. The country rejected the  chaos sowed by the Biden-Harris administration for the past 4 years and  voted for the candidate that could lead our country and make America  strong again. On day one, President Trump, alongside the Republican  majorities in the House and Senate, moved full steam ahead to deliver  on the country's mandate, and we are committed to upholding the  promises made to America.

Last night, I joined Members of this body to hear President Trump's  first joint address in this very room to the Nation since he was sworn  in for a second term. President Trump's vision and direction for the  country could not be more clear, and I applaud him for keeping the  promises that he made to the American people.

President Trump has worked to make America secure and competitive  again. We are leading on the world stage and actually establishing  peace through strength. Our border is secure again, and President Trump  is making it clear to the drug cartels and bad actors that if they  enter the United States illegally, they will be deported. During his  first full month in office, there were only 8,326 apprehensions at our  Nation's borders. Compare that to President Biden's failed leadership  where 8,000 illegal immigrants were apprehended in one day. It is  amazing. Deploying common sense and actually enforcing the law goes a  long way.

House Republicans passed legislation like the Laken Riley Act and the  Violence Against Women by Illegal Aliens Act that protect American  citizens. That is what Americans overwhelmingly voted for in this past  election, and the work has only just begun.

Last week, House Republicans took a crucial first step to unlock the  process to advance President Trump's full legislative agenda. This  Republican majority will not stop fighting until the President's agenda  is in place. That means rooting out wasteful, fraudulent, and abusive  spending. That means responsibly stewarding the American tax dollar and  putting those dollars in places that they can see a return. That means  investing in our national security and protecting the safety of our  fellow Americans. It means extending  the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and preventing American families from  seeing a 22 percent tax hike next year.

As the President stated last night and in his inauguration address,  the golden age of America is just beginning. I have never been more  thankful to have a President who isn't afraid to keep his promises to  the American people and to fight tooth and nail to put American  Families first. I thank President Trump for his leadership. I look  forward to working with him and his administration to deliver policies  that deliver for American families and usher in a new era of American  greatness.                           Farewell to Riley Pagett

Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, the Big First District of Kansas is the third  largest ag-producing district in the country. Agriculture is the key  component of our DNA, and it is in our blood. It is a lifeline for many  of the communities I represent. When I was elected to Congress, I knew  that I needed a team who understood Kansas agriculture and who would  fight relentlessly for the farmers, ranchers, and ag producers in my  district.

The Lord provided abundantly by introducing me and my chief of staff  to Riley Pagett. Riley grew up in Woodward, Oklahoma, but he was born  in the Big First District in Liberal, Kansas. Growing up on his  family's farm and ranch, Riley's leadership skills developed early on.  He was involved in FFA, serving as a State officer for Oklahoma and  eventually as the national president of the organization.

After graduating from Oklahoma State, Riley moved to Washington,  D.C., to work for then-Chairman Lucas on the House Agriculture  Committee. There he was part of the 2014 farm bill and later spent a  few months with Senator Lankford before serving as the director of  advocacy and government relations for the national FFA organization.

He would go on to serve in the first Trump administration as the  chief of staff of USDA's Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement  for almost 2 years before joining my team as my agriculture staffer,  legislative director, and deputy chief of staff.

Riley has excelled in these roles and has been a key player in  helping me establish the Congressional FFA Caucus, craft sound food and  farm policy, and fight for Kansas priorities in the next farm bill.  Those who know Riley know that that just scratches the surface of who  he is.

Riley is an incredible friend, a loyal advocate and mentor for his  teammates and colleagues, a proud son, a champion for agriculture, a  caring father to his kids, Blakely and Ford, a loving husband to his  wife, Lauren, and most importantly a man with a deep love for the Lord.

Next week, Riley will start a new endeavor in the second Trump  administration at USDA. There are few words to describe how much he  will be missed at 344 Cannon and the Big First, but Audrey and I cannot  be more proud of him or grateful for his service to our district and to  the team.

Team Mann will be praying over this next chapter for him and Lauren  and cheering him on every step of the way. I thank Riley for his  service. Godspeed.