Border Common Sense


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689178/border-common-sense


Mr. MANN. Madam Speaker, since President Trump was sworn in, illegal  crossings have plummeted at our southern border.

This past February saw the lowest level of illegal crossings ever  recorded in our Nation's history, down 94 percent from February 2024  and 96 percent from the all-time high under the Biden administration.  Along the Del Rio Sector of the border, there was a 98.8 percent  decrease in apprehensions compared to the highest day under President  Biden.

For 4 years, President Biden and radical progressive activists tried  to blame President Trump and congressional Republicans for the crisis  at the Nation's border. It turns out the only thing we needed all along  was a President who doesn't run from common sense and isn't afraid to  enforce the law. Thankfully, President Trump is not afraid.

Just last week, Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem announced  that the Department of Homeland Security, DHS, will resume construction  of President Trump's border wall. Border Patrol agents have told us  again and again that a physical barrier on our southern border is a key  deterrent to the trafficking of humans and illicit drugs by the Mexican  cartels across our southern border. Yet, on day one of his Presidency,  President Biden stopped construction of the border wall. President  Trump is gladly reversing this madness and making our border secure.

President Biden's failed leadership continuously put innocent  American lives at risk as nearly 400 individuals whose names appeared  on the terrorist watch list attempted to enter the country and gang  members from MS-13 and Tren de Aragua invaded the interior of the U.S.

Some of these monsters took the lives of innocent Americans, like  Laken Riley and Jocelyn Nungaray. While President Biden barely  expressed empathy for the lives he put at risk, President Trump took  action, deporting these violent criminals and gang members from the  start of his Presidency.

On November 5, 2024, 77 million Americans, including myself, voted to  restore commonsense border policies to our Nation's Capital. The  President is providing that common sense, and I am deeply grateful to  have his strong leadership back in the White House.

I thank President Trump for standing for our country and securing our  border. Promises made, promises kept.                             Honoring Craig Beam

Mr. MANN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor of an American  patriot, Craig Beam. I congratulate Craig on his well-deserved  retirement from the U.S. Marshals Service.

When most Americans hear of a fugitive on the run, their natural  instinct is to protect their loved ones within and avoid coming across  the wanted criminal at all costs. Craig's approach to protecting his  family and loved ones is a little different. When danger or bad actors  present themselves to our communities, Craig has run toward them and  worked swiftly with his fellow marshals to remove these criminals from  the streets.

In August 1993, a convicted marijuana grower walked into the Frank  Carlson Federal Building in Topeka, Kansas, for his sentencing. What  was a normal day in Topeka suddenly turned into gunfire and tragedy as  the convict's car and his person were covered with explosives and pipe  bombs.

As building staff hid in fear, Craig and his fellow law enforcement  agents put their fear aside to get innocent civilians to safety. In  all, five Kansans were injured that day, and a court officer, Gene  Goldsberry, was tragically killed. Deputy Marshal Beam and three of his  fellow marshals were recognized for their heroism with the Director's  Distinguished Service Award.

Serving in law enforcement and the U.S. Marshals Service is a  selfless calling, and for the last 34 years, Craig Beam has done it  effortlessly. Not many people openly run toward danger and put their  safety at risk for the sake of their communities, but for Craig, it is  second nature.

I thank Craig for his selflessness and for 34 years of dedication to  keep Kansas safe. I congratulate Craig on his retirement.