Dignity of the American Dream


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691361/dignity-of-the-american-dream


Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, yesterday the House Agriculture Committee  marked up our portion of the one big, beautiful bill to deliver on the  mandate the country gave us on November 5, 2024. In total, we saved  American taxpayers more than $295 billion and made long overdue  investments to support the farmers, ranchers, and agricultural  producers of the Big First and all of rural America. I am very proud of  all that we were able to accomplish.

However, Mr. Speaker, I have been gravely disappointed in how some of  my Democrat colleagues have continued to blatantly lie about our  legislation throughout this process. Rather than work together to get  our fiscal house back in order and ensure programs like Medicaid and  SNAP are on a sustainable path, they have chosen to misrepresent and  oppose everything we are working toward.

As the fifth generation to grow up and work on my family farm, I  understand the weight and pride our Nation's farmers have in feeding,  clothing, and fueling the world. Not a single Member in this body wants  to see people go hungry, and I am personally offended by these lies.

We want families to be able to put food on their tables. The  difference is, Mr. Speaker, we want these programs to actually serve  the most vulnerable communities for generations to come: the single mom  taking care of kids too young to be in school, the disabled, and the  elderly, not the person who wants the government to foot their bill  while they sit at home.

Why would we willingly jeopardize the benefits of vulnerable  Americans for someone who is perfectly capable of making an honest  income but isn't willing to join the workforce?

These programs were meant to be a bridge to a better life. They were  intended to help Americans who fell on hard times and needed a helping  hand, but today my Democrat colleagues are defending them as a final  destination. That is not right, Mr. Speaker, and it is anti-American.

Even former President Biden once said: The culture of welfare must be  replaced with the culture of work. The culture of dependence must be  replaced with the culture of self-sufficiency and personal  responsibility. The culture of permanence must no longer be a way of  life.

This used to be a bipartisan agreement we could all rally around.

I sincerely ask my Democrat colleagues: What has changed?

We live in the greatest country in the world, where anyone from  anywhere can come here legally, make an honest living, and pursue the  American Dream. That is what House Republicans are fighting for.

It is unfortunate that the other side would rather see programs that  were meant to help the neediest Americans continue to be riddled with  fraud and abuse, intentionally mismanaged, and undermined all for the  sake of scoring political points.

House Republicans are committed to ensuring our programs help the  most vulnerable Americans, slashing wasteful, fraudulent, and abusive  spending, and preventing American families from seeing a $2,200 tax  increase next January. That is what this is all about, and that is what  77 million Americans endorsed last November.

I am disappointed that not a single Democrat has been willing to work  with us, but I feel confident that this majority, along with the Senate  and President Trump, will deliver for the country.                             National Police Week

Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, this week, the Nation has come together to  celebrate National Police Week. It is a time to honor the brave men and  women who wear the badge and put their lives on the line every single  day to protect our families and our communities.

In the Big First and across the country, law enforcement officers run  towards danger when many would run away. They wake up every day with a  calling to uphold the rule of law, serve their neighbors, and keep  their communities safe. Yet, too often, they are met with hostility and  policies from Washington that make their job harder and put their  safety at risk.

Let me be clear. I unapologetically stand with the men and women in  blue. I will always oppose any effort to defund, demoralize, or  dismantle the law enforcement agencies that keep our streets safe.  These men and women put their lives on the line every day to make our  communities stronger, safer, and more secure, and we should all be  grateful.

I express my deepest gratitude to the police officers, Customs and  Border Patrol agents, detectives, State troopers, sheriffs,  investigators, correction officers, drug enforcement agents, and U.S.  marshals who have dedicated their careers to serving their communities.  Today and every day we recognize their sacrifice and honor in all that  they do to serve our great Nation.

America is grateful for all that they do, and I am grateful for them.