National Guard Shooting


Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with a heavy heart. Last  Wednesday, the Nation witnessed a heartbreaking and senseless act of  violence involving two members of our National Guard from West  Virginia, Specialist Sarah Beckstrom and Staff Sergeant Andrew Wolfe.

Specialist Beckstrom gave her life in service to our country. She  wore our Nation's uniform with honor, stood ready to defend her  neighbors, and lived out the highest ideals of duty and sacrifice. We  grieve her loss deeply, and I ask God to bring comfort and peace to her  family, her loved ones, and entire National Guard community.

We also pray for the full and swift recovery of Staff Sergeant Wolfe.  He remains in critical condition, and Americans across Kansas and the  country continue to cover him in prayer. I ask for God's healing hand  on him, for strength for his family, and for protection over every man  and woman who serves.

Mr. Speaker, tragedies like this remind us that the cost of our  freedom is not free. None of these men and women were drafted or forced  to put on the uniform they wear. They boldly answered the call to serve  in defense of our freedom and safety, and we are eternally grateful for  the sacrifice that they and all the Armed Forces make every day in  service to our country.

Tragedies like this shake us, but they also remind us just how  precious life is, how quickly it can be taken, and how much we owe to  those who step forward to serve.

This violence was senseless. It was wrong. Today, we pause not to  debate, but to mourn, to honor, and to pray.

Mr. Speaker, let us remember Sarah Beckstrom's courage. Let us stand  with Andrew Wolfe as he fights to recover. Let us hold their families  close in our hearts during these difficult days ahead.

May God bless the Beckstrom and Wolfe families. May He watch over our  National Guard, and may He bring comfort and healing to all who are  hurting.

Mr. Speaker, may Specialist Sarah Beckstrom's soul rest in peace.                        Less Regulation, More Freedom

Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, every year, small businesses spend nearly  $15,000 per employee to comply with Federal laws. American companies  spend over $3 trillion a year on compliance.

I am sure this is not a shock to anyone in this Chamber, but we know  that some of that cost gets passed on to consumers. The Competitive  Enterprise Institute estimates that U.S. households absorb $16,000  annually in hidden regulatory fees and taxes.

For many families in the Big First District of Kansas, that money  could be used much better elsewhere.

When this Republican majority was elected last year, the country  trusted us to roll back burdensome regulations and lower costs. This  week, we have an opportunity to do so.

The small businesses that make up the Big First are often small,  family-owned and -operated mom-and-pop shops. They don't manage or run  their small businesses to be billionaires or to become ultrawealthy.  Their goals are to serve their communities, meet a need, and serve  their neighbors well. That is what they should be empowered to do, but  sadly, that is not their reality.

Everyday Americans are forced to bear the brunt of that regulatory  cost. If you talk to families across my district and ask them what they  could do with $16,000, the answers would be endless. Some may say that  they would purchase a car for their family or teenage child.

Many would love to see that money stored away in an emergency fund or  a retirement fund. If their family has a loved one who is aging or  facing health challenges, that money could be used to assist with  caregiving or medical expenses. No matter the response, I feel  confident that the vast majority of Kansans would agree that they could  find a better use for those dollars than paying an additional tax to  bureaucrats who want to regulate every detail of how they do business  from hundreds of miles away.

This week, House Republicans will take a commonsense step forward by  protecting consumers and small businesses alike from these costs. The  Small Business Regulatory Reduction Act is exactly the type of  legislation that this Congress was elected to enact. It ensures that  any regulatory change from the SBA does not increase compliance costs  for small businesses and, in turn, consumers. Regulations are meant to  protect competition, not make costs unbearable for businessowners and  consumers.

We are working to right that wrong, make small businesses stronger,  and give American families more breathing room in their day-to-day  expenses. Despite the distraction that the media and some of my  colleagues across the aisle would love to see in this Chamber, this  majority is still laser-focused on delivering on our promises that we  made to the country last year. This is yet another small step forward  to getting our country back on track and  helping small businesses thrive again. Promises made, promises kept.