No Place Like Home


Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, over the August in-district work period, I had  the privilege of meeting with Kansans all across our district, from  Salina to Great Bend, Hutch to WaKeeney, Hoxie to Jetmore, Hays to Hill  City.

It is the honor of my life to represent the Big First District of  Kansas in Congress, and I was grateful to spend time with Kansans while  I was able to be home. For the fifth year in a row, I visited all 60  counties in the Big First District, and I had the chance to hear about  the impacts the One Big Beautiful Bill Act will make on our families  and communities.

As I visited companies and families across the Big First District,  stop after stop, my fellow Kansans expressed their appreciation for the  wins the bill delivered for Kansas families. They are relieved that we  were able to prevent the largest tax hike in American history for  working- and middle-class families. They are grateful to have a  Congress and White House that embrace pro-family policies and our  commitments to doubling the child tax credit and expanding 529  education savings accounts. These are commonsense policies that promote  and strengthen families across the Nation, and they are yet another  promise made and promise kept.

Small business owners and family farms shared how monumental our  legislation is for their families. We were able to make the 199A small- business deduction permanent, allowing agricultural and small business  families to keep more of their hard-earned dollars. Farm families were  relieved that they no longer have to fear being forced to sell land  when they lose a loved one. By expanding the death tax exemption, we  brought the tax code in line with today's farm economy and allowed more  farm families to keep their operations in the family. This is life- changing for millions of families across the country and throughout the  Big First District.

Farmers, ranchers, and agricultural producers were also grateful that  our legislation restored a decades-old standard that exempts the value  of assets found on family farms and small businesses from being  assessed as part of a family's net worth.

Over the past few years, net farm income has decreased by nearly 25  percent. When young people from these families are applying for higher  education financial aid, the assets tied up in the family farm or the  small business should not count against them.  Our bill makes their lives easier, not harder, by leveling the playing  field for these students and families while protecting the American  Dream for every student, regardless of their parents' careers.

Our farmers were also deeply grateful for the commonsense provisions  that ensure our tax incentives benefit American-grown products and  American farmers, not foreign producers. By extending the 45Z tax  credit and limiting eligibility to domestic feedstocks, this majority  delivered long-term certainty for American agriculture.

Kansas farmers started the year needing a new farm bill that meets  the needs of today and not 6 years ago. Last year, Congressional  Democrats held farm country hostage and chose to play political games  rather than work with congressional Republicans to pass a new 5-year  farm bill.

In the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, our Republican majority answered  rural America's call by updating reference prices, doubling investments  into crucial trade promotion programs like MAP and FMD, and expanding  crop insurance. These are all commonsense policies that allow our  farmers to feed, fuel, and clothe the world without the fear of losing  everything because of a bad crop year. This legislation was life- changing for the agricultural families in my district.

Mr. Speaker, our work is cut out for us in the weeks ahead. The One  Big Beautiful Bill Act has shown what this majority can do for the  country, and we ought to build on that momentum by passing policies  that promote safety in American communities, continue to strengthen  American agriculture, and steward American taxpayer dollars responsibly  while cutting wasteful spending. I look forward to working with this  majority to deliver on these promises. I am excited to see all that we  can do in the next 4 months.