One Big, Beautiful Bill


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691527/one-big-beautiful-bill


Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, this past November, the country voted  overwhelmingly to send Republican majorities to the U.S. House of  Representatives and the U.S. Senate and put President Donald Trump back  in the White House. That mandate made it clear that the American people  were ready to get the country back on track. We wanted less government  spending, more secure borders, and we wanted to see the 2017 tax cuts  made permanent to prevent tax hikes on every American. The majority  cannot take that mandate for granted, and this week we have the  opportunity to give the country what they voted for.

Our one big, beautiful bill is exactly what voters want. It delivers  the largest tax cut for middle- and working-class families in decades.  It cuts taxes on tips and overtime, allowing American workers to keep  more of their hard-earned money. It increases the child tax credit,  which helps offset some of the costs of raising a family. It extends  and expands the 199A business tax deduction, which will help  incentivize investment across the country and spur economic growth. Our  bill is the most proworker, profamily legislation Congress has seen in  a generation.

The one big, beautiful bill will secure the border once and for all  and make America safe again. The border was the number one issue on the  campaign trail, and President Trump and his administration have made  historic efforts to remove bad actors here illegally and make our  country safe again. Illegal  border crossings have plummeted, but Congress needs to act to ensure  the proven policies of President Trump are codified and continued for  generations to come. Our bill makes historic investments in our border  security by ensuring we can finish the border wall, stop the  trafficking of fentanyl, and give our Border Patrol agents the  resources that they need.

Our bill invests in our national security by ensuring our defense  systems are prepared to handle 21st century threats. It invests in  cutting-edge technology that our warfighters and our military needs for  its readiness. This package invests in modernizing our Nation's air  traffic control systems and cuts wasteful spending in the Green New  Deal pet projects that only benefit far-left activists, all while  strengthening the safety net for those who are the most vulnerable  Americans and our Nation's agriculture community at the same time. It  cuts wasteful, fraudulent, and abusive spending and gets able-bodied  adults back on the ladder of opportunity while giving them a fair shot  at the American Dream.

I am pleased with all we have been able to accomplish in this one  big, beautiful bill, and now it is time to get it over the finish line.  It is frustrating that some of my Democratic colleagues hate President  Trump so much that they refuse to work with him even when it means  securing a more prosperous future for America. Instead, they have  chosen to lie again.

The lie that they tell us is that by making tax cuts permanent,  Congress is taking money from working-class and low-income families to  give tax cuts to the rich. The facts show that this is the farthest  thing from the truth. President Biden's own Treasury Department  reported that the average person would see a 2.2 percent tax cut if the  Trump tax cuts were extended. According to the Tax Foundation, the  bottom 50 percent of earners in the country saw their average Federal  tax rate fall by 15 percent when the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act took effect.  On the other hand, the top 1 percent of earners only saw a decrease of  about 5 percent during that same period. Some of my colleagues across  the aisle may want to force a tax hike on the vast majority of American  families next January, but, please, let's just be honest about it.

Some of my Democrat colleagues have been clear that they are anti- Trump. I would like to ask, then what are they for? The truth is they  are here to fight for future tax hikes, foreign energy reliance,  wasteful spending, government dependence, and a future of America last.

On the other hand, Kansans from the Big First sent me here to fight  for working families, tax cuts, energy dominance, the military,  American agriculture, and the American Dream, a future of America  first. That is what I am focused on doing, along with President Trump,  and that is what the one big, beautiful bill is all about.

I am looking forward to supporting our bill when it comes to the  floor for a full vote and delivering on the mandate the country gave us  on November 5, 2024. We can't afford to miss out on this once in a  lifetime opportunity, Mr. Speaker.