Peace Through Strength


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692936/peace-through-strength


Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, thanks to the leadership of President Trump,  America and the world are safer today than we were a week ago. Iran,  the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism, is no longer on the  verge of obtaining a nuclear weapon. They have agreed to a ceasefire  with Israel. President Trump is fulfilling his campaign promise of  promises made, promises kept to make America safe again.

America wants peace through strength, and that is what President  Trump is committed to. For far too long, administrations in Washington,  D.C., have created red lines that were crossed without consequence,  agreed to deals with Iran that the regime disregarded, and concerned  themselves more with appeasement than with protecting American  interests.

President Trump took a different approach. For months, President  Trump has urged Iran to make a deal. He has been clear. There is no  world where Iran, whose leadership chants ``Death to Israel, death to  America'' will be allowed to obtain a nuclear weapon ever. This is not  up for debate.

President Trump is restoring America's leadership on the world stage  and fighting tirelessly to keep Americans safe, both at home and  abroad. This past week, President Trump showed that he is not willing  to let America be strung along or taken advantage of.

After Iran refused to accept a deal and continued to wreak havoc in  the region through its proxy organizations, President Trump carried out  targeted, strategic strikes to prevent the pending threat of Iran's  nuclear enrichment program.

He was also clear: Attacks on U.S. Forces will not be tolerated, and  there will be grave consequences for such action. This is what  leadership looks like, and I applaud President Trump for putting  America first.

Audrey and I are grateful that our brave servicemen and -women were  not harmed in the strikes, and I continue to pray for the safety of our  troops and Americans in the region. The world is safer today because of  President Trump, and we pray that the Lord would continue to give him  wisdom and discernment as he leads our Nation and continues to work on  bringing down tensions in the Middle East.

God bless President Trump, God bless our troops, and God bless our  great country.                  One Big, Beautiful Bill's Economic Relief

Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, I am proud of the work our Republican  majorities are putting in to deliver American families the largest tax  cut in American history. This process hasn't been easy by any means,  but it is worth every single debate we are having to get it over the  finish line. If we fail to get this bill passed and on President  Trump's desk, then middle- and working-class families will be the ones  who pay the price.

Some of my Democrat colleagues continue to lie about what our bill  does. Mr. Speaker, the truth is that the One Big Beautiful Bill Act  eliminates taxes on tips and on overtime pay. It lowers taxes on Social  Security benefits and expands the child tax credit for working-class  families.

Our bill helps keep American family farms afloat by eliminating the  death tax for most, saving 2 million family farms. The family farmers  and ranchers in my district are hardworking men and women who are up  and moving by sunrise and working well past sundown, ensuring they can  feed, clothe, and fuel the world. Their pride doesn't come from large  bank accounts, it comes from answering a call that requires hard labor  and lots of sacrifices to feed their neighbors. It isn't glamorous, but  it is essential, and they need commonsense policies like the ones in  the one big, beautiful bill to ensure their businesses can stay afloat  and that their families won't lose their inheritance because Uncle Sam  is trying to bankrupt them.

If Congress fails to get this bill across the finish line, the  average Kansas family will see a tax hike of $2,200 this January. I  understand for some it may not seem like a lot of money, but for the  men and women across the Big First District, $2,200 makes a big  difference. It is no secret to anyone who serves in this Chamber that  over the last few years the country navigated record levels of  inflation brought on by excessive Federal government spending. As input  and everyday costs skyrocketed across the country, working-and middle- class families were the ones who bore the brunt. They are long overdue  for some relief, and the one big, beautiful bill gives them the relief  that they so desperately need.

In a few short weeks, this body will have a chance to show what we  stand for. For most of my Democrat colleagues, I know they don't want  to give President Trump a win, but surely they can work with him on  behalf of working-class families. They are either for the largest tax  cuts for middle- and working-class families in American history or they  are against them.

Whose side will they be on?