Recreational Drone Empowerment Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701177/recreational-drone-empowerment-act


Mr. MANN. Madam Speaker, I thank my friend from Ohio for yielding me  the time.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, H.R. 6460, the  Recreational Drone Empowerment Act, which clarifies the ability of the  FAA to authorize model aircraft operations in class E airspace.

Everyone gets their start somewhere. For many folks, a lifelong  passion for flight is ignited the first time they get the experience of  what model aeronautics has to offer. For some, that passion leads them  to ultimately pursue long and successful careers in the aviation  workforce.

We must do whatever we can to foster a robust recreational  operational environment where individuals of all ages can experience  all that aviation has to offer.

In 2018, Congress classified model aircraft as recreational UASes.  That legislation spelled out what classes of airspace and under what  conditions recreational UASes could fly. For 7 years and on behalf of  its 2,400 member clubs, of which 30 reside in the great State of  Kansas, the Academy of Model Aeronautics has been collaborating with  the FAA to attract the next generation of aviation professionals.

Unfortunately, due to a misinterpretation of a provision of the FAA  Reauthorization Act of 2024, many recreational clubs across the country  found they were no longer able to legally fly in some sectors of class  E airspace.

The Recreational Drone Empowerment Act allows model aircraft clubs to  request permission from the FAA to operate in class E2, E3, E4, and E5  airspace, as it does for all other classifications of airspace. This  legislation does not require the FAA to grant such requests. It merely  grants them the legal authority to approve such requests.

I thank Chairman Graves, Ranking Member Larsen, and the members of  the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee for their support of my  legislation that would give regulatory certainty to an important part  of the aviation community and continues to encourage the next  generation of aviators.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.