We Are Better Together


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695600/we-are-better-together


Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today still in shock and saddened at  the political assassination of Charlie Kirk. There is no place for  political violence in our country, and it is antithetical to who we are  as Americans.

The beauty of our Nation and the First Amendment is that anyone from  anywhere has the right to express their beliefs, engage in dialogue,  and disagree peacefully. That is the heart of our democracy. We need to  get back to embracing that dialogue.

Charlie often said that when we stop talking, that is when violence  happens. I don't want to live in a society where we don't talk to  people we disagree with and resort to violence. Leadership is never  easy, but it falls on us to lead the way by carrying on the mission  that Charlie lived for of open debate in a free society in the greatest  nation that the world has ever known.

When al-Qaida terrorists attacked our Nation 24 years ago, they had  one goal--to destroy America. They didn't see us as Democrats or  Republicans, red States or blue States. They just saw Americans, one  nation under God, and their goal was to destroy us. When we lose sight  of seeing the humanity in our fellow Americans who think differently  than us and convince ourselves they are the enemy instead of our  neighbor, we are feeding into the very thing our adversaries want, and  destroy our great country from within. We are better than this.

America is the greatest country in the world. All 340 million of us  have different perspectives, values, and beliefs. I can't count how  many issues I disagree with my colleagues across the aisle on, yet we  know we can disagree without turning to violence. Charlie Kirk was an  example of this. He did things the right way, having healthy debates  with people who saw differently than him and sparking a movement that  transformed an entire generation. Charlie believed in the promise of  America, and his life's work  was making sure we lived up to that promise.

Audrey and I continue to pray for Charlie's wife, Erika, who has two  beautiful young children, and his family, friends, and supporters. Last  week, President Trump invited the Nation to commit to praying for the  country for 1 hour a week ahead of our 250th birthday. I would  encourage us to accept that challenge. It is hard to hate someone when  you pray with them and for them regularly.

One of the greatest blessings of this job is that I get to know and  spend time with Kansans all across the Big First District, and because  of that, I know that we are better than this. America is still the  greatest country in the world, and I am hopeful that we will all take  the opportunity to follow Charlie's example by engaging on the issues  with our neighbors and living up to the promise of our great country.                           Return to Regular Order

Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, today our national debt stands at $37  trillion. For years, elected officials from both sides of the aisle  have come to Washington ringing the alarm on our national debt, and  rightly so. The only problem is, often they get to the Nation's  Capital, and there is little to no appetite to make hard decisions to  get our spending in check.

At the start of President Trump's historic second term earlier this  year, he did the unthinkable. He paused Federal spending, went line by  line through the Federal budget, and seriously evaluated how we are  spending our tax dollars. For some people in this town, it was  heartburn. However, Mr. Speaker, Kansans in the Big First District  welcomed this fiscal sanity.

The reality is, our national debt is unsustainable. If every single  household was to contribute and bring our debt to zero, we would each  be responsible for $289,000. Consider that the average mortgage in  America is about $245,000. No one in this body would allow a loved one  to make continuously poor financial decisions like this. Why do we do  it with our government?

House Republicans have been clear that we would like to return to  regular order, pass 12 individual appropriations bills, and get our  spending under control. Despite this reality, the consensus among too  many in Washington is that they would rather see President Trump fail  than work together to fund the government responsibly. It is  frustrating, and rather than coming to the table to work together, they  prefer to grandstand to try to score some political points.

We are better than this, Mr. Speaker. I urge my Democratic colleagues  to come to the table, return to regular order, and let's get our fiscal  house back in order.