End Cruel Immigration Enforcement Against Kids


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701412/end-cruel-immigration-enforcement-against-kids


Ms. JACOBS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today because our country has normalized  something that should never be normal: locking up kids. Under the Trump  administration, ICE has detained thousands of children, many of them  under 5 years old.

As a Representative from San Diego, an immigrant and border  community, I have seen firsthand the consequences of our immigration  system. As someone who has spent my career working on human rights, I  can tell you that this is state-sanctioned child abuse.

These children are not threats. They are not statistics. They are  kids, some just babies and toddlers, who have fled violence, poverty,  and instability. They have done nothing wrong. Many have experienced  trauma before they ever set foot on American soil.

Instead of care and instead of compassion, we are detaining them and  traumatizing them for life.

To be honest, I don't actually care what their parents may or may not  have done. Children should not be punished for their parents' actions.

Mr. Speaker, 2 weeks ago, I went to the Dilley immigration detention  center in Texas, the primary site for family detention in our country.  What I saw and what I heard would rattle any parent, and it should  disturb everyone.

Kids have nightmares so bad that they wake up screaming in the middle  of the night. Teenagers are regressing developmentally and wetting the  bed. The classrooms were empty. The playground was empty. There was no  joy or laughter, just the look of fear and despair in people's eyes.

The mom of a 3-year-old told me that her daughter was anxious and  depressed, but the nurse said that she was fine because she hadn't lost  too much weight yet, so they didn't help her.

This kind of fear and uncertainty doesn't just go away. It will  follow these kids. It will shape their development and leave lasting  scars.

This isn't just my observation. The American Academy of Pediatrics  has said for years that detaining children causes toxic stress that can  permanently alter brain development. Pediatricians call it  institutional harm.

When medical professionals are telling us that what we are doing to  these kids causes the same neurological damage as physical abuse, we  need to stop calling it immigration policy and start calling it for  what it is.

I know immigration is complicated. I know that there are strong  opinions on all sides of this issue, but protecting children should not  be controversial. Ensuring that children are treated with dignity and  care should not be political or partisan. Apparently, it is because the  Republican Party, the so-called profamily party, is complicit in child  abuse.

I won't be complicit. My colleagues and I will not be complicit. We  need to shut down Dilley and end family detention for good. We need to  reject the idea that locking up children and their parents is an  acceptable response to migration.

That means Congress needs to do its job and cut off funding for  family detention and claw back the $75 billion blank check that was  given to ICE and Border Patrol.

While we are at it, not a single committee in this House has held a  hearing on conditions inside family detention facilities, not one.  Republicans control every gavel in this building, and they have  conducted zero oversight of what is being done to children in our  government's custody. If they won't do oversight, we will. When we have  the majority, Dilley will be the first place we go.

Many of us in this Chamber have children of our own. While I don't  have kids yet, I wouldn't be able to live with myself and look my four  nieces and nephews in the eyes if I weren't doing everything in my  power to protect all kids.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to look their kids in their  eyes tonight and imagine them locked up in these conditions, and then  work with us to end family detention.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Dexter for her leadership on this  issue.