Resolution, to Remove United States Armed Forces From Hostilities with Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701837/resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-with-iran


Ms. JACOBS. Mr. Speaker, this isn't just politics for me.

Two weeks ago, thousands of San Diego military families got 48-hour  deployment notices. That means they need to be ready to drop everything  to deploy to the Middle East, get their affairs in order, pack, and say  good-bye to their families for a few months or maybe a year.

Don't get me wrong, this is what our servicemembers and their  families signed up for, and they are not complaining.

It is our job in Congress, and my job as a Representative of the  country's biggest military community, to make sure that we have  explored all the contingency plans, exhausted all diplomatic and  nonmilitary options, and figured out the objectives, the strategy, and  the exit plan before we have asked them to.

We have done none of that. While I will push for oversight and  transparency about how we got here, our focus now should be on how we  end this war.

Instead, President Trump is escalating. The San Diego-based carrier,  the USS Lincoln, is already in the region. San Diego's USS Boxer and  the 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit will be arriving soon, and we are  expecting another San Diego-based carrier, the USS Roosevelt, to deploy  any day now.

When they get there, they will be prime targets for retaliation and  charged with the difficult task of enforcing Donald Trump's cockamamie  blockade of Iran's ports and partial blockade of the Strait of Hormuz,  which will put a lot of strain on an already fragile cease-fire.

Donald Trump is getting our country further entrenched in another  forever war in the Middle East, and the longer we stay, the harder and  more expensive it will be to get out.

Yes, we should support our troops. That means doing our jobs and  asking these questions before they are asked to sacrifice their lives.  That is why Congress needs to do our job or else we will keep paying  the cost in terms of lives lost and taxpayer dollars.

Captain Cody Khork, Sergeant 1st Class Noah Tietjens, Sergeant 1st  Class Nicole Amor, Sergeant Declan Coady, Major Jeffrey O'Brien, Chief  Warrant Officer Robert Marzan, Sergeant Benjamin Pennington, and all of  the other servicemembers who have been killed in this war deserve for  us to do our job.

Mr. Speaker, my constituents' lives are in our hands and their fate  is now up to us. Vote ``yes.''