Crime Victims Fund Stabilization Act of 2025


Mr. SCHMIDT. Mr. Speaker, I, too, want to add my voice to those  thanking our colleague from Missouri for her leadership on this work.  It has been a pleasure to work with her and with our colleagues on the  other side. It has been an honor to help lead the support for what she  is trying to get done here.

Mr. Speaker, in my State, we dealt with this issue a number of years  ago, and it is a policy fight that is separate from what we are doing  here today. We actually ultimately decided to move our State-based  crime victim support programs into appropriated support from  our general fund and deposit all of these erratic streams from the  court system into the general fund so that the risk of funding was  shifted onto the State generally and not borne by those who rely on the  services in particular.

That is a discussion for another day.

I share it today because for me, at least, this brings back memories  of a time when we were wrestling with the same issue back home.

Mr. Speaker, how do you look a rape victim or a domestic violence  victim in the eye and tell them that the good folks in your community,  the advocates and the supporters of domestic violence services or rape  crisis centers or child advocacy centers who want to be there to help  you in your time of greatest need may not be there because their  government didn't pay the bills?

The lights aren't on. The staff wasn't paid, so they left. That is  where we are writ large in this subject matter, and we are there  because of the vagaries in the recovery cycle and all kinds of things  that happen in the court system that generate these revenue streams.  This is a way to put our finger in the dam until we figure out longer  term how we provide that sort of certainty.

There are a lot of different groups of crime victims. By the way,  none of them asked to be crime victims. They didn't wake up and expect  to be victimized. They have had a terrible moment thrust upon them by  somebody else's actions, and they are in a time of need where they need  help. That is what advocates do in these support services. That is what  this money goes for.

This helps a lot of different types of crime victims. I will share a  couple of moments in my last minute or so here about the work of the  child advocacy centers that this supports. I have often said in the  work I did when I was a State legal official, we did a lot of work with  crime victims, child crime victims, supporting our child advocacy  centers, and prosecuting criminal cases under State law against  offenders who committed terrible crimes against children.

I have often described it to people this way: It is not like on TV in  the crime shows.

When the victim is an 8-year-old child or a 7-year-old child, and  when what happened to them was some form of sexual abuse, the odds are  about 90-10 that the offender is somebody that the child knew and  trusted.

It is rare that it is a stranger offense with little kids. That is  because that is how the offender got access to the child.

Mr. SCHMIDT. Mr. Speaker, on our watch, we prosecuted parents, we  prosecuted grandparents, we prosecuted ministers, and we prosecuted  coaches.

Mr. Speaker, the only evidence you have is what that child can  testify to in front of a bunch of strangers in a jury box, a judge in a  dark robe, and people in our adversarial system because you rarely have  physical evidence in these cases. We sometimes, but rarely, have  extraneous evidence.

That child has to be able to testify, or justice is never done, and  that child cannot testify if he or she has not had the support and  services of victim advocates at, for example, a child advocacy center  to bring them to the point they can tell truthfully what happened to  them.

This bill is about justice, and I am proud to support it.