Leosa Reform Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691241/leosa-reform-act


Mr. SCHMIDT. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 405, I call up  the bill (H.R. 2243) to amend title 18, United States Code, to improve  the Law Enforcement Officer Safety Act and provisions relating to the  carrying of concealed weapons by law enforcement officers, and for  other purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. SCHMIDT.  2243.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2243, the Law Enforcement Officer Safety Reform  Act, which reforms the LEOSA, makes important updates to the existing  LEOSA program.

In 2004, President George W. Bush signed LEOSA into law. The law  exempts certain active and retired law enforcement officers from local  and State prohibitions on the carrying of concealed firearms.

In order to qualify under LEOSA, active law enforcement officers must  meet several important requirements. For example, they must be  authorized to carry a firearm by their agency. They cannot be subject  to disciplinary actions by the agency that could result in the loss of  their police power. They must meet certain firearms qualification  standards. They cannot be under the influence of alcohol or other  intoxicating substances, and they must not be prohibited by Federal law  from possessing a firearm.

Retired law enforcement officers must also meet several requirements  in order to qualify under LEOSA. For example, they must have separated  from service in good standing and served as a law enforcement officer  for an aggregate of 10 years or more. They also are required to meet  certain firearms training standards and must not be prohibited by  Federal law from possessing a firearm.

The LEOSA Reform Act will allow these officers to carry a concealed  firearm in the same manner many licensed citizens carry a firearm in  their State.

For example, the LEOSA Reform Act will allow law enforcement officers  qualified under LEOSA to carry concealed firearms in national parks,  certain Federal facilities that are open to the public, on public  transportation, in school zones, and in other areas.

The bill also reduces the frequency that qualified retired law  enforcement officers are required to meet certain qualification  standards.

Many States allow State licensed concealed carry permit holders to  carry a concealed firearm in gun-free school zones and on public  transportation in the State in which they are licensed. This bill  affords qualified law enforcement officers the same privilege.

This legislation improves public safety as our officers face  increasingly greater dangers, and current restrictions hinder their  ability to carry firearms and protect themselves and others.

At a time when violent crime continues to plague our Nation, we must  support our active and retired law enforcement officers and ensure they  are able to protect themselves and to protect others no matter where  they are in the United States.

This legislation is supported by the Association of State Criminal  Investigative Agencies, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers  Association, the Major Cities Chiefs Association, the Major County  Sheriffs of America, the National Association of Police Organizations,  the National Narcotics Officers' Associations' Coalition, the National  Sheriffs' Association, and the Sergeants Benevolent Association NYPD.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, a law enforcement officer does not cease being a law  enforcement officer merely because he is off duty or because of where  he goes, or she goes. Upon retirement, the scars of service, including  the animosities built up with many people who do not care for law  enforcement officers because they have been subject to the enforcement  of the law over the course of a career, upon retirement those old  animosities often linger.

Those of us who support this measure and support it strongly  understand and argue that it is essential to the safety of our existing  officers and to the safety of our retired officers that we recognize  that ongoing risk and burden that they have taken on and that they  continue to carry and allow them to continue to carry the means to  defend themselves and others in reasonable locations, as in many States  ordinary civilian concealed carry permit holders may do.

We think it is commonsense legislation, and I would just point out in  response to some of the comments of my colleague from Maryland, I  wasn't here in 2004 during the debates that he cited over the original  LEOSA. I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of what he said, but I  would say this: It is now 20 years later, and I think that history has  shown us that many of the concerns presented in 2004 were not, in fact,  realized by LEOSA's enactment, nor will they be realized as a result of  enactment of this strengthening of that underlying statute for our  officers.

Mr. SCHMIDT. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. SCHMIDT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished ranking member  for his argument and advocacy today.

I would just point out to the body that while my distinguished  colleague speaks with his usual passion on many subjects, the only  subject before us today is whether or not this body is going to pass,  to enact, to approve H.R. 2243, the LEOSA Reform Act. That is the sole  question in front of us.

That measure is critically important to the safety of many law  enforcement officers retired to many law enforcement officers off duty.  The bad guys don't stop looking for them just because the cop is out of  uniform and at a restaurant or taking his family to a national park or  otherwise visiting a location where today the law may preclude him or  her from carrying the means of defending himself, his family, his  colleagues, or the stranger standing next to him.

We trust those officers to do exactly that while they are on duty and  in service, and we should trust them to do exactly that under the  reasonably expanded scope contemplated by this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of our colleagues on both sides of the aisle  to vote in favor of this bill and to send it to the Senate.