No Rogue Rulings Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689716/no-rogue-rulings-act-of-2025


Mr. SCHMIDT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from California for  bringing us this important piece of legislation.

I haven't been here very long in this body, but I have learned  something, and it is amplified today. That is that this town has a  remarkable ability to snatch disagreement out of the jaws of consensus.  This is an issue that liberal thinkers and conservative thinkers have  both said is a problem that we ought to address.

Justice Kagan has been quoted widely as having said that it just  cannot be the case that a single district court judge can hold up  Federal policy for the lengthy period of time nationwide that it takes  for the ordinary appeals process to run.

On the other end, Justice Gorsuch has suggested that these nationwide  injunctions bear a remarkable similarity to a step in the legislative,  not judicial, process.

In our branch of government, we had Democrats in both bodies of the  legislative branch who proposed legislation just a Congress ago saying  this is a problem we ought to deal with. Their legislation looked a lot  like part of this bill, three-judge panels. Now, we have Republicans  saying the same thing.

We ought to agree this is just the right thing to do as a matter of  public policy, not because of who is in the White House or who is the  plaintiff bringing a particular lawsuit.

Look, district courts are supposed to resolve disputes between  litigants. If we adopt this thing and make it law, there is no doubt  any citizen who can walk into court today can still walk into court and  get relief for anything they are entitled to relief for. What they  can't do is get a district court judge to order that an entire Federal  policy nationwide be disabled.

There is still a relief valve because we added an amendment in  committee that allows States to go into court to seek that type of  nationwide relief. Why? It is because States are unique. It is not the  national association of people who lost last year's election. It is a  State organized under our Constitution that has a unique role in our  Federal system and an interest in nationwide relief.

We ought to adopt this bill and do what everybody agrees is the right  thing.