Providing for Consideration of H.R. Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Stop Illegal Entry Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695108/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-stop-illegal-entry-act-of-2025


Mr. SCHMIDT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me time.

I rise in support of the rule and urge this body to adopt it. It is  the next necessary step for us to proceed to consideration and  ultimately adoption of the National Defense Authorization Act for the  65th year in a row.

While this Congress has done this 65 years in a row, this is the  first year I have had the privilege of being part of this debate and  discussion. I am honored to be here. I am honored to be the  Representative of the Second District of Kansas where I represent,  among others, those associated with Fort Leavenworth, with Fort Riley,  with Forbes Field, the 190th Air Refueling Wing, and other important  military assets.

I will highlight just a couple of provisions in this bill that are so  critically important to the people that I represent.

Obviously, with the continued focus on servicemember and family  quality of life, the 3.8 percent pay raise is vitally important to  these folks who are serving our country. There is the $350 million this  bill authorizes for expanded childcare facilities for military  families. There is the $35 million that it authorizes for impact aid in  support of the communities who support our fighting men and women.  There is the provision that restricts and precludes the downsizing of  certain military healthcare installations so we can continue to provide  for the health and well-being of our servicemembers and their families.

This bill focuses on acquisition reform and includes a provision to  make it easier for small businesses to access what can be the  complicated and sometimes frustrating process of being in the queue to  provide support for our military men and women in our armed services.

It provides for a focus on additional training space and support for  unmanned systems, which is vitally important. It is important to us in  Kansas where we have a lot of assets clustered together to provide that  type of next-generation support, both in the physical world and in the  simulation world in terms of the National Simulation Center at Fort  Leavenworth.

Of course, it provides some top-line critically important provisions  that are important to the defense of our country, and that includes  authorizing funding and support for our counterdrug efforts, which are  vitally important to our communities.

Mr. Speaker, I am grateful for the opportunity to speak on this  legislation, and I encourage adoption of the rule.