Airspace Location and Enhanced Risk Transparency Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701679/airspace-location-and-enhanced-risk-transparency-act-of-2026


Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as  I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 7613, the Airspace  Location and Enhanced Risk Transparency Act, or the ALERT Act, as  amended, bipartisan legislation introduced by T&I Committee Chair Sam  Graves, House Armed Services Committee Chair   Mike Rogers, Ranking  Member Adam Smith of the Armed Services Committee, and myself, as the  ranking member of the T&I Committee.

This bill responds to all the probable causes of the tragic midair  collision near Washington National Airport, DCA, on January 29, 2025.

On that evening, American Airlines Flight 5342 arriving to DCA from  Wichita, Kansas, and an Army UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter flying a  routine training mission collided above the Potomac River, resulting in  67 tragic  deaths, representing the deadliest U.S. aviation accident since 2001.

To the families and loved ones of those lost in this tragedy: You  certainly have my deepest condolences. What you have gone through is  unimaginable, and you have my sincere gratitude for your advocacy. Your  tireless efforts to effect real change and improve aviation safety have  made this bill better.

I also thank the chair of the NTSB, Chair Jennifer Homendy, her  investigators, and the staff for their diligent work to uncover the  cause and contributing factors of this accident, as well as their  valuable input as our committee developed and refined this legislation.

After the accident, the NTSB was on the scene and initiated its  thorough investigation into determining the probable cause, identifying  factors and findings, and issuing recommendations to the appropriate  Federal agencies.

The NTSB published its final report in February that contained the  probable cause of the collision, its findings, and 50 new safety  recommendations directed to the Department of Transportation and the  Department of Defense. Today, we are considering legislation that  responds to all the NTSB's safety recommendations.

The ALERT Act has been bipartisan from its inception and is the  result of productive, good-faith collaboration between the T&I and  Armed Services Committees and the impacted agencies. Since the D.C.  midair tragedy involved both the FAA and the DOD, the solution has to  involve both committees to make lasting changes.

This bill we are considering today--as I like to call it, the ALERT  Act version 7.0--looks vastly different from the legislation introduced  in February, version 1.0.

It incorporates feedback from the families of the victims, the NTSB,  and other stakeholders who have helped make the ALERT Act a truly  comprehensive safety bill that works to address all 50 NTSB safety  recommendations.

The legislation contains a sense of Congress and 23 provisions  requiring the FAA and the DOT to act on safety recommendations issued  in the NTSB's final report.

These provisions require ADS-B In and collision prevention technology  on virtually all aircraft, enhance air traffic control training and  traffic management procedures, modernize ATC facilities and technology,  address deficiencies in DOT and FAA's safety culture, and strengthen  the safety of the national airspace system and safety in the airspace  around DCA.

A key provision of the ALERT Act is its equipage requirement for  collision prevention technologies, including what we call ADS-B In.

The important thing to know about ADS-B In is it is only one part of  a collision prevention equation in the ALERT Act. While useful, ADS-B  In must be paired with the right system in the cockpit--the right  displays, the right audible alarms, the right software--to effectively  increase a pilot's situational awareness.

As a result, the ALERT Act not only requires ADS-B In but also  requires each aircraft to have collision prevention technology. For all  mainline air carriers, this ADS-B In enabled ACAS Xa is what we call  the next-generation collision avoidance system.

For everyone else who is currently required to have ADS-B Out, they  will be required to have any of the ADS-B In-enabled collision  prevention technologies that also meet a strict set of minimum  requirements.

These ADS-B In capabilities, fed into the right collision prevention  technologies, provide pilots with an unprecedented level of situational  awareness and will increase the safety of the airspace across the  country.

The time to act is now. House passage of the ALERT Act is the next  step in delivering on Congress' safety commitment to the flying public  and addressing all 50 NTSB recommendations.

Moreover, passage of the ALERT Act in the House will allow us to  begin critical discussions with the Senate on a final legislative  response to the DCA midair tragedy.

I urge all my colleagues to support the ALERT Act, as amended. I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the  gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Carson).

Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the  gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms. Hoyle).

Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the  gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Beyer).

Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the  gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Subramanyam).

Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance  of my time.

Madam Speaker, we must do everything that we can to prevent another  midair collision and to improve aviation safety. That is why I support  H.R. 7613, as amended, and urge my colleagues to do the same.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.