Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694197/coast-guard-authorization-act-of-2025


Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Madam Speaker, I am pleased to speak in  support of H.R. 4275, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025.

This bipartisan legislation reauthorizes funding for the U.S. Coast  Guard through 2029, updates and restructures Coast Guard programs and  policies, and supports the commercial maritime industry. It is the  result of good faith, bipartisan negotiations between Chair Graves and  Chair Ezell, myself, and Ranking Member Carbajal, and it includes  important contributions from members on and off the committee.

This bill is the latest example of bipartisanship on the  Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and I am very proud to  support it.

Coast Guard operational readiness is at risk due to years of  underfunding. A lack of investment has led to a $3 billion shoreside  infrastructure backlog, a lack of icebreaking capacity in the  Arctic and Great Lakes, and reduced capacity across several essential  missions, such as mariner safety and mariner credentialing.

The committee recognized this need, and H.R. 4275 begins to address  the shortfall by authorizing the Coast Guard far beyond the  administration's request. It increases Coast Guard funding levels to  $21 billion by 2029, ensuring that the Coast Guard remains ``always  ready''; ``semper paratus.''

These funding levels will give the Coast Guard the resources needed  to execute its missions and deliver a basic standard of living for its  servicemembers.

In addition, the bill increases procurement, construction, and  improvements funding by 100 percent over current funding levels. These  new resources should enable the Coast Guard to maintain its ongoing  recapitalization programs, including Polar Security Cutters and  Offshore Patrol Cutters.

Last Congress, we enacted substantial improvements to safety for  mariners and passengers aboard vessels. This legislation builds upon  that work by addressing additional safety risks on vessels and  increasing the penalties for bad actors.

This bill fights oil spill pollution by bolstering vessel response  plans and ensuring timely, robust firefighting responses when vessel  incidents do occur.

It also requires the Coast Guard to evaluate international oil spill  coordination and ensures robust protections and response capacity in  environmentally sensitive locations like the Puget Sound. Maritime  commerce cannot come at the expense of the environment.

This bill includes provisions that begin addressing the mariner  shortage by updating mariner requirements, updating the merchant  mariner credentialing exam, and expanding the pool of eligible  mariners.

Finally and importantly, the bill includes numerous provisions to  address sexual assault and sexual harassment within the Coast Guard.  These new requirements, directives, and oversight were developed  because the Coast Guard deliberately hid Operation Fouled Anchor and  decades of sexual misconduct within the Coast Guard.

Former Commandant Admiral Fagan worked hard to repair that lost  confidence that resulted from Operation Fouled Anchor, and this  legislation builds on her work.

Again, I thank Chair Graves, Chair Ezell, Ranking Member Carbajal and  others for their cooperation in crafting this critical legislation. I  look forward to our continued collaboration as this legislation moves  forward, and I urge all Members to support this bill.