Defending American Property Abroad Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701471/defending-american-property-abroad-act-of-2026


Mr. Speaker, today I rise in opposition to H.R. 7084, the Defending  American Property Abroad Act of 2026.

As we have seen with recent vessel boardings and border operations,  the Coast Guard has broad authority to enforce American laws on the  water.

The Coast Guard routinely interdicts drugs and migrants, enforces  fisheries laws, and ensures the safety of property and life at sea.

In fiscal year 2025, the Coast Guard set record breaking numbers. The  service seized over 510,000 pounds of cocaine in the maritime domain,  over triple its yearly average.

Even more impressively, the Coast Guard saved over 2,200 lives and  over $40 million of property by running over 6,700 search and rescue  cases. They do all this while protecting global fish stocks and by  enforcing domestic and international fisheries laws.

H.R. 7084 does not help the Coast Guard address violations of the law  at sea. Instead, the bill inserts the Coast Guard into what is a  property dispute between a U.S. company and the Mexican Government  that, if anything, will only add to the Coast Guard's burden.

The Coast Guard is already strained in its ability to effectively  conduct its missions.

Just last week, the Vice Commandant testified before the Committee on  Transportation and Infrastructure that the Coast Guard is a $20 billion  organization operating on a $13 billion budget.

H.R. 7084 prohibits vessels, commercial shipping or cruise vessels,  from entering or operating in U.S. waters if that vessel made a port of  call at a port that was nationalized or expropriated by another company  from a U.S. citizen or company.

Now, requiring the service to identify and prohibit vessels from  entering U.S. waters due to an international property dispute further  strains the service's resources.

This legislation is meant to only apply to one port in Mexico, but it  is written so broadly it could encompass disputes in other countries  and with other companies both today and in the future.

Now, Congress has many pressing issues that we should be considering  today. The President himself has promised less war and lower prices.  Instead, the American public is getting more war and higher prices.

I wish we were taking time today to discuss those lower costs for my  constituents.

I wish we were taking time today to discuss those lower costs for my  constituents. Instead, we are interjecting Congress into an  international land dispute.

Now, I want to be really clear. I am sympathetic to the plight of  this particular U.S. company involved in this dispute. This legislation  doesn't solve their problem. That solution can be found, and  opportunities are available through diplomacy and even trade agreements  but not really legislation.

For those reasons I will be voting ``no'' on this legislation.

Mr. LARSEN of Washington.  Sewell).

Again, I just reiterate, the bill before us today does not resolve  this dispute between the Mexican Government and an American company.  There are tools available and that continue to be available to resolve  that. It gives the Coast Guard more work on top of all the work our  U.S. Coast Guard is already doing.

I had an amendment in the Rules Committee. They rejected an amendment  that would have required the President to consider potential costs  before exercising the authorities granted in this bill. That Rules  Committee amendment was rejected.

Arbitration, treaties, trade agreements, these mechanisms exist to  solve international disputes. These are appropriate venues for this  dispute and not legislation. For those reasons, I will be voting  ``no.''

In conclusion, I do want to note something. These 13 to 14 bills that  came before this body earlier this week from the Transportation and  Infrastructure Committee--those were on suspension. This one was not.  But it needs to be said that the Transportation and Infrastructure  Committee works extremely well. We see ourselves as an island of  partnership in a sea of partisanship in the U.S. Congress.

Even though this bill may not fit that bill, the Committee works that  way because of one person, and that one person is Representative Sam  Graves.

This morning, it was announced that Sam will not be running for  reelection.

I wanted to take this brief moment as part of my time in closing to  just note that we are going to be losing a fierce advocate for  infrastructure investment and for transportation safety with his  announcement that he will not run again.

Sam and I have served together nearly 26 years. We came in together.  In recent years, we have developed a partnership that overrode the  partisanship in Congress. This body has dealt with the Federal Aviation  Administration reauthorization, a Coast Guard reauthorization, a Water  Resources Development Act reauthorization, and a lot of other things.  We have passed a FEMA act that reforms FEMA. We have yet to get that to  the floor. We certainly want to see that get to the floor.

Importantly, we are working right now on a bill to reauthorize the  surface transportation authorization to fix roads, bridges, highways,  transit, rail, and some other things. We are working on that right now.  That work continues to progress, all because of the work of  Representative Sam Graves.

Although the House is losing Sam, his home is regaining him back in  Tarkio, Missouri, at some point at the end of this year. His family is  getting him back. I have always said that Sam likes three things in  life: his grandkids, vintage aircraft, and Congress, and in that order.

I thank Sam Graves for his friendship and his partnership and helping  us to continue to do the work of this Committee to bring bills to the  floor that we can debate in a manner that is respectful of the body  that we all get to serve in.

Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 247,  nays 164, not voting 20, as follows:                               [Roll No. 105]                                 YEAS--247       Aderholt      Alford      Allen      Amodei (NV)      Arrington      Babin      Bacon      Baird      Balderson      Barr      Barrett      Baumgartner      Bean (FL)      Begich      Bentz      Bergman      Bice      Biggs (AZ)      Biggs (SC)      Bilirakis      Bishop      Boebert      Bost      Brecheen      Bresnahan      Brownley      Budzinski      Burchett      Burlison      Bynum      Calvert      Carbajal      Carey      Carter (GA)      Carter (LA)      Carter (TX)      Ciscomani      Cline      Cloud      Clyburn      Clyde      Cole      Collins      Comer      Correa      Costa      Crane      Crank      Crawford      Cuellar      Davidson      Davis (NC)      De La Cruz      DesJarlais      Diaz-Balart      Donalds      Downing      Dunn (FL)      Edwards      Ellzey      Emmer      Estes      Evans (CO)      Ezell      Fallon      Fedorchak      Feenstra      Figures      Fine      Finstad      Fischbach      Fitzgerald      Fitzpatrick      Fleischmann      Flood      Fong      Foster      Foxx      Franklin, Scott      Fry      Fulcher      Garbarino      Gill (TX)      Gillen      Gimenez      Golden (ME)      Goldman (TX)      Gonzalez, V.      Gooden      Gosar      Gottheimer      Gray      Griffith      Grothman      Guest      Guthrie      Hageman      Hamadeh (AZ)      Haridopolos      Harrigan      Harris (MD)      Harris (NC)      Harshbarger      Higgins (LA)      Hill (AR)      Hinson      Horsford      Houchin      Houlahan      Hudson      Huizenga      Hunt      Hurd (CO)      Issa      Jack      Jackson (TX)      James      Johnson (SD)      Jordan      Joyce (OH)      Joyce (PA)      Kaptur      Kelly (MS)      Kelly (PA)      Kennedy (UT)      Kiggans (VA)      Kiley (CA)      Kim      Knott      Kustoff      LaHood      LaLota      Langworthy      Latta      Lawler      Lee (FL)      Lee (NV)      Letlow      Lofgren      Loudermilk      Lucas      Luttrell      Lynch      Mace      Mackenzie      Malliotakis      Maloy      Mann      Massie      Mast      McBride      McClain      McClintock      McCormick      McDowell      McGuire      Messmer      Meuser      Miller (IL)      Miller (WV)      Miller-Meeks      Mills      Moolenaar      Moore (AL)      Moore (NC)      Moore (UT)      Moore (WV)      Moran      Murphy      Newhouse      Norman      Nunn (IA)      Obernolte      Ogles      Onder      Owens      Palmer      Panetta      Patronis      Perez      Perry      Pfluger      Reschenthaler      Riley (NY)      Rogers (AL)      Rogers (KY)      Rose      Rouzer      Roy      Ruiz      Rulli      Rutherford      Salazar      Scalise      Schmidt      Schneider      Schweikert      Scott, Austin      Self      Sessions      Sewell      Shreve      Simpson      Smith (MO)      Smith (NE)      Smith (NJ)      Smucker      Soto      Spartz      Stanton      Stauber      Stefanik      Steil      Steube      Strong      Stutzman      Suozzi      Taylor      Tenney      Thompson (CA)      Thompson (PA)      Tiffany      Timmons      Turner (OH)      Valadao      Van Drew      Van Duyne      Van Epps      Van Orden      Vasquez      Veasey      Vindman      Wagner      Walberg      Walkinshaw      Wasserman Schultz      Weber (TX)      Webster (FL)      Westerman      Whitesides      Wied      Williams (TX)      Wilson (SC)      Wittman      Womack      Yakym      Zinke                                 NAYS--164       Adams      Aguilar      Amo      Ansari      Auchincloss      Balint      Barragan      Beatty      Bell      Bera      Beyer      Bonamici      Boyle (PA)      Brown      Carson      Casar      Case      Casten      Castor (FL)      Castro (TX)      Chu      Cisneros      Clark (MA)      Cleaver      Cohen      Conaway      Courtney      Craig      Crockett      Crow      Davids (KS)      Davis (IL)      Dean (PA)      DeGette      DeLauro      DelBene      Deluzio      DeSaulnier      Dexter      Dingell      Doggett      Elfreth      Escobar      Espaillat      Evans (PA)      Fields      Fletcher      Foushee      Frankel, Lois      Friedman      Frost      Garcia (CA)      Garcia (IL)      Garcia (TX)      Gomez      Goodlander      Green, Al (TX)      Grijalva      Harder (CA)      Hayes      Himes      Hoyer      Hoyle (OR)      Huffman      Ivey      Jackson (IL)      Jacobs      Jayapal      Jeffries      Johnson (GA)      Johnson (TX)      Kamlager-Dove      Keating      Kelly (IL)      Kennedy (NY)      Khanna      Krishnamoorthi      Landsman      Larsen (WA)      Larson (CT)      Latimer      Lee (PA)      Leger Fernandez      Levin      Liccardo      Magaziner      Mannion      Matsui      McBath      McClain Delaney      McClellan      McCollum      McDonald Rivet      McGarvey      McGovern      McIver      Meeks      Menefee      Menendez      Meng      Min      Moore (WI)      Morelle      Morrison      Mrvan      Mullin      Nadler      Neal      Neguse      Norcross      Ocasio-Cortez      Olszewski      Omar      Pallone      Pappas      Pelosi      Peters      Pettersen      Pingree      Pocan      Pou      Pressley      Quigley      Ramirez      Randall      Raskin      Rivas      Ross      Ryan      Salinas      Sanchez      Scanlon      Schakowsky      Scholten      Schrier      Scott (VA)      Scott, David      Sherman      Simon      Smith (WA)      Sorensen      Stansbury      Stevens      Subramanyam      Swalwell      Sykes      Takano      Thanedar      Thompson (MS)      Titus      Tlaib      Tokuda      Tonko      Torres (CA)      Torres (NY)      Trahan      Tran      Underwood      Vargas      Velazquez      Waters      Watson Coleman      Williams (GA)      Wilson (FL)                               NOT VOTING--20       Buchanan      Cammack      Cherfilus-McCormick      Clarke (NY)      Crenshaw      Garamendi      Goldman (NY)      Gonzales, Tony      Graves      Hern (OK)      Kean      Lieu      Luna      McCaul      Mfume      Miller (OH)      Moskowitz      Moulton      Nehls      Strickland

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM changed his vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''

Messrs. HORSFORD and SOTO changed their vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.''

So the bill was passed.

The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

Stated for: