Recognizing Lisa Janicki


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698557/recognizing-lisa-janicki


Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and  celebrate Lisa Janicki's service as a County Commissioner for Skagit  County, Washington.

Commissioner Janicki was first elected to the Skagit County Board of  County Commissioners in November 2014, following a career of more than  thirty years as the Chief Financial Officer for Janicki family  businesses.

During her eleven years in office, Commissioner Janicki has been a  tireless leader in fighting the opioid epidemic across our communities  and Washington state, advocating for policy solutions, programs and  investments to end this scourge and repair the incredible damage it has  caused. She has worked collaboratively with the county's partner  jurisdictions to increase services available for community members in  need of urgent crisis support. She was a founding member of North Star,  a partnership between the county commissioners and government, the  mayors of the four largest cities in Skagit County, and service  organizations to end homelessness and enhance effective delivery of  crisis response,  recovery and support services countywide. Commissioner Janicki also  oversaw the development of the STAR Center providing acute behavioral  health care services to Skagit County, in addition to the county's  first permanent supportive housing development, Martha's Place, and the  Skagit First Steps Shelter.

Commissioner Janicki's heartfelt leadership, strategic foresight, and  compassion are an inspiration to leaders and community members in  Skagit County and across northwest Washington. She has been a  transformational advocate for the people of Skagit County.

Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to commend Commissioner Janicki for her  outstanding leadership and vision, dedication to serving her community,  and the enduring legacy she has helped to cultivate. I ask my  colleagues to join me in expressing our deepest gratitude for her  service.