-9999


Mrs. FISCHER. Madam President, we are living in a time of growing  global unrest. China is accelerating its military buildup in the Indo- Pacific. While I remain hopeful that President Trump can help broker  peace between Presidents Putin and Zelenskyy, Russia's brutal war  against Ukraine grinds on. That is why it is more important than ever  that we invest in our servicemembers, protect defense spectrum, drive  innovation, and strengthen our missile defense systems.

As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I am proud to  report that this year's National Defense  Authorization Act meets this moment. It includes key provisions I  secured to modernize our nuclear deterrent and strengthen our national  defense.

As chair of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee, I fought to upgrade  the National Nuclear Security Administration's infrastructure. The bill  establishes an annual independent assessment of NNSA's progress toward  modernization goals, ensuring our nuclear deterrent remains both  effective and up to date.

It requires the deployment of at least 400 intercontinental ballistic  missiles across no fewer than 450 launch facilities, maintaining a  force structure capable of deterring any nuclear-capable adversary.

It authorizes more than $4 billion for the Sentinel Intercontinental  Ballistic Missile Program, and it requires that it be fielded no later  than September 30, 2033.

It accelerates the sea-launched nuclear cruise missile program. And  it expands experimentation and prototyping authority to all combatant  commands, including U.S. Strategic Command at Offutt Air Force Base in  my home State of Nebraska.

This is exactly the kind of strategic deterrence that makes our  adversaries think twice and say: Not today.

This year's NDAA also safeguards critical defense spectrum. Some in  Washington have suggested that the Pentagon is sitting on spectrum  bands that could be better used for commercial wireless. That portrayal  is both inaccurate, and it is dangerous. The reality is these  frequencies are not idle. They are the backbone of America's missile  defense and intelligence systems. And we should not be allowing Federal  Agencies to sell critical communication channels needed to carry out  the Trump administration's priorities, including the Golden Dome  missile defense shield. That is why this year's defense bill prohibits  any modifications to defense systems in these spectrums bands unless  top Pentagon leaders themselves deem it absolutely necessary.

Earlier this summer, I led the effort to secure--for the first time  in law--a carve-out that prevents the Federal Communications Commission  from auctioning or reallocating these bands for the next decade. The  NDAA provision is consistent with these protections, ensuring that we  strike the right balance: unleashing America's wireless innovation,  while never compromising our national security.

We are also preparing for the threats that we cannot yet see. I  secured provisions to assess the readiness of the National Disaster  Medical System, to modernize our roadmaps for cloud migration and  artificial intelligence, and to ensure that our intelligence community  has the meteorological and environmental services that it needs.

But all of these priorities mean little without investing in the  brave men and women who carry them out. That is why I fought to  authorize $19 million above the President's budget request to help  recover and identify the remains of our fallen servicemembers from past  wars and conflicts. The U.S. military leaves no one behind.

And through this bill, we are directing the Pentagon to explore  whether local communities can play a more active role in helping  develop the Department's healthcare facilities, similar to my CHIP IN  for Veterans Act. This is the very least we can do for the troops and  the families who have sacrificed so much for the freedoms that we hold  dear.

Beyond the details, we must keep sight of the bigger picture. Our  adversaries--nations that hate America--well, they are sharing weapons  and resources and a common goal. They want to weaken American power and  dismantle our influence across the globe.

The character of war has evolved rapidly. Breakthroughs in artificial  intelligence, unmanned systems, hypersonic weapons, next-generation  aircraft, and space-based capabilities, they are all reshaping the  battlefield. At the same time, we live in a political environment that  is too often partisan and divided.

Yet on this issue, I believe most of my colleagues agree that we must  confront these threats head-on, and that means rebuilding the arsenal  of democracy.

To do so, we need serious reform at the Pentagon. This year's NDAA  delivers: modernizing the budget process, cutting redtape, improving  efficiency, and unleashing innovation. This is not partisan. This is  not political. This is necessity.

Our servicemembers must have the resources they need to carry out  their missions and return home to their loved ones. This bill  strengthens our military, and it sends a very clear message: America is  prepared to meet the moment.

I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support it without  delay.