Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699103/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, since December 28, Iranian civilians  have taken to the streets to protest the bleak economic conditions and  the daily hardships imposed on their families by the Iranian regime.  Local protests have spread across the country to all 31 Provinces,  drawing tens of thousands of citizens into the streets. These men and  women are rightfully calling for accountability, freedom, and an end to  authoritarian rule.

I stand in solidarity with the people of Iran. They have endured  decades of brutal oppression, corruption, and economic mismanagement.  They want to live with dignity, to provide for their families, and to  secure a better future for the next generation. These are universal  aspirations, and they deserve the support of the international  community. And the people of Iran deserve liberty.

The regime's response has been swift and ruthless. In an attempt to  silence dissent and conceal its abuses, Iranian authorities have shut  down the internet and the phone service. They have cut citizens off  from one another and from the outside world. Peaceful protesters have  been met with lethal force.

Although the regime has shut down nearly all communications, we are  seeing reports estimating that over 12,000 innocent civilians have been  killed. More than 18,000 individuals have been arrested. This level of  violence against Iran's own people is indefensible.

I commend President Trump for imposing economic pressure on those who  continue to support and sustain that regime. These measures send a  clear message: The United States will not ignore the suffering of the  Iranian people, and the exploitation of the Iranian people must end.

The newly imposed 25-percent tariffs on countries doing business with  Iran are designed to strike at the economic lifelines that enable this  repression. Some of Iran's largest trading partners unsurprisingly are  our adversaries. It is both in the interest of our national security  and in the interest of the Iranian people to hold these enablers  accountable. The courage of the Iranian people deserves nothing less.