Emergency Conservation Program Improvement Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701157/emergency-conservation-program-improvement-act-of-2025


Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, my home State of Nebraska is currently  facing devastating wildfires, the worst in our State's history.  Yesterday, I, along with Senator Ricketts, Congressman Adrian Smith,  and our Governor Jim Pillen welcomed U.S. Secretary of Agriculture  Brooke Rollins to Nebraska so that she could meet firsthand with  responders and ag producers who have experienced incredible damage.

Across the State, more than 800,000 acres and counting have burned,  turning grasslands to ash. We saw this firsthand up close. Family farms  and ranchers have watched hundreds of miles of fences burn. They have  done everything they can to protect their livestock.

The coming weeks and months will be difficult. Fences will need to be  rebuilt. Grazing plans will need to change. Entire seasons of work will  likely need to be reconsidered.

While recovery will be difficult, we should do everything in our  power to ensure that disaster recovery programs at the USDA can support  our farmers and ranchers during this difficult time.

It was feedback from ag producers in previous years' wildfires that  led me to introduce my bipartisan Emergency Conservation Program  Improvement Act. The goal of this legislation is to expedite Federal  cost sharing following these natural disasters, just like the wildfires  burning across Nebraska right now.

My bill would ensure that the Emergency Conservation Program  eligibility can be triggered faster in response to a wildfire and  provide flexibility for the producers completing the rehabilitative  work.

In times of crisis, Nebraskans deserve relief, not additional  burdens. The Emergency Conservation Program's current distribution  system, well, it too often fails to provide the support it was designed  to offer. We need to streamline the recovery process so we can restore  agricultural land more quickly following emergencies like these tragic  wildfires.

This legislation won't solve all the challenges Nebraska's producers  are facing, but it would meaningfully improve this disaster recovery  program.

That is why I am asking my colleagues to join my bipartisan effort to  improve the Emergency Conservation Program. This is a bipartisan piece  of legislation that has already passed through the Senate and the House  Ag Committees in various packages.

Farmers and ranchers not only in Nebraska but all across America will  have more security and stability because of it.

629 and the Senate proceed to its immediate  consideration.