Fact Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690666/fact-act


Mrs. FISCHER. Madam President, last week, my bill, the Foreign  Adversary Communications Transparency Act, or the FACT Act, cleared the  Commerce Committee unanimously. Now it will come before us here on the  Senate floor for a vote.

I stand before you today because the threat our foreign adversaries  pose is not a distant concern. It is real; it is relentless; and it is  constantly evolving. We cannot afford to wait and deal with the  consequences. The cost of inaction is too great.

Congress must anticipate the threats, and we must work together to  curb the malign influence of foreign adversaries like communist China,  Russia, Iran, and North Korea. For too long now, we have allowed  foreign adversarial governments to secure a silent foothold in our  telecommunications infrastructure.

Take, for example, Huawei. Huawei, a Chinese-owned telecommunications  giant, is one of the leading producers of cell phone network equipment.  This equipment spans across our country and finds its home in most of  our cellular devices. Over a decade ago, our intelligence Agencies  began noticing a peculiar pattern of Huawei equipment on cell towers  across my home State of Nebraska as well as nearby Colorado and  Montana. That Chinese gear was clustered near sensitive military  assets, including Nebraska's Offutt Air Force Base and our nuclear  missile silos.

Then, just 4 years ago, U.S. intelligence officials sounded the  alarm. Their investigations found that Huawei could secretly access  mobile phone networks around the world through backdoors, unbeknownst  to carriers. And perhaps even more concerning, Huawei has had this  capability for more than a decade.

And Huawei's ownership is bankrolled by billions of dollars from the  Chinese Government. What government freely hands over that kind of  money without expecting something in return? Despite being based in  China and having deep connections to the Chinese Communist Party, as  confirmed by U.S. intelligence communities, the company continues to  refuse to acknowledge the Chinese Government's influence.

However, in 2020, under President Trump's administration, the Federal  Communications Commission designated Huawei as a national security  threat, and it banned the sale of its telecommunications equipment here  in our country. This past December, Congress also secured the remaining  funding to enable smaller rural communications companies to rip that  risky Chinese-made equipment out of their networks.

In 2022, the Justice Department charged two Chinese intelligence  officers with an unsettling crime: attempting to obstruct a Federal  investigation into Huawei by stealing sensitive case material from a  U.S. District Attorney's Office.

Colleagues, I pose to you this question: Why would the Chinese  Government go to such lengths to interfere in a case involving a so- called private company in which they have no stake?

Well, they wouldn't.

While recent actions to curtail Huawei equipment and those from other  high-risk Chinese firms are steps in the right direction, they don't go  far enough. We must have far greater transparency about which companies  holding Federal communication licenses and authorizations also have  influential ties to foreign adversarial governments, and we must look  deeper at who has this access and how many more companies like Huawei  are out there.

Companies like Huawei must be stopped. We can no longer permit  authoritarian regimes like China to infiltrate our networks and lurk in  the shadows, waiting for the opportune moment to strike. It is not  enough to brace ourselves for the aftermath of disaster. We must root  out the threat before it has time to fester.

The reality is this: Our foreign adversaries have stakes in numerous  companies operating freely and legally within the United States. Yet,  in many cases, the public remains unaware which companies are owned,  wholly or partially, by these adversaries.

That is why, today, I call upon the Senate to pass my FACT Act, which  takes a much needed step to strengthen our visibility into our  telecommunications market to weed out that access that we have seen  from these malicious adversaries because the first step--the first  step--in defending our national security is understanding the threat.

My bill directs the Federal Communications Commission to publicly  identify these companies, the ones that have that FCC license or  authorization, that are owned by foreign adversarial governments. Under  the FACT Act, companies with foreign ties will no longer be able to  operate in secrecy, and they will no longer be able to conceal their  financial backers or obscure their true loyalties.

Huawei should serve as a warning. China is on the offensive to  undermine the security of America's communications. An attack on our  networks is a direct attack on the United States, and it is not one  that we should tolerate.