Providing Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691668/providing-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-heavy-duty-vehicle-and-engine-emission-warranty-and-maintenance-provisions-advanced-clean-trucks-zero-emission-airport-shuttle-zero-emission-power-train-certification-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision


Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, today, the U.S. Senate will vote on my  resolution to overturn the EPA's waiver for California's Advanced Clean  Trucks.

First of all, I would like to thank my friend and colleague Chairman  Capito for her strong leadership and work on this very important issue.  This heavyhanded regulation imposes unrealistic emissions requirements  for heavy-duty trucks and heavy-duty diesel engines. This government  mandate handed down to vehicle manufacturers demands that they sell  zero-emission trucks at an increased rate from 2024 to 2035. We aren't  under any illusions as to what this means. We know that the goal is to  effectively end the sale of internal combustion engines.

Now, I am not here today to disparage electric vehicles, and I am  certainly not here to discourage the manufacturing and the purchasing  of EVs either. What I am concerned about is the Federal Government  dictating which cars and which trucks are acceptable and which are not.  If Americans want to drive an electric or a hybrid car, that is fine.  However, the government--the government--should not pick winners and  losers in the vehicle marketplace. I believe in the power of America's  free markets, and I believe we should allow the markets to determine  the viability of clean trucks.

Here is the truth: This California waiver and subsequent regulation  is simply not based in reality, and it will have real-world  consequences on us. By requiring truckers to meet California's  standards, even while working outside of the State, operator costs  increase, fleet upgrades would be impacted, and interstate commerce  would be disrupted. And American consumers would bear the brunt of  increased costs. Hard-working families are already dealing with the  high cost of everyday goods and services, and they cannot afford this  regulation.

Let me be clear. This action is necessary to stop one State from  dictating emission policies for the entire country. Prior to this  waiver being granted, California's own Air Resources Board readily  admitted this action would extend beyond its own State borders, and  several States have already followed suit.

I would also like to address the eligibility of Congress disapproving  rules. A few weeks ago, I questioned the Government Accountability  Office Comptroller during an Appropriations subcommittee hearing. The  Comptroller explicitly stated that GAO's role is just an advisory one  and that it is up to us--it is up to Congress--to determine what  constitutes a rule. Again, let me be clear. We are reclaiming our  congressional authority under the Congressional Review Act.

I will be proud for this body to vote on and pass my resolution,  which is a commonsense step to keep government overreach at bay,  protect consumers, and support America's free markets. With the passage  of the House version of this resolution and with the passage of the  Senate's version today, it will head to the President's desk to be  signed into law.