Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Internal Revenue Service Relating to ``Interim Guidance Simplifying Application of the


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699921/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-internal-revenue-service-relating-to-interim-guidance-simplifying-application-of-the


Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I am here today to talk about the recent  progress made by the U.S. Senate. We have officially passed 11 of the  12 government funding bills, and I am hopeful that my Democrat  colleagues will come to a reasonable agreement so that we can get the  Homeland Security funding bill over the finish line soon.

It is essential that we get this bill passed for FEMA funding, for  our TSA agents, for our Coast Guard officers, and for our Nation's  cyber security. That is all part of this bill. In fact, I think it is  about 80, 85 percent of this bill. But first and foremost, funding the  Federal Government is Congress' most basic responsibility, and it is  also the most important. When Congress fails to do that job, the  consequences reach beyond Washington. The harmful impacts include  delayed services, uncertainties for families and businesses, and eroded  trust in government.

Our recent progress stands in sharp contrast to where we were just a  few years ago. This body had not passed a single government funding  bill in this Chamber before August, and that was since 2018. And that  failure was not accidental. Under the previous Democrat majority  leader, Senator Schumer, the Senate was repeatedly blocked from holding  full votes on appropriations bills. That approach was unacceptable to  many Members on both sides of the aisle.

It was not until just over a year ago when we elected Senator John  Thune as majority leader that this body recommitted itself to doing the  work. Under Leader Thune's leadership, the Senate is once again  advancing funding bills through what we call regular order.

We are restoring transparency. We are restoring accountability, and  we are restoring deliberation to the appropriations process. I am  grateful to Leader Thune for bringing these bills to the floor, and I  look forward to continuing our work to pass the remaining measure and  responsibly fund our government.

In addition to keeping the government open, passing funding bills, it  is an opportunity to bring back Nebraska tax dollars that we send to  Washington every single year. To do this, my team works really closely  with localities back home. We make sure to get their  input on how their Federal tax money is spent.

In the funding bills that we passed thus far, I am proud to have  secured millions of dollars in critical investments for the State of  Nebraska. One of my top priorities was securing critical funds for  Offutt Air Force Base in the Defense appropriations bill. In total, we  obtained $83 million for the United States Strategic Command, the 55th  Wing, and the 557th Weather Wing--all of those are based at Offutt.

These funds are going to strengthen national security, and they are  going to enhance Nebraska's role in that.

In the agriculture and rural development funding bill, I secured $16  million for the USDA's Agricultural Research facility at the University  of Nebraska-Lincoln. This investment will support research that  benefits Nebraska producers and strengthens American agriculture.

In the Commerce-Justice-Science funding bill, I secured over $7  million for radio communications and equipment upgrades for Nebraska  law enforcement. Nearly a dozen counties reached out to my office  asking for help replacing outdated systems and gear. With these  upgrades, officers will be able to communicate, and they will be able  to respond faster. And this will improve safety for both our first  responders and also the communities that they serve.

I also worked to secure $8.8 million in the Interior and Environment  funding bill. These funds are going to be used to upgrade aging water  treatment plants and sewer systems in McCook, Greeley, Farwell,  Gothenburg, Genoa, Shelby, Valparaiso that were beginning to require  really costly repairs--taxpayer dollars going home.

These projects are going to help secure safe drinking water and  sustainable infrastructure for residents across these counties.

And after the EPA deemed the Santee Sioux Nation's water source ``not  consumable,'' I secured $8.25 million to deliver safe drinking water to  that Tribe. This is a necessity that no community should be without.

Finally, in the Energy and Water Development bill, we had $14.6  million so that we can restore irrigation tunnels on the Gering-Fort  Laramie Canal. This need was identified after a catastrophic tunnel  collapse that left 55,000 acres of farmland without reliable  irrigation. Now this investment will protect regional economic  stability and reduce financial pressure on local ag producers.

These projects, they reflect what I believe Federal funding should  do: listen, work with localities so that we can invest in practical  needs that improve daily lives. It is imperative that elected officials  continue to have influence over this process. We really cannot leave  these decisions to unelected bureaucrats in Washington who don't know  where McCook, NE, is, who don't know the issues facing the Santee Sioux  Nation, who don't understand where Greeley is, where Gothenburg is--and  some, probably, where Omaha or Lincoln are.

Just as important in bringing Federal tax dollars back home, it is  providing that tax relief to Nebraska taxpayers. Many of these projects  would otherwise fall on our local property taxes, which are considered  very high in the State of Nebraska. It will shift the burden onto  families, farmers, and small businesses. So when we can fund these  priorities with Federal dollars that Nebraskans have already sent to  Washington, it provides a major boost for our communities, and it is  also a shining example of responsible government.

I am proud of the significant progress that this body has made under  Senator Thune's leadership. We are finally restoring regular order,  transparency, and accountability to the government funding process.

This is a win for Nebraskans, and it is a win for all Americans.