Scarper Ridge Golden Gate National Recreation Area Boundary Adjustment Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701292/scarper-ridge-golden-gate-national-recreation-area-boundary-adjustment-act


Mrs. FISCHER. Madam President, only U.S. citizens should be voting in  U.S. elections. That is not a controversial statement; that is common  sense. And Republicans believe in that statement. We believe we need to  protect voting in our elections. But I think our colleagues on the  other side of the aisle want to make those elections less secure. This  is against the will of most Americans and against the will of their own  voters.

The SAVE America Act is simple: It requires proof of citizenship to  register to vote and requires a photo ID when you go to cast a ballot.  Common sense. It has overwhelming public support, but Democrats stand  in opposition.

The polling numbers are clear. A recent CBS News poll shows that 80  percent of Americans support requiring a photo ID to vote, and that  includes 65 percent of Democrats. A Pew Research Center poll finds that  83 percent of voters support photo ID at the polls, and that includes  71 percent of Democrats. Sixty-six percent of Americans support  requiring documents showing proof of citizenship in order to register  to vote.

Proof of citizenship is required when you apply for government  benefits. It is required when you join the military. Every single job  in this country requires new hires to fill out a form I-9 proving they  are eligible to work here. Americans show photo ID to drive a car, to  pick up their kids early from school, to check into a hotel, to  purchase cold medicine at the pharmacy, to board a plane, and to get a  library card. If we expect this of Americans in these instances, why on  Earth shouldn't we expect it when they vote?

We have applied this program in my home State of Nebraska. In 2023,  Nebraska adopted a law through the voter-driven initiative process  requiring voters to provide an ID with their name and photo when they  vote. There are a lot of acceptable forms of ID in Nebraska: a driver's  license, a State ID card, a U.S. passport, a military ID, a Tribal ID.  My State of Nebraska found a sensible way to verify voters' identity  without restricting access for eligible voters. In fact, Nebraskans can  get an ID and a certified copy of their birth certificate at no cost if  they don't have one.

Here in Washington, Democrats have spent the past few weeks waffling  on this issue. In fact, Senator Schumer recently announced that  Democrats do support voter ID. You know, that is great. Vote for it.

My colleague Senator Husted, a former chief election official in his  home State of Ohio, decided to take Senator Schumer at his word.

He offered a clean, basic photo ID bill, just a simple requirement to  show voter ID at the polls: a driver's license, a military ID, a Tribal  ID, or a passport.

Well, guess what happened? The Democrats blocked it. They are  completely unserious on this issue. They are out of step with the  majority of Americans. The stakes couldn't be higher. America's  election integrity is on the line. The SAVE America Act is a  commonsense solution, proof of citizenship to register and photo ID to  vote.

Every Democrat will be put on the record, and the American people  will be watching. I urge my colleagues to support the SAVE America Act.