Senator Fischer Questions Experts on the Next Steps for 5G


U.S. Senator Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, today questioned telecommunications and technology experts during a hearing on the resilience and security of U.S. networks with the transition to 5G, the fifth generation of wireless communications technology. The hearing also explored the government's role in managing supply chain threats from untrustworthy suppliers -- such as the Chinese telecom equipment firm, Huawei.

Witnesses at today's hearing included Steven Berry, president and chief executive officer for Competitive Carriers Association; Jason Boswell, head of security for North America at Ericsson; Asha Keddy, corporate vice president and general manager for Next Generation and Standards, Intel Corporation; Mike Murphy, chief technology officer for Americas at Nokia; and Dr. James Lewis, senior vice president and director of the Technology Policy Program for Center for Strategic and International Studies.

Transcript from today's hearing:

Senator Fischer: I'm glad the Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Act made it to the President's desk last week. I was proud to support the companion bill in the Senate last year. This legislation is critical to create a stable and secure foundation for America's communications networks. However, it also will set the stage for carriers' ability to meet timelines established in the legislation, and how applicants can request for reimbursement. Mr. Berry, are there still small providers who haven't been able to secure commitments from trusted vendors, to assure they can deliver the quantity of equipment needed for networks within those timelines?

Mr. Berry: Thank you for the question Senator. Yes, that is a difficult task for many small carriers. What we're seeing with this legislation especially, is that you've kick started the concept of, you may actually be able to replace that covered technology with new technology. Our carriers are already out there getting vendors and getting equipment manufactures to give us quotes and give estimates of what it's going to take. As a matter of fact, several on this panel, have already been involved with in detailed conversations with the smaller carriers. Our intent is not to let any moss grow on this stone. We want to make sure that we are out there trying to find a solution ASAP.  Yes, new technologies, could in fact create new security opportunities, but there is a timeline, there is a flexibility, a need for flexibility. Some of the technology may not be ready to deploy today. It may be ready in five, six, eight months, a year and a half. So we need to measure twice and cut once, and I think that maybe the small carriers especially with this act, will get the information they need. And they are certainly ready and willing to tackle the challenge. 

Senator Fischer: That information is going to require them, to have information on how to apply for the funding, as well. That is going to be a big deal, as we move into this for any number of reasons not the least being security. What are you hearing from your members, what are the questions you are hearing the most from your members who are going to have to rip and replace? 

Mr. Berry: I think the number one issue is now that we have a goal. The goal is to know the covered equipment in your network. The next question is, how do we prioritize that, which elements do we take out first? Do we take out everything from the antenna back to the core? How do you do that? And how do you go from a 3G to 4G to a 5G solution? You know, part of the problem is many of the vendors are not making many of the 2 or 3G technology that may be in some of these networks. How do you get to a 4G technology when you have a 3G technology, but you have Voice? So it may be necessary to go a 4G LTE VoLTE product so that you replace an old technology with a newer technology that actually has Voice. Those things are all sort of into the weeds, but they are very detailed oriented and it's what our carriers think about in terms of, how can we maintain our connectivity? And it is like building a separate network while you a network, so that you can transition on day one, and actually you'll be able to make a call.

Senator Fischer: Dr. Lewis, you stated that the bans on Huawei network technology, such as in the U.S., Japan, and Australia, are the only way to eliminate risk entirely. Last week, I was in the U.K. with a handful of my colleagues, and we met with the government there. Obviously, we expressed some concerns about their recent action and the influence that may have on the rest of the EU, as well. Those are security concerns. The UK is a member of the Five Eyes [alliance] that that causes us to take a step back and decide that special relationship with the UK, how do we move forward on that, when it comes to security measures? Can the core really be securely isolated in a way that some countries are theorizing or are talking about in theory? In theory, they are talking about this core, and that we don't need to worry. My comeback is, we have to put national security above price. How would you answer that?

Dr. Lewis: Thank you Senator. I think that the politics and commercial motives that European partners have will drive them to adopt a partial ban. That is not in the best interest of their security. We have had the discussion of a back door, but, they will be motivated by China's economic power. That means for us there are two things:  first, we can help them do better, and in making sure the partial [ban] eliminates risk, as much as possible. There is debate over this this, I would defer to my more technologically astute colleagues, but there are some companies and some intelligence agencies that say a partial ban can be made to work, in the near term. The second issue we need to bear in mind is, this is not a finished deal. The British have set preps, they have said it to you, the opening position is a limitation of 35% but they're willing to move that back as we go forward. We need to help them make it work now, we need to get them to move in the right direction, for later on. Thank you Senator.