Senators Fischer, Rosen Introduce Bipartisan HERO Act


U.S. Senator Deb Fischer (R-Neb.) today joined Senator Jacky Rosen (D-Nev.) to introduce the bipartisan HERO Act. The bill would help reduce suicides among firefighters and emergency health personnel through data collection, risk identification and prevention, and resources including peer-to-peer counseling.

"Nebraska's firefighters and emergency medical personnel are heroes who keep our families and communities safe. Tragically, many first responders suffer silently from mental health challenges and we owe it to these brave men and women to help keep them safe, too. I am proud to join Senator Rosen in introducing the bipartisan HERO Act, which takes critical steps to expand  mental health infrastructure and prevent suicide by identifying risk factors, increasing the number of peer counselors, and more effectively treating posttraumatic stress among first responders," said Senator Fischer.

"Our nation's firefighters and emergency medical responders are heroes who routinely witness scenes of catastrophic damage, severe injuries, and tragic loss of life, which can lead to psychological stress, poor mental health, and even suicide. We must do more to ensure our first responders have the counseling, mental health care, and support services they need. I will continue working on commonsense, bipartisan legislation that supports the health and well-being of our nation's first responders in Nevada and across our country," said Senator Rosen. 

"Senator Fischer recognizes the importance of Nebraska Firefighters in our local communities. This HERO Act will provide the tools to help keep our members healthy, so we can continue to help and serve those in need," said Darren Garrean, President of the Nebraska Professional Fire Fighters Association.

"The average person experiences one to five major traumatic events in their lifetime. Firefighters often respond to more traumatic and tragic events than this in a year, a month, a week, and sometimes even a day. The accumulation of those events over years of service has resulted in rapidly increasing numbers of PTSD and other mental health issues. This includes an alarming amount of suicides. The HERO Act provides the assistance we desperately need to quickly identify and treat these conditions, and in doing so, hopefully bring an end to this epidemic "I can't put into words the appreciation I have for Senator Fischer's understanding of this problem and her willingness to stand arm in arm with firefighters and other first responders on such an important issue," said Adam Schrunk, President of the Lincoln Fire Fighters Association, IAFF Local 644.

More information on the HERO Act:

The bipartisan, bicameral HERO Act responds to reports that first responders may be at higher risk for suicide and mental illness than other professions, and recognizes that the federal government must do more to study the mental health challenges that first responders face.  The bill:

Directs the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to collect data and report to Congress every year on first responder suicide ratesRequires HHS to identify risk factors, possible interventions, and recommended interventions for further studyEstablishes grants for peer-to-peer counseling for firefightersRequires HHS to develop and distribute best practices on the prevention and treatment of posttraumatic stress among first responders