Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, across America, 1.3 million people live  in nursing homes. Many of us have parents, grandparents, or other loved  ones who rely on these homes for care and community in their golden  years. We understand just how vital nursing homes are--whether it is in  urban, suburban, or rural areas--to help seniors in our country thrive.

But, unfortunately, a Federal rule that is still in place from the  Biden era is putting many of America's nursing homes in jeopardy,  especially those in our rural communities. Last year, under President  Biden, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services finalized a rule  that placed strict, unrealistic regulations on nursing homes. The rule  requires a registered nurse to be present 24/7 in these homes and  requires 3\1/2\ daily hours of dedicated nursing care for each  resident. If this rule is not stopped, the regulations will be imposed  on every nursing home in America over the next few years.

It does sound nice to be able to have a nurse on hand in nursing  homes every moment of the day or night, but that is not the reality.  The reality is that  these homes are already facing historic staffing shortages. Across the  country, nursing homes lost more than 200,000 workers from February  2020 to December 2022. These shortages have already caused many nursing  homes to close down.

Since 2015, 44 nursing homes and 35 assisted living facilities have  shut their doors in my State--in Nebraska--alone. These closures  deprived Nebraskans of over 3,000 beds. They hurt seniors who wanted to  stay in their home community to be close to their family, to be close  to their friends.

This CMS rule will worsen this crisis. According to the Agency  itself, 75 percent of America's nursing homes will have to increase  staffing to comply with this regulation. Under the Biden  administration's rule, nursing homes now have to scramble so that they  can find staff in the midst of these really overwhelming shortages. If  they fail, they have to shut their doors; they have to deprive seniors  of care and housing.

That is why, today, I reintroduced legislation to stop this Biden-era  rule in its tracks. My Protecting Rural Seniors' Access to Care Act  will prevent the rule's misguided requirements from going into full  effect. It will also establish an advisory panel on the nursing home  workforce, representing various stakeholders, including members from  rural and underserved areas. This will ensure that the government hears  voices outside the big cities--those big cities on the coasts--when it  comes to our nursing homes.

Nursing homes are few and far between in rural areas of our country.  If one facility closes, the next closest one could be many miles or  even many hours away. Just one closure could be detrimental to seniors  in some of our communities.

But if our nursing homes stay open, seniors won't have to face that  upheaval of finding a new place to live, of moving, of leaving their  home communities, leaving their loved ones, leaving their friends, and  having that upheaval in their final years. They won't have to leave  their family. They won't have to leave loved ones. They won't have to  experience the loneliness, the uncertainty, the depression that can  come along with moving to an unfamiliar place.

My bill advocates for these seniors, for their care, and for their  families. It fights for our rural communities and for our nursing homes  in my State of Nebraska and across this country. I will keep pushing  for this legislation until the President signs it into law so that we  can protect our seniors from a rule that would only harm them, harm  their families, and harm their caretakers.