A Serious and Profound Moment


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688410/a-serious-and-profound-moment


Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, within 12 hours, this very Chamber is going  to witness a joint address to Congress. I will take my time and my  privilege as a duly elected Member of this Chamber to share some of the  sentiments about the state of the Union that is emerging very clearly  and loudly from Michigan and on behalf of my constituents.

First and foremost, tariffs that are coming down today on Canada are  wreaking havoc on autoworkers, our auto industry, and, frankly, the  stock market.

Secondly, I am hearing very grave concerns about the state of Social  Security and Social Security's ability to meet its fiduciary  commitments to its millions and millions of recipients. Never once in  the history of that program has a payment been missed, but the actions  of DOGE are disrupting that very agency.

There is also a very palpable fear in my constituents. Veterans who  are 100 percent disabled are concerned and fearful that they may or may  not be able to continue to receive their medical care.

This is a serious and profound moment. This is a self-inflicted  crisis.

I did serve this Nation during a time of real economic crisis during  the Great Recession in the administration of Barack Obama. That was  when I was in the Treasury Department, working to save General Motors  and Chrysler and millions of American automotive jobs as the companies  were staring liquidation in the face.

Mr. Speaker, I will take a moment to share some words. On February 8,  at the Sheet Metal Workers union in Oakland County, Michigan, I was  joined by an incredible medical expert from Michigan, my friend, Dr.  Preetha Iyengar, who happens to be in this very Chamber alongside her  family here today.

She read these words, which I would like to share and read on her  behalf, and on the behalf of the American people, in this Chamber.

Dr. Iyengar shared:

I am a pediatrician and epidemiologist. After residency, I       trained for 2 years at the CDC and then worked in Washington,       D.C., at an NGO and the D.C. Health Department.

I am here today to highlight the impact of recent policies       and actions on scientific institutions and how that impacts       us in Michigan.

Our scientific institutions are being attacked from many       angles, but I wanted to highlight three areas: spreading of       misinformation, purging of experts and destruction of       scientific institutions, and destruction of critical       infrastructure.

We are seeing that the current administration's agenda is       misinformation and confusion. Federal healthcare and public       health institutions are facing unprecedented censorship and       harassment. Bans for external communications have crippled       international collaborations, with special exceptions given       at random and many that have not been restored. Websites with       CDC healthcare guidelines used by doctors and public health       information used by all of us in the medical community, like       vaccine safety information sheets, were forced to be removed       without warning.

Dr. Iyengar also mentioned that we now are less safe in protecting  ourselves during the flu season, particularly with bird flu.

I may insert the question: How much are egg prices today in the  United States of America? People are stealing eggs outside of delivery  trucks and engaging in fights in supermarkets across this country. This  is the United States of America, and we need an egg price plan.

Dr. Iyengar also went on to say that, as a woman in STEM, she is  horrified to see the targeting of DEI programs, and let's say the  words: diversity, equity, and inclusion. Equity, which is enshrined in  our very Constitution, is something that all equal Members of this  Chamber swore an oath to uphold. I will remind people of the rights and  the tenets of Article I in our Constitution.

Dr. Iyengar says that she is horrified by the cuts to diversity,  equity, and inclusion as a woman in STEM.

Frankly, as the leader of the Women in STEM Caucus, I founded this  bipartisan caucus with four Members of this Chamber, two Republicans  and two Democrats. It is Women's History Month, and we would like to do  some things for women in STEM to meet the workforce challenges and  needs of this great Nation. Of course, I cannot, at this present time,  tragically, get a Republican Member of Congress to join the Women in  STEM Caucus for this term.