Accelerating Networking, Cyberinfrastructure, and Hardware for Oceanic Research Act


Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1223, the  Accelerating Networking, Cyberinfrastructure, and Hardware for Oceanic  Research Act, or ANCHOR Act. I would like to thank my colleague,  Representative Vince Fong (R-CA), for working with me to advance this  bipartisan legislation. I would also like to thank Senators Alex  Padilla (D-CA) and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) for taking up this important  legislation in the Senate.

The Blue Heron, a research vessel operated by the University of  Minnesota Duluth, is the only U.S. Academic Research Fleet vessel  operating in the Great Lakes. It provides critical research that  informs science-based decisions to protect Michigan's gift to the  country, our Great Lakes. These vessels represent a global network of  essential research platforms that advance our understanding of the  world's marine and freshwater ecosystems. It is paramount for  Michiganders that the Blue Heron and the entire fleet have the  resources they need to operate safely, securely. and effectively for  years to come.

However, just like every part of our modern economy, these vessels  are increasingly vulnerable to cybersecurity threats. For the past  several years, the National Science Foundation has taken steps to  harden terrestrial research infrastructure, especially after major  telescopes were disabled for weeks in 2023 due to a cyber incident. It  is vital that NSF also hardens the cyberinfrastructure capabilities of  the Blue Heron, and the entire Academic Research Fleet.

This common-sense, bipartisan, bicameral legislation is designed to  support the efforts of the U.S. Academic Research Fleet to advance  their cyberinfrastructure and networks to ensure they are protected and  able to continue to do their important work. The ANCHOR Act directs the  National Science Foundation to develop a plan to modernize the Academic  Research Fleet's information technology, including its cybersecurity  practices, to carry out the fleet's mission to deliver critical science  that protects Michigan's Great Lakes.

I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan bill to secure and  modernize the IT systems used by our academic research fleet.