Doe and Nasa Interagency Research Coordination Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the DOE and NASA Interagency  Research Coordination Act, H.R. 1368.

The gentleman from Alaska (Mr. Begich) and the gentleman from  California (Mr. Whitesides), the vice ranking member of the Committee  on Science, Space, and Technology, introduced this bill. It is another  great bipartisan bill.

These Members of Congress from the Western part of this Nation fully  understand and appreciate what it means to have coordinated interagency  activities on behalf of our competitive abilities. Enhancing this type  of collaboration between the Department of Energy and the National  Aeronautics and Space Administration will have a multiplier effect on  the creative, innovative, and inspiring work of these two agencies. It  is an important tool in furthering agency missions and the Nation's  goals in science and exploration.

The Department of Energy and NASA's partnership is already  demonstrating impressive results. For example, earlier this year, NASA  and the DOE collaborated on selecting an award for continued industry  work on a space microreactor design that could provide a supply of  power for use on the Moon and beyond.

Just last week, scientists posted new data from the Department of  Energy's ground-based Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument, providing  insights on the mysterious dark energy of the universe that NASA's  science satellites also study from space.

We are on the tipping point of major things. We are working on and  seeing efficiency breathe its way into our government. The whole deal  here is that if we get H.R. 1368, the Department of Energy and NASA  will build on their longstanding partnership and do even more. They  will save the taxpayer money, and they will advance this Nation. They  will showcase that we are not getting in the way of where we want to go  as a country because we are trimming bureaucracy.

The act authorizes the agencies to carry out cross-cutting and  collaborative R&D activities and identifies nuclear power and  propulsion, high energy physics and astrophysics, Earth and  environmental sciences, and quantum information sciences as potential  areas for joint activity.

I only hope that the citizens of America are tuned into this debate  in this moment because this is really exciting.

The bill directs DOE and NASA to coordinate activities through MOUs,  memorandum of understanding. The legislation authorizes the use of  reimbursable and nonreimbursable agreements. Again, the effective  utilization of the taxpayer dollar of which we here in the United  States Congress are stewards of.

In addition, I will be providing direction on a merit review process  between the two agencies, reporting and compliance with research  security requirements in carrying out collaborative activities pursued  under the act. This is a practical and awe-inspiring bill to maximize  the research and development activities and capabilities and results of  our Federal agencies.

Mr. Speaker, I enthusiastically urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on  H.R. 1368.

Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from the West, Mr. Begich and Mr.  Whitesides, along with Mr. Kennedy, who appear to be three freshman  Members of Congress, have come together in an important way to  introduce H.R. 1368. I continue to urge a ``yes'' vote on the DOE and  NASA Interagency Research Coordination Act.