Innovative Mitigation Partnerships for Asphalt and Concrete Technologies Act


Mr. Speaker, I enthusiastically rise in support of the Innovation  Mitigation Partnerships for Asphalt and Concrete Technologies Act, or  the IMPACT Act, H.R. 1534.

A good gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Miller) and a fantastic gentlewoman  from North Carolina (Mrs. Foushee) have reintroduced this bipartisan  bill, and I salute them.

Mrs. Foushee is very much a leader on the Science, Space, and  Technology Committee, a cutting-edge voice in artificial intelligence,  a ranking member on the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee, and we are  very grateful for her leadership and acumen here.

As our chair just extrapolated, the United States produces  approximately 95 million metric tons of cement each year, representing  nearly 400 million cubic yards of concrete, with another 454 million  metric tons of asphalt pavement materials produced per year.

Now, as a Member of Congress, I am not fully in the composites  business, but we must understand where our materials come from and how  they are procured and produced. We must look it squarely in the face as  to how we do not remain overly reliant on competitive countries for  access.

A byproduct of these industrial processes are certainly greenhouse  gas emissions. There is a State representative from Michigan, State  Representative Kelly Breen of Novi, who has, on occasion, spoken to me  at length about the materials used in our roads. We know right now that  the byproduct of the industrial processes for these cement applications  accounts for 8 percent of human-induced carbon dioxide emissions.

Now, I come from the Motor City. We like our paved roads. We like  access to cement. Demand is not decreasing. It is going up. Demand is  expected to increase by 12 percent when we hit the mid-21st century  mark.

We here in the United States of America are building roads, bridges,  factories, schools, so many things. It is really quite exciting, and  the IMPACT Act can play a role. The bill will improve cost- effectiveness, durability, and material demand efficiency of widely  used cement, and similar materials while achieving measurable  greenhouse gas emissions reductions in their production processes. We  like to call this a win-win.

H.R. 1534 would also accomplish this goal by directing the Secretary  of Energy to support research, development, and demonstration of  innovative technologies that could become commercially viable.

Again, the State representative from Michigan, Kelly Breen, has  talked to me about her desire to see this in Oakland County, Michigan.  We have been working on this in the Motor City.

My colleagues from North Carolina and Ohio have put forward national  legislation that will benefit us all, and we have got next-generation  technologies that are a significant improvement over the processes used  by these industries today, ensuring that we can continue to build while  reducing negative environmental impacts that come about from producing  building materials.

We have a good, practical bill to maximize our production  capabilities while minimizing any negative impacts, and we have  research and development and demonstration of novel cement, concrete,  and asphalt processes.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on a bill I am very  excited about, H.R.

Ms. STEVENS.  1534.

Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I also have no further requests for time to  speak on this bill, and I yield myself the balance of my time to close.

Mr. Speaker, I again thank my colleagues from the committee, Mr.  Miller and Mrs. Foushee, for their work on this bill. I urge a ``yes''  vote on H.R. 1534.