Supporting Temple Israel and Michiganders


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700722/supporting-temple-israel-and-michiganders


Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, last Thursday, the Jewish community in West  Bloomfield, Michigan, narrowly avoided a fatal act of anti-Semitic  terrorism. The temple may be burned and battered, but every single life  inside that sacred space was saved and spared.

Michigan is forever grateful to the private security guards who  sprang into action and put their lives on the line to avoid serious  tragedy. Because of their bravery and training, as well as the quick  response of law enforcement, the congregants of Temple Israel are alive  and safe.

We saw the images on our television screens. Dozens and dozens of  police vehicles showed up immediately. We thank Oakland Sheriff Mike  Bouchard, along with the West Bloomfield and Bloomfield Township Police  Departments for answering the call.

In far too many houses of worship--in synagogues, in churches, in  mosques--Americans now find themselves praying under the watchful eye  of armed guards. No one should have to fear gathering at a synagogue,  sending their kids to religious school, or simply practicing their  faith.

Tragically, this appears to be our new normal. Anti-Semitism is at  its highest levels in decades. Driven by hate and vitriol and stirred  up by social media, it has become widespread and all too common.

It has consequences. Anti-Semitic incidents are up 900 percent over  the last decade. In just one year, we have seen deadly attacks in  Boulder, Colorado, as well as Washington, D.C. A temple in Mississippi  burned down. America's only Jewish Governor and his family were victims  of arson. America's Jewish community is scared by what this means for  them and their place in our society.

There is nothing like it when we see this hit our own community. When  I got that first phone call on Thursday afternoon, I nearly fell to the  ground.

Michigan's 11th District is home to one of the most vibrant Jewish  communities in the United States. They make our State and our country  better in every way, and I am proud to represent them here in the Halls  of Congress.

I spent the last few days speaking with parents, religious leaders,  and community members. I was honored to join the congregation for  Shabbat services on Friday night. They are shaken, but they are  resilient. They are grateful for the outpouring of support the world  has shown their community in recent days.

Mr. Speaker, we must call out anti-Semitism wherever we see it. It is  no longer just enough to condemn it, though. We must root it out  everywhere, and Congress must act. We have to fund Holocaust education  programs. We must invest in efforts to combat anti-Semitism. We must  urgently fund the Nonprofit Security Grant Program to ensure that  houses of worship, regardless of faith, can keep their congregations  safe from acts of terror.

Congress has fallen short. The security guards who saved Temple  Israel were only there thanks to private grant funding from the Jewish  Federations of North America. We must make sure we never come this  close to tragedy again.

I want to offer a glimmer of hope. In the worst moment, we saw the  best of Michigan. In the aftermath of the attack, the 140 students-- young children--and the staff inside this building were escorted safely  across the street to the Shenandoah Country Club, founded by the  Chaldean Iraqi immigrants who escaped persecution themselves.

In a world of division, lies, and fear, the Chaldeans welcomed their  Jewish neighbors with open arms. They offered them shelter, food, and  safety. They gave the kids coloring books and M&M's. Chicken tenders  and fries were brought out. The parents were given the space to process  and call loved ones.

Then 24 hours later, this Iraqi Christian country club hosted the  whole congregation for Friday night Shabbat services.

This is America, and this is Michigan. That selflessness, that  patriotism, and the love for thy neighbor makes me so proud to be a  Michigander and the Congresswoman for Oakland County. We come together  in times like this because that is who we are.

Mr. Speaker, Jewish families in Michigan and around the world are  rightfully shaken, but they will do what they have done for centuries.  They will endure. They will keep going. Temple Israel will reopen. We  will rebuild. In Michigan, we write our own story. We will not be  defined by one act of extremism.

Our Jewish community should be proud of who they are. We want them to  know that we see them and we stand with them from the neighborhoods of  West Bloomfield to the Halls of Congress. We will be alongside them in  times of celebration and in times of difficulty. They are resilient,  they are unbreakable, and their Congresswoman is with them.