United States Research Protection Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688933/united-states-research-protection-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my bill, H.R. 1318, alongside  Congressman Kennedy of Utah, the United States Research Protection Act.  I certainly thank Mr. Kennedy for his bipartisan leadership on this  exciting and important topic and, frankly, an essential topic.

In the 117th Congress, we got the CHIPS and Science Act done. It  included a lot of provisions focused on improving research security.  This landmark law also included a prohibition on Federal researchers'  participation in foreign talent recruitment programs sponsored by  adversaries of the United States seeking to undermine our Nation's  competitiveness. This is a serious and very real topic.

By installing safeguards and creating informed practices for our  agencies, institutions, and researchers to implement, the CHIPS and  Science Act is continuing the innovation ecosystem necessary to win  into the mid-21st century.

From my vantage point of serving on the Science, Space, and  Technology Committee and the Select Committee on the Strategic  Competition Between the United States and the Chinese Communist Party,  I certainly understand the risks. Many of us who are delving into these  topics have really glommed on to the risks posed to our research  enterprise from adversaries like China and Russia.

The committees that are enabling us to operate in a bipartisan way  have also explored the methods used to circumvent the safeguards that  our country has put into place, including going through third-party  countries.

This is why we want to ensure our research institutions have the best  interests in mind, the best talent going to them, American talent,  doing very innovative things, but they need to have the necessary  clarity to faithfully implement research security measures that the  CHIPS and Science Act put into place to protect our national research  assets.

H.R. 1318 clarifies--it is always nice to clarify in legislation--the  definition of malign foreign talent recruitment program so that our  beloved universities and research institutions can  readily ensure that their faculty members are not affiliated with  malign foreign talent.

The National Science Foundation affirmed that our amendment, this  adjustment, would improve their ability to ensure institutional  compliance because people want to follow the law. They need the  guardrails, and they need the clarity of the law. So even minor  differences in definitions can have large consequences and can make  implementation difficult. So we have the chance, and this year we are  eager to make this one right and to strengthen the United States and to  strengthen our research enterprise.

We have got a good example in this bill of how to address gaps in  policy and improve the efficiency of our agencies. In this case our  academic stakeholders are the ones who came to us, and they said that  we have a problem with a definition in a law that we wrote. So in a  bipartisan and in an informed process we worked with these  stakeholders, and we worked through the committee, the agency, and  certainly the NSF, to fix this issue.

This is how improving efficiency and accountability at our agencies  should be handled, with stakeholder consultation and congressional  action.

This bipartisan bill passed the 118th Congress. The Senate didn't  act, but we are going to encourage them in the 119th to act when we  urge all of our colleagues in the House Chamber to support this bill  once again.

Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time to  speak on this bill, and I am prepared to close.

Mr. Speaker, I thank, again, my colleague, Mr. Kennedy for his were  very affirming and wonderful remarks on the importance of this  legislation.

I think from what everyone can hear today, we have bipartisan  technical improvement legislation that will only strengthen our Nation  and our research enterprise.

Mr. Speaker, I urge everyone to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 1318, and I  yield back the balance of my time.