Recognizing Benjamin Montgomery


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701169/recognizing-benjamin-montgomery


Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor  Benjamin Montgomery and to commend him on more than 35 years of public  service as he retires on March 31, 2026.

Mr. Montgomery first started working for the City of Chino Hills in  2006 as the Neighborhood Services Manager, which would lead to more  than 20 years of dedicated service to the city. In 2014, he joined the  City Manager's Office as the Assistant to the City Manager until being  promoted to Deputy City Manager in 2015, and Assistant City Manager in  2017. In April 2019, he was appointed as the City Manager of Chino  Hills by the City Council, where he has served for the past seven  years.

Prior to his service with Chino Hills, Mr. Montgomery worked for  other communities across Los Angeles, Orange, and San Bernardino  counties. His strong understanding of municipal operations, regional  partnerships, and locally-focused governance has benefited residents  across the Inland Empire.

Throughout his time with the City of Chino Hills, Mr. Montgomery led  various programs, departments, and divisions, including: community  relations, emergency management, code enforcement, water conservation,  information technology, human resources, and major service contracts  for solid waste, risk management, public safety, and animal care and  control.

As City Manager of Chino Hills, Ben guided the city through  challenging periods, including record-breaking fire emergencies and a  global pandemic. He safeguarded the city's financial obligations and  commitments to public safety, leading to a long list of remarkable  accomplishments including local transit improvement projects and  stronger homeless service partnerships.

Beyond his remarkable service to Chino Hills, he also is known for  his dedication to mentoring local public service professionals at all  levels through organizations such as the Municipal Management  Association of Southern California and the League of California Cities,  where he remains an active member. Mr. Montgomery is also an engaged  member of the broader Chino Valley community as seen by his involvement  with the Rancho del Chino Rotary Club and the Chino Valley YMCA Board  of Managers.

For his remarkable career marked by more than 35 years of public  service, it is my honor to recognize Mr. Benjamin Montgomery. His  commitment to Chino Hills, the Inland Empire, and beyond is worthy of  the highest commendation.