Recognizing Dr. Huu Vo


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691324/recognizing-dr-huu-vo


Ms. TORRES of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  75th birthday of Dr. Huu Vo and his 50 years of service to the Inland  Empire, our Nation, and beyond.

Dr. Vo has led a life of service to his community. He was born on  April 4, 1950, in Hue, Vietnam, and in 1968, he graduated valedictorian  from Hue National High School. Following his graduation, he attended  medical  school in Saigon. While in medical school, he founded and became  President of the Association of Hue Students, eager to connect with  others from his hometown. Additionally, he volunteered with the  Vietnamese Red Cross, leading him to assist refugees in the ongoing war  after becoming an accredited doctor.

On April 29, 1975, shortly after graduating from medical school, Dr.  Vo fled by Navy Ship to escape communist rule, and on May 15, he  arrived at the Guam Orote Point Refugee Camp where he volunteered as a  physician at the Army hospital. A month later, he served at Camp  Pendleton and eventually settled in Gardena, California.

In 1976, he passed the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical  Graduates. Before his eager return to the medical field, he worked a  multitude of jobs: as a counselor for the Los Angeles Unified School  District, as a clerk at the Alpha Beta Supermarket, as an instructor  for a nursing assistant class, and as an Administrator for the  Comprehensive and Training Act Program at the Gardena Community Center.

In 1980, after completing his medical residency at the University  Hospital in Jacksonville, Florida, Dr. Vo returned to California and  treated people at Lanterman State Hospital in the Department of  Developmental Services. He worked there as a physician, Chief Medical  Staff, and as the Coordinator of Medical Services.

In May of 1982, Dr. Vo joined Pomona Valley Hospital and a medical  practice in Pomona. His involvement in our community has been vital not  only through his medical expertise but also through his volunteer work  and engagement with Pomona's Vietnamese community.

Dr. Vo has been a dedicated and active member and leader of our local  Pomona community. He has served as the Board Director of both the Red  Cross of Pomona and the YMCA, and as a Board Member of Cal Poly's  National Youth Program and Pomona's Growth and Development Group. He  also contributed to Police Chief Wood's Police Department Advisory  Board.

Additionally, Mr. Vo is admired for his strong engagement with the  Vietnamese community of Pomona Valley where he has served as a Board  Member, President, and Advisor, before becoming Vice President of the  Vietnamese Community of Southern California. In 1992, he founded the  Vietnamese American Community of USA, where he later was a Co-Chair,  Chairman of the Board of Supervisors, President, and currently serves  as an Advisor. In 2016, Dr. Vo founded and co-chaired the United  Council of Vietnamese Homeland and Overseas (UNCVHO). For the past six  years, he has been the President and Co-Chair of UNCVHO.

Dr. Vo has been recognized by fellow members of the Ametican Medical  Association, the American Academy of Family Physicians, and the  American Board of Physician Specialists for his remarkable  accomplishments. He has been awarded the Distinguished Humanitarian  Award and the Lifetime Achievement Award from Marquis Who's Who In  America. Additionally, he was in the Global Directory of Who's Who as  the Top Doctor of 2013.

For his outstanding accomplishments, it is my honor to recognize Dr.  Huu Vo. His service and commitment to both California and our Nation  are worthy of the highest commendation.