Recognizing Jesse Drake


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694839/recognizing-jesse-drake


Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Jesse  Drake, a proud constituent of Montclair, California, for his courageous  service during World War II and to celebrate his upcoming 101st  birthday on September 24, 2025.

Mr. Drake was born on September 24, 1924. On June 6, 1942, he  enlisted in the United States Navy at the age of 17. He went on to  serve with distinction as a Petty Officer Second Class, participating  in several major campaigns, including the Atlantic Invasion of North  Africa and the pivotal battles of Iwo Jima and Okinawa in the Pacific  Theater.

During the Okinawa campaign, Mr. Drake and his fellow sailors bravely  endured a deadly kamikaze attack while aboard the USS Hyman, a  Fletcher-class destroyer. The enemy strike hit the ship's torpedo tube,  causing a devastating explosion in the engine room. Tragically, 12  sailors lost their lives and 40 were wounded. Mr. Drake survived the  attack, and his colleagues note that his resilience has been a  testament to the strength and sacrifice of the Greatest Generation. Mr.  Drake was honorably discharged from the Navy on October 6, 1947. He was  awarded the World War II Victory Medal and the Asiatic-Pacific Campaign  Medal with two battle stars to honor his valor and dedication.

Not only is Mr. Drake highly regarded by those he served with, but he  is also the beloved father of three daughters and two stepsons, a proud  grandfather to 16 grandchildren, and a great-grandfather to 10 great- grandchildren. He has spent 43 years married to his devoted wife,  Evelyn. His nephew, Ryan Page, describes him not only as a remarkable  veteran but also as an extraordinary father figure whose impact  continues to shape the lives of those around him.

For his outstanding military service and his remarkable life, it is  my honor to recognize Jesse Drake. His commitments to his family and  our Nation are worthy of the highest commendation.