Recognizing Chaffey College Trustee Kathleen Brugger


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697315/recognizing-chaffey-college-trustee-kathleen-brugger


Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor  Kathleen Brugger, and her countless years of dedication to Inland  Empire students, as she retires from the Chaffey College Governing  Board after 32 years of service.

Ms. Brugger is a lifelong resident of our community; in 1961, she  graduated from Montclair High School, and in 1963, she earned her  associate's degree from Chaffey College. Later on, she earned a  bachelor's in social work from Cal Poly Pomona, which kick-started her  journey to becoming a social worker.

In 1977, Ms. Brugger ran for the Ontario-Montclair School District  board. She served on the board for 16 years before joining the Chaffey  College Governing Board in 1993. Under her leadership, Chaffey College  championed the expansion of the college from one to three campuses, the  opening of the Industrial Technical Learning Center, and the  development of critical support services.

When serving on the Governing Board of Chaffey College, Kathleen  participated in long-term planning, budget oversight, and policy  decisions, helping ensure continuity across multiple phases of the  district's development. Her work also spanned multiple accreditation  cycles, budget planning periods, and district governance processes, and  her expertise and familiarity with the operational requirements of a  multi-campus institution were invaluable to the college.

Kathleen's widespread involvement demonstrates her enthusiasm for  public education systems in the Inland Empire. Her hard work has left a  lasting impact on many, as seen by her recognition as Chaffey College's  2002 Alumni of the Year, and with Chaffey College being named a top-10  finalist for the 2017 Aspen Prize for Community College Excellence.

Beyond her contributions to Chaffey College, Kathleen has also served  on several critical boards and organizations in the Inland Empire  community, including the San Bernardino County Committee on School  District Organization, the Montclair Chamber of Commerce, the Ontario  YMCA, the Assistance League, and the Ontario-Montclair School District  Board of Trustees.

Kathleen's retirement concludes more than three decades of service to  education in the Inland Empire, including roles with Chaffey College,  the Ontario-Montclair School District, and several local organizations.  Even after retiring from the Chaffey College Governing Board, Kathleen  will continue to support students across the region as a member of the  Chaffey College Foundation Board.

For her outstanding service to our students and community, it is my  honor to recognize Kathleen Brugger. Her commitment to the Inland  Empire and beyond is worthy of the highest commendation.