Staff Sergeant Jose Duenez Jr. Post Office Building


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701698/staff-sergeant-jose-duenez-jr-post-office-building


Ms. UNDERWOOD. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Virginia for  yielding me time.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, H.R. 6020, to  designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at  14855 South Van Dyke Road in Plainfield, Illinois, as the Staff  Sergeant Jose Duenez Jr. Post Office Building.

Staff Sergeant Jose Duenez, Jr., was born on April 8, 1999, and  raised in Joliet, Illinois, in my district. By the time he graduated  from Joliet Central High School in 2017, he already knew that he wanted  to serve his country in uniform. As soon as he finished high school, he  enlisted in the United States Army, where he served his country with  honor and bravery for 7 years as an M1 Abrams tank system maintainer.

Staff Sergeant Duenez' Army service included three overseas  deployments: Poland in 2019, Germany in 2022, and Lithuania in 2025. He  was promoted five times over the course of his Army service, ultimately  reaching the rank of staff sergeant in November 2020.

During his service, he was recognized with two Army Commendation  Medals, three Army Achievement Medals, one Certificate of Achievement,  two Army Good Conduct Medals, and a National Defense Service Medal.

In addition to his passion for service, Staff Sergeant Duenez also  loved fishing and spending time with his family.

Tragically, on March 31, 2025, Staff Sergeant Duenez and three other  U.S. soldiers were killed during an Army training exercise in  Lithuania.

His record of exemplary service to his country is something that my  constituents can all take pride in. That is why I introduced this bill  to commemorate his sacrifice and establish a lasting reminder of his  legacy.

We know that Staff Sergeant Duenez will never be forgotten by his  wife, Karen; his son, Jose Duenez III; his mother, Leticia; his father,  Jose; his five sisters; his 18 beloved nieces and nephews; or by the  countless friends and neighbors in our community who knew and loved  him.

This bill will ensure that the Illinoisans who were not fortunate  enough to know him in life can still come to know him in spirit through  the legacy he leaves behind and the impact he has had on our community.

Staff Sergeant Duenez was an extraordinary American who served his  country with strength and resilience. This bill ensures that the  Plainfield, Illinois, post office will bear his name as a reminder of  his contributions not only to our country but to his community and  family as a father, husband, brother, and son.

I am grateful to Senator Duckworth for partnering with me on this  effort and to all of my colleagues in the Illinois delegation for their  support in honoring the life and legacy of Staff Sergeant Duenez.

Madam Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote.