-9999


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, last week I attended a memorial service for  my constituent Mr. George Floyd, who was murdered by Minneapolis  police. Like so many Minnesotans, my heart is broken for Mr. Floyd and  his family and for a Black community that has been here too many times.  I will once again add my voice to the chorus demanding that the police  officers responsible for his death face justice. 

  But I keep finding myself thinking that Mr. Floyd's death wasn't just  a tragedy and it wasn't just a crime. It was a failure. It was our  failure. Systemic racism is built into every level of our society, and  for 400 years, Black and Brown and Indigenous people have paid its  price. 

  Racism isn't just evil, though it is. It is dangerous. And racism  isn't just a moral issue, though it is. It is a public health issue.  And the death of Mr. Floyd, like the deaths of so many Black and Brown  people before him, is an indictment of our failure as policymakers to  fulfill our first and most important duty, which is to protect the  lives of the people whom we serve. 

  Black lives matter. We need to say it loud and often, with strength  and with purpose, and if we truly mean it, then we need to be very  clear about why it is that so many Black and Brown lives are being  stolen, and that means we can't just point to systemic racism writ  large. We have to talk about the police. 

  This is about the impunity with which police officers are allowed to  kill Black and Brown Americans. This is about a society in which police  departments have become fundamentally unaccountable institutions. This  is about the fact that law enforcement in America does not deliver  equal justice for all. 

  The institutional racism that plagues American law enforcement is  real. This is not just a few bad cops. It is the entire culture of  policing--a culture that far too often encourages violence, condones  abuse, and resists reforms and accountability at every turn. 

  This culture kills, and it will continue to do so unless we stop it.  If we can't see that, if we can't say it, if we aren't ready to use our  power and our privilege to address this unforgiveable failure, well,  then we might as well say nothing at all. 

  So why is it so hard for us to talk about these issues? Why is it so  hard to even admit that there is something dangerously wrong about the  role that police play in our society? 

  Well, I think, in part, it is because of the respect that we have for  police officers themselves. We ask these men and women to put their  lives on the line every single day. Their job is to run to trouble, and  hundreds of thousands of police officers in my community and in all of  yours fulfill their duty with skill and with courage every day. 

  But I think there is something else lurking behind our inaction. The  vast majority of policymakers, especially here in Washington, are  White, and the vast majority of the interactions that White people have  with police officers are positive. 

  When we are scared or threatened or hurt, well, police officers come  to help. And when we hear the siren or we see a blue uniform, we  breathe a sigh of relief, and it is uncomfortable for White people to  acknowledge that this feeling of relief is really about privilege. It  is uncomfortable to imagine giving up some piece of that privilege. 

  After all, we all want clean, safe streets. We all want quiet,  orderly neighborhoods. We want to be able to call 911 when we are in  danger and know that the police officers will rush to our aid. 

  We may even catch ourselves worrying that a police force held  accountable for its abuse of power against Black and Brown bodies will  be a police force a little less empowered to protect us. 

  Often, when White people talk about racism, we define it as a hatred  that lurks within people's hearts, and then we search within ourselves  and we can feel satisfied that we are free from prejudice. But racism,  colleagues, is manifested as behavior--behavior that hurts, that kills.  Who even knows what is in ``how to change hearts and minds''? But we do  know, I think, let's say: Let's start with changing behavior. 

  So this is something that I think about a lot as a Minnesotan. In my  home State we pride ourselves on our legacy of progressive activism. We  believe deeply in civic participation, and we are proud to have the  highest voter turnout in the whole country. We are home to a diverse  array of communities--African American, Somali, Hmong, Latinx, Native,  and more--all people who belong here just as much as anyone else. 

  And we are home to some of the Nation's worst racial disparities. It  is not just that Black men are more likely to be stopped, more likely  to be searched, more likely to be assaulted and killed by police  officers. A Black or Brown or Native child growing up in the  neighborhood where George Floyd was murdered can expect worse education  outcomes, worse health, fewer opportunities than a White child that  lives just a few miles down the road. 

  The truth is that for all of the progress that we have made in  America over the course of my lifetime and for  all of the hearts and minds that have changed, racism was built into  our systems from the very beginning. While it is still present in  everything from healthcare to education, to housing and environmental  policy, it jumps off the page when you look at our Nation's criminal  justice system. 

  Consider this. African Americans make up less than 14 percent of the  population, but they account for 23 percent of fatal police shootings  and nearly one-third of our prison population. 

  Studies repeatedly show that Black people and White people use drugs  at roughly the same rate, but Black people are more than twice as  likely to be arrested for drug offenses and nearly four times as likely  when it comes to marijuana. 

  No matter where you look, our criminal justice system unfairly  targets Black and Brown and Native people, threatening their freedom  and often their lives, and you can't just blame that on racist cops.  That is us doing that. Even if we harbor no hatred in our hearts, we  are responsible for the racist impact of a system that was built  historically by White Americans to serve White Americans. 

  We are the beneficiaries of a system that killed George Floyd,  Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Atatiana Jefferson, Sandra Bland, Aiyana  Stanley-Jones, Rekia Boyd, Jessica Hernandez, Eric Salgado, Philando  Castile, Jamar Clark, and so many others. 

  So that is a hard thing to admit, but right now hundreds of thousands  of our fellow citizens are demanding that we face this ugly truth. 

  The people marching in our streets have watched us forgive ourselves  time and again for failing Black and Brown Americans, like George  Floyd, and they are angry, they are grieving, and they are exhausted,  and this time they will not be denied. 

  It may make us uncomfortable to hear this anger, to see the images on  television, to experience this turmoil when our country is going  through so much already, but that is the whole point of protest. This  crisis has long deserved our attention, and because we withheld that  attention, these protesters are demanding it now. 

  We cannot claim to support the goal of justice if we object to being  confronted with the reality of injustice. We cannot walk away from this  moral crisis. We have done that too many times after too many deaths,  and every time we do, we fail the next Black or Brown American who dies  in police custody. 

  I just can't live with that. We have to make a change, and this time,  White people have to get past our discomfort. Black and Brown people  have been trying for too long to tell us that systemic racism isn't  just limiting their opportunities. It is killing their children. 

  To the communities of color in Minnesota, whom I am proud to  represent, I want you to know that I hear you and that I will do  everything I can to make sure that everyone here in Washington hears  you too. 

  Most of all, we have to devote our time, our energy, our resources,  our platforms, our power, and our privilege to helping this movement  succeed. 

  As Pastor Billy Russell from the Greater Friendship Missionary  Baptist Church in Minneapolis said to me, ``we need to make it right.  It's not right now, but we need to make it right.'' 

  I want to tell my Minnesota community, my colleagues, and the  American people exactly how I want to use my power and my privilege to  help make it right. 

  In the coming weeks, my office will be moving forward with  legislative action focused on three priorities: first, fundamentally  transforming the role of the police in our society from the way we fund  and train and equip officers to the relationships between departments  and the communities that they serve. We must rethink the  responsibilities we assign to the police and the authority we give them  to fulfill those responsibilities. We need to imagine and reinvent  American policing from the ground up. 

  Second, we must fix the systems in police departments that obstruct  accountability and transparency at every turn. Our system effectively  puts cops above the law by insulating them from civil and criminal  liability for their actions. This leads people of color to conclude  that they can't trust the police, and it leads the police to conclude  that they will never face consequences for crossing the line. They are  both right, and this means something is wrong. If we want to change the  way officers act, we need to change the rules that shield them from  accountability. Accountability and preventing this misconduct from  being ignored will not only hold police departments responsible for  perpetuating violence and unequal justice, but it will help prevent  violence and injustice the next time. 

  The Justice in Policing Act, led by my colleagues Senator Harris and  Senator Booker, is an important step forward. I am proud to support it,  and I urge all of my colleagues to join in. Racism is about behavior.  We can't legislate what police officers believe, but we can and we must  legislate how they behave. 

  Third, restoring the communities that have been torn apart by  injustice--in the Twin Cities, neighbors are already coming together to  clean up the damage sustained by the unrest and upheaval of the last 2  weeks, but the task of making our communities whole goes far beyond  repairing the physical damage. We need a new and sustained push for  racial and economic justice, not just law enforcement but in healthcare  and education and in housing and in environmental policy. 

  The people I spoke to when I was home last weekend are grieving, they  are angry, and they are hurt, but most of all, they are exhausted.  Communities of color have spent years fighting to be heard, fighting  for justice, fighting for resources, fighting for survival. As their  Senator, it is my job to carry that fight here to Washington in the  Senate. 

  Four hundred years of structural racism cannot be overcome with a  single piece of legislation or even by a single generation of  legislators, but we can't let the enormity of the task blind us to the  urgency of this work. 

  The last 2 weeks have been extraordinarily difficult for Minnesotans  and for our country. But, throughout history, the hardest times have  always been the times of the greatest progress. I choose to find  purpose in making sure that, in this moment, we lead to real progress  towards justice and equality. 

  That is why I came to the floor today. No statement of intent, no  matter how thoughtful, will change the reality of this crisis, but I  want this statement to be on the record, part of my record as a U.S.  Senator. I want to be accountable for these commitments. I want  Minnesotans to hold me accountable. I want to be a part of holding this  body and all of us in the Senate accountable. 

  This, then, will be the first in a series of floor speeches I intend  to deliver examining the systemic injustice that plagues American  policing and plagues Native, Black, and Brown communities more broadly.  It will be about the steps we need to take to address this injustice:  redefining the role of the police, reinforcing accountability for  police officers, and restoring the communities I am so blessed to  serve. 

  This is a big fight. The scale of the injustice is overwhelming. It  can be hard to know where to start, but the people who took to the  streets last week--in the Twin Cities, in communities large and small  across Minnesota, and in cities across this country--are a movement for  change, and they are showing us the path forward. This path requires us  to be courageous, requires us to be humble, and requires us to be  uncomfortable, but it is a path rooted in love and in trust and in  hope. 

  We saw it in the way the protesters brought joy to the most serious  of fights they faced. We saw it in the way they stood up to those who  would do damage to their communities and to their cause. We saw it in  the way they kept their focus, even in the face of unimaginable  brutality. 

  So many Minnesotans have shown such courage and grace. I am proud to  be your Senator, and I am proud to be your neighbor. I am committing  myself to the path that you are forging. I hope my constituents, my  colleagues in the Senate, and all of my fellow Americans will do the  same. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT