H.J. Res. 140


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701724/hj-res-140


Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I rise tonight thinking about my beloved  Minnesota and thinking about all of the people in Minnesota and around  the country that love the Boundary Waters.

And I want to talk for a while about the Congressional Review Act  resolution--this is H.J. Res. 140--that is before us tonight, and I  want to speak directly to my colleagues about the CRA and why I think  it is so important that we vote no on this CRA.

So what this CRA would do is it would roll back protections for the  Boundary Waters Wilderness, which is in Northeastern Minnesota. This is  a picture of just one of the many glorious scenes of what you find in  the Boundary Waters, which I will be talking about more this evening.  This CRA, as I said, would roll back protections for the Boundary  Waters Wilderness in Northeastern Minnesota. What it would do is it  would allow copper sulfide mining in the watershed of the Boundary  Waters, and this would be devastating to the wilderness.

The decision that this body makes will have long-term implications  for the Boundary Waters, and it will also have long-term implications  for how we protect public lands around this country going forward.

So I want to start with the core point that Minnesota is a mining  State. We support mining--just not mining in this place. Minnesota is a  mining and natural resources State. Mining is so important to our  economy. We are proud to be the No. 1 source of iron ore in the whole  country, and we produced three-quarters of the iron that went into the  tanks and planes that led us to victory in World War II. And we are  still producing most of the Nation's iron ore today.

And it is also true that there are other potential mines currently  under consideration and development in Minnesota--not iron ore mines  but other mines--that would produce copper and nickel.

Responsible mining is an economic driver in our State. It is part of  our history, and it is part of our future.

So why oppose this CRA? Why would we oppose this CRA, which, I will  tell you, will pave the way for developing a copper sulfide mine right  on the doorstep of the Boundary Waters?

Well, I want to start this discussion tonight by giving three simple  and basic reasons. The first is that this is an incredibly special  place, beloved by Minnesotans and beloved by people all around the  country, and this mine poses an unacceptable threat to this place.

The Boundary Waters, if the Presiding Officer has not been there, is  a million acres of lakes and bogs and rivers. It is a wealth of hunting  and fishing resources. People go there to canoe all the time. They go  there in the wintertime to dogsled and to ice-fish.

I was there last summer, and I saw two wolves just in one day, on a  day trip to the Boundary Waters.

It is some of the cleanest water that you will find anywhere in this  country. You can drink the water right out of the middle of the lakes.  You will find lake trout and northern pike and walleye. There is no  better place in the world for it.

Over 150,000 people visit this incredible place every year, and so  what that means is that the outdoor recreation economy in Northern  Minnesota benefits greatly from the Boundary Waters.

This generates thousands of jobs and supports hundreds of local,  small businesses, and it generates millions in economic activity.

Outdoor recreation is also a significant economic driver in the  region around the Boundary Waters Wilderness. What happens here with  this mine that will be allowed by the CRA is that this mine puts this  incredible resource and the economic benefits of this resource at great  risk.

It is kind of unbelievable to know that this kind of mine in 100  percent of the instances where they have been built has caused  pollution.

What happens is you bring up the rock from underground. The sulfide  in the rocks interacts with the water and the oxygen. My colleague  Senator Heinrich is an expert on this. That rock interacts with the  water and the oxygen, and it creates basically sulfuric acid. That  sulfuric acid flows directly into the Boundary Waters and on into  Voyageurs National Park.

We have a map here so you can see how the water flows. This sulfuric  acid, of course, is extremely dangerous, not just for fish and wildlife  and the whole ecosystem in the Boundary Waters but also for the humans  that recreate there, that swim in this water, that canoe in this water.

This is why Backcountry Hunters & Anglers, why sportsman's groups,  why Trout Unlimited, and Pheasants Forever, and outdoor people of all  kinds have weighed in and said: No. Simply, this is the wrong thing to  do. Not this mine in this place. Even descendants of the great  President Theodore Roosevelt have said that we should protect this  national treasure and ``leave it as it is.''

This is also why this mine is so unpopular in Minnesota. A recent  poll showed that 70 percent of Minnesotans across the political  spectrum--Independents, Republicans, and Democrats--agreed that  protecting the Boundary Waters from sulfide-based mine pollution should  be a very important priority for elected officials in the State. And 61  percent of Minnesotans have said that they support establishing a  permanent protection for public land within the Boundary Waters  Watershed.

So that is the first reason because this place is so special and  because this mine is so dangerous to this place.

But the second reason why, colleagues, we should oppose this CRA is  that it sets an incredibly unprecedented and dangerous use of the  Congressional Review Act. Now, we know that the Congressional Review  Act is a way for Congress to doublecheck the executive branch if  Congress feels that the Executive has passed a regulation that goes too  far, that didn't follow the laws that Congress passed.

If the Executive passes a regulation that Congress feels doesn't  reflect the will of Congress, then Congress can within 60 days say:  Nope. You can't do that. That doesn't make sense.

But that is not what is happening with the CRA before this body  tonight because for the first time ever, the House is asking the Senate  to apply  the CRA process not to a rule, but to a statute, to a public land  order.

They want to claw back a public land order that was put into effect  legally and lawfully 3 years ago. This was never the intention of the  Congressional Review Act. It has never been used in this way, to  overturn a mineral withdrawal or any public land order, and especially  not a mineral withdrawal that was finalized 3 years ago like this one  was.

Now, I know that many of my Republican colleagues are thinking about  this, and they are asking themselves: What does this mean? What are the  implications of this? What would happen if this were to pass--this CRA  were to pass?

And ask yourself: What would you do if the shoe was on the other  foot? What would you do if we set this precedent where we say that with  a simple partisan majority, Congress can claw back a public land order  that has been in place potentially for years or decades? What might  that mean in North Dakota? In Montana? In Utah? In Arizona? In any  State in the country if these public land orders could be undone so  easily? I mean, it would be chaos, I think.

The third reason that I want to talk about why it is so important to  oppose this Congressional Review Act before us today, this House  resolution, is that this will violate Tribal treaty rights in a way  that is strongly opposed by Tribal Nations not only in Minnesota, but  also around the country.

These are Tribal Nations, indigenous people, that have lived in  Northern Minnesota, on the borderlands of Northern Minnesota, for time  immemorial. They have treaties with the Federal Government,  particularly the treaty of 1854, which grants to these Tribes in  exchange for the land that they gave up hundreds of years ago, it  grants them hunting and fishing rights, and also the rights to harvest  manoomin, which is wild rice.

And yet, this CRA before us today completely aggregates those Tribal  treaty rights. It ignores the responsibility of the Federal Government  to consult with Tribes, which has not been done. That is why so many of  the Tribes across the country have come together to oppose this.

This includes the Grand Portage Band and all the other members of the  Minnesota Chippewa Tribe. It includes the National Congress of American  Indians which passed a resolution urging the Senate Committee on Indian  Affairs to at least hold a hearing on the implications of this before  this legislation--this resolution--passes the Senate.

Tribal Nations across the country have spoken out, including the  Midwest Alliance of Sovereign Tribes, White Earth Nation, Rosebud Sioux  Tribe, Prairie Band of Potawatomi Nation, the Eastern Shoshone. They  have all come out in opposition to the CRA.

So before I hand over to my dear colleague from Minnesota the senior  Senator from Minnesota, Senator Klobuchar, I want to address one  question that I have heard made in favor of this mine and just kind of  flush this out for folks.

Now, some people will say that we need to pass this CRA for its  national security benefits. They claim that this mine will provide  much-needed sources for critical minerals.

But I ask, colleagues, to think about what is really going on here  and who will be the owner of these minerals because that is very  important as you think about this national security argument.

Just because these minerals are mined on American land, on public  land, on national forestland, that does not mean that they will be  reserved for American markets. In fact, the copper and nickel mined in  the Duluth Complex which is where the Boundary Waters is, where this  mine would be, would essentially be brought out of the ground. They  would be shipped to the Pacific Coast. They would be taken to China  where they would be smelted, and there, they will either be sold by the  company that is doing all of this, a foreign international conglomerate  from Chili, Antofagasta. It will either be sold there or sold back to  the United States to be paid for by all of us.

This mine is wholly owned by Antofagasta, a massive Chilean  conglomerate with billionaire owners. It is one of the largest foreign  mining companies in the world. They have deep ties to the Chinese  Government in its mineral processing operations. Most recently,  Antofagasta secured recordbreaking, zero-cost processing agreements  with the Chinese copper smelters, all of which are state-owned in whole  or in part.

So what we are doing here is we are creating a pathway for this  foreign company to build a mine, pollute the Boundary Waters, send the  minerals to China where they will be processed with this sweetheart  deal, and then sold on the open market. And that is not an America- first strategy.

So I encourage my colleagues to take a look at who is benefitting  from this mine, and it certainly won't be in the long run Minnesotans.  There are no real winners here except for this massive Chilean company.

So in a few hours, we are going to be voting on this resolution, and  I urge my colleagues to vote no on rolling back protections for the  Boundary Waters Wilderness Area. We can support mining in Minnesota and  in this country, but not this mine in this place.

We can be good stewards of our natural resources and support mining,  but not this mine. These public lands belong to all of us, and we  should not allow them to be exploited for our loss and the gain of  others far, far away.

With that, I would yield the floor to my colleague Senator Klobuchar  who has been such a strong champion for Minnesota for so many years.

Ms. SMITH. Thank you, Senator Klobuchar.

Senator Klobuchar, you and I have known each other for many years,  and I never knew that your father was friends and colleagues with  Sigurd Olson, which is really incredible. He is such a storyteller of  this particular part of this amazing, beautiful part of the world. So  thank you for sharing that. And also thank you for the incredible  representation that you have provided to Northern Minnesota and all of  Minnesota for so many years. Your deep roots in Minnesota's Iron Range  gives you so much credibility across the State, particularly on this  issue. So thank you.

Mr. President, I believe that Senator Baldwin wants to say something.

Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I want to just thank my colleague from  Wisconsin for her powerful words and her longtime support for the  Boundary Waters and for treaty rights and for American jobs and  American-made products.

And I just so greatly appreciate your being here today in support of  this and appreciate very much--and I also really appreciate my  colleague Senator Heinrich from New Mexico being here today as well to  talk about how important this is and why this matters so much to him.

I know Senator Heinrich is planning a trip to the Boundary Waters  this summer, and we will all be able to hear stories of that when you  get back.

Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I want to thank my colleague from New  Mexico for laying out the issues so ably that are before us with this  House resolution on the Boundary Waters. It is wonderful to have a  colleague who not only is really good at being a legislator but who is  also an outstanding hunter and fisherman and then, on top of that, is  also an engineer so that he can explain to us the impacts of this kind  of mining on the environment with a scientific expertise that I just  really value.

I thank Senator Heinrich so much for being here tonight to help tell  the story of what the impact of this mine would be on this incredible  place and why it is so important that this CRA be defeated.

As I think about what I want people to know about this place, I can't  help but think about the first time that I saw the Boundary Waters  myself. Some of my colleagues may know that I was originally born in  New Mexico. I have lived in Minnesota for over 40 years now, but I was  originally born in New Mexico. New Mexico is a desert climate. So, when  I first went to Minnesota, I didn't quite know what to make of all of  the lakes and rivers and streams and the beautiful green everywhere.

But I was married to a man who had spent his high school years up in  the Boundary Waters. He went to a camp up there where he would go up  for weeks at a time and canoe throughout the Boundary Waters. The  Boundary Waters are connected to a big Canadian provincial park called  the Quetico, and you literally can canoe from surface water in the  Boundary Waters and get all the way to Hudson Bay, which is just  remarkable. I went up there for the first time to see this incredible  place after Archie and I had lived in Minnesota for a few years, and I  think, in a lot of ways, it is when I first fell in love with  Minnesota--the place of Minnesota--because I just couldn't believe all  the water and the green and the wildlife and also how wild it was and  to be able to be out on the water, in a canoe, and feel like you were  just so far away from the pressures of modern civilization.

Yet, the Boundary Waters is really quite accessible to people. It is  not one of those areas that is a wilderness area that is impossible to  get to, which is why, as you know, we are talking about it tonight.  People have been--you know, hundreds of thousands of people are able to  visit the Boundary Waters each year and are able to experience what it  is like to be in this place.

As I said earlier, the last time I was there was at the end of last  summer. We were in the Boundary Waters just for a day trip, and even on  that day trip, we saw two wolves, which is, like, really incredible.  You can imagine in the wintertime, when it is so dark in that part of  the world--long, long nights--the opportunity to see the aurora  borealis, or the northern lights, which are just really phenomenal.  Then, in the summertime, the long, long northern summer evenings  stretch on until, you know, 9:30 or 10 at night, and you have  incredible opportunities to go fishing and just be at the camp and just  enjoy it. It is really amazing.

When I first went to the Boundary Waters with our kids, I started to  get really interested in the history of this place, and I found it just  fascinating to think about. So you have got, you know, what today we  think of as the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, which is a  million areas of protected wilderness. It is important, I think, as I  was diving into the history of this place, to understand that,  historically, this has been the home of the Anishinaabe people, the  Ojibwe people, in Northern Minnesota. They lived in this place for, you  know, generations and generations. They canoed and hunted and fished to  support themselves and their families and their communities, and that  was their home.

Starting in the 18th century, the Boundary Waters got connected up  through the fur trade routes as the voyageurs came, you know, all the  way from across the Atlantic and in through, you know, what is now  Northern Minnesota and Canada; but it was at that point that this was  just an incredible resource for these fur trading routes that were a  hugely--hugely--big deal. That fur trade really, you know, drove what  was happening in that part of the country. In the 1700s and 1800s,  French explorers and traders really opened up the area. The North West  Company established a trading post at Grand Portage, and that was  really kind of the economic driver.

In this moment, this part of the country that is now the Boundary  Waters experienced some, you know, huge transitions, but I think it is  important for us all to understand that, even though this is a  wilderness place--it is a wild place--it has also always been a place  where people were, where people were a part of what was happening in  this country and in this particular part of the country.

Of course, you know, over time, as the United States became a country  and entered into relationships with the Tribal nations that lived in  this part of the country, that became sort of what drove a lot of the  geopolitics, I guess you could say, of this part of the Nation.

In 1857, there was the Enabling Act, and the U.S. Congress was  granted land to support schools through the University of Minnesota.  Then a little bit later--this is right about the time of  the statehood for Minnesota; Minnesota was admitted into the Union in  1858--you know, there was additional negotiating that happened, and  Congress granted the right to the State to swap lands in order to, you  know, pull, you know, big chunks of land together.

By the time of about 1902, the U.S. Land Office--what it did is it  withdrew a half a million acres in what is now the future--what was the  future WCA wilderness area, and they withdrew it from settlement, which  was a really, really important thing because, at this time, we were  seeing massive development in Northern Minnesota, a huge--you know,  massive timber resources were present in the State and, of course,  mineral resources, including iron.

In 1904, at the request of the State's forestry board, Congress  granted 20,000 acres to the State for the Burntside Forest Reserve, and  it said in that situation that State forest reserves should be devoted  not alone to the business of raising timber but to the pleasures of all  the people. It is interesting to me. I think about how Minnesota--even,  you know, back more than a century ago--was thinking carefully about  how to balance the power and the vitality of our economy in Northern  Minnesota with also the understanding that some of that most precious  land needs to be set aside in a place where people can enjoy it.

Over time, in 1909, the Superior National Forest was created by  President Theodore Roosevelt--a great conservationist in our country's  history. I often think of him as the man who really was the leader of  the powerful Republican conservation movement in this country. So, in  1909, President Theodore Roosevelt created the Superior National Forest  from previously withdrawn lands that had been set aside, including what  is now part of the Boundary Waters Canoe Area. There was continuing  work both at the State level and at the Federal level to create sort of  game refuges--yes, refuges--and other places that would be places  where, you know, the moose and the caribou and other wild creatures  would have a place to live even as Northern Minnesota was becoming  increasingly developed.

In 1926, the roadless wilderness area in the Superior National Forest  was established by the Secretary of Agriculture at the time, which was  640,000 acres. At that point, they said the policy here was to retain  as much as possible the land which had recreational opportunities of  this nature in the wilderness.

The efforts of this country to continue to protect this area went  forward in the 1930s with the passage of the Shipstead-Newton-Nolan Act  to protect water levels and lakeshores. There had been some dams and  other sort of navigational structures that had been built that were  having an impact on how the water flowed in the Boundary Waters. So  here we had kind of a prohibition of those dams and logging within 400  feet of this recreational area just to sort of protect the natural  area.

And then in the late 1920s and early 1930s, work continued to sort of  establish what was this special place that was going to be protected.

In 1938, the U.S. Forest Service established the Superior Roadless  Primitive Area, with boundaries that, today, are quite similar--quite  similar to what today is the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness.

In Minnesota, we know a lot about something called Thye-Blatnik. I  can talk more about that, but in 1948, Congress passed the Thye-Blatnik  area. And what happened then is that, through the Thye-Blatnik Act,  resorts and other private lands in the wilderness were bought up, and  we established something that is still very important to this day,  something that I work on all the time, that in lieu of the property  taxes that might have been achieved through those lands, there is a  payment in lieu of taxes called Thye-Blatnik that goes to the counties  up in Northern Minnesota--Cook County and Lake County, St. Louis  County--in exchange for what was this wilderness area for all of us to  enjoy.

In 1949, President Truman issued an Executive order for basically an  airspace reservation over the wilderness area to prohibit planes from  flying in on the lakes and disrupting the experience of nature that  people could have there. You were not allowed to fly lower than 4,000  feet over the wilderness.

And then in 1958, the Forest Service changes the name of this place  to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area, and it becomes a part of what we now  know as the Boundary Waters.

In 1964, another really important milestone happened for the  protection of this incredible place, and that was when Congress passed  the Wilderness Act, and the Boundary Waters Canoe Area became part of  the National Wilderness Preservation System with a clause that allowed  for some logging and some use of motorized vehicles to continue in this  area.

In 1965, the Secretary of Agriculture at the time was Orville  Freeman, who was a Minnesotan, and Secretary Freeman issued all sorts  of management changes that were recommended to kind of further protect  this area from logging and from motorized boats and zoning to make sure  that it would stay in its most natural state.

In 1978, Congress enacts the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness  Act, which protected this place in perpetuity--we would hope--to be the  wilderness area that it is. This was a very, very important thing.

It was somewhat controversial in Minnesota at the time, there is no  doubt, but it has, today, become one of the most beloved places in  Minnesota, thanks to the prescience of State and local leaders who went  forward to protect this place.

And I am thinking--as I think about all of the people over so many  generations who have been in this place for sustenance, for their food,  for their housing, and in more modern times, for their ability to get  away from it all and to enjoy this place in ways that is so difficult,  I am thinking about all the people that I have heard from who have  asked me to make sure that we are protecting this place.

I think, today--a big thanks to everybody who has reached out to our  office. I think, today, we had hundreds of phone calls into the office  asking me to do everything I can to protect the Boundary Waters  Wilderness Area. And, honestly, over the last many weeks that this  issue has been on the forefront of people's minds, we have gotten, I am  sure, just thousands and thousands and thousands of messages from  people.

And what is interesting about these messages is, you know, one, how  many people have firsthand experience of this incredible place and what  it means to them and just the diversity of the stories that people  have.

I find this all the time when I go around Minnesota, and people will  stop me and thank me for the work that I have done to protect this  place, just the way that people want to tell the stories of what it has  meant to them.

I think, today, especially in this time when it is so hard,  especially for our young people to get--I mean all of us, however old  you are--to get away from technology and to just sort of be centered in  that experience of being, you know, out in nature, that it is causing  people to be even more appreciative of what it means to have a  wilderness area like this.

So I am going to just take a moment to read some of the stories that  have been forwarded to me about the power of this place and the lives  of people in Minnesota and across the country.

This is a story from Grand Rapids, MN, which is in the, kind of,  northern part of the State, still south of the Boundary Waters, and it  says:

I am a 53-year-old that has lived in Northern Minnesota her whole  life. My family and I have enjoyed God's great Northwoods and all it  has to offer through canoeing and camping, water skiing, biking,  campfires, hiking, swimming, and much more. To see and hear about the  Boundary Waters possibly condemned would be beyond a travesty. Just  think of all of the animals, all of the family trips ended, tree  growth, the disaster that would happen there, not to mention what it  would do to the ecosystem and whatever else I cannot fathom right now.

This is a message that was sent in to me from Mahtomedi, MN, which is  more in the Twin Cities, South Central part of the State in the Twin  Cities area. This person wrote:

The Boundary Waters have been a very special place to me for a long  time. I was first taken there by my father and my uncle, and it was the  start  of my relationship with my uncle who was previously more distant from  our family due to work. Since then, I have gone to the Boundary Waters  Canoe Area Wilderness once a year for the past few years with my father  and my uncle. So many of my fondest memories are all from the Boundary  Waters, and I hope to continue to make more of them, not only with my  father and my uncle but with my own children in the future as well.

This is a message from someone from Farmington, MN. Farmington is  also in the suburban metro area of Minneapolis and St. Paul. And this  person said:

Me and my dad take a trip once yearly to canoe the Boundary Waters. I  am 23 years old, and every year is incredibly special because the  Boundary Waters are so important to my family. My dad proposed to my  mom in the Boundary Waters. The Boundary Waters represents love; the  wild, untamed American spirit; and my family. I want to be able to show  my children pristine wilderness. I am begging you to act to protect the  Boundary Waters.

This is a message from Rochester, MN, the home of Mayo Clinic and  University of Minnesota Rochester, an incredible community. This person  has written this:

I was 10 years old when I first visited the Boundary Waters with my  dad and my grandfather. I have since visited numerous times, including  in 2020 when my grandfather, who had been going to the Boundary Waters  for 40 years, made his final visit. This place is now, to my family,  not just a tranquil retreat but also a time-honored family legacy and  an act of remembrance for my grandfather. To allow the Boundary Waters  to be permanently open for mining is to destroy one of the great  natural gifts God has given Minnesota for current generations and  generations to come.

Now, I just want to pause on this because I think it is an  opportunity to talk a little bit more about--kind of help to locate in  colleagues' and people's brains like where this mine will be, and I  have a map which shows how this all flows.

So the Boundary Waters is this huge area, as we have said, a million  acres of wilderness. And I am going to orient you here. The green here  is the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. And this is the border  between Minnesota and Canada here. And this is the Quetico Provincial  Park, which is this huge Canadian national park. It is really quite  incredible.

And then here you see Ely, MN, which is a major entry point into the  Boundary Waters. If you were to go over here, you would find--oh, I  guess it is down here as I am orienting myself on this map. I guess it  is over here. There is another access point that is commonly used by  people in going into the Boundary Waters through the Gunflint Trail and  Grand Marais, which is right here on Lake Superior.

And what we are talking about here, here you can see--I am going to  give you the orientation here--the red--this area here, the yellow and  green stripes, which you can see here, this is where the Twin Metals  deposits are, this mine that we are talking about. These are the  deposits that would be developed by Antofagasta, by the Twin Metals  Mine, right here.

The red area shows how the water flows on the map, and it gives you  an idea of why, even though this mine is just slightly outside of the  actual boundaries of the Boundary Waters, that, for the practical  purposes of the watershed and how the water moves, it might as well be  inside the watershed in terms of how the damage to the water would flow  because you can see, it is all connected. I mean, that is what happens  with water, it flows.

And so here you have Birch Lake. It flows up this way. This is the  Namakan River, Namakan Lake. Up here is Rainy Lake. This is close to  where our kids went to camp. Kabetogama Lake is up here.

All of this area is connected. And so when you hear, colleagues,  people telling you: You don't need to worry about this because this  mine isn't in the Boundary Waters, that is not the point. The point is  that it is in the watershed of the Boundary Waters, and that is how the  damage is done.

(Mr. ARMSTRONG assumed the Chair.)

Mr. President, I was showing colleagues this map because I wanted to  make a couple of points about how this works--how the waterflow works.

One is that even though the mineral deposits and how they are going  to be developed are just barely outside of the Boundary Waters Canoe  Area, the impact of the mine and the impact on the water spreads not  only through the Boundary Waters, but it also flows up through these  rivers that essentially form the border between Minnesota and Canada-- the United States and Canada--and then into Voyageurs National Park. I  think sometimes we don't talk enough about the impact on Voyageurs,  which is an incredible park.

Together, Boundary Waters and Voyageurs offer people so many  different ways of experiencing this wilderness, and the impact on both  of them is really significant.

I think sometimes also it is hard for folks to fully understand and  appreciate what is the impact on water quality of this kind of mine.  And so I want to just share some of that with you as well as you think  about what is the risk that is actually posed by this?

And I am going to get into this a bit more in some detail, but I  think it is important, as you are considering this, to understand that  during the mineral lease withdrawal process that happened in--well,  really, stretched over time between, roughly, 2016 and 2021, when it  was brought to a conclusion, there was a massive amount of effort,  scientific research study that was done, huge amounts of public comment  to gather information about what people thought about this that became  the basis for the decision to do this mineral withdrawal.

The mineral withdrawal process is defined in the Federal Land  Management Policy Act. I believe it is the FLPMA, as people call it  around here. And that was followed to a tee. And that congressional law  allows for mineral withdrawals when it is determined that the potential  risks of mines or other kinds of natural resources development pose too  great a risk to the public resource that belongs to it all. So I will  talk about that in a little bit more detail, but I wanted to just share  with colleagues this background on why sulfide ore copper mining poses  such a unique risk to the Boundary Waters of Minnesota.

So the background here is that a Chilean mining company operating  under the name of Twin Metals--Senator Heinrich said it sounds like a  nice Minnesota name, and it is, but it is essentially a wholly owned  subsidiary of Antofagasta.

So this Chilean mining company has proposed this mine--a large  copper-nickel mine immediately upstream of the Boundary Waters Canoe  Area Wilderness. And this proposed mine would extract copper from a  geological formation called the Duluth Complex.

The Duluth Complex really runs kind of this way. It runs from  northeast to southwest across Minnesota. This is important because  there are lots of places where the Duluth Complex can be developed in  addition to this particular place where these leases in question are  right on the border of the Boundary Waters. There are huge resources  all across the way. And, in fact, there are other mines under  development down in this part of the State that are going through the  process of getting developed.

So this Duluth process, which has a specific type of sulfide ore that  interacts with water in ways that can create--that do create permanent  contamination risks. And so the question is, How does this mechanism  work? What exactly happens? And why is it so particularly difficult to  manage in this watershed? Part of why the water quality is of such a  big concern in this area is that the baseline condition here is just so  outstanding.

A 2017 report by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency describes the  water within the Boundary Waters watershed as ``exceptionally clean and  immaculate.'' It concludes that the majority of the water bodies within  this watershed have exceptional biological, chemical, and physical  characteristics.

So the water in the Boundary Waters is so clean that visitors  frequently drink right out of the lakes. There is no need for any  purification. I have done this myself. When you are canoeing--now, you  are not going to want to drink the water right next to the shore  because that is where the wild animals are, but you can go out into the  middle of the lake and dip your mug into the water in the middle of the  lake, and the water is incredible. So the fundamental hazard of sulfide  ore mining is this acid mine drainage that happens.

When sulfide-bearing rock is excavated and exposed to oxygen and  water, a chemical chain reaction begins, and what happens is that the  sulfide minerals here, primarily--I might not say this exactly right-- pyrrhotite, which is in the Duluth Complex, it oxidizes upon exposure  and then you have sulfuric acid. And sulfuric acid then dissolves the  surrounding rock and leaches out heavy metals--including copper and  arsenic and lead and cadmium--into the water. And the resulting  contaminated water, which is the acid mine drainage, is very acidic,  and it is also laden with heavy metals, and that, of course, is toxic  to aquatic life.

And the mining operations are going to dramatically increase the  surface area of this rock as it is exposed to water and oxygen, and  that accelerates the oxidation by many orders of magnitude compared to  what you would see with natural weathering rates. And once this acid  mine drainage has started, it is incredibly difficult to stop it, and  it can continue for centuries or in perpetuity after the mine closes--a  problem that is sometimes called perpetual treatment.

So if you think about it, this mine--the mining company itself says  that they think that the mine would probably be in operation for, I  think, 10, 15 years or in that area. Yet you are going to have  centuries of impact from this so-called perpetual treatment issue.

A secondary chemical hazard, when you are doing sulfide ore mining in  this particularly damp environment of the Boundary Waters watershed,  would also substantially increase sulfite loading in the water. So  elevated sulfate triggers a separate but related chemical reaction with  serious consequences for human health.

Sulfite-reducing bacteria in sediment can convert sulfate to sulfide  under low oxygen conditions and then the sulfide can react with  inorganic mercury, which is naturally present in the environment, to  produce methylmercury. And methylmercury bioaccumulates in the food  chain, concentrating in fish at levels that can be dangerous for human  consumption.

Sulfate discharges from existing disturbed areas of sulfide ore in  the watershed have already elevated sulfate levels in the BWCA  headwaters, and analysis of monitoring data indicates that there is a  measurable water quality degradation that is already occurring.

So this is important because the Boundary Waters fisheries-- particularly walleye, the most beloved fish in Minnesota--are central  to the recreational and economic value of this place. And, of course,  mercury contamination resulting in consumption advisories would have a  significant impact for the sport fishing industry, certainly for Tribal  subsistence rights, and overall for the negative impacts on the  regional tourism economy.

So I think, as you think about this, I mean, you have got to  sometimes think: Wow, like, that sounds bad, but is that really going  to happen? Do we really have to worry about that? Won't there be a way  of avoiding this? And I just want to point out that we can look at the  precedence of what has happened in the other places around the country  to help answer that question.

The chemical risks that I have just described are not theoretical. In  fact, there are two sites in the United States where this AMD from  sulfide ore mining has caused serious and long-lasting harm. This is  the acid mine drainage--AMD.

So the first site is the Gold King Mine in Colorado. This is from  2015. In August of 2015, an EPA contractor crew working at the  abandoned Gold King Mine near Silverton, CO, accidentally breached a  plug, releasing approximately 3 million gallons of acid mine drainage  into Cement Creek, which is a tributary of the Animas River.

So this plume, which was literally visible orange from dissolved iron  and heavy metals, it traveled more than 100 miles downstream through  Colorado and New Mexico. It crossed into the Navajo Nation. The Navajo  Nation relies on the San Juan River for irrigation and for drinking  water, and three States had to declare emergencies.

The Navajo Nation had to shut down all water withdrawals from the  river, farmers lost crops and were forced to sell their livestock, and  some metals were measured at hundreds of times the legal limits for  drinking water. Now, a treatment plant costing $1.5 million to build  and $2.4 million per year to operate was still running as of 2024--9  years after the spill. This treatment plant is treating an estimated  300 gallons of contaminated water per minute draining continuously from  the mine.

Local communities have declined Superfund designation for years out  of concern for tourism, but the spill forced their hand, and victims  have filed hundreds of millions of dollars in claims. None has been  paid because the EPA evoked sovereign immunity.

So this was a breach in this gold metal mine in Silverton talking  about a plume of this polluted acid drainage that is traveling more  than 100 miles. And I know my Minnesota pretty well, but I would say  that--I mean, certainly from Birch Lake to Voyageurs National Park is  less than 100 miles. So it gives you an idea of how far this polluted  water can spread in these kinds of dangerous environments.

I want to tell colleagues about another example of this kind of  failure, and that is the Summitville Mine in Colorado. At the  Summitville Gold Mine in southern Colorado, acid- and metal-laden  runoff killed all biological life in a 17-mile stretch of the Alamosa  River.

The operator declared bankruptcy in 1992 and abandoned the site  midoperation, leaving EPA to manage the ongoing emergency, and the site  was designated a Federal Superfund site, and Federal cleanup costs have  exceeded $210 million. The Alamosa River has never fully recovered.

I think it is important that we think about these things as we  consider the risks of this kind of mine. And, again, I want to remind  colleagues that that is one of the reasons why this mineral withdrawal  was done--because the Forest Service considered these risks. They did  an environmental assessment, and they concluded that this risk was too  great to bear.

When we weigh these substantial risks of mining near the Boundary  Waters, it is important for us to ask: What is the benefit? What might  we see here? Where might we benefit? And this is, I think, really  important to understand because where would these minerals go?

There has been an argument made that this is an ``America First''  national security priority to develop these minerals, but the question  is, Who would own the minerals that are brought up from this piece of  land right here near Birch Lake in Northern Minnesota? And the answer  to that question is these minerals are going to go to China.

Antofagasta--the Chilean company that is wanting to develop these  leases--operates a number of copper mines in South America, and it  sends the majority of the ore that it pulls out of the ground to  Chinese state-owned refineries for processing.

This year, in fact, these Chinese refineries have agreed to an  unprecedented zero-dollar contract for processing Antofagasta ore. So  if you think about it, what this means is that China is in such great  need of copper ore to develop their energy and their AI  infrastructure--and all of the reasons that they need copper ore--that  they have agreed to directly subsidize Antofagasta's copper production  by providing free processing of its ore.

So what this means, of course, is that the copper nickel that is  pulled out of these deposits is going to probably travel by train to  the Pacific coast, where it is then going to be transported to China,  where it will be smelted in China, and it will be used.

Those minerals aren't going to then be sent back to us free. They are  going to be maybe, at best, sold back to us in iPhones or other kinds  of consumer products. But they are not ours to develop. We are going to  have to buy them back.

So I question, colleagues: What is the advantage here? Where is the  national security advantage? Where is the ``America First'' advantage  that we are looking for?

With a critical minerals trade war already underway, shipping  American minerals to China seems to run counter to so much of the work  that Congress  is trying to do to onshore critical minerals and critical mineral  supply chains.

So as I have been looking at this, I think it shows us that the  proposed risks of this mine are substantial. They arise from the  chemistry of the ore itself and, specifically, the chemistry in this  very particular climate. And here in the particular rock and the  particular climate in Minnesota, you have got the inevitability of AMD,  this acid mine drain-off, from this sulfide-rich rock. You have the  absence of any natural acid buffering capacity in the watershed. And  then you have this sort of sulfate-driven methylmercury pathway that is  developed.

These chemical realities, combined with the connectivity of this  water across so many miles between the mine site here, the BWCA  immediately adjacent to it, and then all of this watershed mean that  the consequences of contamination would be really severe. They would be  long-lasting, and they would be effectively irreversible.

And as we consider the risks that come from this mine proposal, I  think we really have to ask ourselves if it is worth endangering one of  our most beloved wilderness areas so that American minerals can be  processed and used in China.

Now, colleagues, I want to turn to an issue that is a little bit  geeky and nerdy. If you are in Congress, though, you appreciate the  value of it. And this has to do with, sort of, what is the process that  we are using right here, right now, to pass this CRA. Let me just kind  of talk about that a little bit because I think it is important for us  to understand the precedent that we will be setting if we pass this  resolution.

So we have before us H.J. Res. 140, which would essentially apply the  congressional review authority process, with all of the privileges of  that process, to something that is not a rule--which is what the  congressional review authority is all about--but is a public land  order. And this is important to understand.

The mineral withdrawal that was done here was done under the  authorities of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act. And in that  Federal Land Policy and Management Act, there are processes that  Congress defined if they don't like what happened, if they don't like  what the executive branch did. There are processes for congressional  disapproval of a public land order.

And so under this Federal Land Policy and Management Act--I am going  to call it FLPMA because that is what everyone calls it around here-- there is an existing process for Congress to express its disapproval  with a public land order, like the 2023 mineral withdrawal which is  under consideration here on the Senate floor tonight. In that process  that is described, Congress is given 90 days to adopt a concurrent  resolution of disapproval.

So what is interesting is that, following the 2023 mineral  withdrawal, which was completed in 2023, a resolution of disapproval on  that mineral withdrawal was actually introduced. It was introduced on  the House floor, and it passed out of the House Natural Resources  Committee--all done, sort of, under the rules of sort of what FLPMA  establishes. But it was never brought to the House floor, never brought  to the Senate floor. And, in fact, Congress never acted on it.

And what happened, of course, is that under FLPMA you have 90 days to  review or disapprove of an action, and that 90-day window opened and  closed, and it passed.

So now what is happening--you might be asking: So why are we dealing  with this now? This was in 2023. It actually came up on the House  floor, and nothing ever came of it. Why are we dealing with this now?

Well, so the reason for that is that Republicans in the House are  trying to use the congressional review authority, basically, to get a  do-over. They are ignoring the fact that the CRA wasn't created to  overturn a public land order, especially one that was 3 years old.

The CRA was designed by Congress to say: If the Federal Government  passes a rule that we don't like, within 60 days we have the right to  say: No, that is not what we meant; we want to draw it back again.

But, of course, that is not what is going on here. We are talking  about not 60 days, not 90 days; we are talking about 3 years. We are  not talking about a Federal regulation; we are talking about a public  land order that has been standing for 3 years.

And I just think we have to think about what are the impacts of this  precedent if this is the step that the Senate decides to take, because,  if we are allowing these public land orders to be rescinded under the  Congressional Review Act--I mean, this is a really dangerous precedent.  Public land orders have never previously been submitted by any  administration, including the first Trump administration. They have  never previously been submitted as rules subject to the congressional  review authority. This is the first one, submitted 3 years after the  public land order was issued by the Department of the Interior. And, in  fact, as I have just said, Congress set up a completely different set  of procedures specifically to reconsider public land orders under the  Federal Land Policy and Management Act.

So what we are seeing here is using the CRA to undo this public land  order, which would establish an entirely new precedent. It would allow  future Congresses to undo public land orders with no time limit on any  public land order. And potentially, based on this precedent, it could  allow future Congresses, with a simple partisan majority vote, to undo  any administrative action.

So what would that look like? What would that mean? Because I think,  as we are making this decision, colleagues, you always have to think  about that sometimes you are in power, sometimes you are out of  power. But you have to think about what are the long-term implications  of your decision.

So if this precedent is set--if we say, yes, the CRA could be used to  undo a public land order, like we have here in the Boundary Waters-- well, then, I would think that some future Democratic Congress might  think: Hmm, let's use the CRA to undo a fossil fuel lease or a mining  lease or a timber lease that we don't think makes sense in South  Dakota. Maybe we could use--this precedent would suggest that you could  use the CRA to undo a permit or undo a permit denial. In fact, it seems  so broad, this precedent, that it could probably undo any determination  on an administrative law matter.

So that seems to me to be really risky--because one of the things  that matters in this country is that you might not always agree with  what happens, but there has to be some continuity, some consistency. If  we are constantly doing something and then undoing it and then doing it  again, I can tell you from my business background that that is a  disaster, because how do you decide to make investment decisions if you  think that willy-nilly, depending on who is in power and what the  environment is, what the political environment is, an investment that  you made in one area, under one administration, is going to be undone  by another administration at another time--because that is exactly what  is happening here. One administration, one party, is undoing what was  done perfectly legally 3 years ago.

Now, it makes sense to me, right, that if something is done that  Congress just disagrees with, that you would have a window of time to  undo it--like, I think, 60 days, 90 days, as we have with the CRA and  the Federal Land Policy and Management Act. That makes sense.

Congress says: No, that is not what we wanted. That is not what we  intended. That was not our legislative intent when we wrote this. We  are going to undo it.

Then that makes sense to me.

If an administration does a mineral withdrawal like we did here, like  the Biden administration did here, and Congress says, ``That was a  mistake; that doesn't comply with the laws as we wrote them; we are  going to change it,'' then, by all means, go ahead and try to change  it, but not 3 years later and not in this way, not using a tool that  was not--the CRA tool was not built for this. It was built to change a  regulation that Congress disagreed with.

I think that it is a very dangerous--very, very dangerous--precedent,  and I think it is the kind of precedent that, honestly, when the shoe  is on the other foot, it creates problems. And I know that I have  spoken with my colleagues  on both sides of the aisle, Republicans and Democrats, who are  concerned about this precedent and wonder what it might mean. And the  Presiding Officer and I both have experience in the private sector, and  I think we could relate to the idea that capital likes certainty,  capital likes to minimize risk by knowing what is going to--what they  can count on. And that is, I think, one of the gravest dangers of this  action that the Senate seems poised to take.

In a world where the Senate is always going to be a place where  people disagree with one another, where we are not always going to see  things the same way, where a project that I might think shouldn't be  permitted somebody else might think is reasonable to be permitted-- those disagreements will always be there. But if we get into a  situation where different parties, depending on whether they are in  power or not, are just sort of--kind of randomly--undoing what has been  in place for several years, I just think it further undermines the need  for--it adds to chaos, it undermines certainty, and it certainly  doesn't contribute to the problem-solving mentality that I think that  we need around here.

And, of course, for my precious Boundary Waters, it has potentially  really significant impacts, as I have described here, with the likely  impact of water pollution on this precious place. And it also just  leads to more lawsuits and more, sort of, legal wrangling that, in my  mind, I wish we could just avoid.

In my life as a political leader, I have always found that the best  ideas usually come from the people that are closest to the ground and  closest to the work and do understand best what is going on, and so I  am going to just take a few more minutes to read some of the comments  that have come my way from people who have firsthand experience with  the Boundary Waters and know what an incredible place it is.

This is a note from a constituent of mine from Medina, MN, which is,  again, in the Twin Cities Metro Area. They write:

I know all the facts and arguments below are important, but for  someone who went on Boundary Waters trips growing up, to bring my own  girls starting at ages 5 and 8, it is truly a place like no other. It  is my dad's happy place. He has led and gone on hundreds of BWCA trips  over his lifetime, and at the young age of 72, he continues to go.

This is what I was talking about earlier about how, even though this  is a very wild place, it is also so accessible to people.

This person goes on to write: He told myself and my husband when we  were packing up for our first trip ever with the girls that from the  moment that they were born, he has dreamt of this moment. The girls  love it there. We have gone every year since. They adore being in the  wilderness, seeing nature, and disconnecting from a world that can be  so overwhelming. They look forward to it every year. As a mom, I am  truly proud that my two girls are getting these opportunities. They are  learning valuable life skills while being up there, and it doesn't hurt  that we all get to disconnect from technology for a few days. I beg you  to work as hard as you can to save this special place so that my  daughters' kids will be able to enjoy it all in its splendor for years  to come.

This is a message that came to me from Waconia, MN, and this is what  this person writes: I first visited the BWCA on a church retreat in  2001, and it has been a magical place for me since then. As someone  with a wildlife biology degree who also happens to have conservative  political beliefs, I believe that protecting our country's pristine  wilderness should take precedence over any financial partnerships with  other countries. While it may momentarily create jobs for people in the  Iron Range, those benefiting the most will be in Chile and China. Let's  protect one of our country's last natural treasures so it will be  around for generations to come. I have a close group of nine  girlfriends from high school, and we have been making an annual trip to  the BWCA just outside of Ely--this is it; this is what it looks like-- just outside of Ely for 23 years now. I am now a 41-year-old mother,  and it is still my favorite weekend of the year. Please vote no to  protect the environment, the animals, and my own personal sanity. I  need the BWCA to remain protected. Remember, take nothing but pictures;  leave nothing but footprints; kill nothing but time.

I love that.

This is making me think that there has been, you know, some things  written--some things said--about what is it that Minnesota wants when  it comes to this mine and this place and protecting this place. The  stories that I am reading give wonderful anecdotes about what people  think about it, but I think I am just going to bring some polling into  this here because this is polling that shows what Minnesotans think  about this broadly across different parties.

I think it is important to know that this was research that was done  just in December of 2025. That is quite recent. This research shows us  that Minnesotans are deeply connected to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area  Wilderness and intensely support its protection. Multiple polls over  the last 10 years have consistently shown this deep connection amongst  voters across all political alignments.

This connection drives opposition to sulfide ore copper mining within  the Boundary Water watershed by double margins. Minnesota voters are  generally pro-mining, as I talked about earlier. They are pro-mining  for iron ore, taconite, and for copper-nickel with one important  exception: They overwhelmingly oppose sulfide ore copper mines that  would be located in the watershed of the Boundary Waters.

I am going to give you some of the data in a minute, but I think this  is something that I was saying earlier and that I want to return to.  Minnesota is a pro-mining State. We are so proud of our mining  heritage, and we are very, very proud of the continuing contributions  we make to the Nation's economy through iron ore. We are the No. 1  producer of iron ore in the whole country. It is a crucial part of our  economic foundation, and we are excited about the opportunity to  develop new precious metals mining in Minnesota as these new deposits  in the Duluth Complex are being explored. But Minnesota's view is, not  this mine in this place. That is the issue here because they understand  how popular, they understand how precious this place is.

So here is some of the data that I think is interesting. The Boundary  Waters is uniquely popular, and voters across all political parties-- all political parties--say protecting it is an important priority.

Sixty percent of Minnesotans say that they have been to the Boundary  Waters. That is kind of incredible.

The Boundary Waters is viewed favorably by nearly all Minnesotans  across the State. Eighty-six percent of Minnesotans have a favorable  view and 67 percent of Minnesotans have a very favorable view of  Boundary Waters.

Now, I don't know what your State is like, Mr. President, but to find  something that 60 percent of people say they have done and--what was it  here?--86 percent of people have a favorable view of, that is a pretty  big deal in our State, that everybody agrees on this.

I think it is important to understand--let me kind of break that down  a little bit because you might be thinking: Is this something that is  driven by party politics? And I can tell you as a Senator from  Minnesota that there is nothing political about people's love of the  Boundary Waters. It is not a Democratic love or a Republican love or an  Independent love, and you see that in this data.

When you ask Minnesotans ``How much of a priority do you think it  should be for Minnesota elected officials to protect the Boundary  Waters from mining pollution,'' overall, 68 percent say it is a  priority. Eighty-seven percent of Democrats say this, 66 percent of  Independents say this, and 50 percent of Republicans say this. So,  again, it is not a partisan issue. By more than a 2-to-1 margin,  Minnesota voters oppose sulfide ore copper mining in the Boundary  Waters watershed, and opposition is consistent. It has been consistent  over quite a few years because this issue has been very much on  Minnesotans' minds for quite a few years. This has been in the works  for nearly 10 years. So I think it is important to understand that this  is consistent.

It is also interesting that support for sulfide ore copper mining in  the Boundary Waters watershed has actually dropped in 8 years--over the  last 3  years. So there is strong support for the Boundary Waters, strong  opposition to developing a mine right in the watershed of the Boundary  Waters, and actually a growing concern for what this might mean.

It says--I will just read this--it says: This is consistent with the  view that Minnesotans generally support mining outside the Boundary  Waters watershed by a 14-percent margin--40 percent favor, and only 26  percent oppose--and they strongly oppose sulfide ore copper mining  within the Boundary Waters watershed.

I love this because it sort of shows that Minnesotans--I guess it is  no surprise that as a Minnesota Senator, I should be reflecting the  views of my constituents, and I think that is the case here--being pro- mining, wanting to see that opportunity, wanting to see that developed  but not this mine in this place.

If you look at the biggest differences in opposition between mining  in Minnesota versus mining in the Boundary Waters watershed, it is  really quite interesting. The difference amongst Independents is plus- 62. That is a very big number for people who look at polling across the  board.

I don't know if it shows this in this memo that I am referring to,  but I can tell you, because I have seen the data, that this is also not  a regional thing. Even in Northern Minnesota, even in the Eighth  Congressional District where this mine would be, a majority of people  in the Eighth Congressional District would agree with this statement:  not this mine in this place.

So you can imagine what Minnesotans are thinking about tonight if  they are watching me talk here and thinking about what the Senate is  doing, and they are asking themselves: Why is the Senate--why did the  U.S. House--why are they undoing this protection that we had in place  that we wanted? Why are they ignoring what we think should be happening  in our State? Why are they ignoring or undermining or undoing the  protections we want to see in place for these public lands that matter  so much?

I can tell you from the conversations I have been having that it is  contributing to their lack of trust in this body, the ability of this  body to, you know, produce action and legislation that actually reflect  what they want to see happen. It is frustrating to them, and they are  asking me: Why is this happening? Why is it even possible that  something that was done and done correctly and done legally, you know,  years ago is now being undone by a lot of people who have never even  been to Minnesota and don't really even know what this is all about?

You know, it is difficult for me to explain exactly why this is  happening. That is why I am here tonight to talk about this in all the  ways that I can and help to try to change the flow of this debate as I  am trying to change the flow of this polluting water through the  Boundary Waters.

I would like to take a couple of minutes and talk a little bit about  the work that was done to establish this mineral lease withdrawal  because I think there has also been some discussion about what was  really involved in that and shouldn't we just really let sort of the  permitting process play out as it normally would?

I would say I understand that argument that there is a--you know, we  have established a permitting process at the State level and at the  Federal level, and that should be allowed to play out. But, you know,  it is interesting because Congress also, in this Federal Land Policy  and Management Act, said that there might be occasions when there are  places where we want to be able to withdraw those mineral leases  because we can see ahead of time--before all of the work has been done,  we can see ahead of time based on our environmental assessment that  this is not wise, that this doesn't make sense.

That is exactly what happened with the Rainy River withdrawal  environmental assessment, which was done with extensive work.

I have it all right here. I do not think that I will read it all to  you tonight, but I want to just highlight some of the pieces of this so  that it can give colleagues an idea of how comprehensive this  environmental assessment was--I mean, honestly, much more comprehensive  than the Congressional Review Act resolution that is before the Senate  right now that included, you know, no outreach, no scientific evidence.

There was nothing that was presented in this CRA that says ``Nope,  this is all wrong'' that was done in this environmental review. There  was none of that at all.

So let me just highlight some of what is in this Rainy River  withdrawal, which is the basis for the mineral lease withdrawal, to  give you some confidence that it was done with a lot of integrity and a  lot of scientific backdrop.

The environmental assessment says this: The purpose of the requested  withdrawal is to protect and preserve natural and cultural resources in  the Rainy River watershed, including the Boundary Waters Canoe Area  Wilderness, the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Mining Protection Area, and  the 1854 ceded territory.

Let me just let everyone know that that is the ground that is covered  by the 1854 treaty between the Federal Government and the Chippewa  Tribes of Northern Minnesota that gives them hunting and fishing and  wild rice-harvesting rights.

So it is saying basically that the purpose of this requested  withdrawal is to protect and preserve natural and cultural resources in  the Rainy River watershed from the known and potential adverse  environmental impacts arising from exploration and development of  federally owned minerals.

The withdrawal is needed because the Forest Service and the BLM have  seen and can reasonably anticipate increasing interest within the  private sector for developing the copper, nickel, ore mines in the  Duluth Complex that may adversely impact the Rainy River Watershed.

This goes on to describe what the decision-making process looks like  under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act and describes how this  act, written by Congress, of course, signed into law, authorizes the  Secretary of the Interior to make and modify and extend or revoke  withdrawals, in accordance with the terms of the law. And that is what  this is all about.

So what happens in this environmental assessment is that they look at  alternatives, they look at an alternative where the leases are  withdrawn, for 20 years to be clear, or a second alternative where  there is no withdrawal and the leases continue.

And they evaluate what is likely to happen, what is likely to happen  to the environment. They also evaluate what is likely to happen to the  socioeconomics of the region because, of course, these things are  always a balance.

We don't want to live in a world where all we do is to protect  environmental resources but there is no way for people to earn a living  or to feed their families or to own their own home.

So let me just talk, let me just highlight some of this because I  think it is interesting and gets to that point.

It says, the region--this region around the Boundary Waters has a  long history of mineral exploration and extraction with mining activity  attracting migrants and establishing communities since the 19th  century. Similarly, the region's unique natural amenities and  recreation opportunities have been a source of recreation and tourism  and an amenity-based economy. The relative concentration of jobs in  both mining and tourist and related sectors demonstrate these economic  dependencies within the region, which I can say from personal  experience is very true.

So in 2019, the mining-related employment was estimated at 3 percent  of total employment in St. Louis County, Cook County, and Lake County,  that is this region. So think about that, 3 percent.

This represents over 40 percent of all mining sector jobs in the  State. Sectors associated with recreation and tourism also make up a  higher proportion of total jobs in the study area relative to the State  average.

In 2019, recreation and tourism-dependent jobs--so that includes  retail trade, arts, entertainment, recreation, accommodation, and food  services--that was 22 percent of total employment in the three-county  analysis plan.

But, of course, job numbers tell only part of the economic picture,  average  annual wages vary substantially by sector. The average wage and natural  resource extraction sector was generally high compared to wages in many  other sectors. That is certainly the case. The Boundary Waters Canoe  Area Wilderness--this goes on to say--provides many thousands of  visitors with a unique, primitive, and nature-based recreation  experience. The wilderness area also provides economic drivers to the  local communities and the State of Minnesota. The Boundary Waters Canoe  Area Wilderness is surrounded by resorts, outfitters and guides,  campgrounds, and other visitor service businesses and hundreds of homes  and cabins.

In 2018, visitors to the wilderness area were estimated to contribute  between 230 and 570 jobs and 6 million to 14.8 million in labor income  all across this region, which we call the Arrowhead Region in  Minnesota.

So I like that this is looking at the socioeconomics of this and kind  of what are we going to do, how do we kind of maximize the benefit  here.

I want to also just say I think it is important, because I always  come back to this, the impacts on Tribes in Northern Minnesota. And  this assessment points the following out: The lands proposed for  withdrawal include the homeland and traditional use areas of the Lake  Superior Chippewa Tribe, comprised of multiple independent bands living  around Lake Superior and what is the northern parts of Minnesota.

And this, I think, is important. The Ojibwe bands were signatories of  key treaties executed by the Federal Government in the 19th century.  This withdrawal application area falls entirely within the 1854 ceded  territory of the Lake Superior Chippewa from lands deemed to have been  under the sole control of signatories at signing.

So every single thing that we are talking about here falls within the  1854 ceded territory, and this is not some historical document that is  interesting to know about that has no impact on our daily life. This  treaty is still in effect. It still establishes these hunting and  fishing and wild rice harvesting rights that exist to this day. It  still establishes the right that the Lake Superior Chippewa people, the  Anishinaabe people of Northern Minnesota have around moose and deer and  fish and berry and wild rice, their sugar bush sites, their maple  stands, their white cedar stands, ducks, and other forest resources.

Of course, these resources are available to everybody, but they have  a particular legal access point for the folks--for the Tribal nations.  It is not known in many parts of the country, but in Minnesota, wild  rice, manoomin, is a hugely important food source and also very  important culturally to Native people, and it is a very important part  of the ecosystem of this part of Minnesota.

And wild rice is a wetland plant that grows in exactly this kind of  ecosystem, and it is, again, super important to the Ojibwe people. And  this wild rice, it grows in very shallow freshwater marshes on the  edges of lakes and rivers, and typically it grows only to about 3 feet  high. And it is a very, very important part of what is included in  these treaties. I think it is important to understand that.

As I go through this environmental assessment to share what it  evaluates in terms of the opportunities in this area, what needs to be  protected and what impacts you might see from the mine, I want to just  share a little bit of that with you. I just need to find it here. This  talks about--let me find it here.

Here we go. This is a good summary, I think, of what the  environmental assessment finds. It says: The greatest potential risk to  water quality of the wilderness area and lands within the withdrawal  area comes from the catastrophic failure of a wet basin tailings  storage or impoundment dam. Wet basin tailings storages pose the risk  of dam failure and the potential release of a large volume of  contaminated sediment or tailings into the water to a nearby water  body, the potential transport of that downstream in water bodies and  receptors.

Dam failures have the greatest potential of traveling downstream at a  volume that could impact receding wilderness area water resources.  Impacts would be most severe for streams and wetlands and lakes most  adjacent to the failure. Failure would be highly likely to result in  increases of total solids, sulfates, metal, or other constituents,  exceedance of water quality standards, and observable impacts of  aquatic bio and habitat in Birch Lake becoming successively less  severe, of course, as the water moves forward.

But it assesses that the risk effects to the Boundary Waters Canoe  Area would be significant and can't be--can't be--you know, mitigated  in any way.

I think that that is the reason why this environmental assessment  forms the basis for the mineral lease withdrawal. And, again, the  mineral lease withdrawal is for 20 years, and 20 years seems like a  long time. I have been in the Senate for 9 years--half of that time-- but the idea here is that you don't want to lock these minerals up  forever. That doesn't seem reasonable. But given what the technology is  right now, given what we know about the environmental risks and what  this kind of mining would do, something is going to have to change  before this makes sense, before this is a risk worth taking.

And I believe that that is really--the message that I take out of  this environmental assessment, along with, you know, the many hundreds  of thousands of people who wrote in talking about this and saying why-- why this mattered to them.

I think during the course of this discussion when we are talking  about the special place that this is, also talking about the unusual  precedent, the remarkable and dangerous precedent that the CRA  establishes should it pass and also talking about the special  consideration that I think that we need to give to Native people who  have particular and sovereign treaty rights related to this place.

And I want to just, if I can, take a minute to go over in a bit of  detail what some of the Tribes have said about this because I think it  gives a good impact--it gives a good sense of why this is important to  them.

And let me just find this for you before I--while I am looking for  that, I want to share these other things with you because I think they  are helpful.

Senator Heinrich spoke about this earlier, and it was really  remarkable to me that as we were considering this CRA, as it was coming  over from the House to the Senate, that we received here in the Senate  an open letter from President Theodore Roosevelt's direct descendants  talking about the importance of saving the Boundary Waters. I am going  to just read this letter to make sure that people have had a chance to  understand what it says.

The letter says: Dear United States Senators, the purpose of this  letter is to strongly recommend all Senators vote against House Joint  Resolution 140 and to ask you to work with President Trump to seek ways  to permanently protect the Boundary Waters and to send a unified  message that America is still a land that relentlessly protects its  greatest wilderness terrain.

The proposed House resolution erroneously uses the Congressional  Review Act to disallow the current withdrawal of over 225,000 acres and  the headwaters of the Boundary Waters and would green-light exposure of  this national treasure to the highly toxic and destructive impacts of  sulfide-ore copper mining.

It is faulty on several key fronts. First, it is the opposite of  ``America First.'' The mining company in question is foreign-owned,  will use Chinese state-owned smelters, and will then sell the extracted  metals on the open market.

Next, it removes the American public from public land decision  making. A key priority of American public land policy has always been  to have a strong bias towards obtaining robust public input. Hundreds  of thousands of Americans have already weighed in on the Boundary  Waters, and they overwhelmingly want it protected forever.

Next, it discards sound science. A detailed environmental assessment  has already documented the substantial risk copper mining poses to this  highly-valued ecosystem.

It sets a very bad precedent for other public lands. Using the CRA in  this fashion, which has never been done before, would put at risk other  public land withdrawals across America to  similarly irresponsible actions. Finally, the proposed resolution is  diametrically at odds with the conservation legacy of President  Theodore Roosevelt.

For all these reasons we feel a deep obligation to T.R.--as they call  him in this letter--to speak out loudly in support of this exceptional  American wilderness area.

As T.R. said at the Grand Canyon in 1903, we now reiterate with the  Boundary Waters today ``leave it as it is.'' Vote no on House Joint  Resolution 140 or any other similar legislation and seek creative ways  to protect the Boundary Waters forever.

Frankly, T.R. would have been appalled at House Resolution 140 and  the misguided and harmful effort to revoke sound and necessary mineral  withdrawals in the headwaters of the Boundary Waters.

To understand T.R.'s perspective on all of this, it is important to  review a little of his history starting with Minnesota.

T.R. had a strong affinity for Minnesota. T.R.'s love of Minnesota  emanated directly from Lincoln and Grant's leadership during the Civil  War. Minnesota immediately stepped up to support the dire cause.

T.R. had a huge amount of respect for the 1st Minnesota Infantry  Regiment, who literally saved the Union at Gettysburg. It is perhaps  why, shortly after the Civil War, as a 10-year-old sitting in Germany,  T.R. dreamed of proudly going to Minnesota someday. He hoped to get  there when he was 14, and he cheered in his diary about the prospect:  Hip, hip, hoorah.

In 1880, T.R.'s first extended hunting trip to the West brought him  as far as the Red River in Moorhead, MN, way up in the northwestern  quadrant of our State, where he briefly ducked into the Dakota  Territory for the first time. From then on, T.R.'s strong historical  connections and interest in Minnesota accelerated exponentially.

In 1838, he signed his first cattle ranching contract in Saint Paul.  In the rest of the 1880s and in the 1890s, he crossed through the State  on many memorable occasions.

In 1900, he launched his Vice Presidential campaign in Minnesota. In  1901, he gave his famous ``Big Stick'' speech at the Minnesota State  Fair.

These are just a few small samplings of T.R.'s oversized affection  for Minnesota, which helped to catapult him toward his destiny.

T.R. worked exceedingly hard to protect Minnesota's forests and  water. It should come as no surprise that T.R.'s appreciations for  Minnesota translated into an aggressive pursuit of protecting the  State's favored forests and water.

In 1902, shortly after taking office, T.R. used scientific forestry  to establish the Minnesota Forest Reserve, which was later renamed the  Chippewa National Forest. It was the first national forest reserve in  America east of the Mississippi River and the first one set aside  through an act of Congress, rather than by a Presidential proclamation.

Around the same timeframe, closer to America's northern border,  T.R.'s administration withdrew hundreds of thousands of acres in Lake  and Cook Counties in the vicinity of the Boundary Waters to get a jump  start on protecting this even more pristine source of water.

Finally, in 1909, for the public good, T.R. formally established the  much broader Superior National Forest, where the Boundary Waters Canoe  Wilderness Area resides.

Based on all of these proactive measures, there is no doubt T.R.  wanted Minnesota's greatest natural resource, its most beloved Boundary  Waters ecosystem, protected in perpetuity for all future generations to  enjoy. It was a central tenet of his balanced approach to  conservationism.

Saving the Boundary Waters makes common, bipartisan sense. Because of  the foresight of America's early Republican leaders, the Boundary  Waters has risen, as per the Department of the Interior, to become  America's most heavily visited wilderness area. Its greatness goes way  beyond Minnesota. It is the fourth pillar of all of America's greatest  continental wilderness terrain--Yosemite, Lincoln and Harrison;  Yellowstone, Grant; the Grand Canyon, Roosevelt; and the Boundary  Waters.

Saving it from the devastating effects of copper mining is,  therefore, the conservation imperative of our time and should be  bipartisan in nature.

It is certainly bipartisan in Minnesota, as evidenced by the fact  that 70 percent of Minnesotans want the Boundary Waters permanently  protected. Minnesotans know, aside from the devastating impact on the  environment, copper-nickel mining in the Boundary Waters would deal a  crushing blow to a great rural American economy. It would kill jobs,  dampen growth, decrease affordability, and erase any meaningful  prospects for future economic prosperity in the region.

For all of these reasons, we are positive T.R. would want the  Boundary Waters protected in a bipartisan fashion. But, sadly, the  passage of H.J. Res. 140 in the House puts all of this in grave  jeopardy.

Our specific ask of the United States Senators: To America's  Senators, please do all that you can to protect this national treasure.  On both sides of the political aisle, we strongly ask you to vote no on  this resolution and on any other similar legislation proposed in the  future.

T.R. was active in the preserving of our greatest wilderness terrain  on both the east and west coasts. It became one of the greatest  enduring legacies of his life. It is now time for all of you to get in  the arena with him.

We implore you to do your own parts to ensure T.R.'s commonsense  approach to conservationism is as strong today as it was more than a  century ago. There is no better place to do this than to preserve the  greatest wilderness terrain in the middle of America's heartland: the  Boundary Waters, the greatest ``America 250'' conservation gift,  protecting the fourth pillar.

This letter concludes in this way: In conjunction with America's  250th birthday, we ask you to honor President Theodore Roosevelt's  conservation legacy.

As T.R.'s Presidential Library formally opens in Medora, ND, on  Independence Day, three pillars of T.R.'s life will take central stage:  Leadership, conservation, and citizenship.

It is one thing for politicians to say they believe in these three  pillars, and it is quite another to see them act that way. We humbly  submit it would be hard to gift America a more meaningful fourth  pillar, one that better unites these three aspects of his legacy, than  a huge enduring present in the form of a permanently protected Boundary  Waters.

Finally, it should be noted that the signatories below represent the  three branches of Theodore Roosevelt's family, emanating directly from  his three sons, who all served in both World War I and World War II.

Quinton Roosevelt was, sadly, killed in action in World War I or he  certainly would have risen to the call of service the second time.

The four of us below--this is important. The four of us below have  never collectively cosigned a letter together, which should give an  indication of how strongly we support voting no on this resolution and  then voting yes on permanent Boundary Waters protection.

We greatly appreciate your time and attention to this matter.

This is signed by Theodore Roosevelt IV, Teddy Roosevelt's great- grandson, and cosigned by Tweed Roosevelt, Kermit Roosevelt III, and  Mark Roosevelt.

I think this is so interesting because, one, it speaks to the great  tradition of conservationism in the Republican Party. And I love also  that it highlights these other great pillars of American remarkable  places. They talk about, in this letter, America's greatest continental  wilderness terrain: Yosemite, protected by Lincoln and Harrison;  Yellowstone protected by Grant; the Grand Canyon and Roosevelt.

And, you know, just as it is impossible for us to imagine a big mine  right on the doorstep of the Grand Canyon or Yosemite, it is impossible  for us in Minnesota to imagine this mine right on the doorstep of the  Boundary Waters. The Boundary Waters is the same caliber of national  treasure as the Grand Canyon or Yosemite or Yellowstone.

And in this country, we certainly don't say we don't want to do any  mining anyplace. But we also acknowledge that there are places that are  so special, that that does not need to be the place where we look to  meet our needs for precious metals, precious minerals.

I was searching, a moment ago, for--I had mentioned that I wanted to  share some of the views of America's indigenous Tribes, talking about  why they think that it is important to protect the Boundary Waters.

I have got a few here that I am going to read to you, and I am going  to start with the letter from the National Congress of American  Indians, which, as you no doubt know, is the oldest and largest  organization of sovereign Tribal nations from around the country.

I am going to--this is actually not a letter. Forgive me. This is a  resolution that the National Congress of American Indians put forward a  few weeks ago, speaking on behalf of all of the Tribes, all of the  Tribes that are members.

It is as follows. It is called: Calling on the Senate Committee on  Indian Affairs to hold a hearing to consider and take testimony on H.J.  Res 140, entitled, ``Disapproving Public Land Order 7917'' due to the  impacted Tribal interests contained in the subject public land order.

It goes as follows:

Whereas we the members of the National Congress of American Indians  of the United States, invoking the designed blessing of the Creator  upon our efforts and purposes, in order to preserve for ourselves and  our descendants the inherent sovereign right of our Indian Nations,  rights secured under Indian treaties and agreements with the United  States, and all other rights and benefits to which we are entitled  under the laws and Constitution of the United States, and the United  Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, to enlighten  the public toward a better understanding of the Indian people, to  preserve Indian cultural values and otherwise promote the health,  safety, and welfare of the Indian people, do hereby establish and  submit the following resolution:

And whereas the National Congress of American Indians, NCAI, was  established in 1944, and as the oldest and largest national  organization of American Indian and Alaska Native Tribal governments;

And whereas the Ojibwe people have resided in North America since  time immemorial, and before the establishment of the United States,  have resided among what has become the border between the United States  and Canada and the places now called Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota,  and North Dakota;

And whereas the Ojibwe people entered into numerous treaties with the  United States, ceding land and reserving rights within those lands in  exchange for peace, protection, and services, including the Treaty of  La Pointe, September 30, 1854;

And whereas in the 1834 treaty, the Ojibwe reserved rights to hunt,  fish, and gather within the territory ceded in the 1854 ceded  territory, and such rights remain intact and are presently exercised by  the current beneficiaries of the 1854 treaty;

And whereas, over time, the Federal Government took land within the  ceded territory for conservation and protection, including the Superior  National Forest and the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, both  within the Rainy River Watershed, which runs along the current United  States-Canada border and what is now Northeastern Minnesota;

And whereas the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness is a globally  unique freshwater ecosystem with some of the world's cleanest water--it  comprises 20 percent of the freshwater within the entire National  Forest System. And through its interconnected system of lakes, forests,  and wetlands, provides irreplaceable habitat for threatened species  like the lynx and the loons, and, by doing so, offers invaluable and  cultural recreational resources, including resources that the Ojibwe  utilize when exercising their reserved treaty rights;

And whereas, as recognized in the NCAI resolution on FDA O2510, wild  rice, manomin, is the sacred food of the Ojibwe people, integral to  their identity and necessary for their subsistence, and the Federal  Government must protect the waters of the 1854 ceded territory from  contamination to maintain traditional harvesting of wild rice, which,  as the Ojibwe treaty guaranteed, are usufructuary rights;

And whereas, on January 31, 2023, then Secretary of the Interior Deb  Haaland issued Public Land Order 7917, withdrawing approximately  225,504 acres of National Forest System lands from disposition under  the United States mineral and geothermal leasing laws for a period of  20 years to protect and preserve the 1854 ceded territory of the Lake  Superior Chippewa in Northern Minnesota from the political adverse  effects of mineral and geothermal exploration and development;

And whereas the order further provides that the purpose for the  withdrawal is also to protect the health, traditional cultural values,  and subsistence-based lifestyle of the Tribal nations that rely on  resources in the region, such as wild rice, which are particularly  susceptible to adverse impacts associated with mineral exploration and  development;

And whereas NCAI acknowledges that any threats to Tribal rights and  treaty rights of one Tribal nation erodes the reserved Tribal and  treaty rights of all Tribal nations, thereby eroding Tribal  sovereignty;

And whereas H.J. Res. 140, introduced in the U.S. House of  Representatives on January 12, 2026, authorizes the disapproval of  Public Land Order 7917;

And whereas the U.S. House of Representatives enacted H.J. Res. 140  without a hearing and without soliciting input from the impacted  parties, including from the Tribal nations whose treaty rights are  impacted by the disapproval;

And whereas pursuant to the rules of the Congressional Review Act  adoption and enactment of H.J. Res. 140 would permanently preclude any  future consideration or action by the executive branch, forever  stripping the impacted Tribal nations of their right to be consulted  prior to Federal actions that materially impact their lives, lands, and  interests;

And whereas H.J. Res. 140 has been transmitted to the U.S. Senate and  because disapproval of the underlying public land order directly  impacts more than one federally recognized Tribe's treaty guaranteed  rights, the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs should hold a hearing on  Public Land Order 7917 in order to solicit testimony from the impacted  Tribal nations before Senate floor consideration;

Now therefore be it resolved that NCAI urges the U.S. Senate Indian  Affairs Committee to expeditiously schedule a hearing regarding the  contents of Public Land Order 7917 and the potential detrimental impact  adopting H.J. Res. 140 would have on treaty rights by soliciting  testimony from the Tribal nations impacted.

And be it further resolved that NCAI insists that the administration  and the Congress protect the unique ecosystems of the Boundary Waters  Canoe Area Wilderness from contamination and encroachment, which is the  underlying purpose of Public Land Order 7917.

And be it finally resolved that this resolution shall be the policy  of NCAI until it is withdrawn or modified by any subsequent resolution.

Now, I think this is important for a couple of reasons.

One, this is such an important organization reflecting so many Tribal  nations. It is important also that they are saying clearly that they  believe that the public land order in place right now is protecting  their Tribal sovereignty and treaty rights as they should be protected.

The resolution is also saying, if you are going to take such a  dramatic step, U.S. Senate, you ought to at least have a hearing in the  Senate Indian Affairs Committee to create an opportunity for Tribal  nations to express their views on this.

Of course, that hearing hasn't happened. Because the CRA came before  the Senate as a privileged resolution, it was not possible to refer  this to the committee during these processes that were going on. There  are so many things that the Senate is limited from doing because of the  form in which the House sent this resolution over to the Senate; but I  think it is a travesty that, at the very least, a hearing exploring the  impacts on Tribal nations will not have been held before Members of the  Senate are to make a decision that has such a significant impact on  treaty rights and Tribal nations in Minnesota. As this letter says,  what impacts one Tribal nation impacts all Tribal nations in this  environment, in this situation.

Having the support of the National Congress of American Indians is  extremely important, but I also want to just note that the Minnesota  Chippewa Tribes--that all of the Chippewa Tribes in Northern Minnesota  have also expressed their strong disapproval of this action that the  Senate is contemplating tonight. So I am going to read the letter that  the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe sent to Senator Klobuchar and me so that  everyone will--so that it will also be in the Record.

Here is the letter, which was written on March 4, my birthday. It's  to Senator Tina Smith and Senator Amy Klobuchar. Re: Vote No on Mining  in and around the Boundary Waters: Dear Senators Smith and Klobuchar, I  write at the direction of the leadership of the six bands of the  Minnesota Chippewa Tribe--otherwise MCT--all of which are federally  recognized Indian Tribes under the umbrella of the MCT.

As you know, in January, H.J. Res. 140 passed the House and rolls  back the 20-year ban on mining in and around the Boundary Waters Canoe  Area Wilderness and within the Superior National Forest in Minnesota.  The MCT strongly opposes any mining in that area and asks that you vote  no on any companion bill in the Senate, and we thank you both for your  public statements to date in opposition of this destructive measure.

Members of those MCT bands who were signatories to the 1854 Treaty of  La Pointe, which encompasses the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness,  retain the right to enter millions of acres in the Arrowhead region of  Minnesota to exercise their treaty reserved rights to hunt and fish and  gather.

The entire area is Ojibwe homeland. In fact, one of the key purposes  of the Bureau of Land Management order withdrawing the Superior  National Forest lands from potential mineral and geothermal leasing was  to protect and preserve the fragile and vital socio-natural resources,  ecological integrity, and wilderness values from the potential diverse  effects of mineral and geothermal exploration and development. The 1854  ceded territory was expressly called out as one of the areas that must  be protected.

The letter includes a map of the ceded territory, and the letter  concludes by saying: Again, we appreciate your opposition to lifting  the mining ban and your support of Tribes in this region. Thank you.

I have here also letters from the White Earth Indian Reservation  expressing their opposition to mining in or near the Boundary Waters  Wilderness.

I have a letter from the Midwest Alliance of Sovereign Tribes, and  all of the Anishinaabe Tribes across Minnesota and Wisconsin are all  relatives.

This is another letter basically saying: We are writing to you today  on an issue of utmost importance to all of our members. It is our  understanding that the House joint resolution may soon be brought to  the floor. This resolution is a measure brought under the Congressional  Review Act to repeal a current rule banning copper-sulfide mining. We  urge you and your colleagues to vote no on this measure.

I have here a letter from the Eastern Shoshone Tribe, which is a  Wyoming Tribe, sent to Senator Lummis, Senator Thune, and also to  Senator Schumer and Senator Barrasso. It includes opposition, saying  clearly, on behalf of the Eastern Shoshone Business Council, it urges  the Senate to oppose H.J. Res. 140.

I have a letter from the Prairie Band Potawatomi Nation urging  opposition to this resolution.

I have a letter from the Rosebud Sioux Tribe from Rosebud, SD, urging  opposition to this CRA.

I have here a letter from early February to all of the Members of the  Senate, and I am just going to read you a bit of it, but I think what I  want you to know is that, at the end of this letter, it is signed by--I  mean, my word. I would have to count them all up--I would guess, 40 or  50 small businesses in Minnesota. Many of them are from the area--you  know, they benefit so much from the natural resources of Northern  Minnesota and from the outdoor recreation economy of Northern  Minnesota.

They are urging the U.S. Senate to oppose H.J. Res. 140, and I am  just going to read you a bit of it.

It says: The Boundary Waters and downstream Voyageurs National Park  are currently protected by Public Land Order 7917--the 20-year mineral  withdrawal banning copper and nickel mining on Federal public lands in  the headwaters of these beloved wildlands. This mining ban is based on  the U.S. Forest Service's comprehensive environmental assessment, which  concluded that sulfide-ore copper mining near the Boundary Waters would  cause irreversible harm to the region's watershed, fish, and wildlife,  treaty and Tribal rights, and robust recreation economy.

The analysis completed by the Forest Service in 2022 included 675,000  public comments, over 95 percent of which favored protecting the  Boundary Waters and Voyageurs from sulfide-ore copper mining.  Overturning the mining ban puts at risk the forests and the clean  waters of the region as well as its town's indigenous communities and  the regional economy.

The love for the Boundary Waters powers a strong and enduring  recreation economy in Northeastern Minnesota--responsible for 17,000  jobs and over $1 billion in sales annually in the region. This includes  the many businesses many of us have created and grown which will be  seriously damaged if sulfide-ore copper mining were allowed in this  fragile environment.

The wilderness is also a crown jewel of Minnesota and important to  the State's growing $13.5 billion outdoor economy. Economic studies  show that protecting the Boundary Waters would be better for the  economy than opening the area to copper mining.

The letter goes on to say: Once compromised, the Boundary Waters  cannot be restored. This region is much more than a beautiful place. It  embodies the best of our public lands: clean water, expansive habitat,  world-class recreation, vibrant wilderness communities, and sustainable  local economies. Generations of Midwesterners and Americans from across  the country have formed deep connections to nature through hunting and  fishing and camping and canoeing and hiking in the Boundary Waters.

We urge you to vote no on H.J. Res. 140. Do not sell out our  wilderness, our way of life, and our businesses.

This letter is signed by--and I won't read all of the people who have  signed it--Ely Outfitting in Ely, MN; Freedom Explorer; the Lodge of  Whispering Pines; River Point Resort; Wilderness Cabins; Piragis  Northwoods Company; Voyager Outward Bound School; North of North  Resort; Ely Cabin Collective; Final Touch Proofreading and Editing.

I am sure there are, you know, advertising and marketing jobs  connected to the Boundary Waters.

White Pine Productions. All of these are in Ely, MN.

Then there are many others: North Shore Adventure Park in Silver Bay;  Big City Mountaineers in Tower; Granite Gear in Two Harbors; Madison  Elyse, LLC, in Alexandria; Littlbug Enterprises in Bemidji; Java Moose  in Grand Marais; the Fisherman's Daughter in Grand Marais.

I mean, there are dozens of businesses that are listed here, and I  think this just goes to show how the outdoor recreation economy powers  these small businesses. They are the employers and the drivers of  Minnesota's economy. So listening to them and hearing what they have to  say as we make this decision is just so important.

The hour grows late, and I know we have people who have been here all  day long, so I am going to take a couple of--a bit more of the time  that I have--5 hours all in--on this extremely important topic just to  talk a little bit more about some of the feedback that I have gotten  from Minnesotans before I wrap up tonight.

Here is something that I think is really an important and interesting  note that I have gotten from Lakeville, MN.

This person says the following: I moved to Minnesota over a decade  ago from Chicago. As someone born in Iowa, I visited Minnesota often.  When making the decision to move to Minnesota, a huge draw for us was  outdoors. We visit the Boundary Waters Canoe Area every year, and my  kids know the feeling of a great hike and the beautiful scenery to go  with it. If this resolution passes Congress, not only will my  grandchildren not be able to enjoy this beautiful place, but my kids  will watch it disappear before  their eyes. Please protect this land, protect beauty, and protect the  feeling of a great hike.

This is a letter from Lake Elmo, MN. It is very short.

She says: I am a 79-year-old woman who goes to the BWCA with my kids  and grandchildren. Chilean mining in the area will hurt the tour  industry.

Thank you for sending that.

I will read a couple more here before I close.

This is from St. Augusta, MN, and it says: I am a 45-year resident of  Minnesota. I am an Eagle Scout, husband, and father of three daughters.  I have been an outdoor enthusiast from a very early age--deer hunting  with extended family and camping with the Scouts. When my daughters  were old enough, I began planning annual trips into the BWCA for 4 to 6  days, acquiring all of the equipment necessary and passing on my  knowledge and appreciation of the outdoors, hoping that, one day, they  will take up the mantle with our children and help protect these  critical ecosystems. I also require that no phones or electronic  devices accompany us on our BW adventures--something my daughters label  as a technology detox and, in my opinion, provides a type of reset  against an increasingly technological existence.

Here is a note from somebody from Big Lake, MN: I am Minnesota born  and raised. I grew up in a Republican household with a father who  showed me all the true beauty and wonder of this State through fishing,  hunting, foraging, and camping. The land that makes up this State and  all the creatures and features within it have given me a purpose and a  mission. I went to college at Gustavus Adolphus, where I studied the  environment, and I got a job there guiding others on how to enjoy the  outdoors and invest in protecting the wonderful State that gives them  these opportunities.

I have seen the impact firsthand on how countless times people's  whole worlds have changed when they are introduced to the beauty and  recreation of the Land of 10,000 Lakes, of which you are representing  me.

If I could sit down with you face-to-face, Mr. Emmer, you would see  the absolute fear in my eyes at the prospect of losing more wild areas  than we already have. And I can assure you that sentiment is shared by  a vast majority of Minnesotans. No matter what side of the aisle people  are on, they can unite over the unique beauty and foundational  importance that our ecosystems have, not only on the very water we  drink and the air that we breathe but in the foundation for pride in  our chest when we beam that we are from Minnesota.

I sincerely urge you to consider this deeply, to talk to those you  represent about the impact that this would have, and to take heed to  science. This isn't about me. This is about every little kid who is  growing up or who is about to be born in this great State. Will they  still hold that pride in their chest when they declare where they are  from if the very thing that makes us Minnesotans is ripped away from  them?

Already I have taught young people who have never seen an  unobstructed night sky or know what it is like to catch a firefly. I  have taught young people who know what it is like to fish at a lake  their grandfather recommended and to catch nothing because the fish are  gone and hear nothing but machinery instead of loon calls while they  are out. Please, I am begging you on behalf of all our legacies, please  fight for us.

Mr. President, I think I wanted to just clarify that this letter was  forwarded to me, but it was sent to Congressman Emmer of Minnesota, and  this Minnesotan is begging him to listen and fight.

Here is a letter from a Minnesotan that says: I am devastated to  learn that the U.S. House of Representatives has voted to repeal the  longstanding ban on mining near the Boundary Waters. I have been going  on yearly BWCA trips with my mom since 2009, when I was 10 years old. I  am now 27, and she is now 70, and we plan to continue our annual  tradition for as long as we can. Though I haven't yet started a family,  my mom has always hoped she will be around to introduce her future  grandchildren to this beautiful wilderness. I now fear, though, that  the Boundary Waters themselves won't be around for my children to  enjoy.

My mom raised me to care for nature, to leave each BWCA campsite  cleaner than I found it, and it grieves me that I am powerless to  preserve the Boundary Waters beyond these small actions.

When we go on our 2026 trip, I will continue to treat each campsite  and portage and lake with respect and love. I can only hope that those  with power in this country can, from afar, do the same.

I don't think I could possibly read all of the letters and messages  that have come from Minnesota to me over the last many months about  this, and you may be wondering why I am standing here at nearly  midnight keeping everybody up, and here is why: because I know there  are so many people in Minnesota who are wondering--excuse me. I am  losing my voice. I know there are so many people in Minnesota who are  wondering whether anybody in this building cares about what they think,  and the one thing that I can do is to be here, speaking to this mostly  empty room, making sure that, to the best of my abilities, that their  voices will be heard. Their voices will be heard, regardless of what  the Senate does.

I dearly hope that the Members of this body will think about their  legacy in protecting the great places in this country, to think about  the risks--there are risks in this time that you must take, but then  there are other risks like the risk of polluting this beautiful place  that is not necessary. It is not necessary to take.

And I hope that my colleagues will also think about the precedent  that taking this action will take and the ways in which other  politicians down the road will look back on the actions that this  Senate is taking right now and saying: They gave us permission to do  the same thing because they said it was OK. And that will have impacts  not only on the Boundary Waters, this precious place, but it will have  impacts on precious places all over the country, and it will have  impacts on the overall integrity of our government if actions that are  taken that are legal can just be undone willy-nilly. And that just  seems to me to be so bad for this body, to be bad for the public lands  that we all love, and to be bad for this country that we all love so  much.

So I stand here tonight with a mostly gone voice to give voice to all  of those people in my home State and in States all over this country  who feel like what they think doesn't really matter, and I am here to  tell you that it does. And the power of the organizing that has  happened over the last many weeks to raise up this issue in the face of  a time in our country when there are so many issues that demand so much  attention: a war in Iran, the brutal attacks on my home State of  Minnesota by Federal agents, so many worries, so many worries that so  many people have in this country right now--worries, fundamentally,  about how they are going to put food on the table and how they are  going to pay rent and how they are going to hold their lives together.  But they organized to make sure that their voices were heard on this  thing that they care so much about, and so it has been my honor and  also my responsibility and my obligation to help to lift those voices  up tonight.

Tomorrow, I believe the Senate will vote on this, and I hope that the  Senate makes a good decision--a good decision not only for my home  State of Minnesota and for this precious place but also for the good of  the whole, for the good of the whole country, and the protection of our  public lands and the integrity of our democracy.