Letter to the Hon. Richard Shelby, Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee and to the Hon. Patrick Leahy, Vice Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee - Cortez Masto, Colleagues Call for Additional Funding for Public Health Education


Dear Chairman Shelby and Vice Chairman Leahy:Thank you for your Committee's work to date in appropriating much-needed resources tosupport our nation's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The funding made available undereach piece of coronavirus-related legislation has been essential to the work conducted byagencies and organizations on the front lines of the outbreak.As states begin to prepare for the next phase of this pandemic, we ask that you increase supportfor public health training programs to protect the pipeline of qualified health workers who willbe essential to monitoring this virus in the months and years to come. Specifically we ask thatyou provide an additional $20 million in funding to support Regional Public Health TrainingCenter (PHTC) Programs in any forthcoming legislation to address the coronavirus pandemic.The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) currently funds ten PHTCs acrossthe country. These critical programs provide specialized training and technical assistance topublic health students and professionals, helping to meet the workforce needs of state and localpublic health agencies.Looking ahead, a robust pipeline of qualified public health workers will be critical to states'responses to the next phase of the coronavirus outbreak. States must develop and administerCOVID-19 testing programs to monitor new cases, and establish contact tracing strategies tomitigate community spread of the virus. The need for qualified professionals supported by experttechnical assistance will only continue to grow as states lift stay-at-home orders and businessesbegin to reopen. Additional resources delivered to PHTCs would have an exponential impact onthe capacity of local public health departments to fulfill their missions by providing training andhuman resources that they can use to scale up operations in response to the pandemic.We look forward to working with you to support the efforts of our constituent public healthagencies who are working tirelessly to stem the spread of this virus and enable our communitiesto return to regular order. Thank you for your consideration of this request.