Letter to Mitch McConnell, Senate Majority Leader; Chuck Schumer, Senate Minority Leader; Nancy Pelosi, House Speaker; and Kevin McCarthy, House Minority Leader - In Bipartisan Letter, Lawmakers Seek Emergency Funding for Behavioral Health Organizations in Next Coronavirus Stimulus Package


Dear Majority Leader McConnell, Minority Leader Schumer, Speaker Pelosi, and MinorityLeader McCarthy:

As you negotiate the next stimulus package to mitigate the health and economic effects of thecoronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, we request that you provide emergencyfunding to mental health disorder and addiction treatment providers across the country. Manyorganizations that primarily treat individuals with mental health and/or substance use disorders(collectively, behavioral health organizations or "BHOs") are at risk of closing their doors as aresult of the COVID-19 pandemic. The immediate and long-term effects of this cannot beoverstated as millions of Americans rely on BHOs to address their mental health and substanceuse disorder treatment needs. As such, we request that you provide at least $38.5 billion inemergency funding to BHOs across the country that utilize evidence-based practices, with asignificant portion of these emergency funds set aside for BHOs enrolled in Medicaid andprovide care to underserved groups, or those who otherwise lack coverage for needed behavioraland mental health care.

Millions of individuals, children, and families across the country struggle with mental illness oraddiction each and every day. According to the 2018 National Survey on Drug Use and Health,nearly 1 in 5 adults, over 47 million people, reported struggling with mental illness, and over 10million reported suicidal thoughts. These numbers are particularly concerning among thenation's youth. 1 in 7 youth aged 12 to 17, or 3.5 million adolescents, reported experiencing amajor depressive episode in 2018, and record numbers of adolescents have attempted or considered suicide in recent years. In addition to age disparities, it has been found that people ofcolor, people from lower socioeconomic backgrounds, and people living in rural communitiesare less likely to have access to mental health care and more likely to receive lower quality care.Further, over 20 million Americans are living with substance use disorder, including 2 millionwho have opioid use disorder.

The numbers of Americans struggling with mental illness will only continue to grow as familiesand individuals face the emotional and economic repercussions of the pandemic. A recent pollfound that the pandemic and its resultant social and economic impacts are already taking a heavytoll on Americans' mental health. 45 percent of respondents reported that the pandemic isnegatively affecting their mental health, up from 32 percent just a month prior. Experts haveeven suggested that long-term social distancing from friends, loved ones, and a departure fromroutine may have both short- and long-term psychological effects. This, compounded withincreasing financial strain and underlying disparities in mental health care access and quality ofcare, could have dire consequences. Anecdotal reports have indicated that rates of consumptionof alcohol and other addictive substances are on the rise. Furthermore, social distancingmeasures have created barriers to accessing treatment, which has only been exacerbated by ascarcity of available providers as they either fall ill or become overloaded with patients.

BHOs are crucial to the provision of behavioral health care to Americans across the country whorely on them for a variety of services, but are being burdened by the pandemic. BHOs mayprovide counseling services to individuals, families, and children struggling with depression,Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, and countless other mental illnesses. Additionally, licensedpractitioners at BHOs may provide lifesaving medication assisted treatment to individuals withopioid and other substance use disorders. Without this medical treatment, patients in recovery are at higher risk for relapse, overdose, or overdose related death. These services will become allthe more important as COVID-19 continues to spread and the need for mental health disorderand addiction treatment services grows. However, because of the health and economic impacts ofthe pandemic and the growing number of patients, many BHOs are at risk of closing their doors.Some BHOs have projected nearly $40 billion in lost revenue as a direct result of increased staffovertime to meet patient need, increased need for PPE, and the implementation of telehealthservices.10 The impact of such a shortfall would be significant, particularly as the COVID-19pandemic continues to disrupt the lives of all Americans.

BHOs have not been sufficiently included in response efforts to date. Congress has passed fourstimulus packages to bolster the nation's response to COVID-19. However, none have addressedthe growing challenge to and need for BHOs. With a growing number of Americans in need ofbehavioral health services and many BHOs at risk of closing, the nation is headed towardsanother public health crisis. To avert another large-scale public health crisis, we must pass astimulus package that prioritizes the financial security of these vital health care providers and thehealth of millions of Americans. As such, we respectfully request that at least $38.5 billion inemergency aid is provided to BHOs that can meet at least one of the following three criteria:accredited by an independent, national accrediting organization or receive state or tribal fundingor qualify as community mental health centers as defined in Section 1913(c) of the Public HealthService Act. This will allow these critical mental health and addiction treatment providers to keeptheir doors open and continue providing crucial treatment to Americans during these tryingtimes. We are also supportive of efforts, led by our colleagues, to boost critical funding at theDepartment of Health and Human Services for mental and behavioral health initiatives, includingthe Community Mental Health Services Block Grant, the National Child Traumatic StressNetwork, and other Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Substance Abuse and MentalHealth Services Administration (SAMHSA), Indian Health Service (IHS), and Health Resourcesand Services Administration programs, as well as specific programs that support the mental andbehavioral health of American Indian and Alaska Native populations like the SAMHSA TribalBehavioral Health Grants, and funding for the Mental Health and Alcohol & Substance Abuseline items in the IHS budget.

We thank you for your attention to this matter and look forward to working together to ensurethat any economic stimulus package provides much needed relief for our nation's BHOs.