Letter to Mike Pompeo, Secretary of State - U.S. Senator Tina Smith Presses Secretary Pompeo for Plan to Bring Home Minnesotans, Other Americans Trapped Abroad Due to Coronavirus


Dear Secretary Pompeo:

I am writing to request that the U.S. Department of State (State Department) take immediate action to assist any U.S. citizens trapped abroad due to travel restrictions related to the COVID-19 outbreak in their effort to return home as soon as possible.

As of this morning, several countries have instituted policies that effectively close their borders to foreign nationals seeking to enter or exit those countries. Currently, my office is in direct contact with numerous U.S. citizens trapped in Morocco and Peru, with no access to commercial flights or other transportation. We expect that European Union countries will implement similar restrictions imminently. As the global community continues to manage this crisis, we expect that many other countries will follow suit. Therefore, we expect the number of U.S. citizens needing State Department assistance to return to the U.S. to grow substantially in the coming hours. 

Our citizens need immediate assistance, and clarity of communication. Therefore, I ask that you provide detailed answers to the following questions:

1.How is the State Department planning to facilitate the return of U.S. citizens who have no access to commercial flights in countries that implement travel restrictions due to the COVID-19 outbreak?

2.How is the State Department planning to communicate those plans to U.S. citizens trapped abroad?

3.Countries such as England and France have been able to evacuate their citizens from countries that have already restricted travel on flag carriers. Is the State Department pursuing agreements for similar arrangements to evacuate U.S. citizens? If so, what are the obstacles to reaching those agreements? If not, why not?  

I understand that there are significant legal, personnel, and logistical challenges involved in extricating U.S. citizens during this time of global crisis. I strongly urge the State Department to take swift and decisive action to ensure all U.S. citizens that wish to return home to the U.S. are able do so immediately.

Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We look forward to your timely response. 

Sincerely,