Loeffler, Smith Introduce Bills to Expand Rural Health Care Access


U.S. Senators Kelly Loeffler (R-Ga.) and Tina Smith (D-Minn.) introduced two pieces of legislation to improve health care services in rural America.  The bills, the Improving Care in Rural America (ICRA) Reauthorization Act and the Rural Delivery of Online Care Services (R-DOCS) Reauthorization Act, reauthorize rural and telehealth grant programs through the Public Health Service Act. These programs promote improved health care in rural communities by funding projects that expand access and improve the quality of health care services offered. Unlike previous reauthorizations, these bills expand the footprint of the programs, open eligibility to more applicants and extend the funding period. "As we work together to keep Americans safe, we are reminded of the critical role rural and telehealth programs play in keeping our communities healthy," said Senator Loeffler, a member of the Senate Health, Education Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. "We must ensure Americans have access to quality health care services regardless of their background or zip code. Through these grant programs, we're working to close the health care services gap by connecting medical professionals with rural patients, streamlining innovation, removing barriers to competition and increasing access to services and technology. For a state like Georgia, where 120 of 159 counties are considered rural by the Georgia Department of Community Health, these programs are critically important."  "All families deserve quality health care no matter where they call home. But right now, many small towns and rural communities face unique challenges when it comes to access to health care," said Senator Smith, also a member of the HELP Committee and a leader of the bipartisan Senate Rural Health Caucus. "Reauthorizing these rural health grants is critical to addressing key barriers to access. And these telehealth network grants will not only help deliver care to folks living in underserved areas, but they'll cut costs too. I'm glad to help lead this bipartisan effort and keep advocating on behalf of rural health care and infrastructure needs." Background: Section 330A of the Public Health Service Act includes Rural Healthcare Services Outreach grants, Rural Health Network Development grants and Small Healthcare Provider Quality Improvement grants. Through the Improving Care in Rural America (ICRA) Reauthorization Act, these funds are distributed to rural and underserved areas around the United States to improve the delivery of health care services in rural areas, help plan and implement integrated health care networks and support small healthcare providers to increase the quality of care they deliver. This legislation reauthorizes $79.5 million for these grants each year for the next five fiscal years. Section 330I of the Public Health Act includes Telehealth Network grants and Telehealth Resource Centers grants. Through the Rural Delivery of Online Care Services (R-DOCS) Reauthorization Act, grants are awarded to health care entities for utilization of evidence-based telehealth projects in rural and medically-underserved areas and to help support additional initiatives that use telehealth technologies. This bill reauthorizes $29 million for these grants each year for the next five fiscal years.