With Unprecedented Disruptions From Coronavirus, Klobuchar and Wyden Introduce Bill to Ensure Americans are Still Able to Vote


Dear Administrator Gaynor:

I write today about the urgent need to clarify that, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, funding for intensive care surge capacity at hospitals will be reimbursed by FEMA or another agency.  Second only to testing capacity, this is the most urgent need thathealth care providers in Minnesota have identified, and we can't let any confusion about Federal support cause states to proceed at anything less than full speed. 

On March 13th, President Trump declared a national emergency under the Stafford Act, freeing up billions  of  dollars  from  FEMA  to  be  used  to  reimburse  states  and  tribal  governments  as  they respond to COVID-19.  Because of this action, tribes and states --and local government entities and private non-profit organizations acting through their states --can apply to be reimbursed for emergency protective measures taken at the direction or guidance of public health officials.  These entities are waiting, and I fear hesitating, as FEMA and HHS sort out which categories of assistance will be reimbursed by FEMA.  I understand that you are, rightfully, mandated to avoid duplication with other agencies, but a clear and strong message from you that states can go ahead and safely assume that the Federal government will come through is needed. 

I'm urging youto quickly  and publicly clarify that FEMA Public Assistance will reimburse for expenses related to building surge capacity at hospitals.  Time is of the essence, as the infection spreads in Minnesota and across the nation.  Hospitals are doing all that they can to build capacity to  withstand  the  dramatically  increased  intensive  care  needs  they  will  soon  see,  and  they  need reassurance that they have FEMA's support. 

I appreciate your consideration of this request. Should any questions arise, please do not hesitate to contact Pete Wyckoff(Pete_Wyckoff@smith.senate.gov) or Kripa Sreepada (Kripa_Sreepada@smith.senate.gov) on my staff.  .

Sincerely,