Expiration of New Start


Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Dr. Foster for gathering us  here to help shine a light on what remains the most serious existential  threat facing our country and our planet. It is too easy to forget in  these days of polycrisis that we are on the brink of a new nuclear arms  race.

Very soon, one of the last remaining pillars of the nuclear arms  control regime, the New START treaty, is due to expire. This treaty  restricted the U.S. and Russian nuclear arsenals and provide some  measure of stability in our bilateral relationship.

Sadly, the Trump administration has failed to do anything to get  ahead of the expiration of New START and has done a lot to raise  nuclear tensions. The President has made threats, endorsed insanely  expensive plans to expand our arsenal, pushed for the resumption of  explosive testing, and advocated for an impractical missile defense  system that will only encourage our adversaries to accelerate their own  weapons program.

I am particularly horrified that the President may choose to ignore  the comprehensive test ban treaty which has given comfort and safety to  the world for two generations.

Meanwhile, Russia has expressed an interest in maintaining New START  restrictions on its stockpile for another year while the terms of a new  treaty can be hashed out, but, unfortunately, the White House has not  responded to their offer, and it has shown no interest in engaging with  China either on nuclear arms reduction, this despite the danger China  is dramatically trying to build up its nuclear arsenal. If ever there  were a time to talk to China, it would be right now.

It is not hard to guess what happens next if nothing changes. Each  side will be adding now weapons to their arsenal for the first time in  decades. We would come back to 10,000 nuclear weapons aimed at the  Soviet Union, 10,000 aimed at us, to 1,500 to 1,800 each.

Now we are going back to that feedback loop that was reminiscent of  the first days of the Cold War. Not only will this cost a tremendous  amount of money and put us on an even more dire fiscal trajectory, it  will ratchet up the very real danger of a nuclear exchange.

Mr. Speaker, we can already destroy the planet many, many times over  with our own existing nuclear stockpiles. Why on Earth do we need to  spend more of our scarce resources on these incredibly expensive  weapons? We have gone through this cycle before. We were very lucky,  but I am terrified we will not make it through again.

This shouldn't be a partisan issue. It has never been partisan.  Republican Presidents from Dwight Eisenhower to Ronald Reagan to George  W. Bush have all led on arms control agreements.

I have been critical of my own party's approach to nuclear weapons.  The Biden administration, despite campaign promises, refused to adopt a  first-use or no-sole-use nuclear policy.

Currently, the U.S. President can order the launch of hundreds of  nuclear warheads within 15 minutes, with no oversight or even  conversations with the Speaker of the House, the Secretary of Defense,  the chief of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and including Congress. Vesting  this much power in one person, particularly this President, is  irresponsible, dangerous, and unnecessary.

Given our massive conventional military advantages over our  adversaries--think of Venezuela--there is no plausible circumstance  that could justify the use of nuclear weapons to deal with a nonnuclear  threat.

Removing the specter of the U.S. using nuclear weapons first in a  conflict would go a long way toward slowing down this renewed global  arms race. I am so glad to see my colleagues here share my concerns. I  hope we can make a dent in the common sense here in this Congress.

While I have you here, today I voted against a funding measure that  would enshrine the Trump administration's illegal destruction of the  United States Agency for International Development, USAID.

Among the litany of illegal, immoral, and illegitimate acts committed  by this administration, what President Trump and Elon Musk did to USAID  will echo in our history as one of the most evil and pointless  decisions made by this country.

Hundreds of thousands of the most vulnerable people in the world have  died already because of this decision so far. Their premature and  tragic deaths are the direct moral responsibility of Donald Trump, Elon  Musk, and Marco Rubio. They remind me of the comments of an unnamed  French diplomat speaking of the horrors of World War I: The war I  cannot find it to be so bad. The death of one man, that is a  catastrophe; 100,000 deaths, that is a statistic.

Our global reputation and soft power around the world have suffered  permanent damage. Our ability to fight future global pandemics and  diseases has been crippled, and U.S. farmers have suffered needlessly  on top of the hundreds of public servants who were harassed and thrown  out of their jobs. Beyond the human cost, far from saving the taxpayer  any money, the State Department's own assessments show that shutting  down the agency will cost more than $6 billion.

The whole point of this misguided crusade against starving and sick  children overseas was to find waste, fraud, and abuse that simply did  not exist. This was a case of the very worst of us attacking the very  best of us.

I have heard from hundreds of my constituents, former USAID public  servants, who dedicated their lives to making the world a better place.  Their overwhelming regret is not that they lost their jobs but that the  critical work they did to help the poor, the sick, and the starving has  stopped.

I am sickened by what this administration has done to USAID and to  the world. I will do everything I can to reverse this awful decision.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Dr. Foster for convening us together and for his  leadership.