Recognizing Reverend Sarah Yvonne Williams Carr


Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor and recognize Reverend Sarah  Yvonne Williams Carr, a truly remarkable woman who has dedicated her  life to serving the Ebenezer Baptist Church and the Alexandria  Community.

Reverend Sarah Carr, a trailblazer who has made history at Ebenezer  Baptist Church (EBC) in Northern Virginia, was born on September 19,  1953, in South Carolina. Her family moved to Virginia, where Reverend  Carr attended Charles Houston Elementary and Parker Gray High School  and joined Ebenezer Baptist Church. It was at Ebenezer that Reverend  Carr was first baptized as a child by Reverend A.A. Booker, and again  as a teenager when she started her journey with God. As an adult, she  shared her vision of becoming a Minister with her mother, Mrs. Sallie  Mae Sanders Baker, and other Pastors at Ebenezer, Reverend Lloyd  Roberts, Reverend Duane Kay, Reverend James Buck, and Reverend W.  Pierce Smith.

For over 60 years, Reverend Carr has been a devoted member of  Ebenezer Baptist Church, a church with a 144-year history within the  Alexandria community. Her spiritual journey began at Ebenezer, and  despite receiving her calling many times, she initially ignored it.  However, with strong encouragement from Reverend Dr. Albert P. Jackson,  her sister Jeanette, other family members, friends, and her late  brother, Rice, Reverend Carr became inspired and felt a strong urge to  fulfill the calling she had long ignored, thus began her training and  educational journey.

On November 24, 2024, she made history by becoming the first female  Reverend to be ordained at Ebenezer Baptist Church. This achievement is  not just a personal triumph, but a testament to Reverend Carr's  unwavering dedication, hard work and strong faith.

Reverend Carr's journey has been one of a vision, purpose, and  service. Before deciding to follow her divine calling, Sarah was a  respected leader and worked in various capacities, including Alexandria  City Public Schools, the Campagna Center, and the Alexandria  Recreational Department. Her decision to pursue ordination is a  milestone, not only for her, but for the entire church, and the broader  community as we continue to embrace and celebrate women in leadership  roles.

We thank Reverend Carr for her tireless work, leadership, commitment  to help others, and for showing us all what it means to walk in purpose  and faith. May God continue to bless her and her work.