Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.

Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chairman, the current law that this amendment  addresses doesn't hinder our readiness at all, nor does it raise costs.  It is not costly. It is not a general ban on the internal combustion  engine.

Mr. Chairman, I believe I may be the only certified internal  combustion engine mechanic in the U.S. Congress right now, although my  certification has long since run out. I love internal combustion  engines, but they do run out of fuel. They need fuel, just as electric  vehicles need electricity.

The current law allows for a preference for leasing or procuring  electric, hybrid, biofuel-capable, or hydrogen fuel cell vehicles when  reasonably comparable on cost to an internal combustion engine. The  current law does not mandate buying a non-ICE vehicle. It just  establishes a preference when all else is equal.

Also, Mr. Chairman, it has many exemptions that prevent impacts to  readiness and makes this a nonproblematic, commonsense provision. These  include tactical vehicles that are entirely excluded from this  preference policy.

The policy can only be put in place if the alternative-fuel vehicle  fully meets the needs of the Department of Defense. The alternative- fuel vehicle must be commercially available at a cost, including both  purchase or leasing price and operating cost, that is comparable to  traditional internal combustion engine motor vehicles, and there is an  exemption if the purchase or lease of such a vehicle is, to quote  directly from the law, impracticable under the circumstances.

In addition to these numerous exemptions, there is also a waiver  provision with no certification reporting requirement, making it very  straightforward to get a waiver if an electric vehicle or alternative- fuel vehicle is not the right fit. The preference policy is not  restrictive. It is not overly burdensome in any sense. It is just truly  a preference if all other conditions are equal.

In addition to eliminating the preference itself, it is pretty  interesting to see that there are two other provisions in this  amendment that both eliminate even the consideration of noninternal  combustion engine vehicles, even the consideration, and other  alternative-energy initiatives in the Department of Defense's energy  performance goals or when setting energy plans for installations.

It is hard to look at that language and consider this amendment with  a straight face. I would be curious to know if the sponsor talked to  the agriculture community. I am sure they would have concerns about the  attacks on biodiesel and ethanol. This attack is actively harmful, and  it sets us backward, especially when newer fuels and technology have  such strong potential for energy efficiency, resiliency, and cost- saving gains. The EV business is just getting better and better every  single day.

In an environment where our bases need resilience more than ever, it  makes no sense to remove the consideration of practices that can make  energy performance or goals or plans more efficient and help the  Department and installations meet their targets.

Mr. Chairman, I urge opposition to this harmful amendment, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chairman, that would make sense as to why there is a  preference. They could do it differently if they are near saltwater  versus being in, say, Dayton, Ohio.

Mr. Chair, I yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from  California (Mr. Garamendi), my good friend.

Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.