Community Reclamation Partnerships Act of 2025


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 167) to amend the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act  of 1977 to authorize partnerships between States and nongovernmental  entities for the purpose of reclaiming and restoring land and water  resources adversely affected by coal mining activities before August 3,  1977, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 167

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Community Reclamation       Partnerships Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. REFERENCE.

Except as otherwise specifically provided, whenever in this       Act an amendment is expressed in terms of an amendment to a       provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a       provision of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act       of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1201 et seq.).       SEC. 3. STATE MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING FOR CERTAIN                     REMEDIATION.

Section 405 (30 U.S.C. 1235) is amended by inserting after       subsection (l) the following:

``(m) State Memoranda of Understanding for Remediation of       Mine Drainage.--

``(1) In general.--A State with a State program approved       under subsection (d) may enter into a memorandum of       understanding with relevant Federal or State agencies (or       both) to remediate mine drainage on abandoned mine land and       water impacted by abandoned mines within the State. The       memorandum may be updated as necessary and resubmitted for       approval under this subsection.

``(2) Memoranda requirements.--Such memorandum shall       establish a strategy satisfactory to the State and Federal       agencies that are parties to the memorandum, to address water       pollution resulting from mine drainage at sites eligible for       reclamation and mine drainage abatement expenditures under       section 404, including specific procedures for--

``(A) ensuring that activities carried out to address mine       drainage will result in improved water quality;

``(B) monitoring, sampling, and the reporting of collected       information as necessary to achieve the condition required       under subparagraph (A);

``(C) operation and maintenance of treatment systems as       necessary to achieve the condition required under       subparagraph (A); and

``(D) other purposes, as considered necessary by the State       or Federal agencies, to achieve the condition required under       subparagraph (A).

``(3) Public review and comment.--

``(A) In general.--Before submitting a memorandum to the       Secretary and the Administrator for approval, a State shall--

``(i) invite interested members of the public to comment on       the memorandum; and

``(ii) hold at least one public meeting concerning the       memorandum in a location or locations reasonably accessible       to persons who may be affected by implementation of the       memorandum.

``(B) Notice of meeting.--The State shall publish notice of       each meeting not less than 15 days before the date of the       meeting, in local newspapers of general circulation, on the       Internet, and by any other means considered necessary or       desirable by the Secretary and the Administrator.

``(C) Response to public comment.--The memorandum shall       include responses to substantive concerns raised by the       public in comments and during public meetings if received       within 30 days of such meetings and opportunity to comment.

``(4) Submission and approval.--The State shall submit the       memorandum to the Secretary and the Administrator of the       Environmental Protection Agency for approval. The Secretary       and the Administrator shall approve or disapprove the       memorandum within 120 days after the date of its submission       if the Secretary and Administrator find that the memorandum       will facilitate additional activities under the State       Reclamation Plan under subsection (e) that improve water       quality.

``(5) Treatment as part of state plan.--A memorandum of a       State that is approved by the Secretary and the Administrator       under this subsection shall be considered part of the       approved abandoned mine reclamation plan of the State.

``(n) Community Reclaimer Partnerships.--

``(1) Project approval.--Within 120 days after receiving       such a submission, the Secretary shall approve a Community       Reclaimer project to remediate abandoned mine lands if the       Secretary finds that--

``(A) the proposed project will be conducted by a Community       Reclaimer as defined in this subsection or approved       subcontractors of the Community Reclaimer;

``(B) for any proposed project that remediates mine       drainage, the proposed project is consistent with an approved       State memorandum of understanding under subsection (m);

``(C) the proposed project will be conducted on a site or       sites inventoried under section 403(c);

``(D) the proposed project meets all submission criteria       under paragraph (2);

``(E) the relevant State has entered into an agreement with       the Community Reclaimer under which the State shall assume       all responsibility with respect to the project for any costs       or damages resulting from any action or inaction on the part       of the Community Reclaimer in carrying out the project,       except for costs or damages resulting from gross negligence       or intentional misconduct by the Community Reclaimer, on       behalf of--

``(i) the Community Reclaimer; and

``(ii) the owner of the proposed project site, if such       Community Reclaimer or owner, respectively, did not       participate in any way in the creation of site conditions at       the proposed project site or activities that caused any lands       or waters to become eligible for reclamation or drainage       abatement expenditures under section 404;

``(F) the State has the necessary legal authority to       conduct the project and will obtain all legally required       authorizations, permits, licenses, and other approvals to       ensure completion of the project;

``(G) the State has sufficient financial resources to       ensure completion of the project, including any necessary       operation and maintenance costs (including costs associated       with emergency actions covered by a contingency plan under       paragraph (2)(K)); and

``(H) the proposed project is not in a category of projects       that would require a permit under title V.

``(2) Project submission.--The State shall submit a request       for approval to the Secretary that shall include--

``(A) a description of the proposed project, including any       engineering plans that must bear the seal of a professional       engineer;

``(B) a description of the proposed project site or sites,       including, if relevant, the nature and extent of pollution       resulting from mine drainage;

``(C) identification of the past and current owners and       operators of the proposed project site;

``(D) the agreement or contract between the relevant State       and the Community Reclaimer to carry out the project;

``(E) a determination that the project will facilitate the       activities of the State reclamation plan under subsection       (e);

``(F) sufficient information to determine whether the       Community Reclaimer has the technical capability and       expertise to successfully conduct the proposed project;

``(G) a cost estimate for the project and evidence that the       Community Reclaimer has sufficient financial resources to       ensure the successful completion of the proposed project       (including any operation or maintenance costs);

``(H) a schedule for completion of the project;

``(I) an agreement between the Community Reclaimer and the       current owner of the site governing access to the site;

``(J) sufficient information to ensure that the Community       Reclaimer meets the definition under paragraph (3);

``(K) a contingency plan designed to be used in response to       unplanned adverse events that includes emergency actions,       response, and notifications;

``(L) detailed plans for any proposed recycling or       reprocessing of historic mine residue to be conducted by the       Community Reclaimer (including a description of how all       proposed recycling or reprocessing activities contribute to       the remediation of the abandoned mine site); and

``(M) a requirement that the State provide notice to       adjacent and downstream landowners and the public and hold a       public meeting near the proposed project site before the       project is initiated.

``(3) Reprocessing of materials.--A Community Reclaimer may       reprocess materials recovered during the implementation of a       remediation plan only if--

``(A) the applicable land management agency has signed a       decision document approving reprocessing as part of the       approved abandoned mine reclamation plan of the State;

``(B) the proceeds from the sale or use of the materials       are used--

``(i) to defray the costs of the remediation; and

``(ii) to reimburse the Administrator or the head of a       Federal land management agency for the purpose of carrying       out this Act; and

``(C) the materials only include historic mine residue.

``(4) Community reclaimer defined.--For purposes of this       section, the term `Community Reclaimer' means any person       who--

``(A) seeks to voluntarily assist a State with a       reclamation project under this section, which may include       companies that currently hold reclamation liability elsewhere       from the proposed site or active mine sites that require a       performance bond;

``(B) did not participate in any way in the creation of       site conditions at the proposed project site or activities       that caused any lands or waters at the proposed project site       to become eligible for reclamation or drainage abatement       expenditures under section 404; and

``(C) is not subject to outstanding violations listed       pursuant to section 510(c).''.       SEC. 4. CLARIFYING STATE LIABILITY FOR MINE DRAINAGE                     PROJECTS.

Section 413(d) (30 U.S.C. 1242(d)) is amended by inserting       ``unless such control or treatment will be conducted in       accordance with a State memorandum of understanding approved       under section 405(m) of this Act'' after ``under the Federal       Water Pollution Control Act''.       SEC. 5. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

Section 405(f) (30 U.S.C. 1235(f)) is amended--

(1) by striking the ``and'' after the semicolon in       paragraph (6);

(2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (7) and       inserting ``; and''; and

(3) by inserting at the end the following:

``(8) a list of projects proposed under subsection (n).''.       SEC. 6. SUNSET PROVISION.

This Act shall be in effect until September 30, 2032.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  167, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of Representative LaHood's bill,  H.R. 167, the Community Reclamation Partnerships Act of 2025.

This bill would revise the Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation Program by  allowing third-party organizations to clean up coal mines that were  abandoned before modern environmental regulations. These organizations  would be granted protection from liability so they can assist in the  cleanup of acid mine drainage without fear of frivolous lawsuits.

While Good Samaritan remediation laws have been successful in States  like Pennsylvania, there is currently no similar Federal framework for  third-party protections. As a result, would-be reclaimers are often  deterred from cleanup projects due to fear of assuming liability for  conditions caused by prior operations.

H.R. 167, however, would recognize nongovernmental organizations as  community reclaimers, and States would assume responsibility for all  community reclaimer cleanup projects, just as they currently do for  approved AML contractors. This bill also establishes approved practices  for these reclamation projects and a process for agreements between  States and Federal agencies on mine drainage remediation.

Many third-party organizations support this legislation, as they need  this liability protection in order to operate efficiently and  effectively.

The Community Reclamation Partnerships Act passed the House in the  115th Congress and has moved through committee for the last three  Congresses. It is time we passed this commonsense, bipartisan piece of  legislation that will help reclaim abandoned mine lands and clean up  our local estuaries.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, in closing, this bill will ease the  process for reclaiming abandoned mine land  and improving environmental quality in communities across the country.  This legislation will also allow reclamation organizations to clean up  abandoned mine land without fear of becoming trapped in a litigation  doom loop.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman LaHood for bringing H.R. 167 to the  floor, and I yield back the balance of my time.