Memorandum of Understanding to Address Potential Impacts of A Certain Record of Decision on the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1001) to provide for a memorandum of understanding to  address the impacts of a certain record of decision on the Upper  Colorado River Basin Fund.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1001

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING TO ADDRESS POTENTIAL                     IMPACTS OF A CERTAIN RECORD OF DECISION ON THE                     UPPER COLORADO RIVER BASIN FUND.

(a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, acting       through the Commissioner of Reclamation, and the Secretary of       Energy, acting through the Administrator of the Western Area       Power Administration, in consultation with the Glen Canyon       Dam Adaptive Management Work Group, shall enter into a       memorandum of understanding to explore and address the impact       that the record of decision entitled the ``Supplement to the       2016 Glen Canyon Dam Long-Term Experimental and Management       Plan Record of Decision'' and dated July 2024 (referred to in       this section as the ``record of decision'') has on the Upper       Colorado River Basin Fund (referred to in this section as the       ``Fund'').

(b) Required Plan.--The memorandum of understanding entered       into under subsection (a) shall, using information derived       from existing hydropower contracts, include the establishment       of a plan to--

(1) address the effects that the record of decision may       have on Fund obligations including routine operations,       maintenance, and replacement of critical infrastructure;

(2) address the impact that the record of decision has on       hydropower production at Glen Canyon Dam, including costs to       replace hydropower resources and grid reliability; and

(3) identify impacts that the record of decision has had on       species listed as a threatened species or an endangered       species under section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973       (16 U.S.C. 1533).

(c) Savings Clauses.--Nothing in this Act shall preempt       rights or obligations under subchapter II of chapter 5 of       title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the       ``Administrative Procedure Act'').

Mr. WESTERMAN.  1001, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1001 sponsored by  Congresswoman Hageman. This bill requires the Bureau of Reclamation and  the Western Area Power Administration, or WAPA, to enter into a  memorandum of understanding aimed at addressing the impacts that bypass  flows at Glen Canyon Dam have had on the Upper Colorado River Basin  Fund.

These flows are an attempt to manage an invasive smallmouth bass  population that imperils the federally listed humpback chub below the  dam. While well-intentioned, this action comes at a steep cost.

In 2024, the bypass flows produced $20 million in lost hydropower  generation, which instead had to be replaced with power purchased on  the open market.

WAPA makes these purchases using the Basin Fund, which is funded by  hydropower revenues, not appropriations. In other words, utility  customers end up footing the very expensive bill to address the impacts  of predatory smallmouth bass.

The loss in revenues not only means higher electricity prices but  also negative impacts on the Colorado River system, as the Basin Fund  is the primary source of funding for operations and maintenance of the  system's critical infrastructure.

I want to be clear: H.R. 1001 does not prevent bypass flows. It does,  however, require the agencies to fully cooperate to minimize the  impacts of these flows on the grid and its customers. It also requires  coordination with hydropower customers and other stakeholders,  including the Glen Canyon Dam Adaptive Management Work Group.

I support this legislation and reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  Hageman), the lead sponsor of this bill.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, again, H.R. 1001 would bring WAPA, the  Bureau of Reclamation, and local stakeholders together to produce an  action plan to address the effects of the bypass flows on the Basin  Fund, as well as the impacts of diminished hydropower generation at  Glen Canyon Dam on grid reliability.

The plan will also require the Federal agencies to identify the  impacts of these actions on any species listed as threatened or  endangered under the Endangered Species Act.

I again thank Representative Hageman for tackling these important  issues.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I yield back  the balance of my time.