Miccosukee Reserved Area Amendments Act--Veto Message From the President of the United States


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from California (Mr.  Huffman), the ranking member of the House Committee on Natural  Resources, pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.                                General Leave

Mr. WESTERMAN.  504.

Mr. Speaker, we are here today as President Trump has returned H.R.  504, the Miccosukee Reserved Area Amendments Act, to the House of  Representatives without his approval.

H.R. 504, sponsored by Representative Gimenez, would amend the  Miccosukee Reserved Area Act, or MRAA, to include the Osceola Camp, a  Tribal village within the Everglades, as part of the Miccosukee  Reserved Area. It also directs the Secretary of the Interior, in  consultation with the Tribe, to safeguard structures within the Osceola  Camp from flooding events.

The Miccosukee Tribe is currently located in the Greater Everglades  in southern Florida. Following Federal recognition of the Tribe in  1962, the Miccosukee's northernmost villages within what became  Everglades National Park were managed under a special use permit until  1998, when Congress placed that permit framework with the MRAA,  authorizing the Tribe's use of the area and noting it as Indian  Country.

The original law did not include Osceola Camp. H.R. 504 would include  the Osceola Camp in the Miccosukee Reserved Area and formalize a  partnership between the Tribe and the Federal Government to address  flooding risk in the area.

H.R. 504 passed the House Committee on Natural Resources in June 2025  and the House of Representatives in July 2025.

However, I respect the President's views on this legislation and his  commitment to fiscal responsibility, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no requests for time. I am  prepared to close, and I continue to reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I respect the administration's views on  this legislation. I yield back the balance of my time, and I move the  previous question.