Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``North Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 672, I call  up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 105) providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Bureau of Land Management relating to ``North Dakota  Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management  Plan'', and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  Res. 105.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.J. Res. 105, led by  Representative Fedorchak of North Dakota.

This Congressional Review Act resolution reverses a resource  management plan, or an RMP, finalized in the waning days of the last  administration that locked up more than 4 million acres of land in  North Dakota.

Astonishingly, this RMP blocked coal leasing on 99 percent of coal  deposits in North Dakota and prohibited oil and gas leasing on an  additional 44 percent of Federal land.

North Dakota is a top 10 coal-producing State and the number 3 oil  and gas producer in the Nation. According to State estimates, North  Dakota produces 400 million barrels of oil, 1.1 trillion cubic feet of  natural gas, and 27.5 million tons of lignite coal annually.

To put this in perspective, North Dakota produces enough natural gas  to heat 15 million homes for an entire year, equivalent to 100 billion  kilowatt hours of electricity.

U.S. electricity consumption is projected to hit an all-time high  this year, and electricity demand will grow by as much as 128 gigawatts  through 2029. Fueled by new data centers and AI, these estimates of  electricity demand are five times higher than earlier forecasts.

The United States should be the world leader in energy and mineral  production. We are blessed with abundant resources. We have the  brightest minds, and we maintain the most rigorous and clean production  standards in the world. Yet, the anti-American energy policies pursued  by radical environmentalists in the previous administration crippled  communities reliant on energy jobs, weakened us on the global stage,  and enriched adversarial nations that were able to cash in as we took a  back seat in the global energy market.

The road to energy dominance and meeting this growing demand runs  through North Dakota. Advancing this CRA is the first step in helping  to unleash American energy and reinvigorate America's beautiful coal  industry, as President Trump has called for in his recent executive  orders.

This CRA is important not just to the people of North Dakota but also  our collective American energy and mineral security. If you have ever  worried about your electricity bill or wondered if prices at the pump  might cancel a family vacation, then you should care about reversing  ill-advised lockups of our energy and mineral resources.

Energy production is critically important to the Western way of life,  sustaining small rural communities and generating much-needed economic  activity. Passing this CRA will save an estimated 12,000 jobs in North  Dakota just in the coal industry alone.

This CRA is also crucial to prevent an estimated loss of $34 million  annually in State revenues from oil and gas production. These funds are  used to finance K-12 public education in the State.

What does this mean for children in North Dakota? Failing to pass  this CRA could result in a $441 reduction in the amount of funds spent  on each child's education annually. This means fewer after-school  programs, outdated textbooks, and more teachers having to reach into  their own pockets to fund basic schoolroom supplies.

It should come as no surprise that the previous administration  finalized this RMP over the strong objections of the State of North  Dakota. The State's concerns were ignored. Instead, the BLM plowed  ahead with this harmful RMP.

Good land management requires local buy-in and support. This RMP is  not supported by North Dakotans. The only people who support this plan  are the radical environmentalists who called the shots under the  previous administration.

I commend our current Secretary of the Interior, Doug Burgum, who is  spearheading the administration's efforts to restore energy dominance  and listen to rural America. Secretary Burgum was the Governor when  this RMP was finalized, and he led the charge in opposing this Biden- era preservationist plan.

I have full confidence that under the leadership of President Trump  and Secretary Burgum, the BLM will emerge as an agency that works for  North Dakotans and all those rural Western Americans who live closest  to the lands.

I applaud Representative Fedorchak for her leadership on this effort  on behalf of her constituents to right this wrong. I also recognize  Senators Cramer and Hoeven, as well as my former House colleague and  good friend, Governor Kelly Armstrong, for their work in supporting the  CRA.

This CRA allows us to turn the page on a disgraceful chapter of  radical environmentalism pursued at the expense of the American people.  H.J. Res. 105 removes the bureaucratic barriers designed to prevent the  use of our abundant natural resources. It is an important step  necessary to unshackle American energy and minerals and unleash the  full potential of our great natural resources.

Mr. Speaker, what is ironic is the fact that Secretary Burgum, when  he was the Governor of North Dakota, vehemently opposed this resource  management plan, but the prior administration just brushed him off.  They didn't care what he thought or what the people of North Dakota  thought, just like they didn't care what the Governor of Montana  thought, what the Governor of Alaska thought, and what the people who  lived in Montana and Alaska thought.

All they cared about was what their NGO and environmentalist friends  in Washington, D.C., New York, and Los Angeles thought about lands in  faraway rural places and how they wanted to impose their will on what  happens in these rural areas where our resources abound.

Isn't it ironic that the resource management plans for the three  States that we are talking about are Alaska, Montana, and North Dakota,  States with very large landmasses, with abundant resources, and not a  lot of people? That is the definition of rural America.

The previous administration was attacking rural America, and they  used these misguided resource management plans as their tool to do  that.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, as we wrap up today on this final RMP, I  include in the Record this GAO report that found that the RMP is  subject to the CRA.                                                    U.S. Government                                           Accountability Office,                                      Washington, DC, June 25, 2025.      Matter of U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land           Management--Applicability of the Congressional Review Act           to North Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and           Approved Resource Management Plan      File B-337175                                    DIGEST

The U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land       Management (BLM) issued the North Dakota Field Office Record       of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan (North       Dakota RMP). The North Dakota RMP replaced the 1988 North       Dakota Resource Management Plan and provides directives and       guidance for the management of BLM-administered lands across       North Dakota.

The Congressional Review Act (CRA) requires that before a       rule can take effect, an agency must submit the rule to both       the House of Representatives and the Senate, as well as the       Comptroller General. CRA adopts the definition of ``rule''       under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) but excludes       certain categories of rules from coverage. We conclude that       the North Dakota RMP meets the APA definition of a rule, and       no CRA exception applies. Therefore, the North Dakota RMP is       a rule subject to CRA's submission requirements.                                   DECISION

On January 14, 2025, the U.S. Department of the Interior       (Interior), Bureau of Land Management (BLM), issued the North       Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource       Management Plan (North Dakota RMP). We received a request for       a decision as to whether the North Dakota RMP is a rule for       purposes of the Congressional Review Act (CRA). As discussed       below, we conclude that the North Dakota RMP is a rule for       purposes of CRA.

Our practice when issuing decisions is to obtain the legal       views of the relevant agency on the subject of the request.       Accordingly, we reached out to Interior to obtain the       agency's views. We received Interior's response on April 18,       2025.                                  BACKGROUND       BLM Public Land Management

Under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976,       as amended (FLPMA), BLM is responsible for developing,       maintaining, and, when appropriate, revising ``land use plans       which provide by tracts or areas for the use of the public       lands.'' BLM land use plans, referred to as ``resource       management plans'' (RMPs), establish goals and objectives to       guide future land and resource management actions implemented       by BLM. Pursuant to FLPMA, BLM established procedures for the       development, revision, and amendment of RMPs.

The objective of resource management planning is to       maximize resource values for the public through a rational,       consistently applied set of regulations and procedures which       promote the concept of multiple use management. An RMP       generally establishes land use designations; allowable       resource uses, resource conditions, goals, and objectives;       program constraints and general management practices; areas       to be covered by more specific plans; and other related       information.      North Dakota Resource Management Plan

BLM determined that its 1988 North Dakota RMP needed       revision to address significant changes in resource       conditions, evolving demands for land use, advances in       technology, updated policies and program guidance, and the       availability of new scientific data since the original RMP       was developed in 1988. On July 28, 2020, BLM issued a notice       in the Federal Register initiating the process to revise the       1988 North Dakota RMP.

On January 8, 2025, following a comprehensive planning       process, including public scoping and comment, data analysis,       alternative development, environmental review, stakeholder       engagement, and selection of a preferred management approach,       BLM approved the North Dakota RMP through a Record of       Decision (ROD) incorporated into the document. The ROD states       that it represents the agency's final decision, issued after       completing procedures required by FLPMA, environmental       reviews in accordance with the National Environmental Policy       Act (NEPA), and considering public comments.

The North Dakota RMP provides directives and guidance on       how 58,500 acres of BLM-administered surface land and 4.1       million acres of BLM-administered mineral estate, mostly       split estate, across North Dakota will be used and managed       over the next 20 years. More specifically, it establishes       various land uses for recreation, motorized vehicles, oil and       gas leasing, renewable energy projects, grazing, wildlife       habitat protection, and cultural preservation.      Congressional Review Act

CRA, enacted in 1996 to strengthen congressional oversight       of agency rulemaking, requires federal agencies to submit a       report on each new rule to both houses of Congress and to the       Comptroller General for review before a rule can take effect.       The report must contain a copy of the rule, ``a concise       general statement relating to the rule,'' and the rule's       proposed effective date. CRA allows Congress to review and       disapprove rules issued by federal agencies for a period of       60 days using special procedures. If a resolution of       disapproval is enacted, then the new rule has no force or       effect.

CRA adopts the definition of ``rule'' under the       Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which states that a rule       is ``the whole or a part of an agency statement of general or       particular applicability and future effect designed to       implement, interpret, or prescribe law or policy or       describing the organization, procedure, or practice       requirements of an agency.'' However, CRA excludes three       categories of rules from coverage: (1) rules of particular       applicability; (2) rules relating to agency management or       personnel; and (3) rules of agency organization, procedure,       or practice that do not substantially affect the rights or       obligations of non-agency parties.

Interior did not submit a CRA report to Congress or the       Comptroller General on the North Dakota RMP. In its response       to us, Interior provided additional information about the       North Dakota RMP but did not state a position as to whether       it is a rule under CRA.                                  DISCUSSION

To determine whether the North Dakota RMP is a rule subject       to review under CRA, we first address whether it meets the       APA definition of a rule. As explained below, we conclude       that it does. We then consider whether the North Dakota RMP       falls within any CRA exceptions. We conclude that it does       not. As such, the North Dakota RMP is subject to review under       CRA.      The North Dakota RMP is a Rule under APA

Applying APA's definition of rule, the North Dakota RMP       meets all of the required elements. First, the North Dakota       RMP is an agency statement as it was issued by BLM, a federal       agency.

Second, the rule is of future effect as it is to be used to       guide the use of the public land       for the next 20 years. Decisions made in the North Dakota RMP       became effective on January 8, 2025, when the Record of       Decision was signed. As of that date, according to BLM, the       North Dakota RMP will guide management of BLM-managed public       lands in the planning area for the next 15 to 20 years for       the benefit of current and future generations. Therefore, the       North Dakota RMP has future effect.

Finally, the North Dakota RMP implements, interprets, or       prescribes law or policy, because it designates areas of BLM-      administered land for certain purposes in accordance with       BLM's responsibilities for land use management under FLPMA.       The North Dakota RMP establishes a broad framework for land       use management, governing approximately 58,500 acres of BLM-      administered surface land and 4.1 million subsurface acres of       BLM-managed land and minerals across North Dakota.       Specifically, it designates various land uses for the public,       including recreation, motorized vehicle access, oil and gas       leasing, renewable energy development, grazing, wildlife       habitat conservation, and cultural preservation.

Our conclusion here is consistent with our previous       decisions finding that similar land use plans and RMPs       implement, interpret, or prescribe law or policy. For       instance, in B-238859, Oct. 23, 2017, we found that an       amendment to the Forest Service's Tongass Land and Resource       Management Plan (Tongass Amendment) implemented law by       establishing new criteria for the sale of timber to non-      agency parties. We explained that with the Tongass Amendment,       the Forest Service set forth its policy for timber sales and       thus implemented its statutory responsibility under the       National Forest Management Act.

Similarly in B-329065, Nov. 15, 2017, we concluded that       four RMPs issued by BLM prescribed policy by establishing       available uses for the areas that each RMP covered. We noted       that each RMP implemented provisions of FLPMA and other       applicable statutory and regulatory provisions. The same can       be said for the North Dakota RMP as issue here. The North       Dakota RMP implements FLPMA and prescribes policy by       designating or foreclosing specific activities or land use on       BLM-administer land. As such, the North Dakota RMP meets the       third element of APA's definition of a rule. Having satisfied       all the required elements, the North Dakota RMP meets the APA       definition of rule.      CRA Exceptions

We must next determine whether any of CRA's three       exceptions apply. CRA provides for three types of rules that       are not subject to its requirements: (1) rules of particular       applicability; (2) rules relating to agency management or       personnel; and (3) rules of agency organization, procedure,       or practice that do not substantially affect the rights or       obligations of non-agency parties.

(1) Rule of Particular Applicability

Consistent with our previous decisions, the North Dakota       RMP is a rule of general applicability, rather than       particular applicability. In B-238859, Oct. 23, 2017, the       Forest Service proffered that its Tongass Amendment was a       rule of particular applicability because it applied to a       single national forest. We disagreed, noting that the Tongass       Amendment governed all natural resource management       activities, all projects approved to take place, and all       persons or entities using the forest. As such, it was a rule       of general applicability. Likewise, the North Dakota RMP       establishes land use designations that govern all activities       conducted by any person or entity on BLM-administered land       and subsurface estate managed by the North Dakota Field       Office, making it a rule of general applicability.

(2) Rule of Agency Management or Personnel

The North Dakota RMP is not a rule of agency management or       personnel. We have previously held that rules that fall into       this category relate to purely internal agency matters.       Because the North Dakota RMP is concerned with public use of       the areas it governs rather than management of BLM itself or       its personnel, it does not meet CRA's second exception.

(3) Rule of Agency Organization, Procedure, or Practice             that does not Substantially Affect Non-Agency Parties

Lastly, the North Dakota RMP is not a rule of agency       organization, procedure, or practice that does not       substantially affect the rights or obligations of non-agency       parties.

We have previously explained that this exception was       modeled on the APA exception to notice-and-comment rulemaking       requirements for ``rules of agency organization, procedure,       or practice[.]'' The purpose of the APA exception is to       ensure ``that agencies retain latitude in organizing their       internal operations,'' so long as such rules do not have a       substantial impact on non-agency parties.

Following this interpretation in the CRA context, we have       only applied CRA's third exception to rules that primarily       focus on the internal operations of an agency. For instance,       in B-329926, Sept. 10, 2018, we found that updates to a       Social Security Administration (SSA) hearing manual governing       SSA adjudicators' use of information from the internet       qualified as a rule of agency organization, procedure, or       practice. There, the manual outlined procedures for SSA       employees to follow in processing and adjudicating benefits       claims. Because the manual was directed to and binding only       on SSA officials without imposing new burdens on claimants,       we concluded that the manual met CRA's third exception.

In contrast, rules that are directed at and primarily       concerned with the behavior of non-agency parties do not fall       within this category. Thus, in B-274505, Sept. 16, 1996, we       declined to apply CRA's third exception to a Forest Service       memorandum on the Emergency Salvage Timber Sale Program,       because it was not limited to the Forest Service's methods of       operations. Instead, the memorandum established the standards       by which program determinations would be made, thus directly       affecting the area for and number of timber sales that would       result in contracts. In essence the memorandum went beyond       how the Forest Service organized its internal operations.       Similarly, in B-238859, Oct. 23, 2017, we declined to apply       CRA's third exception to the Tongass Amendment, because it       was directed at land and resource use by non-agency parties.

Here, the North Dakota RMP does entail some changes to       agency procedure as it introduces new internal directives,       practices, and procedures necessary to carry out these       policies. However, like the Forest Service memorandum in B-      274505 and the Tongass Amendment in B-238859, the North       Dakota RMP is not limited to changes in internal agency       operations. Instead, the North Dakota RMP is directed at, and       concerns itself primarily with, the behavior of non-agency       parties. Therefore, the North Dakota RMP does not qualify as       a rule of agency organization, procedure or practice.

We must also consider whether the North Dakota RMP       substantially affects the rights or obligations of non-agency       parties. When analyzing this aspect of CRA's third exception,       ``the critical question is whether the agency action alters       the rights or interests of the regulated entities.'' Along       similar lines, courts have determined that ``[a]n agency rule       that modifies substantive rights and interests can only be       nominally procedural, and the exemption for such rules of       agency procedure cannot apply.''

In previous decisions, we have consistently concluded that       where an RMP designates use by non-agency parties in the       areas it governs, it has a substantial effect. For instance,       in B-275178, July 3, 1997, we reached this conclusion by       noting that the Forest Service's RMP provided a ``management       prescription'' giving general direction on what may occur       within an area allocated to a particular land use       designation. Similarly, in B-329065, Nov. 15, 2017, we       concluded that four BLM RMPs had a substantial effect on non-      agency parties where the plans limited the use of public land       and prohibited mining and operation of off-highway vehicles       in the areas they governed.

Consistent with our caselaw on other RMPs, the North Dakota       RMP has a substantial effect on non-agency parties.       Specifically, it governs when and where the public may engage       in activities such as recreation, motorized vehicle use, oil       and gas leasing, renewable energy development, and grazing,       thereby altering their substantive rights and obligations.       Accordingly, the North Dakota RMP fails to meet CRA's third       exception.                                  CONCLUSION

The North Dakota RMP is a rule for purposes of CRA because       it meets the definition of a rule under APA and no CRA       exception applies. Therefore, the North Dakota RMP is subject       to CRA's requirement that it be submitted to Congress and the       Comptroller General before it can take effect.                                             Edda Emmanuelli Perez,                                                   General Counsel.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, when we talk about lawsuits, there are  already lawsuits that are being created because of this bad resource  management plan that the former administration put in place.

After we do the CRA and we prevent this administration or future  administrations from putting a similar resource management plan in  place without it coming back to Congress, then maybe the current  administration and Secretary Burgum can write a new resource management  plan that actually makes sense, that actually takes into account  America's need for energy, and that actually listens to the people in  these States where these resources reside. While they are doing that,  the previous resource management plan would be in existence.

Again, it is just fear-mongering to say that there will basically be  no rules if this resource management plan gets removed under the  Congressional Review Act.

Again, I thank the gentlewoman from North Dakota for her leadership  on this important issue. The North Dakota RMP will have devastating  ramifications not just in North Dakota but beyond. This CRA which  rejects the failed energy policies of the previous administration is in  alignment with the current administration's executive orders on  unleashing American energy and reinvigorating America's coal industry.

In combination with the provisions that Republicans enacted through  the reconciliation bill, this CRA will ensure that American energy  remains affordable, reliable, and abundant.

America's future is bright as we unleash responsible natural  resources development to meet our energy and mineral leads, to create  jobs, and to drive economic growth across the country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this resolution, and I yield back the  balance of my time.