Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management Relating to ``Protection of Marine Archaeological Resources''


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 177, I call  up the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 11) providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management relating to  ``Protection of Marine Archaeological Resources'', and ask for its  immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  Res. 11.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S.J. Res. 11, a resolution to  express disapproval of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management's  misguided protection of the ``Protection of Marine Archaeological  Resources'' rule.

First, I thank my colleagues, Senator Kennedy and Representative  Ezell, for championing this effort and collaborating with my team to  bring this resolution to the floor today. Additionally, I acknowledge  Democratic Senators Hickenlooper, Cortez Masto, and Rosen for  supporting this resolution in the Senate.

Mr. Speaker, S.J. Res. 11 is a commonsense measure that would repeal  a burdensome and unnecessary Biden administration rule that forces  offshore energy operators to conduct costly archeological surveys and  submit reports for every exploration and development plan on the Outer  Continental Shelf.

Under the rule in question, operators must comply with this blanket  mandate, even in areas with no known archeological risks, adding  millions in unnecessary costs and delays despite existing State and  Federal protections under the National Historic Preservation Act.

Eliminating this one-size-fits-all rulemaking will ensure that energy  production isn't bogged down by duplicative red tape. S.J. Res. 11 uses  the Congressional Review Act to nullify a rule which BOEM acknowledges  places ``100 percent of the increased Gulf of Mexico compliance cost  for survey[s]'' on operators that are small entities.

This resolution would end the Biden administration's needless  overreach and return the regulatory regime to a targeted, evidence- based approach.

Notably, this repeal preserves America's ability to tap its offshore  resources efficiently. It will not weaken genuine historic preservation  but will stop a pointless cash grab that inflates administrative  burdens. In fact, this resolution could boost Federal revenues by  speeding up leasing and production timelines that are critical to U.S.  energy security.

Offshore oil and gas from the Outer Continental Shelf accounts for 15  percent of U.S. production, supporting jobs, powering homes, fueling  transportation, paying for conservation, and lowering costs for goods  we all need. Yet, this rule, part of a broader pattern of Biden-era  restrictions, threatens that stability with added costs of more than  500 additional labor hours per year across operators.

Federal regulators shouldn't stifle energy development. This  resolution offers a rational fix by eliminating a rule which was  intended to add burdens to a vital industry. S.J. Res. 11 will protect  American energy security and keep energy costs down for families as  part of an all-of-the-above energy strategy.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is not about repealing anything that is going  to add any protections or viability to anything that is happening on  offshore exploration. The rule was not even about wearing a suspender  with a belt.

This rule was put in place to hamper offshore energy production.  Under section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act,  protections already exist for offshore operators, and it requires them  to identify and avoid marine archeological sites, making this rule  totally redundant.

Mr. Speaker, the purpose of the Biden-era rule wasn't just for  redundancy. It was to put shackles on offshore energy production and to  put higher costs on American consumers, who are already struggling with  inflation that has resulted from the policies of the previous  administration.

Good governance doesn't have redundancy and duplicative rules in  place that hamper Americans from building and producing.

What we are doing is releasing the shackles off of energy production  so that we can provide the things that our country and our economy  need.

That is why I really appreciate the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.  Ezell) for bringing this bill forward.

Mr. Speaker, our country is at a point where we need more energy and  every form of energy when we look at the demands for data processing,  when we look at transportation demands, when we look at demands for  energy to grow our economy and to produce more things here. I don't  think anybody on either side of the aisle would question the fact that  we need more energy and our energy consumption is on an exponential  increase.

This rule that the Biden administration made is not about an all-of- the-above energy approach. It is not about producing more energy, more  clean reliable energy that comes from America. It is about attacking an  industry.

If you don't believe that, just look at the rule itself. We produce  more than one kind of energy offshore. We produce oil and gas. We also  produce wind, but magically wind farms don't trigger an archeological  review, I guess, because they are not included in this analysis, this  redundant process that the Biden administration put in place.

The reason they are not is the same reason that oil and gas should  not be included; because there is already a process to do the National  Historical Preservation Act section 106 requirements when you are  getting a permit.

This rule was added by the Biden administration just to create  another level of bureaucracy, another level of regulatory hurdles to  stop offshore oil and gas exploration and production. That is the only  purpose they could have put this rule in place for. Otherwise, they  would have said, if they really cared about archeological features and  artifacts in the Gulf and offshore, they would have included the wind  farms in this, but it is only targeted at oil and gas.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time. I am  prepared to close, and I continue to reserve the balance of my time.

I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of S.J. Res. 11. I thank my  colleagues across the aisle for actually making our point on why this  regulation that was put in place by the Biden administration is totally  unnecessary.

We made the point that it is targeted specifically for oil and gas  and that wind is exempted. They tried to say that wind is exempted  because they are already doing the analysis under the National Historic  Preservation Act, section 106.

Guess what? Oil and gas is doing the same thing. They are already  making these archaeological assessments under existing rules.

This is redundant, but it is not just redundant. It is punitive. It  was a rule put in place to attack what our colleagues like to refer to  as the Big Oil bogeyman. Apparently, because they have been successful  and they can actually turn a profit because there is a demand for their  product, they should be attacked by the Federal Government; they should  have more regulations put on them. We should do anything we can to stop  producing more energy offshore if you are in the mindset of the  previous administration.

That is not helping America. That is not helping the American  consumers. That is not helping the American economy, and it is  certainly not helping America on the world stage. It is ridiculous that  we are having to come here and do Congressional Review Acts on horrible  policies that were put in place by the previous administration, but  thank goodness we have the tool to do that. Thank goodness the Senate  has already done it, and we have bipartisan support in the Senate to do  the CRA on this rule.

State and Federal laws, as has already been mentioned, provide robust  oversight for marine historic resources, again making this added layer  of Federal bureaucracy pointless and wasteful. The repeal will lower  energy costs for American families, strengthen U.S. energy  independence, and support an industry critical to our economy and our  security, all while maintaining responsible stewardship of historic  resources.

One thing that BOEM failed to analyze that often gets overlooked, it  is not just Big Oil in the Outer Continental Shelf, it is also small  producers, family-owned businesses, and thousands and thousands of  people who make a living working in the Outer Continental Shelf.

This burdensome regulation will be detrimental to those small  businesses. I urge my colleagues to support the resolution, and I yield  back the balance of my time.