Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 672, I call  up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 106) providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Bureau of Land Management relating to ``Central Yukon  Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan'', and ask for  its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  Res. 106.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.J. Res. 106, a  Congressional Review Act resolution led by Congressman Nick Begich of  Alaska. This CRA reverses a resource management plan, or RMP, for the  central Yukon region in Alaska, which locked up an astonishing 13.3  million acres of land.

Alaska is crucial to our national security and economic prosperity.  In 2020, President Trump announced a draft RMP for the central Yukon  that, among other provisions, revoked Public Land Order 5150 and  unleashed American energy.

For more than a decade, the State of Alaska has worked on this RMP to  revoke Public Land Order 5150, which would unlock millions of acres of  land from restrictive, de facto wilderness management and return it to  multiple use.

Unfortunately, the previous administration reversed this decision  against the wishes of Alaskans and finalized a new RMP that enshrined  Public Land Order 5150.

On his first day in office in 2025, President Trump issued Executive  Order No. 14153 on ``Unleashing Alaska's Extraordinary Resource  Potential,'' which directly called for repealing the Biden  administration's central Yukon RMP. This CRA advances President Trump's  executive order.

Why is this CRA so important? Revoking Public Land Order 5150 is the  first step in allowing the State of Alaska to acquire lands that are  critical to two essential projects: Ambler Road and the Alaska LNG  pipeline.

Currently, our adversaries have a choke hold on worldwide mineral  supply chains. Alaska, our 49th State, has rich deposits of 49 out of  the 50 minerals on the critical minerals list.

With such abundant resources in our own backyard, it should be  appalling to  every American that the United States relies 100 percent on imports for  12 of the 50 critical minerals on the critical minerals list. What is  more, our Nation is 50 percent net import reliant for an additional 29  critical minerals on the list.

The smartphones that we carry around every day in our pockets contain  15 critical minerals. Computers, home appliances, and batteries all  rely on critical minerals.

The Ambler Mining District in Alaska is home to some of the largest  deposits of these minerals, including copper, cobalt, and zinc. Just  four deposits in the Ambler Mining District alone have an estimated  resource value of $26 billion.

Currently, there is no way to access these minerals. To do so, we  need to construct Ambler Road. Last year, the Biden administration  denied a permit for Ambler Road, effectively preventing Alaskans from  developing their own resources.

Passing this CRA is the first step in allowing Alaska to acquire  these lands outright, creating long-term certainty for this project.

Constructing this road and allowing access to the Ambler Mining  District is expected to create thousands of new jobs and produce $1.1  billion of revenue for Alaska. Road construction alone will create more  than 350 jobs, creating economic opportunity desperately needed in  rural Alaska.

Keep in mind, this is only one project unlocked by this CRA. This CRA  will also help the advancement of the Alaska LNG pipeline project.

Global demand for energy is expected to double by 2050, and our  domestic energy production must rise to meet that demand. With the rise  of data centers and AI fueling this growth, it is more important than  ever that we produce energy here at home rather than ceding energy  dominance to hostile foreign nations like China and Russia.

Once online, the project will produce 3.5 billion cubic feet of  natural gas daily and sustain more than 10,000 jobs. Through this  project, Alaskans will gain long-term and affordable gas for home  heating and industrial needs.

Currently, the gas supply for Alaska from the Cook Inlet is  uncertain, and local utilities are evaluating alternate supplies,  including importing LNG. It goes against all common sense to import LNG  into Alaska when the State is blessed with abundant resources that can  supply the State and beyond.

Every action must be taken to provide North Slope-produced gas to  Alaskans for their home heating and local industry needs. In addition  to providing gas to Alaska, the Alaska LNG pipeline will be able to  export 20 million tons of LNG yearly, reaching our Asian allies in 6  days with no strategic choke points. It is no exaggeration to say that  creating this pipeline is one of the most crucial steps we can take to  counter China's influence in the Indo-Pacific.

Earlier this year, I led a bipartisan congressional delegation to  Taiwan, Japan, and South Korea. Taiwan has already signed a letter of  intent with the State of Alaska to purchase Alaskan LNG, and both Japan  and South Korea are deeply interested in pursuing American energy from  Alaska as well as other Pacific Rim nations.

The message we heard at each stop was universal and resounding:  Without certainty in the timeline and our permitting system, these  countries won't be able to buy our energy.

Make no mistake, these are our allies, and they desperately want to  buy American. They would much rather get their energy from the North  Slope than from China and Russia, the friends of North Korea.

Today's CRA is the first step in providing energy certainty to Alaska  and our allies abroad. We are taking strong, decisive action to remove  barriers that prevent us from accessing our own energy and minerals.

By unleashing Alaska's extraordinary resource potential, we are  providing energy certainty and affordability to Alaska and creating  thousands of well-paying jobs, generating billions of dollars in  revenue for Federal and State coffers, and keeping America and our  allies safe from foreign adversaries.

I commend Representative Begich, the entire Alaska delegation, and  Governor Dunleavy for their work on this effort.

Mr. Speaker, I will point out the great work that my colleague from  Alaska has done on this issue and the potential that is in Alaska.

We had the Committee on Natural Resources up there last week, and we  had a bipartisan group there turning around and looking at all of the  many, many resources that are in Alaska, the vast size of Alaska, and  the burdens that the Federal Government has put on the State and  really, I think, fallen short of living up to the promises that were  made when Alaska became a State. We talked about Native Americans and  their input in the process.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record this letter from Doyon Limited.                                                 Doyon, Limited,                                       Fairbanks, AK, July 21, 2025.      Hon. Nicholas J. Begich III      House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Representative Begich: Thank you for introducing H.J.       Res. 106, to disapprove the November 12, 2024, Central Yukon       Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan       (Central Yukon RMP). Doyon, Limited (Doyon) strongly supports       this joint resolution and urges Congress's and the       President's swift action to reject this misguided and harmful       planning decision.

Doyon is a major stakeholder in the Bureau of Land       Management's (BLM) Central Yukon RMP planning process. Many       large tracts of lands that were conveyed to Doyon under the       Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) are surrounded       by, or abut, BLM-managed public lands. Doyon owns substantial       interests in the Central Yukon Planning Area, holding an       ownership interest in approximately 4.65 million acres. In       addition, it has selected an additional 127,000 acres in the       Planning Area under ANCSA that have not yet been conveyed.       Doyon's land base shares approximately 3,000 miles of border       with BLM lands--potentially more than any other Indigenous       landowner in the nation. Consistent with ANCSA's intent, much       of the land that Doyon selected was selected for its economic       development potential.

As Doyon explained to BLM throughout the Central Yukon RMP       planning process, further enveloping Doyon's lands within new       or expanded Areas of Critical Environmental Concern (ACECs)       and other restrictive land designations, and otherwise       imposing restrictions on use of surrounding lands, will       further complicate access to and use of Doyon lands, and       potentially prevent Doyon from fully realizing the economic       and other benefits that Congress intended it would enjoy as a       result of ANCSA's settlement of aboriginal land claims. In       addition, because oil and gas, mineral, and other resource       prospects often straddle federal, state, and/or private       lands, the more that BLM planning processes place lands off       limits to multiple uses, the more likely resource development       opportunities will be unavailable on Doyon (and other non-      federal) lands in the vicinity, impeding Doyon's ability to       make economically productive use of its lands as Congress       intended when it settled aboriginal land claims in Alaska.       The management decisions made in the 2024 Central Yukon RMP       also will have long-term implications for communications,       electric transmission, and other infrastructure activities in       the region, adding further obstacles to what already are       extraordinary challenges to connecting rural communities in       Alaska.

Doyon devoted significant resources to engaging with BLM       over the course of the Central Yukon RMP planning process to       ensure that the result of that process reflects the       principles of multiple use and sustained yield established       under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act, as well as       the unique framework that Congress established in Alaska       under ANCSA and Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation       Act (ANILCA). Unfortunately, despite these concerted efforts       of Doyon and others, the 2024 plan fails to do that.

Key flaws justifying congressional disapproval of the 2024       Central Yukon RMP--as further detailed in the protest that       Doyon submitted in response to the Central Yukon Proposed       Resource Management Plan and Final Environmental Impact       Statement released by BLM on April 19, 2024--include the       following:

The 2024 Central Yukon RMP improperly designates certain       ACECs/Research Natural Areas by including areas that do not       meet applicable requirements for designation and management       of ACECs and improperly determines special management       attention is required. It also improperly designates ACECs       that effectively surround or restrict access to Doyon-      conveyed lands, as well as that include Doyon-selected lands.

The 2024 Central Yukon RMP fails to appropriately address       impacts of right-of-way exclusion and avoidance areas on       access and other activities.

The 2024 Central Yukon RMP fails to adequately and       appropriately address access rights guaranteed under Section       1323(b) and Title XI of ANILCA.

The 2024 Central Yukon RMP inappropriately concludes that       hypothetical future development of mineral deposits in the       Ambler Mining District, Wiseman East and West deposits, and       the Ray Mountains could ``significantly restrict subsistence       uses and have a disproportionate negative impact'' on certain       ``environmental justice communities'' as well as       ``significantly restrict subsistence uses for'' certain       communities.

The 2024 Central Yukon RMP fails to fully consider       potential impacts of designating certain lands as Visual       Resource Management (VRM) Class II and redesignate them as       VRM Class III or IV.

The 2024 Central Yukon RMP improperly ignores the long       history of BLM's calling for the lifting of the ANCSA       17(d)(1) withdrawals and fails to provide a rational       explanation for retaining those withdrawals other than for       the limited purposes of selection by Alaska Native Vietnam-      era veterans.

The 2024 Central Yukon RMP violated the National       Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) in adopting a new alternative       not made available to the public for review and comment and       in not providing the public an opportunity to provide       informed comment after correction of an error in stated ANCSA       17(d)(1) acreages.

We appreciate your efforts to move forward with disapproval       of the 2024 Central Yukon RMP and we urge Congress and the       President to move quickly to enact this joint resolution.

Please let us know if you have any questions or if we can       provide any additional information.            Sincerely,                                                  Sarah E. Obed,                                SVP External Affairs Doyon, Limited.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I will read from this letter to show what  is really happening in Alaska.

It says: ``Doyon strongly supports this joint resolution and urges  Congress' and the President's swift action to reject this misguided and  harmful planning decision.

``Many large tracts of lands that were conveyed to Doyon under the  Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act [ANCSA] are surrounded by, or abut,  BLM-managed public lands. Doyon owns substantial interests in the  Central Yukon Planning Area, holding an ownership interest in  approximately 4.65 million acres.

``Doyon's land base shares approximately 3,000 miles of border with  BLM lands--potentially more than any other indigenous landowner in the  Nation. Consistent with ANCSA's intent, much of the land that Doyon  selected was selected for its economic development potential.

``As Doyon explained to BLM throughout the Central Yukon RMP planning  process, further enveloping Doyon's lands within new or expanded Areas  of Critical Environmental Concern [ACECs] and other restrictive land  designations, and otherwise imposing restrictions on use of surrounding  lands, will further complicate access to and use of Doyon lands, and  potentially prevent Doyon from fully recognizing the economic and other  benefits that Congress intended it would enjoy as a result of ANCSA's  settlement of aboriginal land claims.''

That is from the people who were affected on the ground by this  misguided resource management plan that the previous administration put  in place. It is an honor to be here today to be able to use the CRA to,  hopefully, reverse that plan and prevent other administrations in the  future, from either party, from putting such ridiculous management  plans in place.

Mr. Speaker, this idea that Alaska native Vietnam-era veterans can't  select lands is just factually inaccurate and fear-mongering.

Congress has already statutorily codified the Alaska Native Vietnam- era Veterans Land Allotment Program in 2019. Nothing in this CRA  repeals those requirements under the 2019 law. In fact, the House just  passed a 5-year extension of this program in July. To suggest that we  are now somehow unsupportive of this program is ludicrous.

Congress is using the CRA for this RMP because there weren't enough  public land order revocations, not because there were too many. Keeping  the withdrawal revocations for Alaska native Vietnam-era veterans and  adding new withdrawal revocations would be entirely consistent with the  CRA. The argument is ironic coming from my colleagues on the other side  of the aisle as Secretary Haaland unnecessarily delayed the  implementation of this program for years, despite strong demands from  the Alaska delegation that outdated PLOs be lifted so land selections  could begin.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time. I am  prepared to close and reserve the balance of my time.

This CRA is crucial to unleashing Alaska's abundant natural  resources. It will unleash billions of dollars' worth of oil, natural  gas, and critical minerals that are critical not only to Alaska's  economy and security but also to the economic and energy security of  the United States and will extend further to our allies around the  world.

This is a very important issue. This CRA shifts land management back  to Alaskans and away from NGOs and environmentalists in the lower 48  who have had way too much of an oversized impact on the decisions made  in Alaska. It is essential to projects that will create tens of  thousands of jobs, generate billions of dollars in revenue for the U.S.  Treasury and the State of Alaska, and again make our Nation less  reliant on hostile foreign nations.

I commend Representative Begich once again for his work on this  effort. He is a tremendous and fierce advocate for Alaska. Through his  efforts, we are helping President Trump and his administration advance  executive orders and usher in the golden age of American and Alaskan  energy dominance.

Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this joint resolution, and I yield  back the balance of my time.