Redesignation of Paterson Great Falls Nhp Facilities


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 249) to redesignate certain facilities at Paterson Great  Falls National Historical Park in honor of Congressman Bill Pascrell,  Jr.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 249

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. REDESIGNATION OF PATERSON GREAT FALLS NHP                     FACILITIES.

(a) Great Falls Scenic Overlook Trail Bridge.--Great Falls       Scenic Overlook Trail Bridge at Paterson Great Falls National       Historical Park shall hereafter be known and designated as       ``Bill Pascrell, Jr. Scenic Overlook Trail Bridge''.

(b) Overlook Park.--Overlook Park at Paterson Great Falls       National Historical Park shall hereafter be known and       designated as ``Bill Pascrell, Jr. Overlook Park''.

(c) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to--

(1) Great Falls Scenic Overlook Trail Bridge shall be       deemed to be a reference to Bill Pascrell, Jr. Scenic       Overlook Trail Bridge; and

(2) Overlook Park shall be deemed to be a reference to Bill       Pascrell, Jr. Overlook Park.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  249, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 249, introduced by  Representative Pallone, which would redesignate  certain amenities at Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park in  honor of the late Congressman Bill Pascrell, Jr.

Specifically, this bipartisan bill would rename two sites within the  historical park as the Bill Pascrell, Jr. Scenic Overlook Trail Bridge  and the Bill Pascrell, Jr. Overlook Park.

Paterson, New Jersey, was home to Congressman Pascrell, a former  Member of this body and, before that, a high school teacher and college  professor.

Congressman Pascrell was instrumental in the designation of the  Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park in 2009. Known for his  plainspoken demeanor and deep commitment to his constituents,  Congressman Pascrell served our Nation in the U.S. Army and in this  body for nearly three decades, until his passing last August.

Overlook Park is a 2.5-acre area providing panoramic views of the  falls and the gateway to the larger historical park.

The Great Falls Scenic Overlook Trail Bridge is one of two year-round  pedestrian bridges connecting visitors to the falls. It serves  approximately 300,000 visitors annually and links the park's visitors  center to the falls' viewing platform.

Mr. Speaker, this straightforward and bipartisan legislation has the  full support of the entire New Jersey delegation. I commend  Representative Pallone for his work on this legislation.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, this is a straightforward, bipartisan  bill that renames beloved sites for the late Representative Bill  Pascrell, Jr. I urge its adoption and yield back the balance of my  time.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.