Removing Restrictions From A Parcel of Land in Paducah, Kentucky


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1276) to remove restrictions from a parcel of land in  Paducah, Kentucky, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1276

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. REMOVAL OF RESTRICTION.

(a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to       in this section as the ``Secretary'') shall execute such       instruments as may be necessary to remove all deed       restrictions from the parcel of land described in subsection       (d), subject to the conditions in subsection (c).

(b) Deed Restrictions.--The deed restrictions referred to       in subsection (a) are those restrictions, including       easements, exceptions, reservations, terms, conditions, and       covenants described in the quitclaim deed from the United       States to the City of Paducah, Kentucky, executed on April       27, 2012, and recorded by the Clerk of the County Court of       McCracken County, Kentucky, on pages 247 through 260 of Deed       Book 1229.

(c) Conditions of Extinguishment.--In removing the deed       restrictions under subsection (a), the Secretary shall       include a reservation requiring that--

(1) the City of Paducah, Kentucky, not transfer or sell the       parcel of land to any other entity, except the Oscar Cross       Boys & Girls Club of Paducah;

(2) if the City of Paducah, Kentucky, transfers or sells       such parcel to the Oscar Cross Boys & Girls Club of Paducah,       that the Oscar Cross Boys & Girls Club of Paducah offers to       convey the parcel of land to the Secretary, without       consideration, prior to conveying the property to any other       entity; and

(3) any new use or development of the parcel of land       continue to be compatible with public use or recreation       purposes.

(d) Land Description.--The parcel of land referred to in       subsection (a) is the parcel--

(1) comprised of approximately 3.62 acres located at 2956       Park Avenue, on the Paducah Memorial Army Reserve Center,       Paducah, McCracken County, Kentucky, including the       improvements thereon; and

(2) conveyed by the Secretary to the City of Paducah,       Kentucky.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  1276, the bill now under consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation offered by my good  friend and the chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform  Committee, Representative Comer. This legislation would remove Federal  deed restrictions from a building and the surrounding parcel of land in  Paducah, Kentucky.

For more than six decades, the Oscar Cross Boys & Girls Club of  Paducah has provided a safe place for young people in McCracken County,  Kentucky, to learn, grow, and thrive. The club is a model of community  service, offering affordable mentorship, recreation, and educational  opportunities to hundreds of children each year.

Today, the club is ready to make long-overdue improvements, including  renovating and expanding its building, adding new classrooms, and  refurbishing its gymnasium so that it can serve even more children and  bolster its educational and recreational programming.

To do so, the Boys & Girls Club is hoping to acquire the current  building and surrounding land from the city of Paducah. However, these  plans are stalled by an outdated Federal deed restriction put in place  by the National Park Service on the land where the Boys & Girls Club  currently operates.

H.R. 1276 removes that restriction, which would, in turn, allow the  city of Paducah to transfer the parcel directly to the club.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Comer for working with the  Natural Resources Committee to amend this bill during our committee's  markup to ensure that this area remains dedicated to public and  recreational purposes in perpetuity. This is a commonsense bill that  cuts red tape, empowers local leaders, and strengthens a vital  community institution. Chairman Comer has played a vital role in  leading and representing his community.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1276, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

As has been noted, for more than 60 years, the Oscar Cross Boys and  Girls Club of Paducah has provided dedicated service to their  community.

H.R. 1276 is a straightforward bill that will enhance this legacy of  service by removing an unnecessary Federal deed restriction and  allowing the city of Paducah to transfer land directly to the club.  This will pave the way for long-planned improvements that will directly  benefit Kentucky children and families.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support Chairman Comer's  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.