Reversionary Interest Conveyance Act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 952) to convey the reversionary interest of the United  States in certain land in Sacramento, California.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 952

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Reversionary Interest       Conveyance Act''.       SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE OF UNITED STATES INTEREST IN CERTAIN LAND.

(a) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Covered land.--The term ``covered land'' means the       approximately 8.43 acres of land under the administrative       jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management in Sacramento,       California, as generally depicted as ``Proposed Easements to       be Released'' on the map titled ``Lands Proposed for Release       from Any and All Reversionary Interests of the United States,       including interests under the Act of July 1, 1862 (12 Stat.       489)'', dated November 7, 2022.

(2) Buyer.--(A) The term ``buyer'' means the owner of       record of any of the parcels included in the covered land at       the time of the requested conveyance.

(B) Buyer may only request and purchase the covered land's       reversionary interest for the parcels of which the owner is       the owner of record at the time of request.

(3) Reversionary interest.--The term ``reversionary       interest'' means all reversionary interests of the United       States in the covered land.

(4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land       Management.

(b) Conveyance.--Not later than two years after the       Secretary receives a request from the buyer, the Secretary       shall offer to the buyer the applicable reversionary interest       subject to the requirements in subsection (c), and shall       convey the lands to buyer upon payment of the appraised       value.

(c) Requirements.--Any conveyance under this section--

(1) shall be subject to valid existing rights; and

(2) shall be for not less than fair market value.

(d) Payment of Fair Market Value.--The Secretary shall       determine the fair market value of the applicable       reversionary interest--

(1) in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and       Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and

(2) based on an appraisal that is conducted in accordance       with--

(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land       Acquisitions; and

(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal       Practice.

(e) Costs.--In addition to the fair market value determined       under subsection (d), the buyer shall pay all costs related       to the applicable conveyance of the reversionary inter est,       including all surveys, appraisals, and other administrative       costs.

(f) Proceeds From the Sale of Land.--The proceeds from the       sale of the applicable reversionary interest shall be--

(1) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal Account       established by section 206(a) of the Federal Land Transaction       Facilitation Act (43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and

(2) used in accordance with that Act.       SEC. 3. STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.

Nothing in this Act shall--

(1) diminish the right-of-way associated with the covered       land in section 2 to a width of less than 50 feet on each       side of the center of the main track or tracks established       and maintained by the Southern Pacific Transportation Company       on the date of the enactment of this Act; or

(2) validate or confirm any right or title to, or interest       in the land referred to in section 2 arising out of adverse       possession, prescription, or abandonment, and not confirmed       by conveyance made by the Southern Pacific Transportation       Company before the date of the enactment of this Act.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  952, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of Representative Matsui's bill,  the Reversionary Interest Conveyance Act. This legislation previously  passed the House by voice vote last December.

This bill resolves the stubborn property law issue afflicting a small  parcel of land in California. The current owners of an eight-acre  property in Sacramento recently discovered a reversionary interest on  their land, which a railroad company originally conveyed. The  reversionary interest, which dates back to the days of the  transcontinental railroad in the 19th century, requires the land to  revert to ownership by the United States since it is no longer used for  railroad purposes. Because of this outdated encumbrance, the owners of  this property are limited in their ability to develop or sell the land.

The Bureau of Land Management, which would inherit the property  through the reversion, does not want to manage the land in question.  Since the agency can't extinguish the reversionary interests  unilaterally, the BLM has encouraged Congress to address the issue  through legislation.

H.R. 952 would resolve this conflict by requiring the Bureau of Land  Management to convey the reversionary interest to the private  landowners for fair market value. This bill will free up the land for  economic development and prevent further Federal interference. It is a  good governance bill that supports the local community, encourages  economic development, and reduces the burden on the Federal Government.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Matsui for this effort on behalf  of her constituents. I support this bill and reserve the balance of my  time.

This is straightforward legislation that will help private property  owners develop their land without interference from the Federal  Government. I support this bill and note that it unanimously passed the  House last Congress.