Semiquincentennial Tourism and Access to Recreation Sites Act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 4285) to direct the Secretary of the Interior to designate  an entrance-fee free date in 2026 at National Park Service sites in  order to celebrate the 250th anniversary of the United States of  America, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4285

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Semiquincentennial Tourism       and Access to Recreation Sites Act'' or the ``STARS Act''.       SEC. 2. WAIVED FEES AT PUBLIC RECREATIONAL SITES IN HONOR OF                     AMERICA'S 250TH ANNIVERSARY.

(a) In General.--In honor of the semiquincentennial of the       United States of America--

(1) the Secretary of the Interior shall--

(A) designate September 17, 2026, as an entrance-fee free       date on which admission is free to all visitors with respect       to each National Park Service site that charges an entrance       fee; and

(B) waive standard amenity recreation fees on September 17,       2026, for each visitor to each site managed by the Bureau of       Land Management, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, or       Bureau of Reclamation that charges a standard amenity       recreation fee; and

(2) the Secretary of Agriculture shall waive standard       amenity recreation fees for September 17, 2026, for each       visitor to each site managed by the Forest Service that       charges a standard amenity recreation fee.

(b) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Entrance fee.--The term ``entrance fee'' has the       meaning given the term in section 802 of the Federal Lands       Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6801).

(2) Standard amenity recreation fee.--The term ``standard       amenity recreation fee'' has the meaning given the term in       section 802 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act       (16 U.S.C. 6801).

Mr. WESTERMAN.  4285, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4285, the  Semiquincentennial Tourism and Access to Recreation Sites Act, or STARS  Act, led by my colleague, the gentlewoman from Utah (Ms. Maloy).

This bill designates September 17, 2026, as a fee-free day across our  national parks and other Federal recreation lands in honor of the 250th  anniversary of our Nation's independence.

September 17 was also the date on which the U.S. Constitution was  signed 11 years later, bringing together two foundational milestones in  American history.

By waiving entrance and recreation fees at more than 400 National  Park Service units and thousands of Federal recreation sites, the STARS  Act ensures that families across the country can celebrate America 250  by connecting with our natural landscapes and historic places. From our  forests and lakeshores to our battlefields and monuments, these sites  tell the story of our liberty, resilience, and shared civic values.

This is a simple, bipartisan bill that expands access to our public  lands, encourages public participation in the semiquincentennial, and  reaffirms the ideals that continue to guide our Nation.

I commend Representative Maloy, as well as my fellow Arkansan,  Senator John Boozman, for leading this bipartisan legislation in the  House and the Senate, respectively. I also recognize the work of  Representative Pete Stauber, who offered a thoughtful amendment during  our Natural Resources Committee markup to expand this bill to national  forests, refuges, and all public lands.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R.

Mr. Speaker, as we get ready to celebrate our 250th anniversary--and,  actually, we are already in it with some of the Revolutionary War  battles being fought already over 250 years ago--we look forward to  Americans being able to have a very affordable day when they can go to  our parks and Federal lands for free.

It is already an exciting time in America. I commend the gentlewoman  who brought this bill to us and the effort that she has put forth to  make sure that Americans can have an affordable day on our Federal  lands.

Maloy), the lead sponsor of the bill.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I, once again, thank Representative Maloy  and Chairman Boozman for their leadership on the STARS Act in their  respective Chambers of Congress.

This is a good bill that gives every American the opportunity to  celebrate the 250th anniversary of our Nation's independence in the  very places that conserve our history and our heritage.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.