Sinkhole Mapping Act of 2025


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 900) to direct the Director of the United States Geological  Survey to establish a program to map zones that are at greater risk of  sinkhole formation, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 900

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Sinkhole Mapping Act of       2025''.       SEC. 2. SINKHOLE HAZARD IDENTIFICATION.

(a) In General.--Subject to the availability of       appropriations made in advance for such purpose, the Director       of the United States Geological Survey shall establish a       program to--

(1) study the short-term and long-term mechanisms that       cause sinkholes, including extreme storm events, prolonged       droughts causing shifts in water management practices,       aquifer depletion, and other major changes in water use; and

(2) develop maps that depict zones that are at greater risk       of sinkhole formation.

(b) Use of Certain Data.--In developing maps under       subsection (a)(2), the Director of the United States       Geological Survey shall utilize 3D elevation data (as that       term is defined in section 2 of the National Landslide       Preparedness Act (43 U.S.C. 3101)) collected pursuant to       section 5 of that Act (43 U.S.C. 3104).

(c) Review of Maps.--Once during each 5-year period, or       more often as the Director of the United States Geological       Survey determines is necessary, the Director shall assess the       need to revise and update the maps developed under this       section.

(d) Website.--The Director of the United States Geological       Survey shall establish and maintain a public website that       displays the maps developed under this section and other       relevant information critical for use by community planners       and emergency managers.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  900, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of Representative Soto's bill, H.R.  900, the Sinkhole Mapping Act of 2025.

Sinkholes are a natural hazard that cost the United States Government  approximately $300 million per year and pose a serious threat to public  safety.

Sinkholes occur when there is a lack of proper external surface  drainage so when a heavy rainstorm comes through and the ground cannot  drain the water properly a void may form underground. From that point  on, it is often simply a waiting game until the ground gives out and a  dangerous sinkhole develops.

This bill would require the Director of the United States Geological  Survey to establish a program that examines the short- and long-term  causes of sinkholes. This research would provide the government with  more accurate data on the costs incurred from these hazards.

The program would also create maps of areas most at risk of  sinkholes, analyze the areas with the greatest risk of experiencing a  sudden sinkhole and make maps publicly available to help community  planners and government agencies prepare for and avoid these  catastrophes.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Soto's bill will help leverage modern  technology and mapping data to gain a better understanding of the  sinkhole hazards facing the country and empower local communities to  prepare for and mitigate these hazards.

Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.