Strengthening America's Turning Point Act


Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1550) to redesignate Saratoga National Historical Park as  Saratoga National Battlefield Park.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1550

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Strengthening America's       Turning Point Act''.       SEC. 2. SARATOGA NATIONAL BATTLEFIELD PARK.

(a) Redesignation.--Saratoga National Historical Park shall       hereafter be known and designated as ``Saratoga National       Battlefield Park''.

(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to       Saratoga National Historical Park shall be deemed to be a       reference to Saratoga National Battlefield Park.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  1550, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of Representative Stefanik's bill,  H.R. 1550, which will redesignate the Saratoga National Historical Park  located in her district as the Saratoga National Battlefield Park.

Saratoga County, New York, is the fastest growing county in New York  State and features a robust economy and world-class tourist  destinations for families and history buffs alike. However, this  prosperous community in upstate New York would not exist if not for a  series of legendary events that took place nearly 250 years ago.

In September 1777, General Horatio Gates led Continental Army troops  against the British empire in present-day Saratoga County. In the  ensuing Battles of Saratoga, American colonists forged a turning point  in the Revolutionary War by routing the British invasion force.

Today, this 3,400-acre site is considered a unit of the National Park  System. There, visitors can explore trails and experience the historic  battlefield, which includes landmarks, fortifications, and other  important structures.

Representative Stefanik's legislation would redesignate this hallowed  site as the Saratoga National Battlefield Park, thereby recognizing its  significance as a historic battlefield and highlighting the sacrifices  made by the soldiers who fought there.

While this area was originally named Saratoga Battlefield Park by the  State of New York, the battlefield nomenclature was dropped in 1938  when the area became part of the National Park System. With the  battles' upcoming 250th anniversary, however, residents of Saratoga  County and New York State have called for renaming the park to clarify  its place in the heroic struggle for American independence.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Stefanik for her leadership on  this issue. She is a longstanding advocate for honoring America's  history and protecting hallowed battlefields. Her leadership was  crucial in ensuring the passage of the bipartisan American Battlefield  Protection Program Enhancement Act, which was signed into law earlier  this year.

Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. WESTERMAN.  Stefanik), the lead sponsor of this bill.

Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, this bill by Representative Stefanik  acknowledges a significant site for its pivotal role in American  history as we approach our Nation's 250th anniversary.

I urge the adoption of the bill, and I yield back the balance of my  time.