Fighting Dhs Immigration Raids


Mr. VARGAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, enough is enough. I rise today to join my colleagues in  sounding the alarm on Trump's out-of-control immigration crackdown.

Since January, Trump has unleashed a mass deportation agenda and  indiscriminate immigration enforcement that has pushed past all moral  and legal boundaries.

In Chicago, Federal immigration agents tear-gassed kids and fired  pepper balls at a pastor.

In Charlotte, ICE agents descended on the grounds by a church and  forced terrified congregants to flee into the woods outside.

At home in San Diego, we had a horrific incident where Federal agents  stormed into a local restaurant frequented by families. They handcuffed  all the employees and flash-bang grenades were used outside.

There are stories like this from communities all across the country  about what this administration has done. We heard them today. Stories  of Trump's immigration agents causing fear and chaos. Stories of  violent raids turning quiet neighborhoods into places that feel more  like war zones.

Trump's out-of-control immigration enforcement is terrorizing our  communities and putting our civil liberties under threat. Undocumented  immigrants are not the only ones affected. It is also harming U.S.  citizens, people with legal status, and those who have been here for  decades contributing to our country.

We cannot turn away. We cannot be silent. We must continue to fight  against these abuses. Communities deserve policies that protect  families, protect peace and safety, and uphold rights.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the Catholic church and the bishops for their  courageous, unwavering support for the immigrant community in our  country. I ask all other religions and leaders of faith to come  forward.

Why are you silent in this shameful moment?

We should hear your voices as it is commanded in Leviticus very  clearly. Leviticus 19:33-34 says: ``When a foreigner resides among you  in your land, do not mistreat them. The foreigner residing among you  must be treated as your native-born. Love them as yourself, for you  were foreigners in Egypt. I am the Lord your God.''

Please come forward. Don't be silent.