Crime Victims Fund Stabilization Act of 2025


Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 909) to temporarily provide additional deposits into the  Crime Victims Fund, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 909

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.          This Act may be cited as the ``Crime Victims Fund       Stabilization Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. DEPOSITS IN CRIME VICTIMS FUND.          Section 1402(b)(6) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (34       U.S.C. 20101(b)(6)) is amended--

(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'' at the end;

(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end       and inserting ``; or''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(C) beginning on the date of enactment of the Crime       Victims Fund Stabilization Act of 2025 through fiscal year       2029, sections 3729 through 3731 of title 31, United States       Code (commonly known as the `False Claims Act'), provided       that--

``(i) amounts necessary to remunerate qui tam plaintiffs as       described in subsection (d) of section 3730 of title 31,       United States Code, are not available for deposit to the       Fund; and

``(ii) amounts necessary to reimburse the United States       Government for the damages which the Government sustains from       acts described in subsection (a) of section 3729 of title 31,       United States Code, are not available for deposit to the       Fund.''.       SEC. 3. INSPECTOR GENERAL AUDIT.

Not later than September 30, 2028, the Inspector General of       the Department of Justice shall submit to the Committee on       the Judiciary of the House of Representatives, the Committee       on the Judiciary of the Senate, the Committee on       Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the       Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report containing       an audit of the Crime Victims Fund, as established by section       1402 of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (34 U.S.C. 20101).       Such audit shall include--

(1) information relating to the sustainability of deposits       into the Crime Victims Fund;

(2) the effect of the VOCA Fix to Sustain the Crime Victims       Fund Act of 2021 (Public Law 117-27) on the balance of the       Crime Victims Fund, the long-term stability of the Crime       Victims Fund, and the use of funds obligated out of the Crime       Victims Fund;

(3) the effect of the Crime Victims Fund Stabilization Act       of 2025 on the balance of the Crime Victims Fund, the long-      term stability of the Crime Victims Fund, and the use of       funds obligated out of the Crime Victims Fund;

(4) legislative recommendations for improving the       effectiveness of the Crime Victims Fund;

(5) administrative or management recommendations for       improving the oversight and administration of the Crime       Victims Fund; and

(6) the methodology used to conduct the audit to include--

(A) the data sources relied upon;

(B) any limitations realized during the audit; and

(C) the criteria applied in evaluating the long-term       stability of the Crime Victims Fund.

Mr. Speaker, I am beyond proud to rise in support of my bill H.R.  909, the Crime Victims Fund Stabilization Act.

This bipartisan legislation will provide critical support to over 7  million crime victims throughout every State in this country, without  spending a single taxpayer dollar.

Mr. Speaker, across the United States, domestic violence shelters,  rape crisis centers, and child advocacy centers are in dire need of  support. These organizations serve the most vulnerable in our society:  battered spouses, rape survivors, and children, even toddlers who have  been sexually abused and exploited.

As elected officials, it is our duty to ensure these victims receive  the support, care, and, equally important, the justice they deserve.

Tragically, over the past 8 years, across multiple administrations,  the balance of the Crime Victims Fund, or CVF, has plummeted,  jeopardizing Federal support for these victims.

This fund does not use taxpayer dollars. It is solely financed by the  fines, settlements, and other monetary penalties collected from Federal  criminal prosecutions. From 2017 to 2023, the balance of CVF dropped by  over 92 percent. It was almost completely wiped out.

Congress attempted to correct this decline in 2021 with the  bipartisan VOCA Fix to Sustain the Crime Victims Fund Act, but Federal  resources are still not meeting the needs of victims in our Nation.

Child advocacy centers and domestic violence shelters have been  forced to triage their services or, even worse, to close entirely.

In 2024, my home State of Missouri saw a $10 million cut, over 40  percent, Mr. Speaker, of its Federal support for victims of violent  crime, gone. This is unacceptable.

Mr. Speaker, I got to work, and over the past 2 years, I have worked  with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, with law enforcement,  with prosecutors, and with victim advocacy groups to craft this  legislation and build an overwhelming coalition of support.

Today, with 327 bipartisan cosponsors, this bill, the Crime Victims  Fund Stabilization Act, will be the most widely supported piece of  legislation considered on the House floor so far this Congress. I would  like to emphasize that for just a second. With 327 bipartisan  cosponsors, this bill is the most widely supported piece of legislation  to receive a vote in Congress.

My bill uses nontaxpayer dollars to ensure vital programs can survive  and victims receive the assistance necessary to heal, recover, and help  law enforcement hold offenders accountable.

For years, the CVF had been financed by criminal monetary penalties,  but those resources are no longer sufficient. With my bill, the CVF  will also receive, through fiscal year 2029, the unobligated civil  penalties collected through antifraud law.

One of the most prominent Federal antifraud laws is the False Claims  Act. The False Claims Act allows the Federal Government to sue entities  that defraud government programs and seek up to three times the  damages. For example, if an entity defrauds the Federal Government out  of $1 million, the government can sue that entity for up to $3 million.  If the government wins, $1 million is returned to the defrauded agency,  up to 30 percent is rewarded to any relevant whistleblower, when  necessary, and the remaining leftover funds are unobligated.

The Crime Victims Fund Stabilization Act only redirects these  leftover, unobligated funds to the CVF. We include specific protections  for government reimbursement and whistleblower rewards. Those dollars  remain untouched. This bill simply ensures that the surplus damages  collected from those found liable for fraud in Federal court are used  to support victims of crime.

This temporary infusion of resources will stabilize the CVF, support  both victims and law enforcement investigations, while also retaining  the fund's original intent of being financed by the legal fines from  bad actors, not tax dollars.

This commonsense legislation must pass Congress as quickly as  possible because every day that we wait, victims of the most horrific  crimes across our country are left in need.

Mrs. WAGNER.  909.

Mr. Speaker, I note that in 2024, child advocacy centers provided  assistance to over 370,000 children nationwide who suffered abuse. That  is 370,000 children in one year alone. For those who might not be  aware, after a child is tragically exploited or sexually assaulted by a  predator, one of the first places a victim is taken is a child advocacy  center, or CAC.

At CAC, specialized interviewers are able to work with the child  victim to not only make them feel safe and secure but also to get vital  information that can be used by law enforcement to identify and arrest  the offender. These often horrifying details are then used by our  prosecutors, who stand firmly with this legislation, to ensure the  predator is put behind bars.

My most recent visit to a CAC was in October last year. I had the  pleasure of meeting with the executive director of the Missouri Network  Against Child Abuse, Jessica Seitz, and her team at the Union,  Missouri, child advocacy center.

The work these incredible individuals do every single day to protect  and help children going through unspeakable trauma deserves the highest  recognition. I want to ensure that all of them are recognized on the  floor of this Chamber for what they do in Missouri and beyond. I also  want to recognize all of the CACs throughout the United States that  open their doors every day to help those who need it most.

The legislation before all of us today will turn our gratitude into  action, Mr. Speaker. We will get these organizations, the amazing  people who work there, and the children who rely upon them the  resources they so desperately need.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, I first thank my co-leads for their help in  pursuing and pushing this legislation forward: Representatives Derek  Schmidt, who we heard from, and Nathaniel Moran, Stephanie Bice,   Jim  Costa, and my dear, dear friend across the aisle, Congresswoman Debbie  Dingell, who I wish could have joined us today for this debate.

I also thank the House Judiciary Committee and the Appropriations  Committee, who had a strong hand in this, and Leader Scalise for  working with my team to bring this bill to the floor. Of course, I  thank Congresswoman Lucy McBath for her tremendous support and her  testimony to just the terrible injustice and travesty that she has  endured. I thank her for her support and her management of this piece  of legislation, H.R. 909, across the aisle.

Through our collaboration, we were able to include strong language  ensuring a comprehensive audit of the CVF will be delivered to  Congress. The information from this audit will help us do our jobs as  policymakers and properly plan for the future of the CVF and avoid  another crisis like this.

To the dozens and dozens and dozens of supporting organizations that  stood with me in this fight, including the National Children's  Alliance, the National District Attorneys Association, RAINN, Covenant  House, the National Network to End Domestic Violence, the National  Network to End Sexual Violence, and the National Association of  Assistant U.S. Attorneys.

Mr. Speaker, our work is not done. We can and must get this bill  through the Senate, as we discussed across the aisle, and signed into  law. It has been an honor to lead this effort, and I am humbled to have  gained cosponsors from well over a majority of the United States House  Republican Conference and 75 percent of the entire House of  Representatives.

This could not have been accomplished without dedication, teamwork,  and a true get-stuff-done attitude. Representing our constituents in  this Chamber is not a job, Mr. Speaker. It is a calling. There is no  higher calling than helping the most vulnerable in our society.

I, again, urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation, H.R.  909, and I yield back the balance of my time.