Expanding Access to Capital for Rural Job Creators Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692759/expanding-access-to-capital-for-rural-job-creators-act


Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1190) to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to expand  access to capital for rural-area small businesses, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1190

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,            SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Expanding Access to Capital       for Rural Job Creators Act''.       SEC. 2. ACCESS TO CAPITAL FOR RURAL-AREA SMALL BUSINESSES.

Section 4(j) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15       U.S.C. 78d(j)) is amended--

(1) in paragraph (4)(C), by inserting ``, rural-area small       businesses'' after ``women-owned small businesses''; and

(2) in paragraph (6)(B)(iii), by inserting ``, rural-area       small businesses'' after ``women-owned small businesses''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1190, the Expanding Access to  Capital for Rural Job Creators Act. I commend Congressman Downing for  leading this commonsense bipartisan bill.

Too often, the conversation around capital formation is centered on  financial hubs like New York and San Francisco, but the backbone of  America's economy is the local business communities in cities and towns  and rural areas across all 50 States: the family-run manufacturers,  agricultural innovators, entrepreneurs, and small-town tech startups.  These businesses face unique but very real obstacles when trying to  raise capital.

H.R. 1190 ensures that those voices aren't left out. The bill directs  the SEC's Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation  to proactively engage with rural communities, study the structural  funding gaps that they face, and tackle their challenges when crafting  policies.

This is not about expanding bureaucracy. It is about sharpening the  focus of an office that already exists to ensure that its mission  reflects the incredible variety of businesses that are the engine of  the U.S. economy.

We all have rural counties in our districts where hardworking small  business owners are ready to grow if only they can access the capital  that they need. This bill gives them a seat at the table and a voice in  sharpening the policies that affect their future.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1190, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, the Expanding Access to Capital for Rural  Job Creators Act takes care of our hardworking small business owners  who are ready to grow. They deserve a seat at the table, Mr. Speaker.

I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R. 1190. I commend the  Representative from Montana (Mr. Downing) for introducing this  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.