Helping Angels Lead Our Startups Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692725/helping-angels-lead-our-startups-act-of-2025


Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3352) to require the Securities and Exchange Commission to  revise rules relating to general solicitation or general advertising to  allow for presentations or other communication made by or on behalf of  an issuer at certain events, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3352

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Helping Angels Lead Our       Startups Act of 2025'' or the ``HALOS Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. CLARIFICATION OF GENERAL SOLICITATION.

(a) Definitions.--For purposes of this section and the       revision of rules required under this section:

(1) Angel investor group.--The term ``angel investor       group'' means any group that--

(A) is composed of accredited investors interested in       investing personal capital in early-stage companies;

(B) holds regular meetings and has defined processes and       procedures for making investment decisions, either       individually or among the membership of the group as a whole;       and

(C) is neither associated nor affiliated with brokers,       dealers, or investment advisers.

(2) Issuer.--The term ``issuer'' means an issuer that is a       business, is not in bankruptcy or receivership, is not an       investment company, and is not a blank check, blind pool, or       shell company.

(b) In General.--Not later than 6 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission       shall revise Regulation D (17 CFR 230.500 et seq.) to require       that in carrying out the prohibition against general       solicitation or general advertising contained in section       230.502(c) of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, the       prohibition shall not apply to a presentation or other       communication made by or on behalf of an issuer which is made       at an event--

(1) sponsored by--

(A) the United States or any territory thereof, the       District of Columbia, any State, a federally recognized       Indian Tribe, a political subdivision of any State,       territory, or federally recognized Indian Tribe, or any       agency or public instrumentality of any of the foregoing;

(B) a college, university, or other institution of higher       education;

(C) a nonprofit organization;

(D) an angel investor group;

(E) an incubator or accelerator;

(F) a venture forum, venture capital association, or trade       association, other than an association created solely for the       purpose of sponsoring an event described under this       subsection; or

(G) any other group, person, or entity as the Securities       and Exchange Commission may determine by rule;

(2) that is not held in any facility that is owned or       operated by a religious organization, other than an       institution of higher education that is accredited and       operated primarily for post-secondary education;

(3) where any advertising for the event does not reference       any specific offering of securities by the issuer;

(4) the sponsor of which--

(A) does not make investment recommendations or provide       investment advice to event attendees;

(B) does not engage in an active role in any investment       negotiations between the issuer and investors attending the       event;

(C) does not charge event attendees any fees other than       reasonable administrative fees;

(D) does not receive any compensation for making       introductions between investors attending the event and       issuers, or for investment negotiations between such parties;

(E) makes readily available to attendees a disclosure not       longer than one page in length, as prescribed by the       Securities and Exchange Commission, describing the nature of       the event and the risks of investing in the issuers       presenting at the event; and

(F) does not receive any compensation with respect to such       event that would require registration of the sponsor as a       broker or a dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,       or as an investment advisor under the Investment Advisers Act       of 1940; and

(5) where no specific information regarding an offering of       securities by the issuer is communicated or distributed by or       on behalf of the issuer, other than--

(A) that the issuer is in the process of offering       securities or planning to offer securities;

(B) the type and amount of securities being offered;

(C) the amount of securities being offered that have       already been subscribed for; and

(D) the intended use of proceeds of the offering.

(c) Rule of Construction.--Subsection (b) may only be       construed as requiring the Securities and Exchange Commission       to amend the requirements of Regulation D with respect to       presentations and communications, and not with respect to       purchases or sales.

(d) No Pre-existing Substantive Relationship by Reason of       Event.--Attendance at an event described under subsection (b)       shall not qualify, by itself, as establishing a pre-existing       substantive relationship between an issuer and a purchaser,       for purposes of Rule 506(b).

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3352, the Helping Angels Lead  Our Startups Act, and I thank Congressman Lawler for his leadership on  this bipartisan bill.

Around the country, early-stage entrepreneurs are developing new  technologies, products, and services not in boardrooms but in shared  workspaces, university labs, and community accelerators. At this stage,  the most important thing they need is capital and, often, a chance to  talk with potential investors. That is what makes events like demo days  so important.

These are informational forums where startups share their business  ideas, not investment pitches. Under earlier SEC guidance, even  participating in one of these events could be considered a ``general  solicitation,'' which, in turn, could block the startup from using key  offering exemptions.

Although the SEC has since addressed this through rule 148, H.R. 3352  codifies those protections and ensures that demo day participation does  not unintentionally violate securities laws, provided certain  conditions are met.

This bill strikes the right balance. It doesn't weaken investor  protections. It simply ensures our regulations don't punish small  businesses for talking about their work.

H.R. 3352 supports entrepreneurship, encourages capital formation,  and reflects how innovation actually happens.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support it, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, in closing, H.R. 3352 supports  entrepreneurship, encourages capital formation, and reflects how  innovation actually happens. I urge my colleagues to support Mr.  Lawler's bill, H.R. 3352.