Taiwan Non-Discrimination Act of 2025


Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 910) to require the Secretary of the Treasury to pursue more  equitable treatment of Taiwan at the international financial  institutions, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 910

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Taiwan Non-Discrimination       Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

Congress finds as follows:

(1) As enshrined in its Articles of Agreement, the       International Monetary Fund (IMF) is devoted to promoting       international monetary cooperation, facilitating the       expansion and balanced growth of international trade,       encouraging exchange stability, and avoiding competitive       exchange depreciation.

(2) Taiwan is the 21st largest economy in the world and the       10th largest goods trading partner of the United States.

(3) Although Taiwan is not an IMF member, it is a member of       the World Trade Organization, the Asian Development Bank, and       the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.

(4) According to the January 2020 Report on Macroeconomic       and Foreign Exchange Policies of Major Trading Partners of       the United States, published by the Department of the       Treasury, Taiwan held $471,900,000,000 in foreign exchange       reserves, more than major economies such as India, South       Korea, and Brazil.

(5) According to section 4(d) of the Taiwan Relations Act       (Public Law 96-8), enacted on April 10, 1979, ``Nothing in       this Act may be construed as a basis for supporting the       exclusion or expulsion of Taiwan from continued membership in       any international financial institution or any other       international organization.''.

(6) Taiwan held membership in the IMF for 9 years following       the recognition of the People's Republic of China (PRC) by       the United Nations, and 16 Taiwan staff members at the Fund       were allowed to continue their employment after the PRC was       seated at the IMF in 1980. As James M. Boughton has noted in       his Silent Revolution: The International Monetary Fund 1979-      1989, even as the PRC was seated, the United States Executive       Director to the IMF, Sam Y. Cross, expressed support on       behalf of the United States Government for ``some kind of       association between Taiwan and the Fund''.

(7) On September 27, 1994, in testimony before the Senate       Committee on Foreign Relations regarding the 1994 Taiwan       Policy Review, then-Assistant Secretary of State for East       Asian and Pacific Affairs Winston Lord stated: ``Recognizing       Taiwan's important role in transnational issues, we will       support its membership in organizations where statehood is       not a prerequisite, and we will support opportunities for       Taiwan's voice to be heard in organizations where its       membership is not possible.''.

(8) The Congress has repeatedly reaffirmed support for this       policy, including in Public Laws 107-10, 107-158, 108-28,       108-235, 113-17, and 114-139, and the unanimous House and       Senate passage of the Taiwan Allies International Protection       and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI) Act of 2019.

(9) In its fact sheet, entitled ``U.S. Relations with       Taiwan'', published on August 31, 2018, the Department of       State asserts: ``The United States supports Taiwan's       membership in international organizations that do not require       statehood as a condition of membership and encourages       Taiwan's meaningful participation in international       organizations where its membership is not possible.''.

(10) According to the Articles of Agreement of the IMF,       ``membership shall be open to other countries'', subject to       conditions prescribed by the Board of Governors of the IMF.

(11) In the IMF publication ``Membership and Nonmembership       in the International Monetary Fund: A Study in International       Law and Organization'', Joseph Gold, the then-General Counsel       and Director of the Legal Department of the IMF, elaborated       on the differences between the terms ``countries'' and       ``states'', noting that ``the word `country' may have been       adopted because of the absence of agreement on the definition       of a `state' '' and, with respect to the use of ``countries''       and applications for IMF membership, ``the absence of any       adjective in the Articles emphasizes the breadth of the       discretion that the Fund may exercise in admitting countries       to membership''. According to Mr. Gold, ``the desire to give       the Fund flexibility in dealing with applications may explain       not only the absence of any adjective that qualifies       `countries' but also the choice of that word itself''.

(12) In his IMF study, Mr. Gold further observes, ``in the       practice of the Fund the concepts of independence and       sovereignty have been avoided on the whole as a mode of       expressing a criterion for membership in the Fund''. He       continues, ``Although the Fund usually takes into account the       recognition or nonrecognition of an entity as a state, there       are no rules or even informal understandings on the extent to       which an applicant must have been recognized by members or       other international organizations before the Fund will regard       it as eligible for membership.''. In fact, when considering       an application for membership where the status of an       applicant may not be resolved, Mr. Gold writes ``there have       been occasions on which the Fund has made a finding before       decisions had been taken by the United Nations or by most       members or by members with a majority of the total voting       power.'' Mr. Gold concludes, ``the Fund makes its own       findings on whether an applicant is a `country', and makes       them solely for its own purposes.''.

(13) Although not a member state of the United Nations, the       Republic of Kosovo is a member of both the IMF and the World       Bank, having joined both organizations on June 29, 2009.

(14) On October 26, 2021, Secretary of State Antony Blinken       issued a statement in support of Taiwan's ``robust,       meaningful participation'' in the United Nations system,       which includes the IMF, the World Bank, and other specialized       United Nations agencies. Secretary of State Blinken noted,       ``As the international community faces an unprecedented       number of complex and global issues, it is critical for all       stakeholders to help address these problems. This includes       the 24 million people who live in Taiwan. Taiwan's meaningful       participation in the UN system is not a political issue, but       a pragmatic one.''. He continued, ``Taiwan's exclusion       undermines the important work of the UN and its related       bodies, all of which stand to benefit greatly from its       contributions.''.

(15) In October 2024, Taiwan announced it would seek IMF       membership, with the Taipei Economic and Cultural       Representative Office in the United States stating,       ``Taiwan's membership at the IMF would help boost financial       resilience.''.       SEC. 3. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS.

It is the sense of the Congress that--

(1) the size, significance, and connectedness of the       Taiwanese economy highlight the importance of greater       participation by Taiwan in the International Monetary Fund,       given the purposes of the Fund articulated in its Articles of       Agreement; and

(2) the experience of Taiwan in developing a vibrant and       advanced economy under democratic governance and the rule of       law should inform the work of the international financial       institutions, including through increased participation by       Taiwan in the institutions.       SEC. 4. SUPPORT FOR TAIWAN ADMISSION TO THE IMF.

(a) In General.--The United States Governor of the       International Monetary Fund (in this section referred to as       the ``Fund'') shall use the voice and vote of the United       States to vigorously support--

(1) the admission of Taiwan as a member of the Fund, to the       extent that admission is sought by Taiwan;

(2) participation by Taiwan in regular surveillance       activities of the Fund with respect to the economic and       financial policies of Taiwan, consistent with Article IV       consultation procedures of the Fund;

(3) employment opportunities for Taiwan nationals, without       regard to any consideration that, in the determination of the       United States Governor, does not generally restrict the       employment of nationals of member countries of the Fund; and

(4) the ability of Taiwan to receive appropriate technical       assistance and training by the Fund.

(b) United States Policy.--It is the policy of the United       States not to discourage or otherwise deter Taiwan from       seeking admission as a member of the Fund.

(c) Waiver.--The Secretary of the Treasury may waive any       requirement of subsection (a) for up to 1 year at a time on       reporting to Congress that providing the waiver will       substantially promote the objective of securing the       meaningful participation of Taiwan at each international       financial institution (as defined in section 1701(c)(2) of       the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C.       262r(c)(2))).

(d) Sunset.--This section shall have no force or effect on       the earlier of--

(1) the date of approval by the Board of Governors of the       Fund for the admission of Taiwan as a member of the Fund; or

(2) the date that is 10 years after the date of the       enactment of this Act.       SEC. 5. TESTIMONY REQUIREMENT.

In each of the next 7 years in which the Secretary of the       Treasury is required by section 1705(b) of the International       Financial Institutions Act to present testimony, the       Secretary shall include in the testimony a description of the       efforts of the United States to support the greatest       participation practicable by Taiwan at each international       financial institution (as defined in section 1701(c)(2) of       such Act (22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2))).

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 910, the Taiwan Non- Discrimination Act of 2025. I will start by thanking Representative Kim  for her important work on this legislation.

Following the House's passage of this bill last Congress, Taiwan  announced  that it would seek membership from the International Monetary Fund, or  IMF. This is a direct result of the gentlewoman's leadership on the  issue, and I applaud her for her dedication and her efforts.

Taiwan boasts a resilient and innovation-driven economy powered by  its high-tech industries, robust financial institutions, and dynamic  export sector.

The island plays a significant role in global supply chains,  particularly in the semiconductor and advanced manufacturing sectors.  Yet, despite its economic strength and proven track record of  responsible financial governance, Taiwan continues to be marginalized  and held to a second-class standard by the IMF.

Make no mistake, Mr. Speaker, Taiwan is eligible to join the IMF, and  U.S. policy has long supported Taiwan's membership in international  organizations whenever possible. Excluding Taiwan undermines the  legitimacy and effectiveness of the IMF as a truly global institution  in an increasingly complex world economy.

The IMF's core mission involves advising governments on economic  reform. What better society can the IMF point to when driving home the  importance of good policies.

Taiwan's per capital GDP has grown more than 35 times larger since  the end of the Chinese Civil War. The island has crucial insights to  offer an institution that seeks to put its borrowers on stable footing.  It is long overdue for Taiwan to receive the recognition and  representation it rightfully deserves at the IMF.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R.

Mrs. WAGNER.  In  closing, Mr. Speaker, it is long overdue for Taiwan to receive the  recognition and representation it rightfully deserves at the IMF. I  urge all my colleagues to  join me in supporting H.R. 910, and I yield back the balance of my  time.