Taiwan Assurance Implementation Act


Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, H.R. 1512, the  Taiwan Assurance Implementation Act.

Mr. Speaker, it is undeniable that the People's Republic of China is  the single gravest threat to our national security. It is undeniable  that China has increased its destabilizing military activities in the  Pacific. It is undeniable that China has its sights set on the full- scale invasion of Taiwan.

The United States must not waver in our deterrence of this threat and  our support for this nation.

Just last month, the commander of the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command  testified to Congress that China escalated military pressure against  Taiwan by 300 percent last year. Commander Paparo explicitly warned  that these ``aggressive maneuvers around Taiwan are not just exercises.  They are dress rehearsals for forced unification.''

It is imperative that the full weight of the United States stands  firmly and publicly against these provocations.

For decades, our Nation employed a strategy of opacity, restricting  our formal engagement with Taiwan to avoid upsetting or insulting the  Chinese Communist Party.

In 2020, this body enacted the Taiwan Assurance Act, and the first  Trump administration moved decisively to implement this new policy by  declaring all self-imposed restrictions null and void.

Unfortunately, the Biden administration waffled and rolled back many  of these diplomatic standards. Under my legislation, all  administrations, now and into the future, will be required to  periodically update these regulations, specifically with the goal of  deepening and expanding U.S.-Taiwan relations.

We must stand shoulder to shoulder with our partners in the Pacific  to deter the Chinese threat. I am proud to say that enacting this  legislation, the Taiwan Assurance Implementation Act, will be a  decisive step forward to ensuring peace through strength.

Mr. Speaker, I close by acknowledging my close friend and co-lead of  this legislation, Congressman Gerry Connolly, for his work on this  legislation. Congressman Connolly is a respected voice of authority on  this issue and a tireless champion for the U.S.-Taiwan relationship. It  has been an absolute honor to work with the Congressman on this  legislation and so many other issues.

Mr. Speaker, Gerry and his entire family remain in our prayers.