Office of Rural Affairs Enhancement Act


Ms. GOODLANDER. Mr. Speaker, I am very proud to rise today and join  my colleagues from across America in support of what is a commonsense,  bipartisan bill.

H.R. 4549 is a bill that will deliver a fair deal for America's rural  small businesses and entrepreneurs by cutting red tape, delivering  access to key Federal resources, and ensuring experienced and  accountable representation and leadership within our government. It is  a bill that will ensure the voices of rural America aren't just heard  but are truly prioritized within our government.

Running a small business is really an act of faith. It is hard work,  often brutally hard work, and it is extraordinarily important work  because rural small businesses are the beating hearts of communities  across America, and in every corner of my home State of New Hampshire.  They are the backbone of our economy.

As I have worked alongside and as I have listened to and learned from  rural small businesses across New Hampshire, from the family farmers of  our north country to the manufacturers of our Monadnock region, and  from the loggers of our upper valley to the small businesses of the  Souhegan Valley, I have heard again and again that the Federal programs  designed to help our rural small businesses are riddled with red tape,  and they are often impossible to access.

I have heard again and again that the rules of the road are simply  not written with the realities of rural America in mind, their  challenges and the opportunities. That is not right, and it is our job  as lawmakers to correct it.

In 1990, Congress created the Office of Rural Affairs within the  Small Business Administration to tackle this problem set, but as we  have seen over the past 35 years, the office is underperforming. It  lacks experienced and accountable leadership, and the red tape is still  very much there for the cutting.

So our bill is going to address these gaps in the law. It is going to  require a senior leader with real experience in rural economic  development to be at the helm and to be accountable to Congress and the  American people.

Ms. GOODLANDER. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues from across this  body and across our Nation to come together to deliver for our rural  small businesses. They are the backbone of our economy, and they are  the fabric of American life. This bipartisan bill, the Office of Rural  Affairs Enhancement Act, is going to go a long way to delivering for  them.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have no further  speakers.