Small Business Advocacy Improvements Act of 2025


Ms. GOODLANDER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today as the proud great- granddaughter, granddaughter, and daughter of New Hampshire small  business owners. I proudly represent New Hampshire on the Small  Business Committee here in the House of Representatives, and today, I  am very proud to be a cosponsor of this important bipartisan  legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 832, the Small Business  Advocacy Improvements Act. I am very proud to be doing this together  with Chairman Williams, Congressman Van Drew, and Congressman Tran.

My family's small business story is an American story. It is a New  Hampshire story. My home State is home to more than 136,000 small  businesses. That is 99 percent of all New Hampshire businesses and more  than 305,000 small business employees.

Small businesses are truly the beating heart of New Hampshire's  economy, from our cutting-edge aerospace and life sciences companies to  our retailers on Main Streets. From my hometown, Nashua, all the way up  to the North Country, New Hampshire small businesses are truly world  class.

At a moment when big businesses in our economy are more consolidated  than ever before in so many industries, small businesses are living  through some of the most truly uncertain times in American history,  from the threats of Federal funding freezes to the threats of trade  wars against our neighbors and allies.

In Congress, I am fighting every single day to ensure that New  Hampshire small businesses get true advocates and a seat at the table  in trade negotiations and discussions that impact our international and  interconnected economy. I am looking for a level playing field for  small businesses to compete and equal access to critical Federal  resources.

I have traveled all across New Hampshire and heard directly from  small business owners and employees about the concerns they have about  the use of tariffs, which are an important tool in leveling the  economic playing field, but they will have a real impact on our small  businesses in New Hampshire.

I am really proud to be a part of cosponsoring this legislation  because what it is going to be is a commonsense solution to empower an  important office within the Small Business Administration, the Office  of Advocacy, to represent small businesses on international issues.

It is a critically important seat at the table for our small  businesses at a time when they need advocates here in Congress and  throughout the executive branch.

I am very proud to be a part of this legislation, and I thank Mr.  Chairman and Ranking Member Velazquez for keeping the Small Business  Committee one of the most bipartisan committees in Congress.