Congratulating Dr. Michael Welsh


Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Dr.  Michael Welsh, a University of Iowa professor of internal medicine, on  winning the 2025 Lasker-DeBakey Clinical Medical Research Award. The  Lasker Award is one of the most prestigious biomedical and clinical  research awards.

Dr. Welsh was recognized for his extraordinary research on cystic  fibrosis, which is helping to pave the way to new therapies that are  dramatically improving health and extending life for people with cystic  fibrosis.

Cystic fibrosis is a genetic lung disease that primarily affects  young people. Dr. Welsh's research has been instrumental in  understanding the function of a critical CFTR protein and how it causes  cystic fibrosis, which has led to the creation of lifesaving therapies.  Aided by his medical team, Dr. Welsh created a triple drug combination  that treats up to 90 percent of those affected by cystic fibrosis.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Dr. Welsh for all of his body of research and  congratulations on the Lasker Award.

Congratulating Kirk Ferentz, the Big Ten's Winningest Coach

Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Iowa  football coach Kirk Ferentz for becoming the Big Ten's all-time  winningest coach.

With the Iowa Hawkeyes 47-7 win over UMass Minutemen on September 13,  Coach Kirk Ferentz broke Woody Hayes' record. Coach Ferentz' career  started as the first season head coach at the University of Iowa in  1999 and since then he has won two Big Ten titles and conference Coach  of the Year four times.

Coach Ferentz is in his 27th season as coach of the Hawkeyes, and he  won his 206th game with the program to break the conference's all-time  list milestone. He is the longest tenured active head coach in college  football, with a 206-124 record at Iowa and a 217-145 career record.  This achievement is a testament to Coach Ferentz' leadership and  commitment to excellence within the Hawkeye organization.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Coach Ferentz. Go Hawks.

I would like to extend birthday wishes to my amazing husband and  partner, Curt Meeks. Happy birthday, Curt.