No Wrong Door for Veterans Act


Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Bost for yielding  time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1969, the No Wrong Door  for Veterans Act. As an Army veteran of 24 years, a physician, and a  Member of Congress, I have seen the toll that service can take on our  veterans, not just physically but mentally and emotionally. I have  heard from too many who feel forgotten once they have taken off the  uniform.

While I respect my colleague's comments from the other side of the  aisle, to ask for data for metrics and for outcomes but not to provide  a tool for these grantees seems to be the wrong path to take.

Mr. Speaker, 17 veterans die by suicide every single day. That number  should shake this Chamber. It is a national tragedy and a moral call to  action. This bill reauthorizes and strengthens the VA's Staff Sergeant  Parker Gordon Fox Suicide Prevention Grant Program, one of the most  effective tools we have to get local, trusted organizations the funding  they need to help struggling veterans.

In Iowa, I have seen incredible work being done by people like Shane  Sawyer, an Air Force special operations combat veteran who helps lead  the Quad Cities Veterans Network. He brings veterans together, not just  to socialize but to survive, to reconnect with the tribe they lost, to  rediscover their identity, and to talk to people who understand what  they have been through.

His work saves lives. It is that simple. This bill helps him and  thousands like him do even more. It also includes my Veterans SPORT  Act, which ensures veterans can access adaptive prosthetics for sports  and physical activity.

Recovery isn't just about prescriptions. It is about purpose. Whether  it is walking a golf course or playing a team sport, these activities  can be the difference between isolation and hope.

Mr. Speaker, we made a promise to our veterans. This bill is about  keeping it. It ensures no veteran falls through the cracks. No door  should be the wrong door when a veteran is in crisis. No door should be  the wrong door when it comes to making our veterans whole.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R.  1969. Let's do the right thing by those who put everything on the line  for us.