Supporting American Elections


Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the  SAVE Act because American elections should only be decided by American  citizens. That is not controversial. It is common sense.

Think about it. Democrats have no problem requiring ID to board a  plane, buy a six-pack, drive a car, or even adopt a pet. Just a few  years ago, they demanded proof of vaccination just to eat at a  restaurant or pick up food.

When it comes to the most sacred act in our Republic, voting, they  fight tooth and nail against requiring proof of citizenship. Why? It is  blatant hypocrisy, and the American people see right through it.

The SAVE Act ensures that only American citizens can register to vote  and vote in Federal elections. It protects the integrity of our system  and restores faith in democracy. In fact, in Iowa, every single time we  have passed election integrity laws, the percentage of people voting  has increased.

With President Trump back in the White House, it is time to secure  our elections and put American citizens first. Let's pass the SAVE Act  now.            Supporting the Congressional Agricultural Trade Caucus

Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, today I am happy to announce that I  have officially joined the bipartisan Congressional Agricultural Trade  Caucus.

The State of Iowa leads the Nation in corn, pork, and soybean  production. Expanding access to international markets is essential for  our rural communities to succeed.

In the past, bad trade deals and overregulations from Washington have  held our producers back. By joining the Agricultural Trade Caucus,  alongside Representatives Adrian Smith,   Jim Costa, Dusty Johnson, and

Jimmy Panetta, I will continue to fight to remove unfair trade  barriers, open new markets for Iowa products, and promote policies that  keep our local family farms strong and competitive.

Yesterday, when Secretary Rollins was in our State of Iowa, she  remarked upon our productive farmers and ranchers and added she will be  going on six trade trips internationally over the next 6 months.

For Iowans, agriculture isn't just a way of life. It is the backbone  of our economy, and I am deeply committed to supporting Iowa's  hardworking farmers and producers.