Time Dealer of the Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690130/time-dealer-of-the-year-2025


Mr. MESSMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor my constituent Raymond  Farabaugh, Co-President of D-Patrick, Inc. in Evansville, Indiana, who  was named the 2025 TIME Dealer of the Year at the National Automobile  Dealers Association Show in New Orleans, Louisiana. This prestigious  award reflects the dedication, hard work, and commitment of the entire  team at D-Patrick. Mr. Farabaugh was chosen among a field of 49  national dealer nominees and was selected by a panel of judges from the  Tauber Institute at the University of Michigan.

Mr. Farabaugh graduated with a B.S. in psychology from the University  of Dayton. Ten years after his graduation, he had the opportunity to  start as the finance manager at his father-in-law's Honda dealership.  He moved to different dealerships within the group and rose from sales  manager to general manager. In 1998, Mr. Farabaugh and his brother-in- law purchased the dealership and now share ownership and  responsibilities at D-Patrick.

D-Patrick has invested hundreds of thousands of dollars annually in  an array of local Indiana organizations, such as Ark Crisis Children's  Center, Boone County Cancer Society, Boys & Girls Club of Evansville,  Evansville Philharmonic Orchestra, Mesker Park Zoo & Botanic Garden,  Ronald McDonald House Charities of Ohio Valley, Special Olympics  Indiana, Tri-State Food Bank and Walk to End Alzheimer's Southwest  Indiana.

Mr. Farabaugh is a member of the Automobile Dealers Association of  Indiana, where he has served as President and currently as a member of  the Board of Directors.

Mr. Farabaugh was nominated for this award by Marty Murphy, Executive  Vice President of the Automobile Dealers Association of Indiana. I  congratulate Mr. Farabaugh on this outstanding honor of being named the  2025 TIME Dealer of the Year. I commend him for all his contributions  to the community and wish him and his family's business continued  success.