Welcoming Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew to Washington, D.C.


Mr. RYAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to welcome Ecumenical Patriarch  Bartholomew of Constantinople to Washington, D.C. as he receives the  Templeton Prize for his lifetime of work curating harmony between  science and faith.

Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew not only serves as the spiritual  leader to the upwards of 300 million Orthodox Christians around the  globe, he serves as a model for us all, having dedicated his life to  peacemaking, environmental advocacy and conservation, and facilitating  inter-faith dialogue around the globe.

Leading the Church since 1991, His All-Holiness has shepherded our  world through tumultuous shifts in national borders, been instrumental  in orchestrating peace between adversaries, and facilitated harmony  between religions. Throughout his tenure, he has remained on the  forefront of meeting the rising challenges our global community is  facing. Be it climate change, wars, violations of human rights, His  All-Holiness is undaunted and unwavering in his commitment to  alleviating suffering and championing justice.

During this chaotic time in our world, and especially our Nation, the  Ecumenical Patriarch's presence in our capital is particularly  meaningful and serves as a reminder to us all how to lead with  compassion and courage, how to minister to our communities with  empathy, and how to live with moral fortitude.

His ability to unify, to guide anyone and everyone to set aside  differences and divisions and treat each other as equals is deeply  inspiring and is what we should all strive for. Ecumenical Patriarch  Bartholomew's impact on our world is immeasurable, boundless, and  magnified all the more through the countless people he has inspired.

It is a great honor to add my voice to the many, including the Greek  Orthodox Christians at St. George Greek Orthodox Church in Kingston,  St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church in Newburgh, Kimisis tis Theotokou  Greek Orthodox Church in Poughkeepsie, and across the Hudson Valley,  thanking him for his leadership in our world, his zeal for  environmentalism and social harmony, and his commitment to uplifting  the dignity of every person of every faith and nation.