Agoa Extension Act


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 6500) to extend duty-free treatment provided with  respect to imports from certain countries in Africa under the African  Growth and Opportunity Act, to extend customs user fees, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 6500

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``AGOA Extension Act''.       SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT FOR CERTAIN                     COUNTRIES IN AFRICA UNDER AFRICAN GROWTH AND                     OPPORTUNITY ACT; RETROACTIVE APPLICATION.

(a) Extension.--

(1) Trade act of 1974.--Section 506B of the Trade Act of       1974 (19 U.S.C. 2466b) is amended by striking ``September 30,       2025'' and inserting ``December 31, 2028''.

(2) African growth and opportunity act.--

(A) In general.--Section 112(g) of the African Growth and       Opportunity Act (19 U.S.C. 3721(g)) is amended by striking       ``September 30, 2025'' and inserting ``December 31, 2028''.

(B) Regional apparel article program.--Section 112(b)(3)(A)       of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (19 U.S.C.       3721(b)(3)(A)) is amended--

(i) in clause (i), by striking ``21 succeeding'' and       inserting ``24 succeeding''; and

(ii) in clause (ii)(II), by striking ``September 30, 2025''       and inserting ``December 31, 2028''.

(C) Third-country fabric program.--Section 112(c)(1) of the       African Growth and Opportunity Act (19 U.S.C. 3721(c)(1)) is       amended--

(i) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``september 30,       2025'' and inserting ``december 31, 2028'';

(ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``September 30,       2025'' and inserting ``December 31, 2028''; and

(iii) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ``September 30,       2025'' and inserting ``December 31, 2028''.

(b) Retroactive Application.--

(1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 514 of the Tariff       Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1514) or any other provision of law,       and subject to paragraph (2), any entry of a covered article       to which duty-free treatment or other preferential treatment       under section 506A of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2466a)       would have applied if the entry had been made on September       30, 2025, that was made--

(A) after September 30, 2025, and

(B) before the date of the enactment of this Act,      shall be liquidated or reliquidated as though such entry       occurred on the date of the enactment of this Act.

(2) Requests.--A liquidation or reliquidation may be made       under paragraph (1) with respect to an entry only if a       request therefor is filed with the Commissioner of U.S.       Customs and Border Protection not later than 180 days after       the date of the enactment of this Act that contains       sufficient information to enable such Commissioner--

(A) to locate the entry; or

(B) to reconstruct the entry if it cannot be located.

(3) Payment of amounts owed.--Any amounts owed by the       United States pursuant to the liquidation or reliquidation of       an entry of a covered article under paragraph (1) shall be       paid, without interest of any kind, not later than 90 days       after the date of the liquidation or reliquidation (as the       case may be).

(4) Definitions.--In this subsection:

(A) Covered article.--The term ``covered article'' means an       article from a country that is designated by the President as       a beneficiary sub-Saharan African country under section 104       of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (19 U.S.C. 3703) as       of the day before the date of the enactment of this Act.

(B) Entry.--The term ``entry'' includes a withdrawal from       warehouse for consumption.       SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF CUSTOMS USER FEES.

(a) In General.--Section 13031(j)(3) of the Consolidated       Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C.       58c(j)(3)) is amended--

(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``September 30, 2031''       and inserting ``December 31, 2031''; and

(2) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking ``September 30,       2031'' and inserting ``December 31, 2031''.

(b) Rate for Merchandise Processing Fees.--Section 503 of       the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement Implementation       Act (19 U.S.C. 3805 note) is amended by striking ``September       30, 2031'' and inserting ``December 31, 2031''.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I  may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6500, the AGOA Extension  Act, legislation to reauthorize the African Growth and Opportunity Act  trade preference program.

Our Nation's economic, strategic, and national security interests are  front and center in AGOA. Think about it: This program strengthens our  critical supply chains and helps us counter the harmful global  influence of nations like China and Russia.

Don't just take my word for it. A witness testifying before the Ways  and Means Trade Subcommittee put it bluntly when discussing the  potential for a lapse in AGOA when he said: ``There will be a party in  Moscow. There will be a party in Beijing if we don't reauthorize it.''

To achieve this, however, we aren't going to lower our standards.  This extension maintains the most stringent eligibility criteria of any  trade preference program, with annual reviews to defend IP rights,  human rights, market access, and the rule of law against corruption. To  be eligible, countries must also ensure they are not undermining  America's national security or foreign policy interests.

While we still need a longer-term AGOA extension, this  reauthorization provides a much-needed level of certainty and stability  in the near term so that Congress can continue its work on future  reforms to address and strengthen U.S. priorities. After all, U.S.  businesses have invested $8 billion annually under AGOA while our  African trading partners have begun to open their markets for U.S.  agriculture.

Protecting market access for America's farmers and ranchers is  incredibly important to the rural communities I represent in Missouri,  a point I have made in my travels to the regions going back to 2015  when I attended the AGOA forum in Gabon.

After we take this step, we can build further. Americans would  benefit if African nations graduated into formal bilateral trade  agreements with the U.S.

Right now, the nation of Mauritius is on track to graduate from AGOA  within the next 5 years. When African nations take steps to expand  their markets to American products, graduating from AGOA should have  clear benefits, not negative consequences.

Africa is home to 30 percent of the world's critical mineral  reserves, and China is quickly moving to corner the market on critical  minerals and exploit Africa's vast resources. Stronger partnerships  with African nations mean we will limit China's ability to make further  gains in the region and protect our national security interests.

Madam Speaker, for example, last year the Trump administration  announced a strategic partnership agreement with the Democratic  Republic of the Congo to develop critical minerals.

I thank the chairman of our Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee,  Congressman Adrian Smith, for his tremendous work and leadership in  proactively building support for this renewal effort.

I urge my colleagues to support this extension of AGOA, which  received strong bipartisan approval in the Ways and Means Committee. I  look forward to continuing to work across the aisle to further  strengthen this critical program.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the  gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. Smith).

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, we have no additional speakers  and are prepared to close.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of  my time.

Madam Speaker, first, I say thank you to Ms. Sewell, and Mr. Neal for  their help in order to get this across the finish line. This is an  important piece of legislation that I know my staff, Josh Snead and  Hilary Pinegar, have worked tirelessly on for a long time to make sure  that this program does not die. I thank both the Democrat and  Republican staff. I thank Jorge Rueda and Alexandra Whittaker, as well.  I appreciate the hard work. This is super important.

Reauthorization of the African Growth and Opportunity Act will  advance the economic, strategic, and national security interests of the  United States today and pave the way for future reforms to strengthen  this critical program.

AGOA has a proven track record of holding our trading partners  accountable to the strictest standards, while opening markets to  American producers, particularly our farming community.

It is a vital tool to combat the harmful influence of nations like  China and protect America's supply chains, including access to critical  minerals.

Madam Speaker, I include in the Record an article discussing the  strategic importance of critical minerals.                              [Sept. 3, 2025]     Why Is Renewing AGOA Strategic for U.S.-Africa Minerals Diplomacy?                 (Critical Questions by Gracelin Baskaran)

The African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA), first signed       into law by President Bill Clinton in 2000, is a unilateral       U.S. trade preference program set to expire in September       2025. Its pending reauthorization has sparked debate over       whether--and how--it should be extended and reformed. A       failure to extend AGOA could have larger ramifications at a       time when the United States is doubling down on its       commercial diplomacy--and more specifically, its mineral       diplomacy efforts--with Africa.

Q1: What is the strategic role of AGOA nations in reshaping       critical mineral supply chains?

A1: There are 33 African countries eligible to participate       in AGOA. Many of these countries--such as the Democratic       Republic of the Congo (DRC), Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritania,       Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Tanzania, and Zambia--are       among the world's most well endowed with critical minerals.

In fact, five of the world's top fifteen destinations for       rare earths exploration in the past year were AGOA       beneficiaries: South Africa, Malawi, Uganda, Tanzania, and       Angola. Together, they have roughly 50 high-grade rare earths       deposits. Moreover, Madagascar, Mozambique, and Tanzania       cumulatively hold graphite reserves on par with China's, even       though China accounted for 77 percent of global graphite       output in 2023. According to internal calculations, AGOA       beneficiary countries also hold 70 percent of the       world's manganese, 89 percent of the world's platinum group       metals, 54 percent of cobalt, 23 percent of graphite, and 10       percent of copper. Much of this resource wealth remains       untapped, underscoring the vast potential for deepening U.S.-      Africa supply chain partnerships in critical minerals. The       U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) has       financed--or is preparing to finance--mineral projects in a       number of AGOA countries, including Angola, Mozambique,       Tanzania, and Zambia.

Q2: What is AGOA's impact on critical minerals supply       chains?

A2: AGOA offers limited tariff advantages to the mining       sector, since most minerals already face relatively low       tariffs. Its real value lies in the realm of soft power. In       June 2025, China announced that it would expand market access       by removing tariffs on all imports from 53 African nations.       If the United States were to let AGOA expire and reimpose       tariffs on African exports, it would send a damaging signal       about the future of U.S. commercial diplomacy on the       continent. When African governments see comparable       opportunities from both the United States and China in the       mining sector, they will be more likely to lean toward       Beijing.

Q3: Why is renewing AGOA crucial for building long-term       minerals diplomacy?

A3: AGOA is important for building commercial diplomacy.       While mining generates significant revenue, it is not a major       source of employment. Compared to sectors like manufacturing,       agriculture, or services, mining has a much lower labor       multiplier. Modern operations are highly mechanized, relying       more on advanced technology and machinery than on large       workforces. The jobs that are created are typically       specialized--geologists, engineers, and metallurgists--      limiting wider employment opportunities. Yet Africa urgently       needs large-scale job creation, as its population of 1.4       billion is expected to grow to 2.5 billion by 2050. Mining       alone is not positioned to meet this demand.

By contrast, AGOA has supported the expansion of more       labor-intensive industries, such as textile manufacturing and       agriculture. Namibia illustrates this potential. With more       than 7.7 million cattle, sheep, and goats, its livestock       sector is substantial. After spending 15 years working to       meet stringent safety and logistical standards, Namibia       became the first African nation to export beef to the United       States in 2019. Exports reached 860 tons in 2020 and are       projected to grow to 5,000 tons by 2025. Namibia's Meatco has       significantly benefIted from duty-free access to the U.S.       market through AGOA. Given the infancy of the beef export       relationship with the United States, a disruption to AGOA       could risk its sustainability and undermine capital       investments within the sector.

Sustaining a positive economic relationship with Namibia is       key to advancing minerals diplomacy, particularly given its       significant mineral wealth. The country is home to the       world's fourth-largest uranium reserves--resources that could       support the U.S. nuclear renaissance. Today, Namibia hosts       three active uranium mines--Rossing, Husab, and Langer       Heinrich--all of which have significant Chinese ownership       through entities such as the China National Uranium       Corporation, China General Nuclear Power Group, and the China       Africa Development Fund. The Lofdal heavy rare earths       project, partly owned by Japanese investors, produces around       2,000 tons of rare earth oxides annually and contains some of       the world's most valuable heavy rare earth metals. In       addition, Namibia is on track to become Africa's third-      largest lithium producer by 2026.

Namibia's vast resource base, combined with its reputation       as one of Africa's most politically stable and well-governed       nations, positions it well to develop a growing industrial       processing ecosystem. But allowing AGOA to lapse would deal a       serious blow to Namibia's labor-intensive beef industry and       could undermine future U.S. minerals diplomacy in this       resource-rich nation, further ceding ground to China.

Zambia is another important jurisdiction for minerals       diplomacy. In the last few years, the U.S. government opened       its first-ever Commercial Service Office at the U.S. Embassy       in Lusaka and launched a Tripartite Alliance with Zambia and       the DRC to advance raw material extraction, processing, and       battery manufacturing. The DFC has also provided support to a       U.S. company developing one of Zambia's largest copper       projects.

Deepening minerals diplomacy will depend on strengthening       the bilateral economic relationship. Interviews with Zambian       stakeholders reveal mounting frustration among voters that       the mining sector is failing to deliver meaningful benefits       to the population. Zambia's heavy reliance on copper as its       dominant export, coupled with limited economic       diversification, has left the country highly exposed to       commodity price swings. Expanding U.S. investment into other       industries, such as agriculture, textiles, and manufacturing,       could ease pressure on the mining industry while       simultaneously strengthening Zambia's broader economy and       employment generation efforts. Such diversification would       generate shared benefits, improve public perceptions of       mining, and lessen the risk of abrupt policy shifts that       complicate operations for U.S. firms. The tax benefIts       derived from AGOA are an important investment incentive. In       2022, 55.3 percent of Zambia's exports to the United States       went through AGOA, making its renewal vital to sustaining       U.S.-Zambia commercial diplomacy.

More broadly, the expiration of AGOA would likely prompt       many African countries to reassess their economic diplomacy       strategies. Without preferential access to the U.S. market,       governments may find it more attractive--or even necessary--      to expand commercial and strategic partnerships with China,       which has already established itself as the dominant player       in Africa's trade, infrastructure, and minerals sectors. In       the critical minerals space in particular, Beijing's       willingness to provide financing, infrastructure, and       guaranteed offtake agreements could accelerate African       alignment with Chinese interests, potentially sidelining U.S.       efforts to build resilient, diversified supply chains.

Q4: Is AGOA congruent with the Trump administration's       Africa approach?

A4: It is. Since 2016, U.S. policy toward Africa under the       Trump administration has placed a strong emphasis on       commercial diplomacy, with critical minerals at the       forefront. A major step came in 2018 with the creation of the       DFC, which made its first equity investment in the critical       minerals sector the following year. In 2023, a review was       undertaken of the effectiveness of the President's Advisory       Council on Doing Business in Africa (PAC-DBIA), an initiative       launched during the Obama administration with the mandate to       advise the U.S. president, through the commerce secretary, on       strategies to expand the United States' commercial engagement       across Africa. The review found that the Trump administration       convened more PAC-DBIA meetings than either Obama or Biden.

Since returning to office, Trump's Africa policy has been       characterized by senior officials emphasizing business and       trade over aid. U.S.-Africa engagement has increasingly       focused on critical minerals. One major initiative has been a       ``minerals-for-security'' proposal in which President Felix       Tshisekedi offered the United States access to the Democratic       Republic of the Congo's resources in exchange for security       support. Following negotiations in Washington and Doha, the       DRC and Rwanda signed a peace agreement in Washington, D.C.,       on June 27, 2025. Attention is now turning to advancing       mineral cooperation and broader regional economic       integration. In July 2025, the DFC approved financing for two       critical minerals projects in sub-Saharan Africa. According       to its announcement, these investments are intended both to       spur regional development and to strengthen U.S. critical       mineral supply chains vital for energy, defense, and advanced       technologies.

The challenge for the Trump administration is balancing       AGOA, which is a unilateral trade preference program, with       its strong preference for more bilaterally beneficial       economic statecraft instruments.

Q5: What could AGOA 2.O look like?

A5: AGOA can become more bilaterally beneficial. Linking a       unilateral trade preference program with a mining investment       incentive could significantly boost capital flows into       Africa's mining sector. Such a framework could unlock greater       capital flows into Africa's mining sector, while ensuring       that off-take agreements from new projects are secured with       the United States and its allies.

A useful precedent for an investment incentive came from       the Inflation Reduction Act's Section 30D tax credit, which       offered up to $7,500 for the purchase of a new electric       vehicle if its batteries met specific sourcing requirements       for critical minerals and manufacturing. To qualify for the       minerals portion of the credit, a portion of the battery's       mineral content had to be extracted or processed in the       United States or a country with a U.S. free trade agreement       (FTA). This enabled graphite mined in Mozambique to qualify,       since it was processed in Louisiana--yielding benefits to       Mozambique's economy while strengthening graphite security       for the United States.

Although the 30D provision was recently eliminated, future       tax incentives of this kind could be powerful tools to       attract mineral investment in AGOA-eligible countries, with       the extracted resources routed to the United States or allied       partners for processing. The incentive should be industry       agnostic, so minerals sourced for defense, semiconductors,       and energy would be eligible for the incentive. However, in       the meantime, ensuring AGOA's renewal without interruption is       essential to signal the strength and continuity of the U.S.-      Africa economic relationship.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote  ``yes,'' and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.