Claiming Age Clarity Act


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 5284) to require the Social Security Administration  to make changes to the social security terminology used in the rules,  regulation, guidance, or other materials of the Administration, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 5284

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Claiming Age Clarity Act''.       SEC. 2. CHANGES TO SOCIAL SECURITY TERMINOLOGY.

Not later than the later of the date that is 12 months       after the date of enactment of this Act or January 1, 2027,       the Commissioner of Social Security shall ensure that, in any       rules, regulation, guidance, or other materials of the Social       Security Administration, whether online or in print--

(1) the term ``early eligibility age'' is replaced with the       term ``minimum monthly benefit age'';

(2) the terms ``full retirement age'' and ``normal       retirement age'' are replaced with the term ``standard       monthly benefit age''; and

(3) the term ``delayed retirement credit'' shall not be       used and any reference to age 70 as the maximum age up to       which delayed retirement credits can be received shall be       replaced with the term ``maximum monthly benefit age''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Claiming Age Clarity Act,  bipartisan legislation introduced by my Ways and Means colleagues,  Representative Lloyd Smucker and  Don Beyer.

Planning for one's retirement can be stressful enough without having  to interpret needlessly complicated terminology. Unfortunately,  millions of Americans claiming Social Security today often face  confusing and misleading terms used by the agency that make it that  much harder to make informed decisions about one's financial future.

Under the legislation before us, the Social Security Administration  will be required to update the agency's language to make it clearer and  more straightforward. This will help ensure that Americans do not  accidentally claim benefits earlier than they should, are completely  informed, and don't potentially miss out on substantial income during  their retirement years.

This is critical for the nearly 100,000 citizens living in  Representative Smucker's district and the over 80,000 in Representative  Beyer's district who are nearing retirement age today. It is why  organizations like the AARP, the Bipartisan Policy Center, and the  Association of Mature American Citizens have come out in support of  this bill, which received overwhelming bipartisan support in the Ways  and Means Committee.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri.

Mr. Speaker, no American entering retirement should lose out on their  hard-earned Social Security benefits because the Social Security  Administration failed to provide information in clear and  understandable terms. We need to make it easier and not harder for  individuals to plan for retirement in this country.

The Claiming Age Clarity Act is a positive step in the right  direction. Representatives Smucker and Beyer are to be commended for  forging this bipartisan consensus on a policy that will improve  retirement security and ensure the bureaucracy here in Washington  better serves American seniors.