Electronic Filing and Payment Fairness Act


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 1152) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to  provide for  the application of the mailbox rule to documents and payments  electronically submitted to the Internal Revenue Service, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1152

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Electronic Filing and       Payment Fairness Act''.       SEC. 2. APPLICATION OF MAILBOX RULE TO DOCUMENTS AND PAYMENTS                     ELECTRONICALLY SUBMITTED TO THE INTERNAL                     REVENUE SERVICE.

(a) In General.--Section 7502(c) of the Internal Revenue       Code of 1986 is amended--

(1) in the heading, by inserting ``and Payment'' after       ``Filing'',

(2) in paragraph (2)--

(A) in the heading, by striking ``; electronic filing'',       and

(B) by striking ``and electronic filing'', and

(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

``(3) Electronic filing and payment.--

``(A) In general.--If any return, claim, statement, or       other document required to be filed, or any payment required       to be made, within a prescribed period or on or before a       prescribed date under authority of any provision of the       internal revenue laws is sent electronically by any person to       the agency, officer, or office with which such return, claim,       statement, or other document is required to be filed, or to       which such payment is required to be made, the date on which       such return, claim, statement, or other document, or payment,       is sent electronically by such person shall be deemed to be       the date of delivery or the date of payment, as the case may       be, regardless of the date on which the applicable agency,       officer, or office receives or reviews such return, claim,       statement, document, or payment.

``(B) Regulations.--Not later than December 31, 2025, the       Secretary shall issue such regulations or other guidance as       the Secretary determines necessary to carry out the purposes       of this paragraph.''.

(b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall apply to any document or payment sent after December       31, 2025.

Mr. Speaker, the April 15 deadline to file one's taxes is rapidly  approaching. Right now, if a taxpayer mails a payment or tax return to  the IRS that is postmarked by midnight on the due date, the payment or  tax return will be considered timely even if it is received a week  later. Under current law, taxpayers who file electronically do not  receive the same treatment. If a taxpayer submits the same payment or  return electronically on the due date, it may be considered late if the  IRS receives it and processes it the next day.

In fiscal year 2023, more than 213 million returns and other forms,  79 percent of all filings, were filed electronically. Not only are  electronic payments faster and easier to process, but they also  eliminate the risk of theft that we have seen recently with checks,  like in Representative Malliotakis' district, for example.

If Congress doesn't correct this, taxpayers could potentially be on  the hook for late penalties through no fault of their own.

H.R. 1152, the Electronic Filing and Payment Fairness Act, is  bipartisan legislation that will harmonize IRS deadline rules to ensure  that electronic payments or documents submitted by taxpayers will be  treated the same as postmarked mail.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives LaHood, Feenstra, Fitzpatrick,  DelBene, Panetta, and Schneider for their leadership on this bill. This  is a simple, commonsense fix to tax administration that will save  taxpayers time and money.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support it, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, the bill before us is simple.  Those taxpayers who will be filing their taxes electronically on April  15, just a couple of weeks from now, should be treated the same as  taxpayers who use postmarked mail.

Unfortunately, under current law, that is not always the case. If a  taxpayer submits a payment or return electronically by midnight on the  due date, it could still be considered late if the IRS does not process  it until the next day.

H.R. 1152, the Electronic Filing and Payment Fairness Act, will  harmonize IRS deadline rules so taxpayers receive equal treatment  whether they file electronically or through the mail.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense  legislation to help level the playing field for American taxpayers, and  I yield back the balance of my time.