Ending Improper Payments to Deceased People Act


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 269) to improve coordination between Federal and  State agencies and the Do Not Pay working system.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                   S. 269

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Ending Improper Payments to       Deceased People Act''.       SEC. 2. IMPROVING COORDINATION BETWEEN FEDERAL AND STATE                     AGENCIES AND THE DO NOT PAY WORKING SYSTEM.

(a) In General.--Section 205(r) of the Social Security Act       (42 U.S.C. 405(r)), as amended by section 801(a)(7) of title       VIII of division FF of the Consolidated Appropriations Act,       2021 (Public Law 116-260), is amended by striking paragraph       (11) and inserting the following:

``(11) The Commissioner of Social Security shall, to the       extent feasible, provide information furnished to the       Commissioner under paragraph (1) to the agency operating the       Do Not Pay working system described in section 3354(c) of       title 31, United States Code, for the authorized uses of the       Do Not Pay working system to help prevent improper payments       of, and support the recovery of improperly paid, benefits or       other payments through a cooperative arrangement with such       agency, provided that the requirements of subparagraphs (A)       and (B) of paragraph (3) are met with respect to such       arrangement with such agency. The Commissioner of Social       Security and the agency operating the Do Not Pay working       system shall, while the data described in the preceding       sentence is being provided to the agency operating the Do Not       Pay working system, enter into an agreement based upon an       agreed upon methodology, which covers the proportional share       of State death data costs, which the Commissioner of Social       Security and the agency operating the Do Not Pay working       system may periodically review.

``(12) The Commissioner of Social Security may not record a       death to a record that may be provided under this section for       any individual unless the Commissioner of Social Security has       found it has clear and convincing evidence to support that       the individual should be presumed to be deceased.''.

(b) Improving Coordination Regarding Individuals       Incorrectly Identified as Deceased.--Section 205(r)(7) of the       Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(r)(7)), as added by       section 801(a)(4) of title VIII of division FF of the       Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 116-260),       is amended by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph       (A), by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (B)       and inserting ``; and'', and by adding at the end the       following new subparagraph:

``(C) notify any agency that has a cooperative arrangement       with the Commissioner of Social Security under paragraph (3)       or (11) of the error.''.

(c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall take effect on December 27, 2026.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I  may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the Ending Improper Payments to  Deceased People Act.

This bipartisan bill continues a bipartisan policy that has already  enabled the Federal Government to identify, prevent, and recover  hundreds of millions of dollars of improper payments made to dead  people.

Currently, the Social Security Administration has temporary authority  to share its death data with the Treasury Department's Do Not Pay  Portal to identify, prevent, and recover improper payments. In its  first year alone, Treasury reported this data exchange saved American  taxpayers over $108 million.

Unfortunately, Social Security's authority to share its data with  Treasury is temporary and lapses at the end of this year if Congress  doesn't pass this bill. That would only increase the likelihood that  more taxpayer money is erroneously sent to dead people. In 2023 alone,  before this policy was implemented, the Office of Management and Budget  found the Federal Government sent $1.3 billion to dead people. That is  unacceptable. The American people expect Congress to safeguard their  hard-earned tax money from waste, fraud, and abuse.

I thank Representative Higgins for his leadership on this issue as  well as  Senator Kennedy. As a former law enforcement officer, Clay Higgins has  worked to protect Americans from criminals, and now he is translating  that commitment into finding ways that we can protect taxpayer dollars  as well.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the  gentleman from Kansas (Mr. Estes).

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the  gentleman from Florida (Mr. Bean).

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I  may consume.

Madam Speaker, this bill is another piece of the puzzle in the fight  against waste, fraud, and abuse. Before the Social Security  Administration began sharing its complete death records with the  Treasury Department, the Federal Government paid $1.3 billion to the  dead in just a single year.

Congress authorized the Treasury to access Social Security's death  data for 3 years ending in 2026. In the first year alone, Treasury  reported that it helped the Federal Government identify, prevent, or  recover $108 million in improper payments, with another $200 million  expected by the end of this year. It is only common sense to make this  fraud prevention measure permanent.

This policy has already passed both the Senate and the Ways and Means  Committee with broad, bipartisan support. I hope the House does the  same and sends this to President Trump's desk as soon as possible.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.