Filing Relief for Natural Disasters Act


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 517) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to  modify the rules for postponing certain deadlines by reason of  disaster, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 517

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Filing Relief for Natural       Disasters Act''.       SEC. 2. MODIFICATION OF RULES FOR POSTPONING CERTAIN                     DEADLINES BY REASON OF DISASTER.

(a) Authority To Postpone Federal Tax Deadlines by Reason       of State-Declared Disasters.--Section 7508A of the Internal       Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by redesignating subsections       (c), (d), and (e) as subsections (d), (e), and (f),       respectively, and by inserting after subsection (b) the       following new subsection:

``(c) Special Rule for State-Declared Disasters.--

``(1) In general.--The Secretary (after consultation with       the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency)       may, upon the written request of the Governor of a State (or       the Mayor, in the case of the District of Columbia), apply       the rules of subsections (a) and (b) to a qualified State       declared disaster in the same manner as a disaster, fire, or       action otherwise described in subsection (a).

``(2) Qualified state declared disaster.--For purposes of       this section, the term `qualified State declared disaster'       means, with respect to any State, any natural catastrophe       (including any hurricane, tornado, storm, high water,       winddriven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic       eruption, landslide, mudslide, snowstorm, or drought), or,       regardless of cause, any fire, flood, or explosion, in any       part of the State, which in the determination of the Governor       of such State (or the Mayor, in the case of the District of       Columbia) causes damage of sufficient severity and magnitude       to warrant the application of the rules of this section.

``(3) State.--For purposes of this section, the term       `State' includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth       of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and       the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.''.

(b) Mandatory Extensions Extended to 120 Days.--Section       7508A(e) of such Code, as redesignated by subsection (a), is       amended--

(1) by striking ``60 days'' in paragraph (1)(B) thereof and       inserting ``120 days'',

(2) by striking ``60-day'' in paragraph (6) thereof and       inserting ``120-day'', and

(3) by striking ``60-day'' in the heading and inserting       ``120-day''.

(c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall apply to declarations made after the date of the       enactment of this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Filing Relief for Natural  Disasters Act, introduced by Ways and Means Committee members  Representatives Kustoff and Chu.

For too many Americans, help from the Federal Government after a  natural disaster can take too much time to arrive. This bipartisan bill  authorizes the Treasury Department, in consultation with FEMA, to  postpone tax filing deadlines for Americans living in State-declared  disaster areas just as they do for federally declared disasters.

If a State moves faster in declaring an emergency, the Treasury  Department can more quickly respond when it comes to an individual's  tax obligations. This legislation will help disaster victims receive  desperately needed tax relief sooner rather than later.

Additionally, this legislation doubles the current mandatory tax  filing extension following a federally declared disaster declaration  from 60 to 120 days.

For most people recovering from a disaster, taxes fall lower on their  to-do list than more immediate needs like finding shelter, food, and  caring for loved ones. By extending this deadline, we are providing  families the breathing room and additional time to get their lives back  together.

President Trump was elected on the promise of finally making the  government work better for working people. All Americans, but  especially Americans recovering from a natural disaster, deserve easier  tax filing. With tax day in just a few days, we must look for  commonsense, bipartisan ways to make filing and paying taxes less of a  hassle.

I thank both sponsors of this legislation for leading on this issue  on behalf of the people they represent and all Americans.

Everyone knows the Washington bureaucracy doesn't always move  quickly, even when Americans are crying out for help after a natural  disaster.

This bill allows for the postponing of tax filing deadlines for  Americans living in a State-declared disaster area that has yet to  receive a Federal disaster declaration.

This bipartisan effort will help those Americans still reeling from a  devastating event. After all, they should be focused on restoring their  lives and livelihoods first and foremost.

If Washington is slower than a State government to respond, that is  not a good enough reason to deny Americans the help they need. This  legislation will lighten the load carried by families affected by a  natural disaster.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.