Internal Revenue Service Math and Taxpayer Help Act


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 998) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to  require additional information on math and clerical error notices, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 998

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Internal Revenue Service       Math and Taxpayer Help Act''.       SEC. 2. IMPROVEMENT OF NOTICES OF MATH OR CLERICAL ERROR.

(a) In General.--Section 6213(b)(1) of the Internal Revenue       Code of 1986 is amended--

(1) by striking ``errors.--If the taxpayer'' and inserting       ``errors.--

``(A) In general.--If the taxpayer'',

(2) by striking ``Each notice'' in the second sentence and       inserting ``Subject to subparagraph (B), each notice'', and

(3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

``(B) Specificity of math or clerical error notice.--

``(i) In general.--The notice provided under subparagraph       (A) shall--

``(I) be sent to the taxpayer's last known address,

``(II) describe the mathematical or clerical error in       comprehensive, plain language, including--

``(aa) the type of error,

``(bb) the section of this title to which the error       relates,

``(cc) a description of the nature of the error, and

``(dd) the specific line of the return on which the error       was made,

``(III) an itemized computation of any direct or incidental       adjustments to be made to the return in correction of the       error, including any adjustment to the amount of--

``(aa) adjusted gross income,

``(bb) taxable income,

``(cc) itemized or standard deductions,

``(dd) nonrefundable credits,

``(ee) credits under section 24, 25A, 32, 35, or 36B,       credits claimed with respect to undistributed long-term       capital gains on Form 2439, credits for Federal taxes paid on       fuels claimed on Form 4136, and any other refundable credits,

``(ff) income tax,

``(gg) other taxes,

``(hh) total tax,

``(ii) Federal income tax withheld or excess tax withheld       under section 3101 or 3201(a),

``(jj) estimated tax payments, including amount applied       from prior year's return,

``(kk) refund or amount owed,

``(ll) net operating loss carryforwards, or

``(mm) credit carryforwards,

``(IV) include the telephone number for the automated phone       transcript service, and

``(V) display the date by which the taxpayer may request to       abate any assessment specified in such notice pursuant to       paragraph (2)(A), in bold, font size 14, and immediately next       to the taxpayer's address on page 1 of the notice.

``(ii) No lists of potential errors.--A notice which       provides multiple potential or alternative errors which may       be applicable to the return shall not be sufficiently       specific for purposes of clause (i)(II); however, if multiple       specific errors apply to the return all such errors should be       listed.''.

(b) Notice of Abatement.--Paragraph (2) of section 6213(b)       is amended by adding at the end the following new       subparagraph:

``(C) Notice.--Upon determination of an abatement pursuant       to subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall send notice to the       taxpayer of such abatement which--

``(i) is sent to the taxpayer's last known address,

``(ii) describes the abatement in comprehensive, plain       language, and

``(iii) provides an itemized computation of any adjustments       to be made to the items described in the notice of       mathematical or clerical error, including any changes to any       item described in paragraph (1)(B)(i)(III).''.

(c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall apply to notices sent after the date which is 12 months       after the date of the enactment of this Act.

(d) Procedures.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury (or       such Secretary's delegate) shall provide for procedures by       which a taxpayer may request an abatement referred to in       section 6213(b)(1)(B)(i)(V) of the Internal Revenue Code of       1986 in writing, electronically, by telephone, or in person.

(e) Pilot Program.--Not later than 18 months after the date       of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury       (or such Secretary's delegate), in consultation with the       National Taxpayer Advocate, shall--

(1) implement a pilot program to send a trial number of       notices, in an amount which is a statistically significant       portion of all such notices, of mathematical or clerical       error pursuant to section 6213(b) of the Internal Revenue       Code of 1986 by certified or registered mail with e-signature       confirmation of receipt, and

(2) report to Congress, aggregated by the type of error       under section 6213(g) of such Code to which the notices       relate, on--

(A) the number of mathematical or clerical errors noticed       under the program and the dollar amounts involved,

(B) the number of abatements of tax and the dollar amounts       of such abatements, and

(C) the effect of such pilot program on taxpayer response       and adjustments or abatements to tax,      with conclusions drawn about the effectiveness of certified       or registered mail, with and without return receipt, and any       other recommendations for improving taxpayer response rates.

Mr. Speaker, by voting for unified Republican control of government,  the American people chose accountability and a return to common sense.  There is no better example of bad government than the IRS.

Every year, taxpayers receive notices from the IRS proposing to  adjust their tax liabilities. Unfortunately, the IRS is not required to  explain the reasons for the adjustments, nor does it need to explain  that taxpayers have a legal right to dispute their adjustments within  60 days. The result is that taxpayers may end up paying more in taxes  because they don't know that they can dispute the IRS' assessment of  their tax liability.

This bipartisan legislation, the Internal Revenue Service Math and  Taxpayer Help Act, sponsored by Representatives Feenstra and Schneider,  will level the playing field for taxpayers and hold the IRS  accountable. It will require the IRS to provide individuals with a  clear explanation of the error, showing the mathematical change, and  inform taxpayers that they have 60 days to correct the issue.

Mr. Speaker, Americans fear the IRS for very good reason. Under  current law, when the IRS claims that you made a math error on your  return, they are not required to explain the error or notify taxpayers  of their right to appeal within 60 days. What is worse, if taxpayers  don't comply, they could be forced to pay more in taxes.

This bill before us, H.R. 998, the Internal Revenue Service Math and  Taxpayer Help Act, will level the playing field for taxpayers by  requiring the IRS to explain themselves and notify taxpayers that they  have 60 days to challenge this adjustment.

This legislation is an important step to simplifying tax  administration and making the IRS more accountable to taxpayers.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives Feenstra and Schneider for their  bipartisan work on this bill. I urge my colleagues to support it, and I  yield back the balance of my time.