Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act


Mr. Speaker, when it comes to healthcare, Republicans are focused on  lowering costs and expanding choice for all Americans. That is 347  million people, not just 7 percent of the population, which is all you  are going to hear from the other side of the aisle, and that is all you  have been hearing from the other side of the aisle.

Mr. Speaker, for more than a decade, Democrats have promised that  ObamaCare would lower costs. They actually named the bill the  ``Affordable Care Act.'' Find one American--find one American who says  that their healthcare is now cheaper today than it was when they passed  this disastrous bill. You won't. You won't find one.

In fact, the sky is falling because of their enhanced premium tax  credits that they made temporary because they decided to make permanent  tax benefits for wealthy environmentalists who support them. That is  why we are where we are today.

Mr. Speaker, since ObamaCare has passed, we have seen 150-plus  hospitals close their doors. Since ObamaCare has passed, we have seen  premiums go up more than 80 percent. It doesn't sound like the  Affordable Care Act by any means.

Even worse, the Government Accountability Office has confirmed what  Republicans have been warning for years: ObamaCare is riddled with  waste, fraud, and abuse. The GAO led a covert investigation by creating  fictitious ObamaCare applicants with fake documentation where 100  percent of those applicants were accepted and enrolled.

Guess what? A year later, this year, of that 100 percent, 90 percent  were still receiving subsidies. That means that insurance companies  were still being subsidized for fake accounts where the people didn't  even exist.

Data analysis from GAO also finds that 58,000-plus enrollees matched  Social Security numbers with death records, with 7,000 of them dead  before enrollment even began. There were dead people on the rolls, but  what do they want to do? Their answer is to just continue the same old- same old by extending the current program with no reforms.

Mr. Speaker, one Social Security number alone had more than 125  different policies attached to it--just one. This all came from the  GAO. This didn't come from the House Republicans.

We should not continue propping up a system that has completely  failed to lower costs for Americans. The Lower Healthcare Premiums for  All Americans Act takes a much different approach. It is one that  delivers real relief.

First, it provides more freedom and flexibility through CHOICE  Arrangements, empowering small businesses to offer tax-free benefits so  that their employees can find health coverage that works for them.

This levels the playing field for small businesses, putting them on  equal footing with large employers when competing for workers. These  arrangements are proven to be successful. In fact, 83 percent of  employers using CHOICE Arrangements are offering coverage for the very  first time.

The bill also brings transparency to pharmacy benefit managers,  requiring them to open up the books to finally give employers the data  that they need to increase competition and negotiate better drug prices  for workers. The result: Healthcare costs and premiums will be lowered  for all--for all Americans, not just the 7 percent that the Democrats  are fighting for in the enhanced COVID-era premium tax credits, but  also for the 300 million-plus Americans.

Mr. Speaker, ObamaCare has driven costs up and choice down. This bill  does the complete opposite.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the Lower Healthcare  Premiums for All Americans Act and stand with families, workers, and  small businesses who deserve--they deserve a real affordable,  accountable healthcare plan.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time  I have remaining.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the  bombshell GAO report showing the waste, fraud, and abuse within the  ObamaCare exchanges.                                               GAO, U.S. Government                                           Accountability Office,                                   Washington, DC, December 3, 2025.      Hon. Brett Guthrie,      Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce,      House of Representatives.      Hon. Jim Jordan,      Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,      House of Representatives.      Hon. Jason Smith,      Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means,      House of Representatives.   Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: Preliminary Results from   Ongoing Review Suggest Fraud Risks in the Advance Premium Tax Credit                                  Persist

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA)       provides premium tax credits to those who purchase private       health insurance plans and meet certain income and other       requirements. Individuals may have the federal government pay       this credit to their health insurance issuers in advance on       their behalf, known as the advance premium tax credit (APTC),       which lowers their monthly premium payments.

Millions of consumers have purchased health insurance plans       through the marketplaces established under PPACA. The Centers       for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), within the Department       of Health and Human Services (HHS), is responsible for       maintaining the federal Marketplace and overseeing state-      based marketplaces. Under PPACA, states may elect to operate       their own state-based marketplace or to use the federal       Marketplace. These marketplaces determine eligibility for       APTC, based in part on income, and allow individuals to       compare and choose among insurance plans offered by       participating private health care coverage issuers. CMS       estimated it paid nearly $124 billion in APTC for about 19.5       million enrollees for plan year 2024.

Consumers can enroll in health insurance coverage through a       marketplace independently or with assistance, such as from an       insurance agent or broker. As discussed later in this report,       agents and brokers can help a consumer apply for coverage,       including for related financial assistance, and enroll in a       plan. Assistance from an agent or broker is of no cost to a       consumer. Rather, agents and brokers are allowed to receive       compensation directly from health insurance issuers in       accordance with agreements with those issuers and any       applicable state requirements.

Indictments from December 2024 and February 2025 highlight       concerns about agent and broker practices in the federal       Marketplace. Specifically, the indictments allege that bad       actors enrolled consumers in insurance through the federal       Marketplace by falsifying information on their applications.       Additionally, according to CMS, the agency received       approximately 275,000 complaints between January and August       2024 that consumers were enrolled in a plan or had their plan       changed without their consent. Such practices can result in       wasteful federal spending on APTC for enrollees who are not       eligible. Further, such practices can result in harm and       unexpected costs for consumers. These can include loss of       access to medical providers and medications, higher       copayments and deductibles, or repayment of APTC if income or       other eligibility was misrepresented.

We previously reported that APTC is at risk of fraud. For       example, in September 2016, we found that federal and state       marketplaces approved coverage for our fictitious applicants.       Nearly all of these fictitious applicants remained covered       after we sent fictitious documents or no documents to resolve       issues with our applications. Further, in July 2017, we found       that CMS did not design processes to verify eligibility for       APTC, including preventing duplicate coverage.

You asked us to review issues related to fraud risk       management in APTC. This report is based on preliminary       results and analyses from that ongoing work. Specifically.       this report addresses preliminary results from our

1. covert testing of federal Marketplace enrollment       controls'for plan years 2024 and 2025,

2. analyses of federal Marketplace enrollment data for plan       years 2023 and 2024, and

3. evaluation of CMS's fraud risk assessment and antifraud       strategy for APTC.

To perform covert testing of federal Marketplace enrollment       controls, we created 20 fictitious identities and submitted       applications for individual health care coverage in the       federal Marketplace. We submitted applications for four of       these fictitious identities in October 2024 for coverage       through December 2024, which was the remainder of that plan       year. We pursued coverage for plan year 2025 for all 20       fictitious identities, including the four identities for       which we already submitted applications. Our covert testing       for plan year 2025 is ongoing, since the plan year is not yet       complete. As a result, we will describe additional details of       the 2025 applications in a future report.

Our covert testing included applications submitted       independently through HealthCare.gov, which is the federal       Marketplace's website, and applications submitted with       assistance from an insurance agent or broker. For all our       applicant scenarios, we sought to act as an ordinary       consumer would in attempting to make a successful       application. For example, if, during online applications,       we were directed to make phone calls to complete the       process, we acted as instructed.

For applications for plan year 2024, our covert tests       included fictitious applicants who provided invalid (i.e.,       never issued) Social Security numbers (SSN). Additionally, we       stated income at a level eligible to obtain APTC. As       appropriate, we used publicly available information to       construct our applications for coverage and subsidies. We       also used publicly available hardware, software, and       materials to produce counterfeit documents that we submitted,       if appropriate for our testing, when instructed to do so. We       then observed the outcomes of the document submissions, such       as any approvals received or requests to provide additional       supporting documentation. The results of our covert testing,       while illustrative of potential enrollment control       weaknesses, cannot be generalized to the overall enrollment       population.

To examine federal Marketplace enrollment for plan years       2023 and 2024, we obtained and analyzed federal Marketplace       enrollment and payment data, including APTC information, from       CMS. We also matched enrollee SSNs in the data to two       additional data sources: (1) Social Security Administration's       (SSA) full death file, a database containing records of death       that have been reported to SSA, as of November 2024 and (2)       April 2025 data from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on       APTC reconciliation from tax forms filed for tax year 2023.       We assessed the reliability of all data sets by performing       electronic tests to determine the completeness and accuracy       of key fields. We also reviewed agency documentation and       interviewed knowledgeable agency officials about the       reliability of the data. Overall, we found that the data were       reliable for our purposes.

To examine CMS's fraud risk assessment and antifraud       strategy for APTC, we reviewed documentation of CMS's       policies and fraud risk management activities related to       APTC. This included CMS's 2018 fraud risk       assessment for APTC. Additionally, we interviewed agency       officials about CMS's fraud risk management activities in       this program. We reviewed relevant reports from GAO and HHS's       Office of the Inspector General. We evaluated information       from relevant documentation and interviews of agency       officials against relevant leading practices in GAO's A       Framework for Managing Fraud Risks in Federal Programs (Fraud       Risk Framework).

To support all three objectives, we interviewed CMS       officials and representatives from seven stakeholder       organizations that represent agents and brokers, state       insurance regulators, researchers, and one of the entities       that CMS approved to host a non-marketplace website where       consumers can apply for and enroll in a plan offered through       the federal Marketplace.

The ongoing work upon which this report is based is being       conducted in accordance with generally accepted government       auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and       perform the audit to obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence       to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and       conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe that       the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our       preliminary findings and conclusions based on our audit       objectives. Additionally, our related investigative work is       being conducted in accordance with standards prescribed by       the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and       Efficiency.                                 Background       APTC Eligibility and Enrollment Processes

APTC Eligibility

To qualify for a premium tax credit, individuals must be       enrolled in a qualified health plan offered through a       marketplace and meet certain criteria. These tax credits can       be paid in advance through APTC. See figure 1 for the APTC       eligibility requirements.

The amount of the premium tax credit varies based on       household income and the cost of a benchmark plan. The credit       limits what the consumer would pay for that plan to be no       more than a certain percentage of their household income. The       American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 made temporary changes to       premium tax credits by expanding eligibility to higher-income       individuals and increasing premium tax credits for lower-      income individuals for tax years 2021 and 2022. For example,       the law increased the premium tax credit amounts for eligible       individuals and families, resulting in access to plans with       no premium contributions for those earning 100 to 150 percent       of the federal poverty level. It also expanded eligibility       for premium tax credits to include certain individuals and       families with incomes at or above 400 percent of the       federal poverty level. Public Law 117-169--commonly known       as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022--extended these       provisions through the end of tax year 2025. See table 1.

In 2013, CMS developed the Data Services Hub (Hub) to help       verify applicant eligibility in an automated manner. To do       so, the Hub matches applicant information, such as SSN and       estimated income, against trusted data sources. These sources       include records from SSA and IRS. In the federal Marketplace,       the system generates an inconsistency when data matching       processes are not able to verify applicant information       against the Hub's trusted sources. When an inconsistency is       generated, applicants are instructed to provide documentation       to support information on their applications that cannot be       verified by the Hub's data matching.

Marketplaces and Enrollment Pathways

States, along with the District of Columbia, may elect to       rely on the federal Marketplace or operate their own health       insurance marketplace. Table 2 describes the types of health       insurance marketplaces.

The federal Marketplace offers multiple pathways to enroll       in health insurance coverage and receive APTC. Consumers in       states that use the federal Marketplace may enroll in       coverage through the pathway known as HealthCare.gov or an       enhanced direct enrollment (EDE) pathway, among others. Table       3 describes examples of enrollment pathways in the federal       Marketplace.

Role of Agents and Brokers

Consumers seeking to obtain health insurance through the       federal Marketplace may receive assistance from agents and       brokers who help them apply for coverage, including related       financial assistance, and enroll in a health plan. In return,       agents and brokers receive payment (commissions or salaries)       from the issuers of the health plans. Agents and brokers must       be licensed in the state in which they sell plans and       registered with CMS to sell plans through the federal       Marketplace. According to CMS, most enrollments in the       federal Marketplace are assisted by an agent or broker       through the EDE and direct enrollment pathways.

CMS is responsible for oversight of agents and brokers in       the federal Marketplace and ensuring that they comply with       federal rules. Agents and brokers are required to, among       other things, obtain and document consumers' consent before       assisting them with applying for and enrolling in coverage       through the federal Marketplace. For example, consumer       consent is required before the agent or broker can:

collect or use any personally identifiable information,       such as name, date of birth, and SSN;

help a consumer apply for coverage or financial assistance       by completing an eligibility application on their behalf; and

actively enroll a consumer in a plan offered through the       federal Marketplace.

After a consumer has applied or is enrolled, the agent or       broker can also update a consumer's eligibility application       or plan selection on their behalf, if the initial consent       authorized the agent or broker to do so, or if they obtained       subsequent consent for any new actions. Agents and brokers       are required to make documentation of consumer consent       available to CMS upon request in response to monitoring,       audit, and enforcement actions.

Fraud Risk Management

The objective of fraud risk management is to ensure program       integrity by continuously and strategically mitigating both       the likelihood and effects of fraud, while also facilitating       a program's mission. The Fraud Risk Framework provides a       comprehensive set of leading practices that serve as a guide       for agency managers to use when developing efforts to combat       fraud in a strategic, risk-based manner. As depicted in       figure 2, the framework organizes the leading practices       within four components: (1) Commit, (2) Assess, (3) Design       and Implement, and (4) Evaluate and Adapt.

In June 2016, the Fraud Reduction and Data Analytics Act of       2015 (FRDAA) required the Office of Management and Budget       (OMB) to establish guidelines for federal agencies to create       controls to identify and assess fraud risks to design and       implement antifraud control activities. The act further       required OMB to incorporate the leading practices from the       Fraud Risk Framework in the guidelines. The Payment Integrity       Information Act of 2019 repealed FRDAA but maintained the       requirement for OMB to provide guidelines to agencies in       implementing the Fraud Risk Framework.

In its 2016 Circular No. A-123 guidelines, OMB directed       agencies to adhere to, the Fraud Risk Frameworks leading       practices. In October 2022, OMB issued a Controller Alert       reminding agencies that they must establish financial and       administrative controls to identify and assess fraud risks.       In addition, the alert reminded agencies that they should       adhere to the leading practices in the Fraud Risk Framework       as part of their efforts to effectively design, implement,       and operate an internal control system that addresses fraud       risks.  The Federal Marketplace Approved Subsidized Coverage for Nearly All of     Our Fictitious Applicants in Plan Years 2024 and 2025, Suggesting                             Weaknesses Persist

Our convert testing of enrollment controls in the federal       Marketplace suggests weaknesses have persisted since our       tests in plan years 2015 through 2016. All four of our       fictitious applications received subsidized coverage through       the federal Marketplace in late 2024. Additionally, although       our work is ongoing, as of September 2025 18 of our 20       fictitious applications for plan year 2025 were receiving       subsidized coverage. We will continue to monitor the status       of these applications during plan year 2025.      All Four of Our Fictitious Applicants Received Subsidized           Coverage in Late 2024

To test enrollment controls, we developed and submitted       four fictitious applications to obtain insurance coverage       with APTC through the federal Marketplace. We applied for       coverage for these four applicants in October 2024. We       submitted the applications outside of the open enrollment       period, using a special enrollment period for low-income       applicants. in two cases, we applied for coverage directly       through HealthCare.gov. In the other two cases, we applied       via telephone with assistance from an insurance broker. The       brokers that assisted us used EDE systems to submit our       applications.

The federal Marketplace approved fully subsidized insurance       coverage for all four of our fictitious applicants for       November through December 2024. The combined total amount of       APTC paid to insurance companies for all four fictitious       enrollees was about $2,350 per month. While our fictitious       enrollees are not generalizable to the universe of enrollees,       they suggest weaknesses in enrollment controls--such as       identity proofing and income verification--in the federal       Marketplace through both HealthCare.gov and EDE systems.       Table 4 summarizes the results of our covert testing of       enrollment controls for plan year 2024.

The results of our covert testing for plan year 2024 are       generally consistent with results of similar testing we       conducted for plan years 2014 through 2016.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, we have heard a lot of comments  from the Democrats on this side of the floor.

Back where I come from, the comments that I have heard, we call it  hogwash, because it has not been true and it has not been factual. This  bill before you will lower healthcare costs for all Americans, not just  the 7 percent that they are fighting for. It lowers costs for all 347  million.