One Big Beautiful Bill Act


Mr. Speaker, before November, Americans wondered whether our best  days were behind us. Democrats fueled inflation. They opened our  borders, funded illegal immigration with your tax dollars, and  increased IRS audits on the middle class, all while leaving the working  class behind.

President Trump promised to make America great again, and 77  million--77 million Americans supported that promise. They voted for  change. The One Big Beautiful Bill Act delivers for the American  people.

This is the largest tax cut for working families, farmers, and small  businesses in U.S. history. Households making under $100,000 will see a  12 percent tax cut compared to what they pay today. The average family  of four will see nearly $11,000 more in their pockets each year. Real  wages for workers will rise by as much as $7,200 a year. A waitress  working for tips will keep an extra $1,300. A lineman working overtime  after a storm will keep an extra $1,400.

While Democrats defend illegal immigrants, fraudsters, and  bureaucrats, Republicans are standing up for the American people,  putting more money in their pockets. President Trump promised no tax on  tips, overtime pay, or car loan interest, and tax relief for seniors.  We are delivering on all of those items and more.

Families win in the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. Over 40 million  households will benefit from a higher child tax credit of $2,200. We  boost the standard deduction to give a tax cut to the 91 percent of  middle-income families who use it, up to $31,500.

Young Americans win. We expand choices for educational freedom and  open up savings options to include trade schools.

Moms and dads get new support for adoption, paid leave, childcare,  and healthcare costs. Kids get Trump accounts, giving them a financial  stake in our country's future.

We bring back American jobs and our manufacturing base by protecting  or creating more than 7 million jobs, including 1 million new small  business jobs each year.

We rein in Washington by delivering the largest cut in mandatory  spending in U.S. history.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act is for the people who don't have  lobbyists in this town: the farmers; the welders; the waitresses; the  nurses who are pulling double shifts; the truck drivers who are hauling  goods across this country; and the folks who work hard, play by the  rules, and ask only for a fair shot and a government that works for  them, not against them.

It is for places like Peachtree City, Georgia; Yukon, Oklahoma;  Petersburg, West Virginia; Erie, Pennsylvania, and all of the other  communities that the Committee on Ways and Means visited over the last  24 months. The One Big Beautiful Bill Act is their bill.

It is about restoring sanity in a town that has lost it, cutting  waste, and reining in reckless spending. It demands that, if you are  able to work, you should. It stops asking working families to foot the  bill for Washington's bad decisions.

Let's get this done, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, yes, it is the legislative intent  that vehicles shall be treated as ``acquired'' as of the date on which  a written binding contract is entered into for their acquisition and a  payment has been made.

Mrs. MILLER of West Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong  support of this big, beautiful bill.

In 2017, President Trump signed the largest tax cut in history into  law.

Today, thanks to the hard work of the Ways and Means Republicans, we  will make those tax cuts permanent and prevent an end-of-the-year tax  hike.

This bill gives the average working family a $1,300 tax cut and makes  permanent the 199A small business deduction to keep our economy  humming. This is a big win for our West Virginia businesses.

It provides relief to gig workers by ending the Democrats' absurd  $600 1099-K reporting threshold and reverts back to the time-tested  standard of $20,000 and 200 transactions. It will provide economic  relief, secure our borders, and ensure American energy dominance.

This legislation will make the life of the average American better,  and I support getting it to President Trump's desk.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to do the same.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I represent one of the poorest  congressional districts in this country. I can tell you this piece of  legislation is for those working families, those small business owners,  and those farmers who are doing everything they can just to get by. It  is not for the millionaires and the billionaires.

How many waitresses who are tipped are billionaires? How many  billionaires work hourly jobs and overtime? None do so.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Wow, Mr. Speaker, we have stood in this  Chamber for over 8 hours listening to a lot of words, a lot of  comments, a lot of inaccurate statements, and where I come from--could  we have order?

Mr. Speaker, I come from the Show Me State, and what we just heard  can be defined in one word, a bunch of hogwash is what we have heard  for 8 hours on that side of the building. I will tell you, for the 8  hours--could we have order?

Mr. Speaker, the 8 hours of hogwash that we just heard will not  change the outcome that you will see very shortly when we deliver  historic tax relief for working families, small business owners, and  farmers.