Recovery of Stolen Checks Act


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 1155) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to  allow taxpayers to elect to receive certain replacement refunds  electronically, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1155

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Recovery of Stolen Checks       Act''.       SEC. 2. ELECTION TO RECEIVE CERTAIN REPLACEMENT REFUNDS                     ELECTRONICALLY.

(a) In General.--Section 6402 of the Internal Revenue Code       of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new       subsection:

``(o) Election to Receive Certain Replacement Refunds by       Direct Deposit.--Not later than the date which is 6 months       after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the       Secretary shall prescribe regulations to establish procedures       to allow for taxpayers, which are otherwise eligible to       receive an amount by paper check in replacement of a lost or       stolen paper check which was previously sent by the Secretary       as a refund of an overpayment of tax, to elect to receive       such amount by direct deposit in lieu of receiving such       replacement paper check.''.

(b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section       shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1155, the Recovery of  Stolen Checks Act.

With the April 15 tax filing deadline right around the corner, we are  reminded of the need to make the IRS more responsive to the American  people. Unfortunately, the manner in which the IRS currently responds  to stolen tax refund checks is truly insane.

Right now, if someone has their refund check stolen out of the mail,  the IRS will replace that stolen check by sending another one through  the mail. It should surprise no one to learn that quite often that  replacement check is also stolen out of the mail.

There is no law keeping the IRS from sending a replacement check  through a direct deposit to a bank. However, the IRS currently does not  have procedures in place for a taxpayer to make such a request. This  bill fixes that flaw.

I wish to commend my Ways and Means Committee colleagues,  Representatives Malliotakis, Kustoff, and Sewell, for their bipartisan  leadership on this issue.

In Representative Malliotakis' district alone, they have seen $3.8  million in IRS tax refund checks stolen. Taxpayers that are victims of  this crime need to be made whole. They do not need to jump through more  hoops or deal with the hassle of seeing their replacement refund checks  stolen as well.

This legislation received unanimous approval in the Ways and Means  Committee, and I encourage my colleagues to give it an equally strong  bipartisan vote here in the House.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri.  Malliotakis), the sponsor  of this legislation.

This legislation will not only help taxpayers who have been victims  of fraud, but it will also help combat fraud by eliminating  opportunities for criminals to strike a second time.

Check fraud is a major challenge in this country, and it has grown  exponentially over the past several years. In fact, in 2022, the  Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network reported  over 680,000 instances of check fraud, doubling the previous year's  total. In such an environment, it is unacceptable that at this moment  the IRS does not have processes and procedures in place for taxpayers  to request a replacement check through direct deposit.

This bill is a simple solution to a serious and costly problem. I  encourage all of my colleagues to support its passage, and I yield back  the balance of my time.