Recruiting Families Using Data Act of 2025


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 579) to amend parts B and E of title IV of the  Social Security Act to improve foster and adoptive parent recruitment  and retention, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 579

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Recruiting Families Using       Data Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. STATE PLAN AMENDMENT.

(a) In General.--Section 422 of the Social Security Act (42       U.S.C. 622) is amended--

(1) in subsection (b)(7), by inserting ``through the       development and implementation of a family partnership plan       which       meets the requirements of subsection (d) for identification,       recruitment, screening, licensing, support, and retention of       foster and adoptive families'' after ``are needed''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

``(d) Family Partnership Plan Requirements.--For purposes       of subsection (b)(7), the requirements for a family       partnership plan (in this subsection referred to as the       `plan') are the following:

``(1) The plan is developed in consultation with birth,       kinship, foster and adoptive families, community-based       service providers, technical assistance providers, and youth       with lived experience with foster care and adoption.

``(2) The plan describes--

``(A) how the State plans to identify, notify, engage, and       support relatives (and others connected to the child) as       potential placement resources for children;

``(B) how the State plans to develop and implement child-      specific recruitment plans for every child in or entering       foster care who needs a foster or adoptive family;

``(C) how the State plans to authentically engage children       and youth in recruitment efforts on their behalf;

``(D) how the State plans to use data to establish goals,       assess needs, measure progress, reduce unnecessary placements       in congregate care, increase permanency, improve placement       stability, increase the rate of kinship placements, improve       recruitment and retention of families for teens, sibling       groups, and other special populations, and align the       composition of foster and adoptive families with the needs of       children in or entering foster care; and

``(E) how that State will stand up or support foster family       advisory boards for the purpose of improving recruitment and       retention of foster and adoptive families.

``(3) The plan provides that, not less than annually, the       State shall collect and report on the State's actual foster       family capacity and congregate care utilization, including       the number, demographics, and characteristics of licensed       foster families, including prospective adoptive families, the       number of such families that haven't received a placement or       are not being fully utilized and the reasons therefor, and       the number, demographics, and characteristics of children       placed in congregate care in-State and out-of-State.

``(4) The plan includes, and shall update not less than       annually, a summary of the most recent feedback from foster       and adoptive parents and youth regarding licensure, training,       support, and reasons why parents stop fostering or why       adoptive or legal guardianship placements out of foster care       fail or foster and such adoptive of legal guardianship       families struggle to meet children's needs.

``(5) The plan includes, and shall update annually, a       report on the State's analysis of specific challenges or       barriers to recruiting, licensing, and utilizing families who       reflect the racial and ethnic background of children in       foster care in the State, and the State's efforts to overcome       those challenges and barriers.

``(6) The plan includes such other information relating to       foster and adoptive parent recruitment and retention as the       Secretary may require.''.

(b) Effective Date.--

(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the       amendment made by this subsection shall take effect on       October 1, 2026.

(2) Delay permitted if state legislation required.--In the       case of a State plan approved under subpart 1 of part B of       title IV of the Social Security Act which the Secretary of       Health and Human Services determines requires State       legislation (other than legislation appropriating funds) in       order for the plan to meet the additional requirements       imposed by this subsection, the State plan shall not be       regarded as failing to comply with the requirements of such       part solely on the basis of the failure of the plan to meet       such additional requirements before the first day of the       first calendar quarter beginning after the close of the first       regular session of the State legislature that begins after       the date of enactment of this subsection. For purposes of the       previous sentence, in the case of a State that has a 2-year       legislative session, each year of such session shall be       deemed to be a separate regular session of the State       legislature.       SEC. 3. INCLUSION OF INFORMATION ON FOSTER AND ADOPTIVE                     FAMILIES IN ANNUAL CHILD WELFARE OUTCOMES                     REPORT TO CONGRESS.

Section 479A(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.       679b(a)) is amended--

(1) in paragraph (6)(C), by striking ``and'' after the       semicolon;

(2) in paragraph (7)(B), by striking the period and       inserting ``; and''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(8) include in the report submitted pursuant to paragraph       (5) for fiscal year 2025 or any succeeding fiscal year--

``(A) State-by-State data on the number, demographics, and       characteristics of foster and adoptive families in the State,       and the number of potential foster and adoptive families not       being utilized in the State and the reasons why;

``(B) a summary of the challenges of, and barriers to,       being a foster or adoptive parent, including with respect to       recruitment, licensure, engagement, retention, and why       parents stop fostering, adoptions disrupt or dissolve, or       foster or adoptive families struggle, as reported by States       based on surveys of foster and adoptive parents; and

``(C) a summary of the challenges and barriers States       reported on efforts to recruit a pool of families that       reflect the racial and ethnic background of children in       foster care in the State, and efforts to overcome those       barriers.''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Recruiting Families Using  Data Act introduced by my Ways and Means colleagues, Representatives  Randy Feenstra and Brendan Boyle. This bill would make a relatively  straightforward but needed update to current law to promote State-level  recruitment of foster care families.

Thousands of loving parents open their homes every year to offer care  and support for children in need. By doing so, they provide shelter for  children who would otherwise be forced to stay in caseworker offices,  hospitals, or hotels. However, many of these same parents, for any  number of reasons, stop serving as foster families after only 1 year.

In short, there is a dire need for more foster families in our  communities. Much of the foster care system is coordinated at the State  level, which means we need to enlist the States in helping expand the  number of foster families.

Under current law, States are required, as a condition of receiving  funding, to have a plan in place to recruit foster and adoptive  families, but we know, based on an analysis by the Department of Health  and Human Services, that many States continue to face challenges.

This bill would build on existing law by calling on States receiving  Federal funding to develop family partnership plans that lay out their  specific process for finding potential foster families and recruiting  and retaining them in the foster care system.

The legislation also authorizes the evaluation of key data to ensure  we identify what efforts have been successful in expanding the  availability of foster families.

I thank Representatives Feenstra and Boyle for introducing this  legislation and for their bipartisan leadership on this issue.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, nearly 400,000 American children  today are in the Nation's child welfare system and counting on us to  help them secure access to a permanent, loving, and stable home. At the  same time, thousands of parents across the Nation are ready and willing  to provide that love and shelter for kids in need. However, more must  be done to link those children with those families who will volunteer  to help.

The Recruiting Families Using Data Act will give States the tools and  incentives to grow the number of foster families able to care for kids  who might otherwise remain stuck in other parts of our welfare system.  It is a vote of confidence in the generosity and kindness of potential  foster families, and I encourage all of my colleagues to support this  legislation.