Recognizing Sergeant First Class Alyn Michael Macleod, Usa, Retired, with A Congressional Veteran Commendation


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor retired USA Sergeant  First Class Alyn Michael Macleod, of Pflugerville, Texas, by presenting  him with a Congressional Veteran Commendation. His persistent efforts  in fostering beliefs of sacrifice and respect reflect his value as a  leader during service and in retirement.

SFC Macleod devoted 27 years serving in the United States Army,  serving in several key leadership roles including Operations Non- Commissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC), Platoon Sergeant, First  Sergeant, Army Instructor, and Public Affairs NCOIC. He served in  multiple units, including the 138th Signal Battalion (Indiana National  Guard), Delta Company 44th Signal Battalion, 50th Military History  Detachment, Army Space Command, 91st Training Division, 5th armored  Brigade, 99th Regional Support Command, and the 222nd Broadcast  Operations Detachment.

SFC Macleod deployed in support of Operation Desert Storm, Operation  Private Comfort, Operation Iraqi Freedom, and Operation Sandy in New  Jersey. A highly trained professional, he completed advanced courses in  leadership, public affairs, multimedia production, space and missile  operations, communications, and emergency medical care. His extensive  professional training included the Substance Abuse Program Prevention  Course, Digital Multimedia Course, Instructor Training Course, Public  Affairs Course, Combat Lifesaver Course, NBC Defense Course, Joint  Tactical Ground Station Course, Space/Missile Warning Course,  Multichannel Satellite Communication Course, PATRIOT System Maintainer  Course, and Human Resources Course.

During his many years of service, his exceptional achievements had  earned him several decorations, including the Meritorious Service  Medal, Joint Service Commendation Medal, Army Commendation Medal (4th  award), Army Achievement Medal (6th award), Army Good Conduct Medal,  Humanitarian Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary  Medal, Korea Defense Service Medal, Kuwait Liberation Medal (Kuwait),  Southwest Asia Service Medal, Armed Forces Reserve Medal, Army Superior  Unit Award, German Weapons Proficiency Badge--Bronze Schutzenschnur,  and the Indiana National Guard Commendation Medal. SFC Macleod's legacy  is one of leadership, commitments to excellence, and unwavering service  to his Soldiers, his fellow veterans, and his country.

In addition to his distinguished military career, he earned a  Bachelor's in Business Administration in Program Management and is  currently pursuing a Master of Business Administration. He currently  serves as Adjutant for the Disabled American Veterans Chapter No. 4, as  well as the Adjutant for the American Legion Kerlin-Lyerly Post 154.  Recently, he played a key role in establishing the Pflugerville Veteran  Task Force, a group committed to working with critical community  organizations with the goal of uniting and supporting the veteran  community of Pflugerville.

It is with great honor and respect that I present retired USA  Sergeant First Class Alyn Michael Macleod with a Congressional Veteran  Commendation from the 17th Congressional District of Texas. His  exemplary service to our Nation and continued contributions to his  community stand as an inspiration to us all.