Recognizing Richard Reagan Horn with A Congressional Veteran Commendation


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to present Richard Reagan  Horn, of Huntsville, Texas, with a Congressional Veteran Commendation.  His servant's life reflects the hard work and dedication that  exemplifies the best of our Nation's values.

Richard entered active duty at Camp Pendleton, California in May of  1966 at twenty-one years of age. He served with honor and heroism  during the Vietnam War, serving in the Mortar Battery, 3rd Battalion  13th and 5th Divisions of the Marine Corps. His service instilled a  resilience and commitment to mission and purpose he has carried all  throughout his life.

Richard served 3 years in foreign service to our Nation in combat  earning the following: Vietnam Service Medal with 3 Stars, Vietnam  Campaign Medal, National Defense Medal,  Good Conduct Medal 1st Award, Rifle Sharpshooter Badge, Combat Action  Ribbon, Good Conduct Award 2nd Award and the Presidential Unit  Citation. Richard completed Artillery Chart Operations and Computer  Course in 1966.

After his service in Vietnam in the Marines, Richard worked in a  surveying crew for the Texas Department of Transportation in the early  days of construction of Interstate 45 in 1970. He then moved on and  entered an extensive career with Texas Instruments in their Facility  Maintenance Division earning the following trade licenses before  retiring in 2009: Master Plumber in 1981 and Journeyman's Electrician  in 1995. Apart from work, he became a Master Mason in the Milam Lodge  No. 2 in Nacogdoches, TX in 1972 and continues as an active Mason in  the Huntsville Forest Lodge No. 19 as a Tiler. He is a self-taught  Farrier working with Horses and Livestock and has devoted countless  hours working with FFA students as a Board of Director with the Waller  County Fair Association. He is also a Life Member of the world-famous  Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo since 1975, serving on the Calf  Scramble and Livestock Committees.

After moving to Huntsville in 2011, Richard and his wife Linda, have  been supporting the FFA and 4-H youth of Walker County through the  annual county fair auctions and fundraisers in conjunction with his  service to the HEARTS Veterans Museum of Texas when and where as  needed. It is this level of continuous hard work, service and devotion  to his community and its youth that I proudly commend Richard Reagan  Horn of Huntsville, Texas to his friends, family, community and country  awarding him the 2025 Congressional Veteran Commendation.