Recognizing Delman Leon Orme with A Congressional Veteran Commendation


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and honor Delman  Leon Orme of Crockett, Texas, as a distinguished recipient of the  Congressional Veteran Commendation. His servant's life reflects the  hard work and dedication that exemplifies the best of our Nation's  values.

Delman answered the call to service when he enlisted in the United  States Army in March 1989, right out of high school. He followed in his  older brothers' footsteps, one serving as a Military Police Officer and  the other as a Combat Engineer. He entered as a Delta 19, which meant  riding motorcycles. He served in the Scout Platoon, 4th Battalion, 64th  Armor during Operation Desert Storm displaying outstanding tactical and  technical skills. His proficiency enabled the Scout Platoon to quickly  in advance friendly forces so the enemy could be destroyed while  displaying high morale and a cool demeanor. During his tenure, he  served with courage and distinction, embodying the highest standards of  military excellence. His bravery and leadership in combat were  recognized through numerous awards, including the Purple Heart, the  Bronze Star Medal, the Army Achievement Medal, the Army Good Conduct  Medal, the Southwest Asia Service Medal, the National Defense Service  Medal, and the Army Service Ribbon.

The Purple Heart is a solemn testament to his sacrifice in defense of  our freedom, having been wounded in action while serving his country.  The Bronze Star Medal further attests to his heroic or meritorious  achievement in a combat zone, an enduring reflection of his courage  under fire and commitment to mission and comrades alike. Delman doesn't  consider himself a hero but credits the men that would not quit until  he was safely off the battlefield. They provided protection and care  and were amazingly able to get a helicopter in after three attempts.  This was all on the last day of the war and fortunately, because he got  shot, the battalion behind was able to make an overwhelming  counterattack, which led to total victory. Had he not been discharged,  he would have made a career out of serving his country.

Following his honorable discharge in August 1991, Delman continued  his life of service at home. In his community of Crockett, he has  remained steadfast in supporting fellow veterans and contributing to  civic life. He is well respected by both the community and his peers  for his hard work and dedication. While he does not volunteer in  specific structured organizations, whenever there is a need in his  community, he is the first to not only volunteer, but to take  initiative when he sees a community need. He spends many hours  volunteering on the weekends maintaining cemeteries and managing the  landscape downtown and has also spent many hours assisting with  hurricane disaster relief. He enjoys helping others and can't say no  when asked for help.

Delman's story reflects the unwavering spirit of America's veterans,  men and women who not only fought for freedom abroad but who continue  to strengthen the fabric of our Nation here at home.

It is my distinct privilege to recognize Delman Leon Orme for his  exceptional service to the United States of America and his enduring  contributions to the people of East Texas. His devotion to both country  and community stands as a shining example of patriotism and selfless  service.