Recognizing the 75th Birthday of Marshall Brachman


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and honor a dear  friend, Marshall Brachman, on the occasion of his 75th birthday on July  6, 2025.

Marshall has long exemplified the best of civic engagement and public  service. His remarkable career spans more than four decades, beginning  in 1978, and is defined not only by professional success but by a  deeply rooted commitment to his community, his faith, and the  betterment of this country.

Outside of his accomplished professional life, Marshall has devoted  himself to civic and philanthropic causes. At just 23 years old, he  became the youngest treasurer of a Jewish Community Center in the  United States when he assumed that role at the Fort Worth Jewish  Community Center. His leadership and vision led him to soon become  president of the Center as well as Treasurer of the Fort Worth Art  Museum, now The Modern, setting a high bar for service at a young age.

Marshall's dedication to community did not stop there. He has been a  tireless advocate and supporter of Jewish causes both locally and  nationally, particularly through his involvement with the United Jewish  Appeal, the Young Leadership Cabinet, the Texas-Israel Exchange, and  AIPAC. His impact in these organizations is a testament to his belief  in the power of service, charity, and enduring commitment to one's  values.

Marshall is also a trusted voice in public policy and government  affairs. He has helped countless Members of Congress understand complex  issues, including providing historical context, and make informed  decisions. His insight and integrity have made him a valuable advisor  to many on both sides of the aisle. And to me personally, Marshall has  been a friend, a sounding board, and an unwavering supporter--qualities  for which I am sincerely grateful.

Today, I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing Marshall  Brachman for his enduring contributions to civic life, his generous  spirit, and his invaluable friendship. I extend my warmest wishes to  him and his family on this milestone birthday and thank him for the  positive impact he continues to make in so many lives.

Happy 75th to Marshall.