Recognizing Danny Charles Masur with A Congressional Veteran Commendation


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Danny Charles Masur,  of Rockdale, Texas, by presenting him with a Congressional Veteran  Commendation. His persistent efforts in fostering beliefs of sacrifice  and respect reflect his value as a leader during service and in  retirement.

After completing his early education in Lockhart, Texas public  schools, Danny enrolled at Southwest Texas State College. Within his  first week there, he recognized the potential of the ROTC program, and  after his first experience with them he was set on a path to earn his  pilot's license, graduate, and head to Air Force Pilot Training as soon  as possible. He dedicated five years and one day of service to his  country before his release from active duty.

Beginning in June 1968, Danny spent a year at Del Rio's Laughlin AFB  Pilot Training, and upon completion he was assigned to Dover AFB,  Delaware's Military Airlift Command. He flew the C-133 Cargomaster, the  largest military transport aircraft at that time. Danny flew special  missions world-wide including flights into Vietnam, followed by  European and Middle Eastern trips supporting our Nation's Cold War  military exercises. He also flew into other various conflicts such as  the Israel-Jordan Crisis, and across the world to Pakistan, Ethiopia,  Panama, Greenland, and Libya. Danny had the privilege of flying the  last C-133 to the Boneyard at Davis Monthan AFB, Arizona. He received  the Air Force Commendation Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Small  Arms Expert Marksmanship Ribbon, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal,  Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal, and Air Force Outstanding Unit  Award.

After leaving the Air Force, Danny became a tracking pilot/recovery  supervisor at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. He was  located in Palestine, Texas at their Balloon facility, wherein,  alongside some of the world's top scientists and astrophysicists, he  contributed to invaluable scientific discoveries in the facilities  critical outer space work.

Danny then moved to work at the ALCOA plant in Rockdale, Texas, where  he began dedicating his life to his family and several community  volunteer organizations. For twenty-two years he was a board member of  the Rockdale Fair Association, as well as the Goat Superintendent and  Vice-President of Fiscal Affairs. In 1982, he joined the Rockdale  Knights of Columbus, serving as Columbus Club treasurer for 18 years  and spending significant time as a Crew Leader. Since 2012, Danny has  served as a Board Member for Minerva Water Supply Corporation; and for  17 years has served the Minerva community as a volunteer fireman where  he currently serves as their treasurer.

Alongside his wife, Linda Matocha Masur, Danny has dedicated 58 years  of marriage to raising four children and has extended his love and  commitment to nurturing nine grandchildren and one great-grandchild.

Danny's heart has never left the sky. As a pilot in the Rockdale  Flying Tigers Flight Club, Danny is an EAA member and works with the  Young Eagles Flight Program giving introductory flights. He has been an  instructor pilot for years, serving as a technical, emotional, and  mental mentor to many students who have made piloting their career.

It is with great honor and respect that I present Danny Charles Masur  with a Congressional Veteran Commendation from the 17th Congressional  District of Texas. His exemplary service to our Nation and continued  contributions to his community stand as an inspiration to us all.