Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689837/disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-overdraft-lending-very-large-financial-institutions


Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I think it is incredibly shameful that my  Republican colleagues want to gut the rule that capped most credit card  late fees at just $5.

Credit card companies over the people we represent, that is what they  are choosing with this.

Working families, as many of us know, are struggling with rising  costs. Mr. Speaker, 60 percent of the residents who we represent live  paycheck to paycheck.

Did you know when this all came about, it was because our country  found out through investigation that credit card companies were  building business plans where 50 percent of their profit came from late  fees. They basically built a business plan for overdraft fees. That is  what they did.

Now my colleagues right here want to overturn the rule that prevents  the biggest banks--think about this, this is not like small banks, this  is the biggest banks--from exploiting, shamefully targeting the  American people.

I know overturning this rule will cost $5 billion annually. That  averages about $225 per household that would have to pay the overdraft  fees that many of these folks put business plans together on.

Credit card late fees, Mr. Speaker, also widen the racial wealth gap.  They impact and put a heavy burden on some of the poorest communities,  working-class folks. These are frontline workers.

Gutting the overdraft rule is a slap in the face of the families,  again, who are already struggling to make ends meet. This is raising  the costs for families when we don't check corporate greed.

Again, these are credit card companies that you all are hollering  about right now. I wish you would do that for people who are sick and  can't afford their diabetes medicine or those who are struggling right  now with wage theft in their workplace. These are all things that we  could actually be fighting for right now for our families, like the  rising cost of groceries, but instead we are wasting time advocating on  behalf of credit card companies, not the people who we represent.