Dte Rate Increase


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690549/dte-rate-increase


Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, here we go again. DTE wants another rate  hike, 11 percent this time. Our families can't afford more power  outages in Michigan that wipe out groceries, spoil medicine, and leave  our neighbors without critical medical devices, all because DTE would  rather pad the pockets of their shareholders and executives than invest  in reliability for our families.

We know that DTE charges some of the highest rates, Mr. Speaker, in  the Nation, while they have some of the most unreliable service and  they perform hundreds of thousands of utility shutoffs per year.

The company made $1.4 billion last year alone. Their CEO made $12.5  million last year. Investor-owned utilities like DTE will always put  profits over the people they are supposed to serve.  These are companies that don't see providing us power as essential to  our daily lives. We are just another account number to them.

Now DTE is seeking another massive $574 million rate hike. It is  important to note, Mr. Speaker, that it was just a few months ago that  the Michigan Public Service Commission approved a $217 million rate  hike back in January. The Michigan Public Service Commission must do  the right thing and reject this outrageous, unreasonable rate increase.

Access to utilities is not a privilege; it is a fundamental human  right. Every single family should have access to electricity, heat, and  water. We need public power to all. We need utilities that serve  people, not shareholders. We need to take the profit motive out of the  services we all need to live and thrive on.                       President Trump's First 100 Days

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, it is hard to believe that it has only been  13 weeks.

President Trump's first 100 days in office have eroded constitutional  rights, illegally and lawlessly dismantled Federal agencies, and  consolidated power into the hands of the billionaire class. I like to  describe it not as shameful, lawless, and reckless, which it is all  those things, but it is also the cruelty of how it is being done.

The President has relied on executive orders to push through illegal  and divisive policies that circumvent this Congress. He has empowered  an unelected billionaire like Elon Musk to fire Federal workers without  cause and dismantle the programs our families depend on. That is  probably why they are losing in court. We are winning in 93 percent of  these courts because, again, much of what he is doing is illegal.

President Trump has attempted to override the Constitution through  executive order to end birthright citizenship, deport American citizens  without due process, including a 4-year-old with cancer, and he has  openly defied Supreme Court orders.

This is a constitutional crisis; that is a fact. We don't need to be  cutting services and critical programs for our families. We need to  make them work better for our families. Instead of gutting healthcare  and Medicaid and food assistance in our public school system, Congress  should make the ultrarich pay more taxes and make these programs work  better for the people.

Mr. Speaker, 60 percent of working families are living paycheck to  paycheck. Working families are worried about paying their rent,  covering the costs of groceries, and what they are going to do if they  get sick. No one plans to get sick, Mr. Speaker.

Trump's proposed tax plan only benefits the richest Americans. It is  a true fact; look at it. Even powerful corporations are going to see a  big tax break. He plans on giving $7 trillion, not millions or  billions, in tax cuts to billionaires while making working families pay  for them by cutting $880 billion from Medicaid and $230 billion from  food assistance.

Mr. Speaker, don't get me going about the environmental protections.  They have rolled those back, too. Our children deserve clean water, and  they deserve to breathe clean air. They are showing, again, a reckless  disregard for our planet and our public health.

Yet in the face of this harmful and oppressive agenda, we have seen  power in the resistance not only through litigation but in the streets.  Americans have mobilized in unprecedented numbers from protests to  townhalls across our Nation. Our communities are organizing, Mr.  Speaker, not only to fight back against these harmful policies but to  build a better and more inclusive future.

Now is not the time to give in to cynicism. We must stay engaged and  speak truth to power and come together in solidarity to fight for a  country that our communities truly deserve that is for the people and  by the people, not the powerful.

I always remind my residents, Mr. Speaker, that we didn't get the  Civil Rights Act or transformative change in our country or the right  to organize unions because of what folks do here in this Chamber. It is  because the streets demanded it. That is how we got the Civil Rights  Act and the right to organize labor unions in our country. Again,  continue to rise up and continue to resist this fascist government.