Economic Dignity for All


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697023/economic-dignity-for-all


Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, we know that our families can't afford the  basics right now. Their electricity and gas bills are out of control.  Their water bills are out of control. Don't get me started about their  auto and home insurance. It is all out of control. Grocery costs are up  28 percent, healthcare costs are up and out of control, and it is even  worse for those family members who are sick.

Our families can't afford the basics. Everyone in this Chamber can  agree to that. There is an affordability crisis in our country, and the  corporations and billionaires driving up these costs don't care. They  not only don't care, they were also rewarded with a big tax break in  the betrayal bill.

This is why it is important to understand that this is a policy  choice, that many of our families feel like they are intentionally  being put in survivor mode instead of being able to thrive.

I know that right now nearly one in five children in Michigan live  below the poverty line, Madam Speaker, and 60 percent of Americans live  paycheck to paycheck.

I am not going to wait for President Trump to keep his promise to  address the cost of living in this country. I am going to help and push  back and introduce the economic dignity for all agenda, a plan to  tackle the high cost of living in our country.

We need to ensure that in every family in every single corner in our  country, a child has resources that they need to live and thrive in our  country, not just hope to survive.

This plan includes the End Child Poverty Act, the Baby Bonus Act, and  the BOOST Act. The End Child Poverty Act would provide a universal  child benefit of $458 per child per month. It would bring us closer to  a nation where all children have the opportunity to flourish, not just  grow. This plan will make it easy for our families to afford the  basics. I hear it from them: Formula, diapers, and childcare are all  out of control. It will provide, again, a long-overdue safety net for  our families.

We know right now this bill, the End Child Poverty Act, is estimated  to cut child poverty by 50 percent according to the People's Policy  Project, and it will cut deep child poverty by 70 percent.

The second bill, a part of the plan, is the Baby Bonus Act, which  would provide every family with $2,000 upon the birth of their child,  bringing economic stability to households through timely and flexible  assistance at a pivotal moment for a child's development.

The birth of a new child is often a time of increased economic  insecurity. Families face new expenses of childcare, diapers, baby  clothes, and more, while many parents must take time off leading up to  and following the birth of a newborn. Without universal childcare,  parents are often forced to choose between healing, caring for their  newborn, and keeping their job.

As a founder of the Congressional Mamas' Caucus, it is time we  listened to mothers who are urging our government to focus on families.

Roughly 134,000 families are driven into poverty annually because of  the cost of childcare alone. This is not surprising when countless  families are one job loss, disability, and emergency away from crushing  financial hardship.

Finally, part of the plan includes the BOOST Act. It is one of my  district's favorites. It is the Building Our Opportunities to Survive  and Thrive Act. It would provide $250 per month to adults between the  ages of 19 to 67 years old, promoting economic security for all.

Studies show that this is effective. What is not effective is  continuing to give billionaires big tax breaks. Again, that doesn't  impact our families in a positive way.

While costs for necessities like housing, groceries, healthcare, and  education increase annually, wages fail to keep up. We all know this in  this Chamber. It puts many of our families in economic insecurity. An  unexpected expense like medical bills should not be a threat to a  family's financial livelihood. It is important that we start looking at  new ways. Regular cash assistance would make a tremendous difference to  families literally on the edge of poverty and struggling to pay their  bills.

Everyone in our country deserves human dignity.

We know that corporate greed is driving costs up and creating this  affordability crisis, so we need to push back. If my colleagues in  Congress are serious and wanting to improve the lives of the American  people, they should stop corporate giveaways and support and pass the  economic dignity for all plan.