Job Corps Cuts


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691869/job-corps-cuts


Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, we know that the Trump administration just  cut a 60-year program called Job Corps that provided young people with  stable housing and career training.

This is why I joined several of my Michigan colleagues in a letter to  the Trump administration, demanding that they reverse this reckless  decision to abruptly shut down Job Corps centers across the Nation.

This action is yet another example of the cruel actions taken to  dismantle programs for our families. Many of them depend on this. They  are lifelines for our families.

Mr. Speaker, in Michigan alone, Job Corps has three centers with more  than 700 students in Flint and Grand Rapids, including 200 young people  in the city of Detroit.

Everyone deserves the ability to shape their own future with access  to career training and hands-on experience. The sense of stability and  direction Job Corps provides for our youth is invaluable.

Now, the sudden closing of these centers has left students  devastated. I wish my colleagues would see the images of the young  people dragging their black trash bags through the parking lot with  nowhere to go.

It is heartbreaking for these students, who have worked so hard to  join the workforce, to have the rug pulled out right from underneath  them with only hours of notice. It is disgraceful that our government  would turn its back on them like this.

There is one young person in my district in the city of Detroit whose  mother has cancer. She is trying to seek treatment and trying to live.  Her son depends on Job Corps for housing and for future career  opportunities.

Yet again, here we are, cutting these vital programs that many people  across the country support, no matter political affiliation.

I want them to know that they deserve better and that not all of us  in this Chamber will turn our backs on them. We are going to fight  together to restore the funding. I will continue to call out these  inhumane and lawless actions.

It is very important for the American people to know this Congress  and this Chamber authorized the funding for Job Corps. The President of  the United States does not have the authority to snap his fingers and  cut the funding.

The American people must continue to speak up about the impact of  having Job Corps cut. Again, we are going to work together to try to  restore it.                                  Head Start

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, last week was the 60th birthday of Head  Start, which is a lifeline and a life-changing experience for many of  our families and has anchors all across the country and communities. It  has helped our young children for decades.

I do want to bring a story from my district. Alex, a public school  speech therapist in Dearborn Heights, said that several of her students  are directly impacted by threats to Head Start funding. Students  attending Head Start are entitled to receive necessary special  education services.

As a parent of a 2-year-old daughter, she also knows that there are  opportunities for her to start her education in the welcoming community  that Head Start provides.

This year alone, nearly 750,000 infants, toddlers, and preschoolers  will receive Head Start services, supporting early childhood learning,  development, and health. These centers rely on us to make sure we keep  that Federal funding to provide the care for our children.

Again, I know earlier this year we were all thrown into a panic when  the Trump administration recklessly decided to cut off the Federal  funding. I led 23 of my colleagues with the Congressional Mamas Caucus  in a letter to President Trump. We demanded he take immediate action to  restore the Head Start funding, many of them, again, months and weeks  without receiving funding.

Our fight isn't over, though. Head Start is essential to countless  communities in every State and every corner of our Nation. The threat  to Head Start is real. Colleagues must work together to try to protect  it.

As the chair of Congressional Mamas Caucus, I will continue to lead  efforts in Congress to defend these critical programs for generations  to come.                      Discriminatory Auto Insurance Rates

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I don't know about you, but I have no idea  that someone's income, occupation, education, ZIP Code, marital status,  credit score, or homeownership status have anything to do with  somebody's auto insurance rates or whether or not they are a good  driver. It has absolutely nothing to do with it. Yet, we are allowing  in this country for the auto insurance industry to use nondriving  factors to discriminate and to allow predatory practices to determine  auto insurance rates.

In my district alone, I have seen many families with auto insurance,  which is required by law, see their rates go up almost 40 percent,  keeping  them in the cycle of poverty and keeping them in survival mode when  they should be able to drive.

Auto insurance rates should be based on how good a person's driving  record is, period. It is outrageous that many continue to allow these  discriminatory practices to be applied.

Please support the PAID Act. It is good legislation to continue to  protect our residents and make sure they get insurance that they can  afford.