Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Chairman, we know that the dirty water bill reduces  significant oversight for the Clean Water Act, and it is really  important to know that polluters are pushing to weaken this--not  residents, not families, and not communities that are directly  impacted.

This is about discharging toxic chemicals into our water bodies. I  want Members to understand that last year, Congress rejected--again,  Congress rejected last year many of the changes being proposed now in  the PERMIT Act because it had damaging impacts to the health of  families, the economy, and our environment.

Mr. Chairman, it is not just this bill. This week, Republicans are  voting now on five dirty energy bills that attack communities I  represent. These bills boost dirty energy power plants even as energy  companies are transitioning toward cleaner energy.

Dirty energy plants have historically been located in communities  that look like mine, in rural communities and minority communities. In  Michigan, we already know that certain communities are facing a  disproportionate burden from electricity generation.

Just ask the residents of southwest Detroit and the Downriver region  in Michigan. They have felt the harm and seen the harm, and they lived  the experience of being next to DTE's oil-fired power plant that made  them sick.

Mr. Chairman, it is immoral, and Congress must fix it. Yet, many of  the pro-polluting Republicans in this Chamber want to talk about making  electricity with ``reliable generation facilities,'' when they really  are talking about more expensive dirty energy.

There is nothing ``reliable'' about air pollution giving our children  asthma. Children not only have the right to be able to not go hungry,  but they have a right to breathe clean air. The only thing folks can  rely on right now with these plants is getting sicker.

I proposed two amendments this week, Mr. Chair, to protect our  communities, but they were rejected. They would have made sure that we  have full information and transparency on the disparate impacts and  cumulative impacts on minority, rural, disadvantaged, and Tribal  communities and would have added safeguards, safeguards that would have  been able to define what real reliable generation facilities are.

Again, they were not interested. Why? It is because we know that  clean water and clean air is never a priority. It is always going to be  about profits for corporate, polluting donors. If you want reliable  generation facilities, make them clean so they are not actively  poisoning our neighbors, destroying our communities, and making them  less attractive places to live, work, and invest.

I promise, if you go to your community and ask them about this dirty  water permit bill that you guys are pushing for, as well as what was  passed with the energy bills, overwhelmingly, across party lines, they  will tell you to protect our land, our soil, our water, our  environment, and our health.