Protecting Education for Children with Disabilities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698946/protecting-education-for-children-with-disabilities


Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I thank my sister in service, Congresswoman  Hayes, who has been leading this fight to protect our children,  especially making sure that we have access to public education and  quality education for all of our children.

Alongside millions of children, including children with disabilities  and their families, we are demanding that Congress fulfill its promise.

Nearly 50 years ago, Congress passed the Individuals with  Disabilities Education Act, IDEA, with a commitment that every child,  including students with disabilities, meet their full potential in  every classroom and to ensure also that every family has the services  they need for their children to succeed.

We didn't say educate children with disabilities if it is convenient.  We didn't say protect their rights unless the budgets are too tight or  we don't have enough money. We made a promise. We made a promise to  fund 40 percent of the cost of IDEA. That promise was never kept. The  Federal share is now less than 12 percent.

According to the Autism Alliance of Michigan, Michigan ranks among  the lowest in the Nation for special education outcomes, due to massive  underfunding by our Federal Government. Students with disabilities in  Michigan are twice as likely to drop out of school as their peers. Only  60 percent graduate high school in 4 years, compared to 85 percent  among their other peers.

Right now, we are seeing special education under direct and  deliberate attack. We have seen repeated efforts to slash education  funding, weaken civil rights enforcement and chip away at the  protections IDEA guarantees to our students with disabilities.

Every dollar we fail to invest in IDEA is a cost shifted onto our  schools, our local communities, our families, and our children, who are  already feeling financial strain.

Our families are counting on us. Congress cannot continue to fall  short on our students and families regarding funding when so much is at  stake. We must fulfill our promise and fund IDEA.