Protection for Exposure of Government Corruption


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700895/protection-for-exposure-of-government-corruption


Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, alerting the public to government wrongdoing  is not a crime. Yet, sadly, administrations of both parties are  increasingly using the Espionage Act to target and prosecute  whistleblowers and journalists for sharing critical information,  important information, with the public. Such prosecutions undermine our  government's transparency and are a clear violation of the First  Amendment and fundamental right to due process.

That is why I am introducing the Daniel Ellsberg Press Freedom and  Whistleblower Protection Act, which would prevent abuses against  whistleblowers, journalists, and the American public for exposing  government corruption.

Ever since it became law in 1917, the Espionage Act has been used to  criminalize political dissent, and that is dangerous. It has been used  to target whistleblowers who alerted the American people about  government lies about the Vietnam war, mass surveillance, torture,  drone assassinations, and the U.S. war crimes in Iraq and Afghanistan.

In recent years, the use of this repressive tool has prosecuted  whistleblowers and journalists acting in the public interest and has  expanded dramatically, producing a major chilling effect on the right  to dissent in our country. In our country, war has always been used as  an excuse by the powerful to take away the rights of our people.

This legislation is named in honor of the late Daniel Ellsberg, the  celebrated whistleblower who bravely exposed government lies about the  Vietnam war with the publication of the Pentagon Papers.

Today, our government is committing horrific war crimes against  humanity, from Iran to Palestine to Cuba, while expanding mass  surveillance and spying on Americans more than ever.

If we allow Presidential administrations to continue to abuse this  power and erode our rights, we will lose our freedom of speech and so  much more.

It is time to put an end to these abuses and stand up for our First  Amendment rights and freedoms.                              Strife in Lebanon

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, as we approach the celebration of Eid al- Fitr, the end of the holy month of Ramadan, thousands of our families  in the 12th Congressional District who have strong ties to Lebanon are  struggling right now.

This year's Eid feels different for us. I know many have lost loved  ones. Many mosques are full of memorials, and many, many, again, are  watching their grandparents' homes be bombed and seeing relatives,  uprooted from their neighbors, becoming homeless. This campaign of  ethnic cleansing by the Israeli Government has already killed nearly  1,000 people, including over 100 children that we know of.

Over 1 million people in Lebanon, one-fifth of Lebanon's entire  population, has been forcibly displaced and told by the Israeli  military that they will not be allowed to return to their homes and  their villages. This has all been supported and enabled by our tax  dollars.

Mr. Speaker, entire families have been wiped out, and towns and city  neighborhoods have been completely erased. Entire generations-- grandparents, parents, and children are gone. Medical centers and  universities are being targeted. Look it up. They are  just bombing medics, children, residential neighborhoods, set aflame  with U.S.-produced white phosphorus, which is a war crime, Mr. Speaker,  poisoning the land and poisoning the people.

We are witnessing the same genocidal playbook used against  Palestinians in Gaza, and now they are doing it in Lebanon.

Mr. Speaker, I will be introducing a House Resolution standing with  the people of Lebanon against these war crimes and calling for an end  to this illegal invasion. It is time for us to be able to stop this  illegal invasion, enact a total arms embargo, and put an immediate end  to this destructive regional war.

Public Sector Development of Essential Medications at Cost

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, in Detroit, we say that we don't have  healthcare in our country. We have sick care in our country.

Under the Trump administration, we know that this crisis is getting  worse. Trump has already cut $1 trillion from programs like Medicaid  and the Affordable Care Act, so I introduced a bill to be able to hone  in on the pharmaceutical industry. It is called Medicines for the  People Act, a plan to develop essential medicines and medications in  the public sector and distribute them to all Americans at not-for- profit rates.

The National Institute for Biomedical Research and Development would  drive the development of these drugs and devices to lower costs and  expand access to medicines, boost innovation, and address public health  concerns. It creates the real competition that we need in our  healthcare system: lower the prices and save lives.

We all know that there are real consequences to these higher costs  and fewer breakthroughs in the industry that prioritizes profits over  public health, so I urge my colleagues to please support Medicines for  the People Act. It is important because healthcare is a human right.

Mr. Speaker, it is time to build a system that ensures that  lifesaving prescription drugs are affordable and accessible to  everyone. When my residents tell me that we have sick care instead of  healthcare, that should be a signal that we need to do more and need to  be able to combat profit and corporate greed within our healthcare  system.