Risk of Conflict with Nuclear Weapons


Ms. TLAIB. That is right, Mr. Speaker. There is a lack of urgency,  and we need to move with urgency because a nuclear war cannot be won  and would have catastrophic human consequences.

One warhead--one--has the power to wipe out an entire city. A full- scale nuclear war would devastate life as we know it.

Mr. Speaker, 80 years ago, the horrific U.S. bombings of Hiroshima  and Nagasaki caused unimaginable death and immense human suffering, and  survivors to this day face long-term health issues and radiation  poisoning.

So 80 years after these atrocities, we must, as a Chamber, recommit  our efforts to finally achieving the complete and total abolition of  nuclear weapons worldwide. We must ensure these war crimes are never  repeated anywhere.

Nuclear weapons are tools of death and destruction. They cannot be  used without disastrous consequences that violate international law and  our shared humanity.

The White House and Congress need to immediately work to negotiate  new constraints to cap and reduce nuclear arsenals, especially with  Russia and China. We must do everything in our power to prevent an  unrestrained nuclear arms race.

It is absolutely terrifying that in the United States the President  has the power to unilaterally decide to launch a nuclear weapon.

Think about that for one moment, Mr. Speaker. The use of just a  fraction of the nuclear weapons we possess, most of which are ready to  launch within minutes of an order from any President, including the  current one, would lead to mass destruction of unprecedented global  scale.

Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle should back  commonsense efforts to prioritize nuclear disarmament and adopt  measures to reduce the risk of nuclear war.

We must continue to work toward international agreements, Mr.  Speaker, with all nine countries that possess nuclear weapons through  comprehensive nuclear test ban treaties, as well as the treaty on  prohibiting a nuclear weapon.

Again, we must come together. I cannot say this enough: The  devastation and the consequences of any nuclear launch could be, again,  life-changing around the world. We must continue to strive for a world  free from the threat of nuclear war.

I cannot thank enough my colleague, Mr. McGovern, as he commits to  banning nuclear weapons and, again, tries to save us from any kind of  life-changing devastation to our world.