The Nakba Never Ended


Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, Peter Beinart said: ``When you tell a people  to forget its past, you are not proposing peace, you are proposing  extinction.''

I introduced a resolution yesterday recognizing the 77 years of the  ongoing Nakba against the Palestinian people and the need for refugee  rights. We know that thousands of Palestinians were ethnically cleansed  in 1948, and nearly 800,000 were violently removed from over 400  villages, completely erased. Many of them carry their keys to this day,  Mr. Speaker, hanging them on the wall of their new, temporary homes in  hopes that one day they will be able to return to their villages.

We acknowledge their trauma and the painful loss of their connections  to their family members, land, the beautiful olive groves, and the 400  Palestinian villages that they all grew up in. We, of course, see that  the Israeli Government continues to illegally steal Palestinian land in  the occupied West Bank where my family lives. They illegally evict  Palestinian families, Mr. Speaker, demolish homes, and deny  Palestinians basic human rights.

We honor those all around the world and want them to know that former  Congresswoman Cori Bush and I see them. We know the suffering. We know  that there are lasting harms of settler colonialism, as well as ethnic  cleansing and apartheid.

There are days that I feel so alone in this Chamber as the only  Palestinian American serving in Congress. The dehumanization and the  anti-Palestinian racism here is painful, especially when my colleagues  remain silent on the starvation of children and vote to send more bombs  to the Israeli Government while they commit war crimes with impunity.

Today, we are witnessing a genocide in Gaza. Many human rights  organizations, advocacy groups, NGOs, and folks on medical missions  have confirmed, the campaign to erase Palestinians from existence is  happening right now, live-streamed for all of us to see while the world  sits and does nothing.

Palestinians were right. The Nakba never ended. Across Gaza, the  medical system has been deliberately destroyed. The Israeli Government  is using starvation as a weapon of war, which is a war crime. The  thousands of trucks carrying food and lifesaving aid sit blocked at the  border while Palestinian families starve.

Instead of agreeing to a cease-fire, war criminal Netanyahu is now  preparing a full-scale assault to ethnically cleanse and forcibly expel  the entire Palestinian population from Gaza and to flatten and  permanently occupy the land. This was always their plan. He said it  himself.

Israeli forces have killed more than 52,000 Palestinians, and nearly  70 percent of them were women and children, babies who did not live to  see their first birthday. There are thousands more who were  dismembered, unrecognizable, burned alive, buried beneath the rubble,  and presumed dead.

Mr. Speaker, nearly 1.9 million Palestinians have been displaced once  again. Each year, our country sends billions of dollars to maintain  this apartheid state and support the ongoing cleansing of the  Palestinian people. Our country is complicit, Mr. Speaker, because our  Nation is funding this genocide.

The Israeli Government will not stop until we put in place an arms  embargo. The majority of Americans support it. We must save lives. No  matter faith or ethnicity, a child is a child.

Mr. Speaker, my ``grandma's''; ``sity's'' only crime in the eyes of  the Israeli apartheid government was that she was born Palestinian. It  killed me inside that she took her last breath without being truly  free. I pray that the ongoing Nakba against the Palestinians will end  and one day they will be free.                      Sneaking In Nonprofit Killer Bill

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I want to talk about something that is  happening right here in our backyard in regard to the Congressional  Mamas Caucus.

As a mother, I am dismayed. We started Mamas for Medicaid, which is  mothers across the Nation sharing their stories about what it means to  cut Medicaid and how cruel it will be for their families, especially  those with children with special needs.

What makes me even more angry is this so-called sneaking in of the  nonprofit killer bill into the budget reconciliation package. We have  to worry about that now.

This is dangerous and unconstitutional legislation that would give  the Trump administration unchecked power to target any nonprofit  organization as a political enemy and shut them down--no evidence, no  charge, no trial, no due process.

This legislation is part of a broader assault on civil liberties,  aiming to criminalize free speech, Mr. Speaker.

Trust me, it won't just be Palestinian human rights organizations. It  will be those who are fighting against the Medicaid cuts. It will be  those who are fighting for Black lives and those who are fighting for  climate justice. It is wrong, and I hope my colleagues will vote  against it.