105th Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I want to join my friends in the  Armenian community in solemnly observing the 105th anniversary of the  Armenian Genocide. While we could not commemorate the Armenian Genocide  in Rhode Island as we normally would due to the pandemic, I know we are  united in our belief in the bright future and resilience of the  Armenian people. 

  More than a century ago, one of the worst tragedies of the 20th  century began when the Young Turk leaders of the Ottoman Empire  executed more than 200 prominent Armenians. What followed was an 8-year  campaign of massacre and oppression. By 1923, an estimated one and a  half million Armenians were killed and over a half a million survivors  were exiled. 

  These atrocities affected the lives of every Armenian living in Asia  Minor and across the globe. The U.S. Ambassador to the Ottoman Empire  during this dark time, Henry Morgenthau, Sr., unsuccessfully pleaded  with President  Wilson to take action and later remembered the events of the Genocide,  saying, ``I am confident that the whole history of the human race  contains no such horrible episode as this. The great massacres and  persecutions of the past seem almost insignificant when compared to the  sufferings of the Armenian race in 1915.'' 

  Those who survived the Armenian Genocide, however, persevered due to  their unbreakable spirit. Survivors of the Armenian Genocide  contributed greatly to the lands in which they established new homes  and communities, including the United States. That is why we not only  commemorate this grave tragedy each year, but also take the time to  celebrate the traditions and the contributions of the Armenian people.  Indeed, my home State of Rhode Island continues to be enriched by our  strong and vibrant Armenian-American community. 

  I was pleased when a resolution to encourage the U.S. to officially  recognize the Armenian Genocide passed the Senate in December. We must  find a way to come together to recognize the truth of what happened,  and support and assist those facing persecution today. 

  As ranking member on the Senate Armed Services Committee and a member  of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I also remain committed to  supporting assistance to Armenia to strengthen security, promote  economic growth, and foster democratic reforms and development. 

  As we remember the past, we remain committed to forging a brighter  future. We must continue to guard against hatred and oppression so that  we can prevent such crimes against humanity from happening again. 

  Thank you.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT