Act. Back Then, Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I believe that Americans are ready and  willing to answer the call to serve and come together to meet the  challenges that we face at the local, national, and international  level. We just need to create the conditions to mobilize them. That is  why I am proud to join Senators Young and Coons and Representatives  Houlahan, Panetta, Bacon. and Bergman in introducing the Unity through  Service Act.

Our bipartisan legislation is based on the recommendations of the  National Commission on Military, National, and Public Service. The  Commission was established in the 2017 National Defense Authorization  Act. Back then, Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain  and I were trying look at how we could encourage the most qualified  individuals of all backgrounds to volunteer for military service. We  quickly understood that the question was also about something bigger.  What does it mean for the Nation when so many people do not have the  common experience of service, whether in the military or in their  communities? And what happens when those who want to serve do not have  the opportunity to do so? With those thoughts in mind, we established  the Commission to look at the issue of service comprehensively.

One of the statutory mandates of the Commission was to explore the  ``means by which to foster a greater attitude and ethos of service  among United States youth.'' We as a government must be prepared to  invest in what is truly one of our Nation's greatest assets--our public  servants. This has been an urgent matter for decades, but it is ever  more urgent today.

The Commission published its final report and recommendations just as  the COVID-19 pandemic began to grip the Nation. It set a 10-year goal  for 5 million Americans to begin participating in military, national,  or public service each year. Additionally, the Commission set targets  for ensuring there are more than enough qualified individuals seeking  to serve in the Armed Forces, and it called for modernizing government  personnel systems to attract and enable Americans with critical skills  to enter public service. The Unity through Service Act would help to  implement those recommendations, providing the architecture and focus  to mobilize a whole-of-government approach.

Specifically, the Unity through Service Act would establish an  Interagency Council on Service to coordinate and lead initiatives that  extend across military, national, and public service. The Council would  be tasked with preparing and submitting to the President a national  strategy on service, including a review of current programs,  initiatives, and online content. The legislation would promote cross- service marketing, recruitment, and retention through joint advertising  campaigns and shared market research. It would also ensure that  transitioning military members and AmeriCorps members are informed  about other service opportunities open to them.

The Unity through Service Act would elevate all forms of service,  leveraging the strengths of existing programs and would provide a  roadmap for bringing a new generation of Americans together in service  to our Nation. Americans want to serve. We just need to provide the  opportunities and the connections for them to do so.

I urge my colleagues to join us in reaffirming our national culture  of service by working with Senator Young and me to take up and pass the  Unity through Service Act.