H. Con. Res. 14


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689546/h-con-res-14


Mr. REED. Mr. President, well, we are back here again with another  variation of the Trump plan and the Republican plan to do further  damage to our economy and to the working men and women of this country.  It has been sliced and diced and repackaged and unpackaged, but it  still boils down to a very simple equation: big tax cuts for the very,  very wealthy and cuts to Medicaid and other key programs that are  essential to Americans.

This resolution is going to cost a lot of money--about $5.8 trillion  with a ``t.''

Yesterday, President Trump unveiled his tariff policies and today,  the markets reacted. They lost $2.5 trillion of value. He is just  taking a sledgehammer to our economy and a sledgehammer to the working  families who depend upon these programs like Medicaid and a  sledgehammer to our universities and medical schools and research  laboratories, which have made us the premier center for research  innovation and healthcare in the world. And with these sledgehammer  blows, I don't think we can maintain that status.

These proposals by the President and my Republican colleagues are  designed to take away the healthcare coverage from millions of  Americans--seniors, kids, veterans, individuals with disabilities--and  they particularly seem to focus on Medicaid.

Medicaid provides essential healthcare services for the most  vulnerable populations in the country. It covers nearly 80 million  people, if you combine those covered by the Children's Health Insurance  Plan, CHIP.

In my home State of Rhode Island, over 300,000 people--and that is  about one-third of my State--depend on Medicaid. And the Republicans  are talking about cutting this program by at least $880 billion, which  would be devastating. Looking at the Medicaid recipients in Rhode  Island. It is interesting. One in five adults ages 19 to 64 are  covered; one in three children are covered. And we all know how  critical healthcare is for children because a childhood problem left  untreated can lead, often, to much more serious health consequences as  they grow older--much more dependency on social programs, which are  paid for by us. Good healthcare as a child guarantees, in many, many,  and most cases, success in school, success in life, and a healthy  life--one in three children in Rhode Island need Medicaid.

Five in eight people residing in nursing homes in my home state are  also receiving Medicaid. Let me tell you what is going to happen when  Medicaid is cut by this extraordinary amount of money, $880 billion. A  lot of nursing homes will close because their margin, the difference  between opening the doors and closing them, is the Medicaid money they  receive. When that goes, where are you going to put your ailing mother  or grandmother?

I will tell you what you do. You are going to do it like they did it  before Medicaid. When I was a young kid, it was not unusual to go visit  someone, and in the front room there would be the hospital bed, the  grandmother, and the mother was taking care of the person and that was  healthcare back then. But after Medicaid, we were able to create a much  more effective healthcare system.

And this will touch not just the very poor; this touched working  families. It is the only way they can keep, really, their mother or  father or older relative or a child with a very serious illness in a  safe, protected place where they can receive appropriate care.

Three in seven Medicaid recipients in Rhode Island are working-age  adults with disabilities. This is a situation where these people,  because of their physical limitations, cannot work and need assistance.  Some are severely disabled, others are significantly disabled, and they  are going to be left, literally, out in the cold.

I must say there is a corollary here because just a few days ago, the  President announced that he was going to take the IDEA education  program and move it into the Department of Health, which at the same  time is trying to shed thousands and thousands of workers. So my fear,  of course, is that--again, going back into my youth, the fifties and  the sixties--that children with disabilities will be sitting in the  back of the room by themselves trying to keep themselves occupied  because what we have created through IDEA--a system of education  tailored to the individual child's disability--will be unsupportable.

And that is the kind of damage he is doing. It is the working people.  It is  the families. It is the kids. It is, I think, inexcusable. Throughout  the country, 38 million children rely on Medicaid. And 2.3 million  children with disabilities, as I said, throughout the country, rely on  Medicaid. And also, as I have said, throughout the country, not just  Rhode Island, 7 million seniors count on Medicaid to afford nursing  home care or other health care services.

So we are in a situation now where we are basically undercutting our  healthcare system, and it is not just these people who feel it.  Everyone will feel it. If these Medicaid cuts go through, it will  create so much turmoil in my State that our healthcare delivery system  will be under great pressure--but, I think, so much pressure that it  will not work.

Where do people go when they don't have healthcare? They go to the  emergency room. So if you or I or somebody who might even have  healthcare insurance and we have a serious problem, well, we can go to  the emergency room and just get in the back of the line that is going  all the way around the block and through the parking lot and everyplace  else because these hundreds of thousands of people without healthcare,  that is where they will have to go when it is so painful they can't go  to work.

This is a disaster in the making. And, again, we saw last week and  weeks before, President Trump talking about, ``I am going to put  tariffs in and we are going to fix the whole economy.'' Nonsense. It is  a disaster. It is killing our markets.

And, once again, ``Oh, I am going to go in there and take out  Medicaid,'' et cetera, et cetera. It will be a disaster. I think we  must avoid it.

We are better off because of Medicaid--better healthcare outcomes in  this country. It is a different country, literally, than it was prior  to the introduction of Medicaid, and we are better for it. It provides  healthcare coverage, for example, for 17 million women of reproductive  age so they can have the healthcare they need. And it helps families  grow and prosper. And by making seniors and people with disabilities  get the care they need, we are, I think, living up to the aspirations  of this country, which is to ensure that those who need care get care.

You know, there have been a lot of men and women who served in the  Armed Forces of the United States. I was proud to do it myself. And  they weren't risking their lives so that a very wealthy individual  could have five Mercedes rather than four. They were risking it so kids  could have healthcare who needed it, so that their mother and father  could have a place to be when they were sick and ill in their older  years. And what we are doing? We are forgetting that sacrifice. We are  saying: No, we are just here to pay off the rich people, the rich  people who paid so much through the President's campaign to get him  elected.

The one thing I want to emphasize, which is very important and often  overlooked--going back to Rhode Island--74 percent of adults on  Medicaid are working in my state. There is this insidious notion that  this is just a free giveaway to people who don't work, who don't  deserve it, et cetera. That is why we can get rid of it.

Seventy-four percent of the adults in Rhode Island on Medicaid are  working, and they are working very hard. By the way, my guess is they  are not getting a big benefit from these tax cuts because they are  minimum wage or a little bit more.

So we are really doing something that is so unjust and, I believe,  un-American in rewarding the wealthy--some of whom have worked hard to  get it, some of whom just were lucky enough to be born to the right  parents. And we are giving them a fortune, and we are taking away basic  healthcare from working men and women.

We are in a very, very difficult situation. I don't think we can  touch Medicaid, for the moral reasons I tried to suggest and for the  economic reasons.

If those 74 percent of Medicaid adults in Rhode Island who are  working can't get to work because they are ill, how do we get the jobs  done? We don't.

The impact on the Nation in terms of these cuts is going to be  horrendous, and this impact is going to be everyplace in the country. I  have talked a lot about Rhode Island, but one of the ideas the  Republicans are advancing to cut Medicaid is to eliminate the Medicaid  expansion provided for under the Affordable Care Act.

Now, according to the Urban Institute and the Robert Wood Johnson  Foundation, this cut would cost 41 States over $44 billion. States  would have to increase their share of Medicaid spending by 25 percent.  States like North Dakota, Indiana, Montana, and Nebraska would see  their costs go up by more than 30 percent.

So I hope my colleagues from these States are ready, willing, and  able to go out and tell their constituents: Your healthcare costs are  going up 30 percent.

Now, obviously, I oppose this resolution that is being proposed. We  have to do more, not less. And it is not just about the moral  commitment I feel we have to people who need healthcare coverage; it is  about the economics of caring for people early before it becomes more  expensive, providing facilities for people who need those facilities  rather than letting them languish at home.