Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, today the Senate is called upon to uphold  our oath of office and our duty to the Constitution because President  Trump failed to do so himself. 

  After listening closely to the impeachment managers and the  President's defense team, weighing the evidence that was presented to  us, and being denied the opportunity to see relevant documents and hear  from firsthand witnesses, I will vote to find President Trump guilty on  both Articles of Impeachment. 

  I take no pleasure in voting to impeach a President and remove him  from office. I agree with those who say that impeachment should be rare  and American voters should decide our elections. That is why it is so  galling that President Trump blatantly solicited foreign interference  in our democratic process. And he did it as he geared up for  reelection. 

  The evidence shows President Trump deliberately and illicitly sought  foreign help to manufacture a scandal that would elevate him by  tarnishing a political rival. 

  He attempted to undermine our democracy, using U.S. taxpayer money in  the form of U.S. military aid for Ukraine as leverage for his own  personal benefit. The President's aides who heard President Trump's  call seeking ``a favor'' from the Ukrainian President immediately  sensed it was wrong. So when they alerted the White House lawyers, the  record of the call was immediately placed on a highly classified  computer system. And despite the President claiming that the version of  the call that was publicly released ``is an exact word-for-word  transcript of the conversation,'' we know from testimony that there are  key omissions in the document we all read. 

  Compounding the President's misconduct, he then engaged in an  extended cover up that appears to be ongoing to this day. 

  There is a lot to unravel here, and I will provide a more detailed  legal explanation in the near future. But for now, let me briefly  explain my decision and outline my thoughts on the Senate's impeachment  proceedings and the disturbing precedents I fear will be set when the  majority chooses to side with the President over the Constitution's  checks and balances. 

  The House of Representatives voted to impeach the President for abuse  of power and obstruction of Congress. Based on the uncontested  evidence, I concur. 

  It is clear that President Trump and others, such as Mr. Giuliani,  who was serving as the President's lawyer, attempted to coerce the  newly elected President of Ukraine to announce two sham investigations,  including one that sought to directly damage President Trump's rival in  the upcoming election. The President's actions served his personal and  political needs, not those of our country. His efforts to withhold  military aid to Ukraine for his own personal benefit undermined our  national security. 

  The second article of impeachment charges the President with  obstruction of Congress for blocking testimony and refusing to provide  documents in response to House subpoenas in the impeachment inquiry.  Again, the House managers produced overwhelming evidence of the  President's obstruction and his efforts to cover up his malfeasance. 

  The President's counsel offered a number of unpersuasive arguments  against this article, which fail to overcome the following: first, that  the legislative branch has sole power over impeachment under the  Constitution. That could not be more clear; second, past precedents of  prior administrations and court rulings; and third, the blatant October  8 letter expressing a complete rejection of the House's impeachment  proceedings. 

  The Constitution grants the executive branch significant power, but  as every student in America learns, our system is one of checks and  balances so that no branch is entirely unfettered from oversight and  the law.  

  President Trump would have us believe this system of checks and  balances is wrong. In President Trump's own words, he expressed the  misguided imperial belief in the supremacy of his unchecked power,  stating, quote: ``I have an Article II, where I have the right to do  whatever I want as President.'' 

  Couple this sentiment with his January 2016 boast that, quote: ``I  could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I  wouldn't lose voters.'' That paints a chilling picture of someone who  clearly believes, incorrectly, that he is above the law. The  President's attorneys have hewn to this line of faulty reasoning and,  in one notably preposterous effort, even claimed the President could  avoid impeachment for an inappropriate action motivated entirely by his  own political and personal interests. 

  The President's defense also failed to sufficiently demonstrate that  the President's blanket defiance of subpoenas and document requests  overcomes the precedents established in prior impeachment proceedings  and the record of congressional oversight of the executive branch. 

  In the Clinton impeachment, there was an enormous amount of  documentary evidence, as well as sworn depositions and testimony by the  President and his closest advisers. 

  In the cases of United States v. Nixon, House Judiciary Committee v.  Miers, and others, the House managers rightly point out that the courts  have held ``Congress's power to investigate is as broad as its power to  legislate and lies at the heart of Congress's constitutional role.'' 

  While President Trump's impeachment lawyers claim the House should  take the President to court over these previously settled issues,  President Trump's lawyers at the Justice Department are simultaneously  arguing in the courts that the judicial branch cannot even rule on such  matters. 

  As President Trump staked out new, expansive, and aggressive  positions about executive privilege, immunity, and the limits of  Congress's oversight authority, Republican leaders went along with it. 

  I have heard a variety of explanations for why my Republican  colleagues voted against witnesses. But no one has offered the simplest  explanation: My Republican colleagues did not want to hear new evidence  because they have a hunch it would be really, really bad for this  President. It would further expose the depth of his wrongdoing. And it  would make it harder for them to vote to acquit. 

  My colleagues on the other side of the aisle did not ask to be put in  this position. President Trump's misconduct forced it on them. But in  the partisan rush to spare President Trump from having his staff and  former staff publicly testify against him under oath, a bar has been  lowered, a constitutional guardrail has been removed, the Senate has  been voluntarily weakened, and our oversight powers severely  diminished. 

  This short-term maneuver to shield President Trump from the truth is  a severe blow against good government that will do lasting damage to  this institution and our democracy. I hope one day the damage can be  repaired. 

  The arc of history is indeed long, and it does bend toward justice-- but not today. Today, the Senate and the American people have been  denied access to relevant, available evidence and firsthand witnesses.  We have been prohibited from considering new, material information that  became available after the House's impeachment vote. 

  The Constitution is our national compass. But at this critical  moment, clouded by the fog of President Trump's misconduct, the Senate  majority has lost its way, and is no longer guided by the Constitution.  In order to regain our moral bearings, stay true to our core values,  and navigate a better path forward, we must hold President Trump  accountable. 

  The President was wrong to invite foreign interference in our  democracy. He was wrong to try and stonewall the investigation. And he  is wrong if he thinks he is above the law. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT