Inhofe, Reed Announce FY 2021 NDAA Markup Schedule


U.S. Senators Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) and Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today announced the full committee and subcommittee markup schedule for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2021. 

"While we continue to address the coronavirus, we still have a sworn duty to address the threats facing our nation. For the past 59 years--in spite of any and all obstacles--the Armed Services Committee has enacted a bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act. This year will be no different; the NDAA will be a priority. The pandemic just makes it all the more important that we care for our service members and their families, maintain mission readiness and continue modernizing and preparing for the future -- just as the National Defense Strategy urges," Senator Inhofe said. "We've faced some unique challenges getting to markup this year, but, together with Senator Reed and the entire Armed Services Committee, in our traditional, bipartisan fashion, I am eager to move this year's NDAA closer to enactment for the 60th straight year."

"The markup process is critical to develop a comprehensive, effective NDAA. And this year, COVID-19 presents additional challenges and policy impacts as we craft the FY 2021 National Defense Authorization Act," said Senator Reed. "I look forward to working with Chairman Inhofe and our colleagues on the committee as we move forward with the NDAA, which is critical to our national defense and the well-being of our nation."

With the exception of the Subcommittee on Personnel markup, the markups will be conducted at the Secret level, and therefore closed to the press and public. Markups will be conducted in accordance to the latest health and safety guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Office of the Attending Physician, and Senate Sergeant-At-Arms.

The NDAA will be considered in subcommittee on the following dates:

Monday, June 8:

2:30 PM -- Subcommittee on Readiness -- Russell SR-232A (CLOSED)

4 PM -- Subcommittee on Strategic Forces -- Russell SR-232A (CLOSED)

Tuesday, June 9:

9:30 AM -- Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities -- Russell SR-232A (CLOSED)

11 AM -- Subcommittee on Airland -- Russell SR-232A (CLOSED)

2 PM -- Subcommittee on Personnel -- Dirksen SD-G50 (OPEN -- please see press RSVP information below)

3:30 PM -- Subcommittee on Seapower -- Russell SR-232A (CLOSED)

5:30 PM -- Subcommittee on Cybersecurity -- Russell SR-232A (CLOSED)

The NDAA will be considered by the Full Committee on the following dates:

Wednesday, June 10, 9:30 AM -- Dirksen SD-106 (CLOSED)

If needed: Thursday, June 11, 9:30 AM -- Dirksen SD-106 (CLOSED)

Press: The Personnel Subcommittee markup on Tuesday, June 9, at 2 PM will be open to the press, but may be limited due to social distancing guidance. The markup will be streamed live online at armed-services.senate.gov.

All media must RSVP to ensure access, and only Hill-credentialed media will be permitted to attend.

Photographers and Radio/TV may RSVP to their respective galleries:

 Senate Radio/TV Gallery: 202-224-6421Senate Photographers' Gallery: 202-224-6548