Nomination of Linda McMahon


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688311/nomination-of-linda-mcmahon


Mr. REED. Mr. President, as we celebrate Public Schools Week, Senate  Republicans are preparing to confirm Linda McMahon, another of  President Trump's billionaire patrons, as Secretary of Education, and I  oppose such nomination.

During her confirmation hearing, Mrs. McMahon demonstrated little  knowledge of public education or the basic programs and functions of  the Department of Education. Clearly, the choice of this nominee is not  based on merit.

But that does not matter because Mrs. McMahon was selected to be a  front, as the Agency she hopes to lead is being dismantled by Elon Musk  and DOGE. Indeed, while Mrs. McMahon was at her confirmation hearing,  claiming that she would work to improve the Department of Education,  Elon Musk's DOGE minions were at work firing people, taking back  grants, compromising sensitive data, and laying the groundwork to  eliminate the entire Agency.

And on Valentine's Day, President Trump's Department of Education  threatened to cut Federal funding from public schools, as well as  colleges and universities, if they did not eliminate any program that  the Trump administration deems as promoting diversity, equity, and  inclusion.

During her confirmation hearing, Mrs. McMahon seemed unsure whether  this edict meant that schools can't celebrate or teach classes on  African-American history or host clubs like Special Olympics or Girls  Who Code.

As a reminder, by law, the Secretary of Education may not interfere  with the content that schools teach, nor the academic standards that  they set. Mrs. McMahon doesn't seem to know that.

By the way, while Mr. Musk has been tearing the Department of  Education apart from the inside, Republicans in Congress have passed  punitive blueprints that will cut trillions from government services to  the American people, including education, all to pay for tax cuts for  the richest Americans and Big Business.

In the Senate, the Republicans are calling for an unspecified $9  trillion in cuts. In the House, the Education and Workforce Committee  must provide a minimum of $330 billion in cuts from education and job  training programs. It is no wonder that educators, students, and  families from across the country feel under siege.

We know what this looks like because we see how teachers, students,  and military families are reacting with dismay as our world-class  Department of Defense schools are laboring under another Secretary  intent on politicizing its Department and promoting an indoctrination  agenda authorized by President Trump.

I would like to take a moment to first thank all educators, school  staff, family volunteers, and all community members who tirelessly work  to equip our students for the future. We owe you a debt of gratitude  and so much more than that. We need to recommit to strengthening our  public schools and to investing in them.

In the first part of the 20th century, it was the high school  movement that broadly expanded educational attainment, preparing young  Americans for success in a changing world and evolving economy. This  movement featured professional educators and engaged families and  communities. It was about general knowledge and practical application.

This movement launched the United States as a world economic power.  It was essential to our national defense, and it created the conditions  for the success of the largest expansion of postsecondary education  through the GI bill. The high school movement meant that soldiers  returning from World War II already had high school diplomas and were  ready for postsecondary education.

Head Start, the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, the Adult  Education and Family Literacy Act, the Individuals with Disabilities  Education Act, and the Higher Education Act are some of our Federal  laws that work to ensure that opportunities to learn and advance are  not limited by income, race, ethnicity, or disability.

The expansion of public education is a great American story. Yet,  today, it sometimes seems to have been forgotten. Some argue that we do  not need public schools, that we can offer vouchers or education  savings accounts or homeschooling instead. Today, instead of freedom of  inquiry and inclusion, we see policing of what schools can teach, what  students can read, what they can discuss, and how they should think.  This is a recipe for stifling creativity and the development of the  skills needed for an ever-changing knowledge economy.

We politicize and neglect public schools at our peril. They educate  nearly 50 million students--our future. It is time that we treat public  education as the priority it must be if we want a brighter future for  our children and our grandchildren and our country.

We should embark on a new public school movement--one that will  strengthen and support the education profession, one that will ensure  that all communities can provide modern, state-of-the-art facilities,  one that will ensure that all students have the right to read--with  evidence-based reading instruction, school libraries, books at home,  diverse materials, and the freedom to choose what to read.

Today, we are failing our public schools because we are not investing  in them. For example, the average age of our public school facilities  is 49 years. The GAO found that over half of our school districts in  our country needed to replace or update major systems in more than half  of their buildings.

As a nation, we should commit to modernizing our school facilities.  That is why I will be reintroducing the Rebuild America's Schools Act  to invest $130 billion in our school facilities in the communities with  the greatest need.

We know there is a crisis in the education profession. Too many  school districts struggle to hire and retain teachers. Too often, a  career in teaching means financial struggles and little support to meet  student needs.

Additionally, we need a national focus on literacy. In 2024, the  percentage of eighth graders reading below the basic level on the  National Assessment of Educational Progress was the largest in the  assessment's history, and the percentage of fourth graders who scored  below the basic level was the largest in 20 years.

Adults are not doing any better. Recent results of the Program for  the International Assessment of Adult Competencies show that overall  scores in literacy and numeracy have decreased for U.S. adults, with  adults scoring at the lowest level of proficiency in literacy,  increasing from 19 percent in 2017 to 28 percent in 2023.

This is a crisis. Eliminating the Department of Education does  nothing to solve it. Instead of gutting educational funding and  eliminating the Department of Education to pay for tax cuts for the  wealthy, Congress should address the acute literacy crisis for both  adults and children across the Nation.

We should be increasing funding for adult education--at least  doubling it. We should increase resources for schools to provide  evidence-based reading instruction by fully funding title I, increasing  funding for the Comprehensive Literacy Development State Grant Program  and for Innovative Approaches to Literacy grants.

We should double the Pell grant and restore its purchasing power so  students do not have to rely mostly on loans to pay for college.

Sadly, none of this is on Mrs. McMahon's agenda.

I urge my colleagues to join me in ushering in a new public education  movement--a movement to ensure that this generation, as well as future  ones, has the foundation to achieve their full potential and build a  prosperous future. This nominee is not the person to lead such an  effort. All indications are that she will actively work against it. So  I encourage my colleagues to vote no on her confirmation.