Protests


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, for the past week, our Nation has been  engulfed by protests in dozens of cities over the senseless murder of  George Floyd and Breonna Taylor at the hands of police officers.  Americans are angry, frustrated, and grieving, not just for Mr. Floyd's  and Ms. Taylor's deaths but for centuries of injustice and brutality  against African Americans. The instances are too numerous to count. Yet  these instances of violence keep happening while meaningful reforms  have not taken place. 

  The protests are set against the backdrop of the deadly novel  coronavirus pandemic. As our country copes with this crisis, African- American communities have suffered disproportionately high infection  and death rates. Compounding this tragedy, we are in the midst of an  economic downturn that rivals the Great Depression, with communities of  color bearing the brunt of the economic fallout. Millions of hard- working Americans have lost their jobs through no fault of their own.  They are struggling to provide for their families, put food on their  table, and keep a roof over their head.  

  These protests are not isolated. They are taking place in every State  in the Nation and in many other countries. Protesters are of every race  and ethnicity and run the gamut in age from high school and college  students to parents and grandparents. The people participating in these  protests represent the diversity that is the strength of America. 

  The overwhelming majority of these protests are emotional but  nonviolent. They embrace a fundamental tenant of civil engagement,  which is the American right and tradition of peacefully protesting to  make their voices heard and to rectify injustice. 

  On the fringes of these peaceful protests, there are opportunists who  are sowing mistrust and division. Their primary goal is to loot and  destroy property, that cause chaos that puts innocent lives in harm's  way. Let me state clearly, theft and looting are a crime. They are  unacceptable and undermine the powerful message of thousands demanding  justice and change. They offer an easy way out to those who would  rather turn away from this challenge of justice and simply indulge in  their own petty objectives of violence, diversion, and destruction. 

  Our Nation is in pain. We need leaders who bring calm, unity,  empathy, and aid. Instead, our Nation has a President who treats it as  a field of war. He does not even attempt to bring people together, to  listen to others, or to accept the reality that leaders in a democracy  are neither infallible nor omnipotent. 

  In a tweet on May 30, President Trump said:  

       Mayor Jacob Frey of Minneapolis will never be mistaken for       the late, great Douglas McArthur or great fighter General       George Patton. . . . Get tough and fight.  

  In a call with our Nation's Governors, Secretary of Defense Esper  said: ``I think the sooner that you mass and dominate the battlespace,  the quicker this dissipates and we can get back to the right normal.'' 

  These are American city streets that we are talking about, filled  with Americans exercising their rights, not battlefields filled with  the enemy. 

  Then, in a statement in the White House Rose Garden on June 1,  President Trump said: ``If a city or a state refuses to take the  actions that are necessary to defend the life and property of their  residents, then I will deploy the United States military and quickly  solve the problem for them.'' America learned shortly thereafter what  actions the President was prepared to take. The U.S. Park Police and  others near Lafayette Park used tear gas, flash-bang grenades, and  rubber bullets to aggressively push back a peaceful crowd 30 minutes  before the DC curfew went into effect.  

  Why was this assault undertaken? It wasn't to step inside St. John's  Church and offer a prayer for George Floyd, his family, or the  countless other Americans who have been victims of police brutality. It  wasn't to reflect on the pain and division that is rife within our  country and contemplate what actions he could take to heal our Nation,  like President Lincoln often did during the Civil War. The President  crossed a street, aggressively cleared of peaceful protesters for a  photo op that was meant to say he was strong, and he was in charge.  Unfortunately, for him, it had the opposite effect. 

  President Trump's rhetoric and some of the events that have occurred  are not ones that many of us ever thought we would see on American  streets or hear from an American President. They are the words and  actions that happen in authoritarian states, words and actions that  past American Presidents have condemned. They are words and actions  that violate the democratic norms our Nation has stood for and American  servicemembers have died for. 

  While the President does have the authority to call up military  personnel under the Insurrection Act, it does not mean he should. It  was last invoked in 1992 when California Governor Pete Wilson requested  Federal military assistance from President George Herbert Walker Bush  to respond to the L.A. riots following the acquittal of police officers  for the beating of Rodney King. Before that instance, the act was  invoked in the 1950s and 1960s to enforce civil rights laws and end  segregation in the South. 

  The Insurrection Act serves as an exception to posse comitatus and to  the broad principle embedded deeply in American democracy and history  that the Active Armed Forces should not be used to enforce State laws  or to exercise police power reserved to the States unless absolutely  necessary as a last resort. The act is, by design and tradition, rarely  invoked. 

  The Insurrection Act envisions that, when Active military forces are  used to supplement State police forces to enforce State laws, they do  so only at the request of the Governor or legislature, which is  ultimately responsible for the execution of the laws within the States.  In the present moment, I am not aware of any Governor or legislature  calling for the Federal Government to step in and take control. Put  simply, if they need help, I have no doubt they will ask for it. 

  The President's ability to invoke the Insurrection Act without the  Governor or State legislature requesting assistance rests on the need  to enforce or protect Federal law, which is not the case here. If  President Trump were to invoke the Insurrection Act today, absent a  request from a State, it would only be to further his own political  interests. He would be using Active military forces as a political and  propaganda tool in contravention of everything our military stands for. 

  Using the Insurrection Act on a whim risks politicizing the military.  The military's mission is to defend and serve the Constitution and the  American people regardless of who is in office. Bringing the military  into domestic politics risks a rupture in the sacred trust between the  civilian and military leadership and undermines fundamental American  values. 

  As former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff GEN Martin Dempsey  stated shortly after the 2016 Presidential conventions, ``If senior  military leaders--active and retired--begin to self-identify as members  or supporters of one party or another, then the inherent tension built  into our system of government between the executive branch and the  legislative branch will bleed over into suspicion of military leaders  by Congress and a further erosion of civil-military relations.'' 

  Over the last few years, that erosion has increased steadily as  recent events have made eminently clear. This erosion is a toxic force  that will undermine one of the most essential ethics of the American  military. Soldiers, sailors, marines, airmen, and coastguardsmen serve  the Constitution, not the President. That is the oath many of us took  as young men and women. That is the oath that defines the military of  the United States, unlike many other countries, fortunately, for us. 

  According to press reports, Secretary of Defense Esper told senior  military leaders to ``stay apolitical during these turbulent days,''  but I would urge Secretary Esper to heed his own advice. Traditionally,  the Secretary of Defense, while a Cabinet member and appointed by the  President, has taken a nonpolitical stand--staying away from campaign  events and avoiding even the potential of a political photo op. As  General Milley discovered Monday evening, once the civilian leader of  the military joins the political fray, it is difficult for the military  to stay neutral. 

  Our Nation is in crisis, but it is not a crisis that can or should be  solved by American military force against its own citizens. I think, if  you ask any young man or woman who took the oath to join the forces of  the United States--whatever branch--was he or she doing it to go fight  Americans, they would answer no. He or she is doing everything they can  to protect Americans, to protect the system of government, and,  ultimately, the Constitution. That is the oath we take. 

  The strength of this Nation and of the great American experiment in  representative democracy goes far beyond our military strength. It goes  to our civil traditions, our Constitution, our sense of civic  responsibility, and our ability to constantly evolve and improve  ourselves even from our earliest days stained with slavery. We need  leaders who will listen and commit to change and then implement that  change. We need leaders who will not exacerbate the problem but will  seek to solve it and bring people together as our greatest Presidents  have done throughout history. In short, we need leaders who are  builders, not destroyers, and until those leaders emerge, I  am afraid the tumult will continue. It is my fervent hope that this  Nation finds a way to peace soon. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT