Reed Delivers Another $5.87 Million in LIHEAP Funds for RI


In an effort to help Rhode Islanders pay their utility bills during the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, U.S. Senator Jack Reed today announced $5,876,445 for Rhode Island through the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) that was included as part of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act.  This brings the state's total LIHEAP funding to $29.9 million for fiscal year 2020. 

Senator Reed is also leading bipartisan calls to include at least $4.3 billion in supplemental LIHEAP funding in the next coronavirus response bill (referred to as CARES Act 2) in order to help people who are socially distancing, particularly seniors and those with high risk factors, escape extreme heat.  Reed, along with 16 lawmakers, spearheaded a letter this week to House and Senate leaders, writing: "We respectfully request that you provide at least $4.3 billion in supplemental funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to assist households suffering from the economic effects of COVID-19. Now more than ever, it is critical to provide a safety net for our most vulnerable American families. In addition, we are requesting that the state administrative cap be raised to 15 percent to allow states to ramp up their application process and make modifications to the systems to increase outreach to the newly unemployed."

LIHEAP is a federally funded program that helps low-income households with their home energy bills by providing payment and/or energy crisis assistance.  Rhode Island's LIHEAP is administered by the Department of Human Services, and accessed through local Community Action Agencies.  Last year, about 35,000 Rhode Islanders received LIHEAP assistance.

Senator Reed led the successful effort to include $900 million for LIHEAP in the CARES Act.  This funding comes on top of the $3.4 billion in LIHEAP funds already appropriated for fiscal year 2020.

"This is a difficult time and many people are facing financial hardship.  I included this additional LIHEAP funding in the CARES Act to help low-income households who need temporary assistance pay their electric utility and heating bills," said Senator Reed.  "This program is a cost-effective lifeline that helps ensure families, seniors, and Americans with disabilities can afford to pay their rent, keep their utilities on, and afford other basic essentials."

The Trump Administration has repeatedly proposed eliminating LIHEAP.

Rhode Island has some of the oldest housing stock in the nation and Senator Reed has led efforts to help Rhode Islanders improve energy efficiency and weatherize homes to reduce high household energy bills.

The application period for LIHEAP has been extended to May 31, 2020.  Rhode Islanders wishing to apply for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program may go to the Rhode Island Department of Human Services website to get more information and links to an online application.  Or, Rhode Islanders may contact their local Community Action Agency.

Eligibility for LIHEAP is based on income, family size, and the availability of resources.

The average annual LIHEAP benefit to Rhode Island households that use the program is in the range of about $820-$850.

Another possible option for those in need of energy assistance is the Rhode Island Good Neighbor Energy Fund, which is administered by the United Way of Rhode Island.  The program is a cooperative effort between gas and electric companies and nonprofits that may provide up to $300 for eligible households.  For more information about the Good Neighbor Energy Fund, call United Way's 24-hour call center: 2-1-1.