RI Native Peter Gaynor Confirmed as FEMA Administrator


Today, the U.S. Senate voted 81-8 to confirm Rhode Island native Peter T. Gaynor to be the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).  Before taking over as FEMA Deputy Administrator in 2018 and becoming Acting Administrator in 2019, Gaynor served as the emergency management director for the City of Providence and then the State of Rhode Island.

U.S. Senator Jack Reed supported Gaynor's nomination.  Earlier today, Reed spoke on the Senate floor in favor of Gaynor's nomination, stating: 

"I have known and worked with Pete Gaynor for over a decade.  I know he will tap his years of experience to serve the American people well.  FEMA faces extraordinary challenges and needs solid leadership.  I expect that Peter Gaynor will work hard to ensure the standard is set for professionalism and compassion for the people and communities FEMA serves.  I urge my colleagues to join me in voting to confirm him."

As the flagship federal agency for disaster preparedness and response, FEMA faces extraordinary challenges -- confronting the very real effects of climate-related disasters, reforming the National Flood Insurance Program, administering critical grant programs, and helping ready the nation for possible chemical, biological, and radiological attacks.

Prior to his experience as an emergency manager, Administrator Gaynor served for 26 years as an enlisted Marine and Infantry Officer in the United States Marine Corps.  During his time in the Marines, he was assigned as the Executive Officer responsible for the security of the Presidential Retreat, Camp David; was assigned as the Head of Plans, Policy, & Operations at the Headquarters Marine Corps during the September 11, 2001 attacks; and was deployed in support of Iraqi Freedom with the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force, where he coordinated combat operations in the Al-Anbar Province of Iraq for Multi-National and Marine forces.

Administrator Gaynor received a bachelor's degree in history from Rhode Island College and a master's degree in National Security and Strategic Studies from the Naval War College in Newport, RI.  He is also a recent graduate of the Center for Homeland Defense and Security's Executive Leaders Program.