Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, as we all know too well rates of suicide  have risen to epidemic levels in the United States, with suicide now  the 10th leading cause of death in the country. On average, there are  129 suicides every day, roughly one every 11 minutes--a staggering  statistic. That is why I am pleased to be introducing bipartisan,  bicameral legislation to provide new resources to help turn the tide on  this increasingly dire situation. I am joined in introducing the  Suicide Prevention Act by Senator Kennedy, with Representatives Chris  Stewart and Doris Matsui introducing companion legislation in the House  of Representatives. 

  This legislation would authorize new funding for the Centers for  Disease Control and Prevention, CDC, to partner with the State and  local health departments to improve surveillance of suicide attempts  and other incidences of self-harm. Current data collection efforts  regarding suicide are often years after the fact, which limits the  ability of State and local health departments, as well as community  organizations, to recognize trends early and intervene. This new effort  would enhance data collection and sharing, as appropriate, in real time  to help save lives. 

  Recognizing that emergency healthcare providers are at the frontlines  of responding to suicide attempts, this bill would authorize funding  for a grant program within the Substance Abuse and Mental Health  Services Administration, SAMHSA, to fund suicide prevention programs in  emergency departments, ED, to better train staff in suicide prevention  strategies, screen at-risk patients, and refer patients to appropriate  followup care. The legislation would also require SAMHSA to develop  best practices for such programs, so that healthcare providers are able  to provide their patients with the best possible care and advice.  Approximately 37 percent of individuals without a previous history of  mental health or substance abuse who die by suicide make an ED visit  within the year before their death. According to the Suicide Prevention  Resource Center, the risk of suicide is greatest within a month of  discharge from the hospital. 

  In 2017, 47,173 Americans lost their lives to suicide. That same  year, there were 1.4 million suicide attempts. We must renew our  efforts on suicide prevention. In 2004, working with my colleague  Senator Gordon Smith of Oregon, we authored the Garrett Lee Smith  Memorial Act. This law authorized new youth suicide prevention programs  in honor of Senator Smith's, son, who tragically died by suicide just a  couple of weeks short of his 22nd birthday. For over a decade, these  programs have funded college campus, State, and Tribal efforts to  prevent suicide among our youth and young adult populations, who are  particularly at risk of suicide. During this time, youth suicide rates  have decreased significantly in my home State of Rhode Island, however,  nationwide, suicide rates have skyrocketed over the last decade. That  is why we must renew our attention and focus on suicide prevention,  including by increasing funding for and access to the National Suicide  Prevention Lifeline. This effort is critical to ensuring that when  people in crisis call looking for help, someone will be there on the  other end of the line to offer hope and counseling. I have also worked  with my colleagues Senators Gardner, Baldwin, and Moran on legislation  to designate the Lifeline as an easy to remember, 3-digit number, 9-8- 8. This common sense legislation would make it easier for people across  the country to access the Lifeline when they really need it. I am glad  the Federal Communications Commission, FCC, taking steps to make the 9- 8-8 number a reality, which makes increasing funding for the Lifeline  all the more vital. 

  I am pleased to have the opportunity to partner with Senator Kennedy  once again by introducing the Suicide Prevention Act today. I look  forward to working together with our other sponsors and colleagues, as  well as stakeholders supporting these efforts, to pass this critical  legislation.                                       ______                                   

      By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. Carper, Mr. Cramer, Ms. Smith, Ms.          McSally, and Ms. Sinema): 

  S. 3200. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permit  high deductible health plans to provide chronic disease prevention  services to plan enrollees prior to satisfying their plan deductible;  to the Committee on Finance. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT