Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699792/statements-on-introduced-bills-and-joint-resolutions


Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I am reintroducing the Predatory  Lending Elimination Act along with many of my colleagues. This  important legislation would extend the bipartisan Military Lending Act,  MLA, protections for Active-Duty servicemembers and their families to  all Americans by imposing a nationwide 36 percent cap on the annual  percentage rate, APR, for most extensions of consumer credit.

The MLA was enacted on a bipartisan basis in 2006 to rein in payday  and other unscrupulous lenders that targeted American troops with  abusive and predatory loans. Unfortunately, the MLA does not protect  veterans or Gold Star families from these exploitative practices.  Servicemembers and  their families should not lose important consumer protections simply  because they retire, separate from honorable service, or lose their  loved ones. Frankly, all Americans deserve to be shielded from these  kinds of predatory loans, and that is just what our bill does.

Hundreds of millions of American consumers could benefit from a 36- percent APR cap. In States that do not have such a cap, predatory  lenders can offer loans with triple-digit APRs that trap individuals in  cycles of debt. For instance, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  found that 80 percent of payday loans are rolled over or renewed within  2 weeks. This practice can subject borrowers not just to high nominal  interest rates but also to high fees that can quickly surpass the  amount of money originally borrowed. These are hallmarks of predatory  lending and poor underwriting.

According to a coalition of community organizations, payday lenders  are known to target the most vulnerable, including seniors, veterans,  and low-income borrowers. Many in these communities are already  struggling to make ends meet as they navigate the President's tariffs  and stubbornly high prices, and are continuing to pay exorbitant APRs  may cause them to fall deeper into economic insecurity. This is why it  is important to extend strong protections against unscrupulous lenders  to all Americans.

The MLA's successful track record demonstrates that providing  reasonable, responsible limits on interest rates does not cut off  consumers' access to credit. According to a May 2021 report from the  Department of Defense, ``credit cards, auto loans, and personal loans  are widely available at risk-based rates under the 36 percent  [military] APR'' and ``[s]ervice members continue to have ample access  to necessary credit.''

Moreover, this legislation would follow the trend in many States  towards greater protections against predatory loans. Nineteen States  and the District of Columbia have enacted 36 percent APR caps or banned  payday loans. Lenders in these States have incentives to offer more  affordable loans that borrowers have an ability to repay. The same  incentives should apply across the Nation.

I thank the 176 consumer advocacy groups, faith-based organizations,  veteran service organizations, and trade associations that support this  bill, including the Consumer Federation of America, the National  Consumer Law Center, on behalf of its low-income clients, the Center  for Responsible Lending, Americans for Financial Reform, Amalgamated  Bank, the Military Officers Association of America, and the National  Military Family Association.

I urge our colleagues to join us in supporting this important  legislation.                                  ______

By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):

S. 3797. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to  establish new prohibited acts relating to dietary supplements; to the  Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.                                  S. 3797

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Prohibiting Tianeptine and       Other Dangerous Products Act of 2026''.       SEC. 2. NEW PROHIBITED ACTS RELATING TO DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS.

(a) In General.--Section 301 of the Federal Food, Drug, and       Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 331) is amended by adding at the end       the following:

``(jjj) The introduction or delivery for introduction into       interstate commerce of any product marketed as a dietary       supplement that does not meet the definition of a dietary       supplement under section 201(ff).

``(kkk) The introduction or delivery for introduction into       interstate commerce of a dietary supplement that has been       prepared, packed, or held using the assistance of, or at the       direction of, a person debarred under section 306.''.

(b) New Import Exclusion.--Section 801(a) of the Federal       Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 381(a)) is amended in       paragraph (3) of the third sentence, by striking ``section       301(ll)'' and inserting ``paragraph (ll), (jjj), or (kkk) of       section 301''.

(c) New Seizure Authorities.--Section 304 of the Federal       Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 334) is amended--

(1) in subsection (a)(1), in the first sentence, by       striking ``section section 301(ll), 404, or 505'' and       inserting ``paragraph (ll), (jjj), or (kkk) of section 301,       section 404, or section 505''; and

(2) in subsection (d)(1), in the first sentence, by       inserting ``, or product in violation of paragraph (jjj) or       (kkk) of section 301,'' after ``condemned under this       section''.